id: 1008.0010
title: The Hidden Subgroup Problem
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Wang
comments: 99 pages, 13 figures. See also this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0010
abstract: We give an overview of the Hidden Subgroup Problem (HSP) as of July 2010, including new results discovered since the survey of arXiv:quant-ph/0411037v1. We recall how the problem provides a framework for efficient quantum algorithms and present the standard methods based on coset sampling. We study the Dihedral and Symmetric HSPs and how they relate to hard problems on lattices and graphs. Finally, we conclude with the known solutions and techniques, describe connections with efficient algorithms as well as miscellaneous variants of HSP. We also bring various contributions to the topic. We show that in theory, we can solve HSP over a given group inductively: the base case is solving HSP over its simple factor groups and the inductive step is building efficient oracles over a normal subgroup N and over the factor group G/N. We apply this analysis to the Dedekindian HSP to get an alternative abelian HSP algorithm based on a change of the underlying group. We also propose a quotient reduction by the normal group obtained via Weak Fourier Sampling. We compute the exact expression of Strong Fourier Sampling over the dihedral group, showing how the previous reduction is natural and matches the standard one. We also give a reduction of rigid graph isomorphism problem to HSP over the alternating group. For this group and other simple groups, we propose maximal subgroup reduction as a possible approach. We also analyse Regev's algorithm for the poly(n)-uniqueSVP, prove how the degree of the polynomial is related to the oracle complexity used and we suggest several variants.

id: 1008.0070
title: Entanglement in nuclear quadrupole resonance
authors: Gregory Furman, Victor Meerovich, Vladimir Sokolovsky
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0070
abstract: Entangled quantum states are an important element of quantum information techniques. We determine the requirements for states of quadrupolar nuclei with spins >1/2 to be entangled. It was shown that entanglement is achieved at low temperature by applying a magnetic field to a quadrupolar nuclei possess quadrupole moments, which interacts with the electricfield gradient produced by the charge distribution in their surroundings.

id: 1008.0078
title: Interferometry with Two Pairs of Spin Correlated Photons
authors: Mladen Pavicic, Johann Summhammer
comments: A teleportation protocol with independent sources. Works also with a Bell pair + a spontaneously emitted photon
journal: Physical Review Letters 73, 3191-3194 (1994)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0078
abstract: We propose a new experiment employing two independent sources of spin correlated photon pairs. Two photons from different unpolarized sources each pass through a polarizer to a detector. Although their trajectories never mix or cross they exhibit 4th-order-interference-like correlations when the other two photons interfere on a beam splitter even when the latter two do not pass any polarizers at all. A wave packet calculation shows that the experiment permits a very discriminatory test of hidden variable theories.

id: 1008.0085
title: Survival probability in a one-dimensional quantum walk on a trapped lattice
authors: Meltem Gonulol, Ekrem Aydiner, Yutaka Shikano, Ozgur E. Mustecaplioglu
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 033037 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0085
abstract: The dynamics of the survival probability of quantum walkers on a one-dimensional lattice with random distribution of absorbing immobile traps are investigated. The survival probability of quantum walkers is compared with that of classical walkers. It is shown that the time dependence of survival probability of quantum walkers has a piecewise stretched exponential character depending on the density of traps in numerical and analytical observations. The crossover between the quantum analogs of the Rosenstock and Donsker-Varadhan behaviors is identified.

id: 1008.0115
title: Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics in the Ultrastrong Coupling Regime
authors: Elaheh Ahmadi, Hamid Reza Chalabi, Abbas Arab, Sina Khorasani
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: Scientia Iranica, vol. 18F, no. 3 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0115
abstract: We revisit the mathematical formulation of the famous Jaynes-Cummings-Paul Hamiltonian, which describes the interaction of a two-level atom with a single mode of an electromagnetic cavity reservoir. We rigorously show that under the condition of Ultrastrong coupling between the atom and cavity, in which the transition frequency is comparable to the coupling frequency, the bosonic field operators undergo non-sinusoidal time variations. As a result, the well-known solutions to the Jaynes-Cummings-Paul model are no longer valid, even when the rotating wave approximation is not used. We show how a correct mathematical solution could be found instead.

id: 1008.0179
title: Minimum error discrimination between similarity transformed quantum states
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, R. Sufiani, Y. Mazhari
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0179
abstract: Using the known necessary and sufficient conditions for minimum error discrimination (MED), first it is shown that a Helstrom family of ensembles is equivalent to these conditions and then by a convex combination of the initial states (the states which we try to discriminate them) and the corresponding conjugate states, a more suitable and convenient form for the MED conditions is extracted, so that optimal set of measurements and corresponding optimal success probability of discrimination can be determined. Then, using the introduced identity, MED between N similarity transformed equiprobable quantum states is investigated. As a special case, MED between the so called group covariant or symmetric states is considered.

id: 1008.0221
title: Any quantum state can be cloned in the presence of closed timelike curves
authors: D. Ahn, T. C. Ralph, R. B. Mann
comments: Errors in example construction corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0221
abstract: The possible existence of closed timelike curves (CTCs) draws attention to fundamental questions about what is physically possible and what is not. An example is the "no cloning theorem" in quantum mechanics, which states that no physical means exists by which an unknown arbitrary quantum state can be reproduced or copied perfectly. Using the Deutsch approach, we show here that this theorem can be circumvented in the presence of closed timelike curves, allowing the cloning of an unknown arbitrary quantum state chosen from a finite alphabet of states. Since the "no cloning theorem" has played a central role in the development of quantum information science, it is clear that the existence of CTCs would radically change the rules for quantum information technology. Nevertheless we show that this type of cloning does not violate no-signalling criteria.

id: 1008.0253
title: Long distance two-party quantum cryptography made simple
authors: Iordanis Kerenidis, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0253
abstract: Any two-party cryptographic primitive can be implemented using quantum communication under the assumption that it is difficult to store a large number of quantum states perfectly. However, achieving reliable quantum communication over long distances remains a difficult problem. Here, we consider a large network of nodes with only neighboring quantum links. We exploit properties of this cloud of nodes to enable any two nodes to achieve security even if they are not directly connected. Our results are based on techniques from classical cryptography and do not resort to technologically difficult procedures like entanglement swapping. More precisely, we show that oblivious transfer can be achieved in such a network if and only if there exists a path in the network between the sender and the receiver along which all nodes are honest. Finally, we show that useful notions of security can still be achieved when we relax the assumption of an honest path. For example, we show that we can combine our protocol for oblivious transfer with computational assumptions such that we obtain security if either there exists an honest path, or, as a backup, at least the adversary cannot solve a computational problem.

id: 1008.0283
title: Classical system boundaries cannot be determined within quantum Darwinism
authors: Chris Fields
comments: 10 pages, extensively revised to make physical assumptions underlying the formalism explicit
journal: Physics Essays 24 (2011) 518-522
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0283
abstract: Multiple observers who interact with environmental encodings of the states of a macroscopic quantum system S as required by quantum Darwinism cannot demonstrate that they are jointly observing S without a joint a priori assumption of a classical boundary separating S from its environment E. Quantum Darwinism cannot, therefore, be regarded as providing a purely quantum-mechanical explanation of the "emergence" of classicality.

id: 1008.0295
title: Extended probability theory and quantum mechanics I: non-classical events, partitions, contexts, quadratic probability spaces
authors: Jiri Soucek
comments: 47 pages, second version, small changes in Sect. 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0295
abstract: In the paper the basic concepts of extended probability theory are introduced. The basic idea: the concept of an event as a subset of \Omega is replaced with the concept of an event as a partition. The partition is any set of disjoint non-empty subsets of \Omega (i.e. partition=subset+its decomposition). Interpretation: elements inside certain part are indistinguishable, while elements from different parts are distinguishable. There are incompatible events, e.g {{e1},{e2}} and {{e1,e2}}. This is logical incompatibility analogical to the impossibility to have and simultaneously not to have the which-way information in the given experiment. The context is the maximal set of mutually compatible events. Each experiment has associated its context. In each context the extended probability is reduced to classical probability. Then the quadratic representation of events, partitions and probability measures is developed. At the end the central concept of quadratic probability spaces (which extend Kolmogorov probability spaces) is defined and studied. In the next paper it will be shown that quantum mechanics can be represented as the theory of Markov processes in the extended probability theory (Einstein's vision of QM).

id: 1008.0321
title: Operator Quantum Geometric Tensor and Quantum Phase Transitions
authors: Xiao-Ming Lu, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: One more reference added. 6 pages,2 figs. Accepted by EPL
journal: EPL 91,30003 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0321
abstract: We extend the quantum geometric tensor from the state space to the operator level,and investigate its properties like the additivity for factorizable models and the splitting of two kinds contributions for the case of stationary reference states. This operator-quantum-geometric tensor (OQGT) is shown to reflect the sensitivity of unitary operations against perturbations of multi parameters. General results for the cases of time evolutions with given stationary reference states are obtained. By this approach, we get exact results for the rotated XY models, and show relations between the OQGT and quantum criticality.

id: 1008.0323
title: Entanglement and teleportation via chaotic system
authors: N. Metwally, L. Chotorlishvili, V. Skrinnikov
comments: Accepted in Physica A
journal: Physica A 389 (2010) 5332-5337
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0323
abstract: The dynamics of entangled state interacting with a single cavity mode is investigated in the presence of a random parameter. We have shown that degree of entanglement decays with time and rate of decay is defined by features of random parameter. Quantum teleportation through dissipative channal and teleportation fidelity as a function of damping rates has been studied. The sensitivity of the fidelity with respect to random parameter is discussed. We have evaluated the time interval during which one can perform the quantum teleportation and send the information with reasonable fidelity, for a given values of correlation length of random parameter.

id: 1008.0372
title: Probing the quantum phase transition in the Dicke model through mechanical vibrations
authors: J. P. Santos, K. Furuya, F. L. Semi?o
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 063801 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0372
abstract: This paper is concerned with quantum dynamics of a system coupled to a critical reservoir. In this context, we employ the Dicke model which is known to exhibit a super radiant quantum phase transition (QPT) and we allow one of the mirrors to move under a linear restoring force. The electromagnetic field couples to the movable mirror though radiation pressure just like in typical optomechanical setups. We show that, in the thermodynamical limit, the super-radiant phase induces a classical driving force on the mirror without causing decoherence.

id: 1008.0373
title: Little Boxes: The Simplest Demonstration of the Failure of Einstein's Attempt to Show the Incompleteness of Quantum Theory
authors: John D. Norton
comments: To appear in American Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0373
abstract: The failure of Einstein's co-authored "EPR" attempt to show the incompleteness of quantum theory is demonstrated directly for spatial degrees of freedom using only elementary notions. A GHZ construction is realized in the position properties of three particles whose quantum waves are distributed over three two-chambered boxes. The same system is modeled more realistically using three spatially separated, singly ionized hydrogen molecules.

id: 1008.0424
title: A suggested experiment to distinguish between the Bohmian Interpretation and the Standard Quantum Mechanics
authors: Ke-Xia Jiang, San-Min Ke
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0424
abstract: Based on the double-slit experiment of electrons, we suggest a proposal of thought experiment to distinguish between the Bohmian Interpretation (BI) and the Standard Quantum Mechanics (SQM). We mainly focus on the discussion of the meaning of the wave function (Schr\"{o}dinger-$\psi$). The key technique is require to insert some slow-electrons or weak electron current into the space between the double-slit and the detector plane. We find that the two theories finally give out two totally different results about the affections which the externally inserted electrons cause to the original pattern of the interference fringes. Under the BI, the externally inserted electrons also can be influenced by the Quantum Potential (QP) in a totally same way with the electrons which come from the slits, so the positions they arrived at are preferred to certain bright zones, and the interference pattern will become more clearer. While under the SQM, the Schr\"{o}dinger-$\psi$ does not represent an objectively real field, but only a mathematical construction of the probability characteristics of the particle itself, so the externally inserted electrons and the electrons which come from the slits have no correlations with each other. No any priority positions at the detector plane the externally inserted electrons will arrive. And the affections are only the addition of a uniform bright background. In such a meaning, the dark zones of the fringes of the interference pattern have been filled.

id: 1008.0425
title: Quantum Steganography and Quantum Error-Correction
authors: Bilal A. Shaw
comments: Ph.D. Thesis, University of Southern California, 2010, 137 pages, 19 tables, and 20 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0425
abstract: In the current thesis we first talk about the six-qubit quantum error-correcting code and show its connections to entanglement-assisted error-correcting coding theory and then to subsystem codes. This code bridges the gap between the five-qubit (perfect) and Steane codes. We discuss two methods to encode one qubit into six physical qubits. Each of the two examples corrects an arbitrary single-qubit error. The first example is a degenerate six-qubit quantum error-correcting code. We prove that a six-qubit code without entanglement assistance cannot simultaneously possess a Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS) stabilizer and correct an arbitrary single-qubit error. A corollary of this result is that the Steane seven-qubit code is the smallest single-error correcting CSS code. Our second example is the construction of a non-degenerate six-qubit CSS entanglement-assisted code. This code uses one bit of entanglement (an ebit) shared between the sender (Alice) and the receiver (Bob) and corrects an arbitrary single-qubit error. In the second half of this thesis we explore the yet uncharted and relatively undiscovered area of quantum steganography. Steganography is the process of hiding secret information by embedding it in an innocent message. We present protocols for hiding quantum information in a codeword of a quantum error-correcting code passing through a channel. Using either a shared classical secret key or shared entanglement Alice disguises her information as errors in the channel. Bob can retrieve the hidden information, but an eavesdropper (Eve) with the power to monitor the channel, but without the secret key, cannot distinguish the message from channel noise. We analyze how difficult it is for Eve to detect the presence of secret messages, and estimate rates of steganographic communication and secret key consumption for certain protocols.

id: 1008.0433
title: Perfect state distinguishability and computational speedups with postselected closed timelike curves
authors: Todd A. Brun, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures; Foundations of Physics (2011)
journal: Foundations of Physics, vol. 42, no. 3, pages 341-361 (March 2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0433
abstract: Bennett and Schumacher's postselected quantum teleportation is a model of closed timelike curves (CTCs) that leads to results physically different from Deutsch's model. We show that even a single qubit passing through a postselected CTC (P-CTC) is sufficient to do any postselected quantum measurement, and we discuss an important difference between "Deutschian" CTCs (D-CTCs) and P-CTCs in which the future existence of a P-CTC might affect the present outcome of an experiment. Then, based on a suggestion of Bennett and Smith, we explicitly show how a party assisted by P-CTCs can distinguish a set of linearly independent quantum states, and we prove that it is not possible for such a party to distinguish a set of linearly dependent states. The power of P-CTCs is thus weaker than that of D-CTCs because the Holevo bound still applies to circuits using them regardless of their ability to conspire in violating the uncertainty principle. We then discuss how different notions of a quantum mixture that are indistinguishable in linear quantum mechanics lead to dramatically differing conclusions in a nonlinear quantum mechanics involving P-CTCs. Finally, we give explicit circuit constructions that can efficiently factor integers, efficiently solve any decision problem in the intersection of NP and coNP, and probabilistically solve any decision problem in NP. These circuits accomplish these tasks with just one qubit traveling back in time, and they exploit the ability of postselected closed timelike curves to create grandfather paradoxes for invalid answers.

id: 1008.0452
title: One-Shot Classical Data Compression with Quantum Side Information and the Distillation of Common Randomness or Secret Keys
authors: Joseph M. Renes, Renato Renner
comments: 7 pages, comments welcome. v2: minor errors fixed. v3 final version for publication
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory 58, 1985 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0452
abstract: The task of compressing classical information in the one-shot scenario is studied in the setting where the decompressor additionally has access to some given quantum side information. In this hybrid classical-quantum version of the famous Slepian-Wolf problem, the smooth max-entropy is found to govern the number of bits into which classical information can be compressed so that it can be reliably recovered from the compressed version and quantum side information. Combining this result with known results on privacy amplification then yields bounds on the amount of common randomness and secret key that can be recovered in one-shot from hybrid classical-quantum systems using one-way classical communication.

id: 1008.0475
title: Entanglement Witnesses and Characterizing Entanglement Properties of Some PPT States
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, N. Behzadi, Y. Akbari
comments: 11 pages
journal: The European Physical Journal D, Volume 55, Number 1, 197-203 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0475
abstract: On the basis of linear programming, new sets of entanglement witnesses (EWs) for 3x3 and 4x4 systems are constructed. In both cases, the constructed EWs correspond to the hyperplanes contacting, without intersecting, the related feasible regions at line segments and restricted planes respectively. Due to the special property of the contacting area between the hyper-planes and the feasible regions, the corresponding hyper-planes can be turned around the contacting area throughout a bounded interval and hence create an infinite number of EWs. As these EWs are able to detect entanglement of some PPT states, they are non-decomposable (nd-EWs).

id: 1008.0489
title: Dynamical Behaviours of the Nonlinear Atom-Field Interaction in the Presence of Classical Gravity: f-Deformation Approach
authors: Sh. Barzanjeh1, M. H. Naderi, M. Soltanolkotabi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0489
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the effects of a classical gravitational field on the dynamical behaviour of nonlinear atom-field interaction within the framework of the f-deformed Jaynes-Cummings model. For this purpose, we first introduce a set of new atomic operators obeying an f-deformed su(2) algebraic structure to derive an effective Hamiltonian for the system under consideration. Then by solving the Schrodinger equation in the interaction picture and considering certain initial quantum states for the atomic and radiation subsystems, we analyze the influence of gravity on the temporal evolution of the atomic population inversion, atomic dipole squeezing, atomic momentum diffusion, photon counting statistics, and deformed quadrature squeezing of the radiation field.

id: 1008.0564
title: AMENDART in Markovian circuit QED
authors: A. V. Dodonov
comments: 
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 274, 012137 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0564
abstract: We study the cavity field's and atomic asymptotic mean excitation numbers due to anti-rotating term (AMENDART) in the circuit Quantum Electrodynamics (circuit QED) system, composed of a two-level atom and a single cavity field mode, subject to Markovian damping and dephasing mechanisms. We show that the AMENDART are above the thermal values, and their behavior is analyzed analytically and numerically for typical parameters in circuit QED implementations described by the Rabi Hamiltonian. We point out that "parasitic elements", such as other cavity modes or eventual off-resonant atoms, also contribute substantially to AMENDART.

id: 1008.0594
title: Quantum Light from a Whispering Gallery Mode Disk Resonator
authors: J. U. F¨¹rst, D. V. Strekalov, D. Elser, A. Aiello, U. L. Andersen, Ch. Marquardt, G. Leuchs
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 113901 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0594
abstract: Optical parametric downconversion has proven to be a valuable source of nonclassical light. The process is inherently able to produce twin beam correlations along with individual intensity squeezing of either parametric beam, when pumped far above threshold. Here, we present for the first time the direct observation of intensity squeezing of -1.2 dB of each of the individual parametric beams in parametric downconversion by use of a high quality whispering gallery mode disk resonator. In addition we observed twin beam quantum correlations of -2.7 dB with this cavity. Such resonators feature strong optical confinement, and offer tunable coupling to an external optical field. This work exemplifies the potential of crystalline whispering gallery mode resonators in quantum and nonlinear optics and in particular for the generation of quantum light. The simplicity of this device makes the application of quantum light in various fields highly feasible.

id: 1008.0610
title: Pulse pair generation from coherently prepared atomic ensembles
authors: D. Moretti, D. Felinto, J. W. R. Tabosa
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Published online on European Physical Journal D (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0610
abstract: We report a detailed investigation on the generation of pulse pairs during the readout of a coherence grating stored in a cold atomic ensemble. The pulse shapes and the split of the retrieved energy between the two pulses are studied as a function of the relative intensities of the two reading fields, and a minimum is observed for the total retrieved energy. We introduce a simplified analytical theory for the process, considering a three-level atomic system, which explains all the most striking experimental features.

id: 1008.0623
title: Fundamental Quantitative Security In Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Horace Yuen
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 82, 062304 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0623
abstract: We analyze the fundamental security significance of the quantitative criteria on the final generated key K in quantum key generation including the quantum criterion d, the attacker's mutual information on K, and the statistical distance between her distribution on K and the uniform distribution. For operational significance a criterion has to produce guarantee on the attacker's probability of correctly estimating some portion of K from her measurement, in particular her maximum probability of identifying the whole K. We distinguish between the raw security of K when the attacker just gets at K before it is used in a cryptographic context and its composition security when the attacker may gain further information during its actual use to help getting at K. We compare both of these securities of K to those obtainable from conventional key expansion with a symmetric key cipher. It is pointed out that a common belief in the superior security of a quantum generated K is based on an incorrect interpretation of d which cannot be true, and the security significance of d is uncertain. Generally, the QKD key K has no composition security guarantee and its raw security guarantee from concrete protocols is worse than that of conventional ciphers. Furthermore, for both raw and composition security there is an exponential catch up problem that would make it difficult to quantitatively improve the security of K in a realistic protocol. Some possible ways to deal with the situation are suggested.

id: 1008.0630
title: Diffraction limit of the sub-Planck structures
authors: Raman Sharma, Suranjana Ghosh, Utpal Roy, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0630
abstract: The orthogonality of cat and displaced cat states, underlying Heisenberg limited measurement in quantum metrology, is studied in the limit of large number of states. The asymptotic expression for the corresponding state overlap function, controlled by the sub-Planck structures arising from phase space interference, is obtained exactly. The validity of large phase space support, in which context the asymptotic limit is achieved, is discussed in detail. For large number of coherent states, uniformly located on a circle, it identically matches with the diffraction pattern for a circular ring with uniform angular source strength. This is in accordance with the van Cittert-Zernike theorem, where the overlap function, similar to the mutual coherence function matches with a diffraction pattern.

id: 1008.0667
title: Noise and Bell's inequality
authors: David K. Ferry, Laszlo B. Kish
comments: Fluctuation and Noise Letters, in press
journal: Fluctuation and Noise Letters 9 (2010 December) 423-426
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0667
abstract: From the beginning of quantum mechanics, there has been a discussion about the concept of reality, as exemplified by the EPR paradox. To many, the idea of the paradox and the possibility of local hidden variables was dismissed by the Bell inequality. Yet, there remains considerable evidence that this inequality can be violated even by classical systems, so that experiments showing quantum behavior and the violation of the inequality must be questioned. Here, we demonstrate that classical optical polarization experiments based upon noise in the system can be shown to violate the Bell inequality.

id: 1008.0671
title: A Note on the Set of After-measurement States in Generalized Quantum Measurement
authors: I. D. Ivanovic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0671
abstract: The sets of after-measurement states for standard and generalized quantum measurements are compared. It is shown that for a SIC-POVM generalized measurement, the ratio of the volume of the set of after-measurement states and the volume of the simplex generated by individual outcomes quickly tends to zero with increase of the number of dimensions. The volumes used are based on the Hilbert-Schmidt norm. Some consequences on actual realizations, having finite collections of systems are discussed.

id: 1008.0676
title: State-dependent rotations of spins by weak measurements
authors: D. J. Miller
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures. Substantially revised to concentrate on weak measurement transformation of states and application to crypto-nonlocal hidden-variable theory
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0676
abstract: IIt is shown that a weak measurement of a quantum system produces a new state of the quantum system which depends on the prior state, as well as the (uncontrollable) measured position of the pointer variable of the weak measurement apparatus. The result imposes a constraint on hidden-variable theories which assign a different state to a quantum system than standard quantum mechanics. The constraint means that a crypto-nonlocal hidden-variable theory can be ruled out in a more direct way than previously.

id: 1008.0677
title: Resonant atom-field interaction in large-size coupled-cavity arrays
authors: Francesco Ciccarello
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures. Added 5 mathematical appendices
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 043802 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0677
abstract: We consider an array of coupled cavities with staggered inter-cavity couplings, where each cavity mode interacts with an atom. In contrast to large-size arrays with uniform-hopping rates where the atomic dynamics is known to be frozen in the strong-hopping regime, we show that resonant atom-field dynamics with significant energy exchange can occur in the case of staggered hopping rates even in the thermodynamic limit. This effect arises from the joint emergence of an energy gap in the free photonic dispersion relation and a discrete frequency at the gap's center. The latter corresponds to a bound normal mode stemming solely from the finiteness of the array length. Depending on which cavity is excited, either the atomic dynamics is frozen or a Jaynes-Cummings-like energy exchange is triggered between the bound photonic mode and its atomic analogue. As these phenomena are effective with any number of cavities, they are prone to be experimentally observed even in small-size arrays.

id: 1008.0690
title: Spin-momentum correlation in relativistic single particle quantum states
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeha, M. Mahdian
comments: 17 pages
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information (IJQI), 517-528, Volume: 8, Issue: 3 (April 2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0690
abstract: This paper was concerned with the spin-momentum correlation in single-particle quantum states, which is described by the mixed states under Lorentz transformations. For convenience, instead of using the superposition of momenta we use only two momentum eigen states (p1 and p2) that are perpendicular to the Lorentz boost direction. Consequently, in 2D momentum subspace we show that the entanglement of spin-momentum in the moving frame depends on the angle between them. Therefore, when spin and momentum are perpendicular the measure of entanglement is not observer-dependent quantity in inertial frame. Likewise, we have calculated the measure of entanglement (by using the concurrence) and has shown that entanglement decreases with respect to the increasing of observer velocity. Finally, we argue that, Wigner rotation is induced by Lorentz transformations can be realized as controlling operator.

id: 1008.0698
title: Constructing Entanglement Witness Via Real Skew-Symmetric Operators
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, N. Behzadi
comments: 40 pages
journal: The European Physical Journal D 55, 729-744 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0698
abstract: In this work, new types of EWs are introduced. They are constructed by using real skew-symmetric operators defined on a single party subsystem of a bipartite dxd system and a maximal entangled state in that system. A canonical form for these witnesses is proposed which is called canonical EW in corresponding to canonical real skew-symmetric operator. Also for each possible partition of the canonical real skew-symmetric operator corresponding EW is obtained. The method used for dxd case is extended to d1xd2 systems. It is shown that there exist Cd2xd1 distinct possibilities to construct EWs for a given d1xd2 Hilbert space. The optimality and nd-optimality problem is studied for each type of EWs. In each step, a large class of quantum PPT states is introduced. It is shown that among them there exist entangled PPT states which are detected by the constructed witnesses. Also the idea of canonical EWs is extended to obtain other EWs with greater PPT entanglement detection power.

id: 1008.0701
title: Quantum Simulation of Molecular Collisions with Superconducting Qubits
authors: Emily J. Pritchett, Colin Benjamin, Andrei Galiautdinov, Michael R. Geller, Andrew T. Sornborger, Phillip C. Stancil, John M. Martinis
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0701
abstract: We introduce a protocol for the fast simulation of $n$-dimensional quantum systems on $n$-qubit quantum computers with tunable couplings. A mapping is given between the control parameters of the quantum computer and the matrix elements of $H_{\rm s}(t)$, an arbitrary, real, time-dependent $n\times n$ dimensional Hamiltonian that is simulated in the $n$-dimensional `single excitation' subspace of the quantum computer. A time-dependent energy/time rescaling minimizes the simulation time on hardware having a fixed coherence time. We demonstrate how three tunably coupled phase qubits simulate a three-channel molecular collision using this protocol, then study the simulation's fidelity as a function of total simulation time.

id: 1008.0744
title: Dirac(-Pauli), Fokker-Planck equations and exceptional Laguerre polynomials
authors: C.-L. Ho
comments: 17 pages, no figure. Verion in Ann. Phys. Sect. 2 considerably shortened, typos corrected
journal: Annals Phys.326:797-807,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0744
abstract: An interesting discovery in the last two years in the field of mathematical physics has been the exceptional $X_\ell$ Laguerre and Jacobi polynomials. Unlike the well-known classical orthogonal polynomials which start with constant terms, these new polynomials have lowest degree $\ell=1,2,...$, and yet they form complete set with respect to some positive-definite measure. While the mathematical properties of these new $X_\ell$ polynomials deserve further analysis, it is also of interest to see if they play any role in physical systems. In this paper we indicate some physical models in which these new polynomials appear as the main part of the eigenfunctions. The systems we consider include the Dirac equations coupled minimally and non-minimally with some external fields, and the Fokker-Planck equations. The systems presented here have enlarged the number of exactly solvable physical systems known so far.

id: 1008.0782
title: Quantum counterpart of spontaneously broken classical PT symmetry
authors: Carl M. Bender, Hugh F. Jones
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: J.Phys.A44:015301,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0782
abstract: The classical trajectories of a particle governed by the PT-symmetric Hamiltonian $H=p^2+x^2(ix)^\epsilon$ ($\epsilon\geq0$) have been studied in depth. It is known that almost all trajectories that begin at a classical turning point oscillate periodically between this turning point and the corresponding PT-symmetric turning point. It is also known that there are regions in $\epsilon$ for which the periods of these orbits vary rapidly as functions of $\epsilon$ and that in these regions there are isolated values of $\epsilon$ for which the classical trajectories exhibit spontaneously broken PT symmetry. The current paper examines the corresponding quantum-mechanical systems. The eigenvalues of these quantum systems exhibit characteristic behaviors that are correlated with those of the associated classical system.

id: 1008.0786
title: Quantum open systems approach to the dynamical Casimir effect
authors: F.C. Lombardo, F. D. Mazzitelli
comments: 12 pages, to appear in the Proceedings of the "Wokshop on Quantum Nonstationary Systems", Brasilia 2009 (Special Issue, Physica Scripta)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0786
abstract: We analyze the introduction of dissipative effects in the study of the dynamical Casimir effect. We consider a toy model for an electromagnetic cavity that contains a semiconducting thin shell, which is irradiated with short laser pulses in order to produce periodic oscillations of its conductivity. The coupling between the quantum field in the cavity and the microscopic degrees of freedom of the shell induces dissipation and noise in the dynamics of the field. We argue that the photon creation process should be described in terms of a damped oscillator with nonlocal dissipation and colored noise.

id: 1008.0788
title: Number-conserving master equation theory for a dilute Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Alexej Schelle, Thomas Wellens, Dominique Delande, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 013615 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0788
abstract: We describe the transition of $N$ weakly interacting atoms into a Bose-Einstein condensate within a number-conserving quantum master equation theory. Based on the separation of time scales for condensate formation and non-condensate thermalization, we derive a master equation for the condensate subsystem in the presence of the non-condensate environment under the inclusion of all two body interaction processes. We numerically monitor the condensate particle number distribution during condensate formation, and derive a condition under which the unique equilibrium steady state of a dilute, weakly interacting Bose-Einstein condensate is given by a Gibbs-Boltzmann thermal state of $N$ non-interacting atoms.

id: 1008.0794
title: Energy entanglement in neutron interferometry
authors: Katharina Durstberger-Rennhofer, Yuji Hasegawa
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0794
abstract: Entanglement between degrees of freedom, namely between the spin, path and (total) energy degrees of freedom, for single neutrons is exploited. We implemented a triply entangled Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger(GHZ)-like state and coherently manipulated relative phases of two-level quantum subsystems. An inequality derived by Mermin was applied to analyze the generated GHZ-like state: we determined the four expectation values and finally obtained M=2.558 +/- 0.004 which is clearly above the threshold of 2. This demonstrates the violation of a Mermin-like inequality for triply entangled GHZ-like state in a single-particle system, which, in turn, exhibits a clear inconsistency between noncontextual assumptions and quantum mechanics and confirms quantum contextuality.

id: 1008.0801
title: Odd-Order Aberration-Cancellation in Correlated-Photon Imaging
authors: D.S. Simon, A.V. Sergienko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0801
abstract: We discuss a correlated two-photon imaging apparatus that is capable of producing images that are free of the effects of odd-order aberration introduced by the optical system. We show that both quantum-entangled and classically correlated light sources are capable of producing the desired spatial-aberration cancelation.

id: 1008.0843
title: Minimum-error discrimination of entangled quantum states
authors: Yang Lu, Nick Coish, Rainer Kaltenbaek, Deny R. Hamel, Sarah Croke, Kevin J. Resch
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0843
abstract: Strategies to optimally discriminate between quantum states are critical in quantum technologies. We present an experimental demonstration of minimum error discrimination between entangled states, encoded in the polarization of pairs of photons. Although the optimal measurement involves projecting onto entangled states, we use a result of Walgate et al. to design an optical implementation employing only local polarization measurements and feed-forward, which performs at the Helstrom bound. Our scheme can achieve perfect discrimination of orthogonal states and minimum error discrimination of non-orthogonal states. Our experimental results show a definite advantage over schemes not using feed-forward.

id: 1008.0844
title: General Cram¨¦r-Rao bound for parameter estimation using Gaussian multimode quantum resources
authors: Olivier Pinel, Julien Fade, Nicolas Treps, Claude Fabre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0844
abstract: Multimode Gaussian quantum light, including multimode squeezed and/or multipartite quadrature entangled light, is a very general and powerful quantum resource with promising applications to quantum information processing and metrology involving continuous variables. In this paper, we determine the ultimate sensitivity in the estimation of any parameter when the information about this parameter is encoded in such Gaussian light, irrespective of the exact information extraction protocol used in the estimation. We then show that, for a given set of available quantum resources, the most economical way to maximize the sensitivity is to put the most squeezed state available in a well-defined light mode. This implies that it is not possible to take advantage of the existence of squeezed fluctuations in other modes, nor of quantum correlations and entanglement between different modes. We show that an appropriate homodyne detection scheme allows us to reach this Cramr-Rao bound. We apply finally these considerations to the problem of optimal phase estimation using interferometric techniques.

id: 1008.0847
title: Atomic Dipole Traps with Amplified Spontaneous Emission: A Proposal
authors: Jean-Fran?ois Cl¨¦ment, V¨¦ronique Zehnl¨¦, Jean Claude Garreau, Pascal Szriftgiser
comments: 
journal: Optics Communications 283, 21 (2010) 4293-4297
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0847
abstract: We propose what we believe to be a novel type of optical source for ultra-cold atomic Far Off-Resonance optical-dipole Traps (FORTs). The source is based on an Erbium Amplified Spontaneous Emission (ASE) source that seeds a high power Erbium Doped Fiber Amplifier (EDFA). The main interest of this source is its very low coherence length, thus allowing an incoherent superposition of several trapping beams without any optical interference. The behavior of the superimposed beams is then a scalar sum greatly simplifying complex configurations. As an illustration, we report an estimation of the intensity noise of this source and an estimation of the atomic excess heating rate for an evaporative cooling experiment application. They are both found to be suitable for cold atoms experiments.

id: 1008.0860
title: Modular Entanglement
authors: Giulia Gualdi, Salvatore M. Giampaolo, Fabrizio Illuminati
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 050501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0860
abstract: We introduce and discuss the concept of modular entanglement. This is the entanglement that is established between the end points of modular systems composed by sets of interacting moduli of arbitrarily fixed size. We show that end-to-end modular entanglement scales in the thermodynamic limit and rapidly saturates with the number of constituent moduli. We clarify the mechanisms underlying the onset of entanglement between distant and non-interacting quantum systems and its optimization for applications to quantum repeaters and entanglement distribution and sharing.

id: 1008.0863
title: Accuracy vs run time in adiabatic quantum search
authors: A. T. Rezakhani, A. K. Pimachev, D. A. Lidar
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052305 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0863
abstract: Adiabatic quantum algorithms are characterized by their run time and accuracy. The relation between the two is essential for quantifying adiabatic algorithmic performance, yet is often poorly understood. We study the dynamics of a continuous time, adiabatic quantum search algorithm, and find rigorous results relating the accuracy and the run time. Proceeding with estimates, we show that under fairly general circumstances the adiabatic algorithmic error exhibits a behavior with two discernible regimes: the error decreases exponentially for short times, then decreases polynomially for longer times. We show that the well known quadratic speedup over classical search is associated only with the exponential error regime. We illustrate the results through examples of evolution paths derived by minimization of the adiabatic error. We also discuss specific strategies for controlling the adiabatic error and run time.

id: 1008.0893
title: Photon level crosstalk between parallel fibers installed in urban area
authors: Mikio Fujiwara, Shigehito Miki, Taro Yamashita, Zhen Wang, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0893
abstract: We estimate the channel characteristics of field-installed dark fibers at single photon levels for quantum key distribution (QKD). Measured fibers are telecom single-mode dark fibers over 45 km connecting a center and suburbs of Tokyo. Their total losses are about 14dB, and 50% of the whole lengths are aerial lines. We find that stray light from other public internet fibers is dominant and crosstalk occurs at bending points in laying cables. These results mean the crosstalk from public networks can increase the bit error rate in the QKD system, and imply an underlying information leakage through an adjacent covered-fiber.

id: 1008.0912
title: Nuclear Feedback in a Single Electron-Charged Quantum Dot under Pulsed Optical Control
authors: Thaddeus D. Ladd, David Press, Kristiaan De Greve, Peter L. McMahon, Benedikt Friess, Christian Schneider, Martin Kamp, Sven Hoefling, Alfred Forchel, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures. Corrected and expanded discussion. Now includes analysis of spin-echo and optical pumping experiments, in addition to FID
journal: Proc. SPIE 7948, Advances in Photonics of Quantum Computing, Memory, and Communication IV, 79480U (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0912
abstract: Electron spins in quantum dots under coherent control exhibit a number of novel feedback processes. Here, we present experimental and theoretical evidence of a feedback process between nuclear spins and a single electron spin in a single charged InAs quantum dot, controlled by the coherently modified probability of exciting a trion state. We present a mathematical model describing competition between optical nuclear pumping and nuclear spin-diffusion inside the quantum dot. The model correctly postdicts the observation of a hysteretic sawtooth pattern in the free-induction-decay of the single electron spin, hysteresis while scanning a narrowband laser through the quantum dot's optical resonance frequency, and non-sinusoidal fringes in the spin echo. Both the coherent electron-spin rotations, implemented with off-resonant ultrafast laser pulses, and the resonant narrow-band optical pumping for spin initialization interspersed between ultrafast pulses, play a role in the observed behavior. This effect allows dynamic tuning of the electron Larmor frequency to a value determined by the pulse timing, potentially allowing more complex coherent control operations.

id: 1008.0924
title: A unit vector for characterizing the spin polarization of free electron
authors: Chun-Fang Li, Yan Wang
comments: 14 pages with 1 figure. This article was submitted to Phys. Rev. A on May 11, 2010 and was presented as an invited talk in workshop "Spintronics Days" at UPV-EHU (2010), held at Bilbao, Spain during July 27-28, 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0924
abstract: New degrees of freedom having the form of a unit vector are identified for characterizing the spin polarization of free electron. It is shown that when only the spin is considered, the non-commutativity of the Cartesian components of the Pauli vector allows us to use the azimuthal angle of a second direction, denoted by unit vector $\mathbf I$, with respect to the quantization direction to characterize the spin polarization. The rotation of $\mathbf I$ through an angle about the quantization axis leads to a rotation of the spin polarization vector through twice the angle about the same axis. Discussions are also made in Heisenberg picture as well. Upon utilizing this approach to a free electron and letting the quantization direction for each plane wave be the wave vector, we arrive at a representation in which the unit vector $\mathbf I$ functions as an independent index to characterize the spin polarization.

id: 1008.0931
title: Random Oracles in a Quantum World
authors: Dan Boneh, ?zg¨¹r Dagdelen, Marc Fischlin, Anja Lehmann, Christian Schaffner, Mark Zhandry
comments: 38 pages, v2: many substantial changes and extensions, merged with a related paper by Boneh and Zhandry
journal: full version of Advances in Cryptology - ASIACRYPT 2011, pages 41-69, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0931
abstract: The interest in post-quantum cryptography - classical systems that remain secure in the presence of a quantum adversary - has generated elegant proposals for new cryptosystems. Some of these systems are set in the random oracle model and are proven secure relative to adversaries that have classical access to the random oracle. We argue that to prove post-quantum security one needs to prove security in the quantum-accessible random oracle model where the adversary can query the random oracle with quantum states. We begin by separating the classical and quantum-accessible random oracle models by presenting a scheme that is secure when the adversary is given classical access to the random oracle, but is insecure when the adversary can make quantum oracle queries. We then set out to develop generic conditions under which a classical random oracle proof implies security in the quantum-accessible random oracle model. We introduce the concept of a history-free reduction which is a category of classical random oracle reductions that basically determine oracle answers independently of the history of previous queries, and we prove that such reductions imply security in the quantum model. We then show that certain post-quantum proposals, including ones based on lattices, can be proven secure using history-free reductions and are therefore post-quantum secure. We conclude with a rich set of open problems in this area.

id: 1008.0936
title: Discerned and Non-Discerned Particles in Classical Mechanics and Quantum Mechanics Interpretation
authors: Michel Gondran, Alexandre Gondran
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0936
abstract: We introduce into classical mechanics the concept of non-discerned particles for particles that are identical, non-interacting and prepared in the same way. The non-discerned particles correspond to an action and a density which satisfy the statistical Hamilton-Jacobi equations and allow to explain the Gibbs paradox in a simple manner. On the other hand, a discerned particle corresponds to a particular action that satisfies the local Hamilton-Jacobi equations. We then study the convergence of quantum mechanics to classical mechanics when hbar -> 0 by considering the convergence for the two cases. These results provide an argument for a renewed interpretation of quantum mechanics.

id: 1008.0949
title: Numerical analysis of relaxation times of multiple quantum coherences in the system with a large number of spins
authors: S.I.Doronin, E.B.Fel'dman, A.I.Zenchuk
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 134, 034102 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0949
abstract: We study the decay of multiple quantum (MQ) NMR coherences in systems with the large number of equivalent spins. As being created on the preparation period of MQ NMR experiment, they decay due to the dipole-dipole interactions (DDI) on the evolution period of this experiment. It is shown that the relaxation time decreases with the increase in MQ coherence order {(according to the known results)} and in the number of spins. We also consider the modified preparation period of MQ NMR experiment (G.A.Alvarez, D.Suter, PRL {\bf 104}, 230403 (2010)) concatenating the short evolution periods under the secular DDI Hamiltonian (the perturbation) with the evolution period under the non-secular averaged two-spin/two-quantum Hamiltonian. The influence of the perturbation on the decoherence rate is investigated for the systems consisting of 200-600 equivalent spins.

id: 1008.0962
title: Non-locality of Two Ultracold Trapped Atoms
authors: Thom¨¢s Fogarty, John Goold, Mauro Paternostro, Thomas Busch
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0962
abstract: We undertake a detailed analysis of the non-local properties of the fundamental problem of two trapped, distinguishable neutral atoms which interact with a short range potential characterised by an s-wave scattering length. We show that this interaction generates continuous variable (CV) entanglement between the external degrees of freedom of the atoms and consider its behaviour as a function of both, the distance between the traps and the magnitude of the inter-particle scattering length. We first quantify the entanglement in the ground state of the system at zero temperature and then, adopting a phase-space approach, test the violation of the Clauser-Horn-Shimony-Holt inequality at zero and non-zero temperature and under the effects of general dissipative local environments.

id: 1008.0967
title: Teleportation transfers only speakable quantum information
authors: G. Chiribella, V. Giovannetti, L. Maccone, P. Perinotti
comments: 5 pages, no figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 010304(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0967
abstract: We show that a quantum clock cannot be teleported without prior synchronization between sender and receiver: every protocol using a finite amount of entanglement and an arbitrary number of rounds of classical communication will necessarily introduce an error in the teleported state of the clock. Nevertheless, we show that entanglement can be used to achieve synchronization with precision higher than any classical correlation allows, and we give the optimized strategy for this task. The same results hold also for arbitrary continuous quantum reference frames, which encode general unspeakable information,-information that cannot be encoded into a number, but instead requires a specific physical support, like a clock or a gyroscope, to be conveyed.

id: 1008.0979
title: Comparative Test of Two Methods of Quantum Efficiency Absolute Measurement Based on Squeezed Vacuum Direct Detection
authors: I. N. Agafonov, M. V. Chekhova, T. Sh. Iskhakov, A. N. Penin, G. O. Rytikov, O. A. Shumilkina
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, Proceedings of the "V workshop ad memoriam of Carlo Novero Advances in Foundations of Quantum Mechanics and Quantum Information with atoms and photons" will be published in International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0979
abstract: We realize and test in experiment a method recently proposed for measuring absolute quantum efficiency of analog photodetectors. Similarly to the traditional (Klyshko) method of absolute calibration, the new one is based on the direct detection of two-mode squeezed vacuum at the output of a traveling wave OPA. However, in the new method one measures the difference-photocurrent variance rather than the correlation function of photocurrents (number of coincidences), which makes the technique applicable for high-gain OPA. In this work we test the new method versus the traditional one for the case of photon-counting detectors where both techniques are valid.

id: 1008.0994
title: Local Unitary Invariants for N-qubit Pure State
authors: S. Shelly Sharma, N. K. Sharma
comments: 07 pages, No figures, Five qubit tangle coorrected, Additions to intro and references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052340 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0994
abstract: We obtain local unitary invariant polynomials for N qubit quantum state from first principles. A basic unit of entanglement, referred to as negativity font, is defined as a two by two matrix of probability amplitudes that determines the negative eigen value of a four by four submatrix of partially transposed state operator. Transformation properties of determinants of negativity fonts under local unitary (LU) transformations are exploited to obtain multi qubit invariants written in terms of such determinants.

id: 1008.1029
title: Subsystem codes with spatially local generators
authors: Sergey Bravyi
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012320 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1029
abstract: We study subsystem codes whose gauge group has local generators in the 2D geometry. It is shown that there exists a family of such codes defined on lattices of size LxL with the number of logical qubits k and the minimum distance d both proportional to L. The gauge group of these codes involves only two-qubit generators of type XX and ZZ coupling nearest neighbor qubits (and some auxiliary one-qubit generators). Our proof is not constructive as it relies on a certain version of the Gilbert-Varshamov bound for classical codes. Along the way we introduce and study properties of generalized Bacon-Shor codes which might be of independent interest. Secondly, we prove that any 2D subsystem [n,k,d] code with spatially local generators obeys upper bounds kd=O(n) and d^2=O(n). The analogous upper bound proved recently for 2D stabilizer codes is kd^2=O(n). Our results thus demonstrate that subsystem codes can be more powerful than stabilizer codes under the spatial locality constraint.

id: 1008.1045
title: Quantum Gravity via Manifold Positivity
authors: Michael Freedman
comments: Minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1045
abstract: The macroscopic dimensions of space should not be input but rather output of a general model for physics. Here, dimensionality arises from a recently discovered mathematical bifurcation: positive versus indefinite manifold pairings. It is used to build an action on a formal chain of combinatorial space-times of arbitrary dimension. The context for such actions is 2-field theory where Feynman integrals are not over classical, but previously quantized configurations. A topologically enforced singularity of the action terminates the dimension at four and, in fact, the final fourth dimension is Lorentzian due to light-like vectors in the four dimensional manifold pairing. Our starting point is the action of causal dynamical triangulations but in a dimension-agnostic setting. It is encouraging that some hint of extra small dimensions emerges from our action.

id: 1008.1066
title: Born in an Infinite Universe: a Cosmological Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Anthony Aguirre, Max Tegmark
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures; revised version to match published version, including authorship change. Abstract is abridged
journal: Phys.Rev. D84 (2011) 105002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1066
abstract: We study the quantum measurement problem in the context of an infinite, statistically uniform space, as could be generated by eternal inflation. It has recently been argued that when identical copies of a quantum measurement system exist, the standard projection operators and Born rule method for calculating probabilities must be supplemented by estimates of relative frequencies of observers. We argue that an infinite space actually renders the Born rule redundant, by physically realizing all outcomes of a quantum measurement in different regions, with relative frequencies given by the square of the wave function amplitudes. Our formal argument hinges on properties of what we term the quantum confusion operator, which projects onto the Hilbert subspace where the Born rule fails, and we comment on its relation to the oft-discussed quantum frequency operator. This analysis unifies the classical and quantum levels of parallel universes that have been discussed in the literature, and has implications for several issues in quantum measurement theory. It also shows how, even for a single measurement, probabilities may be interpreted as relative frequencies in unitary (Everettian) quantum mechanics. We also argue that after discarding a zero-norm part of the wavefunction, the remainder consists of a superposition of indistinguishable terms, so that arguably "collapse" of the wavefunction is irrelevant, and the "many worlds" of Everett's interpretation are unified into one. Finally, the analysis suggests a "cosmological interpretation" of quantum theory in which the wave function describes the actual spatial collection of identical quantum systems, and quantum uncertainty is attributable to the observer's inability to self-locate in this collection.

id: 1008.1093
title: Quantum phase transitions in coupled two-level atoms in a single-mode cavity
authors: Qing-Hu Chen, Tao Liu, Yu-Yu Zhang, Ke-Lin Wang
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 053841 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1093
abstract: The dipole-coupled two-level atoms(qubits) in a single-mode resonant cavity is studied by extended bosonic coherent states. The numerically exact solution is presented. For finite systems, the first-order quantum phase transitions occur at the strong interatomic interaction. Similar to the original Dicke model, this system exhibits a second-order quantum phase transition from the normal to the superradiant phases. Finite-size scaling for several observables, such as the average fidelity susceptibility, the order parameter, and concurrence are performed for different interatomic interactions. The obtained scaling exponents suggest that interatomic interactions do not change the universality class.

id: 1008.1103
title: Multifrequency spin resonance in diamond
authors: Lilian Childress, Jean McIntyre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1103
abstract: Magnetic resonance techniques provide a powerful tool for controlling spin systems, with applications ranging from quantum information processing to medical imaging. Nevertheless, the behavior of a spin system under strong excitation remains a rich dynamical problem. In this paper, we examine spin resonance of the nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond under conditions outside the regime where the usual rotating wave approximation applies, focusing on effects of multifrequency excitation and excitation with orientation parallel to the spin quantization axis. Strong-field phenomena such as multiphoton transitions and coherent destruction of tunneling are observed in the spectra and analyzed via numerical and analytic theory. In addition to illustrating the response of a spin system to strong multifrequency excitation, these observations may inform techniques for manipulating electron-nuclear spin quantum registers.

id: 1008.1116
title: Limit theorems for a localization model of 2-state quantum walks
authors: Takuya Machida
comments: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol.9, No.3, pp.863-874 (2011)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1116
abstract: We consider 2-state quantum walks (QWs) on the line, which are defined by two matrices. One of the matrices operates the walk at only half-time. In the usual QWs, localization does not occur at all. However, our walk can be localized around the origin. In this paper, we present two limit theorems, that is, one is a stationary distribution and the other is a convergence theorem in distribution.

id: 1008.1118
title: Hybrid Quantum Computation
authors: Arun Sehrawat, Daniel Zemann, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022317 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1118
abstract: We present a hybrid model of the unitary-evolution-based quantum computation model and the measurement-based quantum computation model. In the hybrid model part of a quantum circuit is simulated by unitary evolution and the rest by measurements on star graph states, thereby combining the advantages of the two standard quantum computation models. In the hybrid model, a complicated unitary gate under simulation is decomposed in terms of a sequence of single-qubit operations, the controlled-Z gates, and multi-qubit rotations around the z-axis. Every single-qubit- and the controlled-Z gate are realized by a respective unitary evolution, and every multi-qubit rotation is executed by a single measurement on a required star graph state. The classical information processing in our model only needs an information flow vector and propagation matrices. We provide the implementation of multi-control gates in the hybrid model. They are very useful for implementing Grover's search algorithm, which is studied as an illustrating example.

id: 1008.1122
title: An AC Stark Gradient Echo Memory in Cold Atoms
authors: B. M. Sparkes, M. Hosseini, G. H¨¦tet, P. K. Lam, B. C. Buchler
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 043847 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1122
abstract: The burgeoning fields of quantum computing and quantum key distribution have created a demand for a quantum memory. The gradient echo memory scheme is a quantum memory candidate for light storage that can boast efficiencies approaching unity, as well as the flexibility to work with either two or three level atoms. The key to this scheme is the frequency gradient that is placed across the memory. Currently the three level implementation uses a Zeeman gradient and warm atoms. In this paper we model a new gradient creation mechanism - the ac Stark effect - to provide an improvement in the flexibility of gradient creation and field switching times. We propose this scheme in concert with a move to cold atoms (~1 mK). These temperatures would increase the storage times possible, and the small ensemble volumes would enable large ac Stark shifts with reasonable laser power. We find that memory bandwidths on the order of MHz can be produced with experimentally achievable laser powers and trapping volumes, with high precision in gradient creation and switching times on the order of nanoseconds possible. By looking at the different decoherence mechanisms present in this system we determine that coherence times on the order of 10s of milliseconds are possible, as are delay-bandwidth products of approximately 50 and efficiencies over 90%.

id: 1008.1128
title: Entanglement cost of implementing controlled-unitary operations
authors: Akihito Soeda, Peter S. Turner, Mio Murao
comments: 5 pages + 13 pages of appendix, comments welcome (published version)
journal: Physical Review Letters 107, 180501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1128
abstract: We investigate the minimum entanglement cost of the deterministic implementation of two-qubit controlled-unitary operations using local operations and classical communication (LOCC). We show that any such operation can be implemented by a three-turn LOCC protocol, which requires at least 1 ebit of entanglement when the resource is given by a bipartite entangled state with Schmidt number 2. Our result implies that there is a gap between the minimum entanglement cost and the entangling power of controlled-unitary operations. This gap arises due to the requirement of implementing the operations while oblivious to the identity of the inputs.

id: 1008.1138
title: Structure of Two-qubit Symmetric Informationally Complete POVMs
authors: Huangjun Zhu, Yong Siah Teo, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, 5 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042308 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1138
abstract: In the four-dimensional Hilbert space, there exist 16 Heisenberg--Weyl (HW) covariant symmetric informationally complete positive operator valued measures (SIC~POVMs) consisting of 256 fiducial states on a single orbit of the Clifford group. We explore the structure of these SIC~POVMs by studying the symmetry transformations within a given SIC~POVM and among different SIC~POVMs. Furthermore, we find 16 additional SIC~POVMs by a regrouping of the 256 fiducial states, and show that they are unitarily equivalent to the original 16 SIC~POVMs by establishing an explicit unitary transformation. We then reveal the additional structure of these SIC~POVMs when the four-dimensional Hilbert space is taken as the tensor product of two qubit Hilbert spaces. In particular, when either the standard product basis or the Bell basis are chosen as the defining basis of the HW group, in eight of the 16 HW covariant SIC~POVMs, all fiducial states have the same concurrence of $\sqrt{2/5}$. These SIC~POVMs are particularly appealing for an experimental implementation, since all fiducial states can be connected to each other with just local unitary transformations. In addition, we introduce a concise representation of the fiducial states with the aid of a suitable tabular arrangement of their parameters.

id: 1008.1168
title: Tsirelson's problem and Kirchberg's conjecture
authors: Tobias Fritz
comments: 57 pages, to appear in Rev. Math. Phys
journal: Rev. Math. Phys. 24(5), 1250012 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1168
abstract: Tsirelson's problem asks whether the set of nonlocal quantum correlations with a tensor product structure for the Hilbert space coincides with the one where only commutativity between observables located at different sites is assumed. Here it is shown that Kirchberg's QWEP conjecture on tensor products of C*-algebras would imply a positive answer to this question for all bipartite scenarios. This remains true also if one considers not only spatial correlations, but also spatiotemporal correlations, where each party is allowed to apply their measurements in temporal succession; we provide an example of a state together with observables such that ordinary spatial correlations are local, while the spatiotemporal correlations reveal nonlocality. Moreover, we find an extended version of Tsirelson's problem which, for each nontrivial Bell scenario, is equivalent to the QWEP conjecture. This extended version can be conveniently formulated in terms of steering the system of a third party. Finally, a comprehensive mathematical appendix offers background material on complete positivity, tensor products of C*-algebras, group C*-algebras, and some simple reformulations of the QWEP conjecture.

id: 1008.1226
title: Low-dimensional quite noisy bound entanglement with cryptographic key
authors: ?ukasz Pankowski, Micha? Horodecki
comments: 10 pages, final version for J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 035301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1226
abstract: We provide a class of bound entangled states that have positive distillable secure key rate. The smallest state of this kind is 4 \bigotimes 4. Our class is a generalization of the class presented in [1] (IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 54, 2621 (2008); arXiv:quant-ph/0506203). It is much wider, containing, in particular, states from the boundary of PPT entangled states (all of the states in the class in [1] were of this kind) but also states inside the set of PPT entangled states, even, approaching the separable states. This generalization comes with a price: for the wider class a positive key rate requires, in general, apart from the one-way Devetak-Winter protocol (used in [1]) also the recurrence preprocessing and thus effectively is a two-way protocol. We also analyze the amount of noise that can be admixtured to the states of our class without losing key distillability property which may be crucial for experimental realization. The wider class contains key-distillable states with higher entropy (up to 3.524, as opposed to 2.564 for the class in [1]).

id: 1008.1229
title: Cosmology, initial conditions, and the measurement problem
authors: David Layzer
comments: 42 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1229
abstract: The assumption that a complete description of an early state of the universe does not privilege any position or direction in space leads to a unified account of probability in cosmology, macroscopic physics, and quantum mechanics. Such a description has a statistical character. Deterministic laws link it to statistical descriptions of the cosmic medium at later times, and because these laws do not privilege any position or direction in space, the same must be true of these descriptions. If the universe is infinite, we can identify the probability that the energy density at a particular instant and a particular point in space (relative to a system of spacetime coordinates in which the postulated spatial symmetries are manifest) lies in a given range with the fractional volume occupied by points where the energy density lies in this range; and similarly with all other probabilities that figure in the statistical description. The probabilities that figure in a complete description of the cosmic medium at any given moment thus have an exact and objective physical interpretation. The statistical entropy and the information associated with each cosmological probability distribution are likewise objective properties of the universe, defined in terms of relative frequencies or spatial averages.

id: 1008.1240
title: Deep Strong Coupling Regime of the Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: J. Casanova, G. Romero, I. Lizuain, J. J. Garcia-Ripoll, E. Solano
comments: Published version, note change of title: DSC regime of the JC model
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 263603 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1240
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of a two-level system interacting with a quantized harmonic oscillator in the deep strong coupling regime (DSC) of the Jaynes-Cummings model, that is, when the coupling strength g is comparable or larger than the oscillator frequency w (g/w > 1). In this case, the rotating-wave approximation cannot be applied or treated perturbatively in general. We propose an intuitive and predictive physical frame to describe the DSC regime where photon number wavepackets bounce back and forth along parity chains of the Hilbert space, while producing collapse and revivals of the initial population. We exemplify our physical frame with numerical and analytical considerations in the qubit population, photon statistics, and Wigner phase space.

id: 1008.1287
title: Interpretations of Negative Probabilities
authors: Mark Burgin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1287
abstract: In this paper, we give a frequency interpretation of negative probability, as well as of extended probability, demonstrating that to a great extent, these new types of probabilities, behave as conventional probabilities. Extended probability comprises both conventional probability and negative probability. The frequency interpretation of negative probabilities gives supportive evidence to the axiomatic system built in (Burgin, 2009; arXiv:0912.4767) for extended probability as it is demonstrated in this paper that frequency probabilities satisfy all axioms of extended probability.

id: 1008.1292
title: Evolution and Symmetry of Multipartite Entanglement
authors: Gilad Gour
comments: 5.1 pages, few typos fixed
journal: PRL 105, 190504 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1292
abstract: We discover a simple factorization law describing how multipartite entanglement of a composite quantum system evolves when one of the subsystems undergoes an arbitrary physical process. This multipartite entanglement decay is determined uniquely by a single factor we call the entanglement resilient factor (ERF). Since the ERF is a function of the quantum channel alone, we find that multipartite entanglement evolves in exactly the same way as bipartite (two qudits) entanglement. For the two qubits case, our factorization law reduces to the main result of Nature Physics 4, 99 (2008). In addition, for a permutation $P$, we provide an operational definition of $P$-asymmetry of entanglement, and find the conditions when a permuted version of a state can be achieved by local means.

id: 1008.1303
title: Quantum informatics with plasmonic metamaterials
authors: Ali A. Kamli, Sergey A. Moiseev, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 9, Supplementary Issue 1, 263-279 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1303
abstract: Surface polaritons at a meta-material interface are proposed as qubits. The SP fields are shown to have low losses, subwavelength confinement and can demonstrate very small modal volume. These important properties are used to demonstatre interesting applications in quantum information, i.e., coherent control of weak fields and large Kerr nonlinearity at the low photon level.

id: 1008.1369
title: Fully fault tolerant quantum computation with non-deterministic gates
authors: Ying Li, Sean D. Barrett, Thomas M. Stace, Simon C. Benjamin
comments: 5 pages, 3 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1369
abstract: In certain approaches to quantum computing the operations between qubits are non-deterministic and likely to fail. For example, a distributed quantum processor would achieve scalability by networking together many small components; operations between components should assumed to be failure prone. In the logical limit of this architecture each component contains only one qubit. Here we derive thresholds for fault tolerant quantum computation under such extreme paradigms. We find that computation is supported for remarkably high failure rates (exceeding 90%) providing that failures are heralded, meanwhile the rate of unknown errors should not exceed 2 in 10^4 operations.

id: 1008.1428
title: Zitterbewegung of relativistic electrons in a magnetic field and its simulation by trapped ions
authors: Tomasz M. Rusin, Wlodek Zawadzki
comments: 19 pages, 9 figures, published version
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:125031,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1428
abstract: One-electron 3+1 and 2+1 Dirac equations are used to calculate the motion of a relativistic electron in a vacuum in the presence of an external magnetic field. First, calculations are carried on an operator level and exact analytical results are obtained for the electron trajectories which contain both intraband frequency components, identified as the cyclotron motion, as well as interband frequency components, identified as the trembling motion (Zitterbewegung, ZB). Next, time-dependent Heisenberg operators are used for the same problem to compute average values of electron position and velocity employing Gaussian wave packets. It is shown that the presence of a magnetic field and the resulting quantization of the energy spectrum has pronounced effects on the electron Zitterbewegung: it introduces intraband frequency components into the motion, influences all the frequencies and makes the motion stationary (not decaying in time) in case of the 2+1 Dirac equation. Finally, simulations of the 2+1 Dirac equation and the resulting electron ZB in the presence of a magnetic field are proposed and described employing trapped ions and laser excitations. Using simulation parameters achieved in recent experiments of Gerritsma and coworkers we show that the effects of the simulated magnetic field on ZB are considerable and can certainly be observed.

id: 1008.1431
title: Design and Focused Ion Beam Fabrication of Single Crystal Diamond Nanobeam Cavities
authors: T. M. Babinec, J. T. Choy, K. J. M. Smith, M. Khan, M. Loncar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1431
abstract: We present the design and fabrication of nanobeam photonic crystal cavities in single crystal diamond for applications in cavity quantum electrodynamics. First, we describe three-dimensional finite-difference time-domain simulations of a high quality factor (Q ~ 10^6) and small mode volume (V ~ 0.5 ({\lambda}/n)^3) device whose cavity resonance corresponds to the zero-phonon transition (637nm) of the Nitrogen-Vacancy (NV) color center in diamond. This high Q/V structure, which would allow for strong light-matter interaction, is achieved by gradually tapering the size of the photonic crystal holes between the defect center and mirror regions of the nanobeam. Next, we demonstrate two different focused ion beam (FIB) fabrication strategies to generate thin diamond membranes and nanobeam photonic crystal resonators from a bulk crystal. These approaches include a diamond crystal "side-milling" procedure as well as an application of the "lift-off" technique used in TEM sample preparation. Finally, we discuss certain aspects of the FIB fabrication routine that are a challenge to the realization of the high-Q/V designs.

id: 1008.1483
title: Engineered arrays of NV color centers in diamond based on implantation of CN- molecules through nanoapertures
authors: P. Spinicelli, A. Dr¨¦au, L. Rondin, F. Silva, J. Achard, S. Xavier, S. Bansropun, T. Debuisschert, S. Pezzagna, J. Meijer, V. Jacques, J.-F. Roch
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1483
abstract: We report a versatile method to engineer arrays of nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color centers in dia- mond at the nanoscale. The defects were produced in parallel by ion implantation through 80 nm diameter apertures patterned using electron beam lithography in a PMMA layer deposited on a diamond surface. The implantation was performed with CN- molecules which increased the NV defect formation yield. This method could enable the realization of a solid-state coupled-spin array and could be used for positioning an optically active NV center on a photonic microstructure.

id: 1008.1505
title: Evaluating and Minimizing Distributed Cavity Phase Errors in Atomic Clocks
authors: Ruoxin Li, Kurt Gibble
comments: To appear in Metrologia
journal: Metrologia 47 (2010) 534-551
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1505
abstract: We perform 3D finite element calculations of the fields in microwave cavities and analyze the distributed cavity phase errors of atomic clocks that they produce. The fields of cylindrical cavities are treated as an azimuthal Fourier series. Each of the lowest components produces clock errors with unique characteristics that must be assessed to establish a clock's accuracy. We describe the errors and how to evaluate them. We prove that sharp structures in the cavity do not produce large frequency errors, even at moderately high powers, provided the atomic density varies slowly. We model the amplitude and phase imbalances of the feeds. For larger couplings, these can lead to increased phase errors. We show that phase imbalances produce a novel distributed cavity phase error that depends on the cavity detuning. We also design improved cavities by optimizing the geometry and tuning the mode spectrum so that there are negligible phase variations, allowing this source of systematic error to be dramatically reduced.

id: 1008.1508
title: Metropolitan all-pass and inter-city quantum communication network
authors: Teng-Yun Chen, Jian Wang, Hao Liang, Wei-Yue Liu, Yang Liu, Xiao Jiang, Yuan Wang, Xu Wan, Wei-Qi Cai, Lei Ju, Luo-Kan Chen, Liu-Jun Wang, Yuan Gao, Kai Chen, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Zeng-Bing Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, 2 tables
journal: Optics Express, 18 (2010) 27217-27225
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1508
abstract: We have demonstrated a metropolitan all-pass quantum communication network in field fiber for four nodes. Any two nodes of them can be connected in the network to perform quantum key distribution (QKD). An optical switching module is presented that enables arbitrary 2-connectivity among output ports. Integrated QKD terminals are worked out, which can operate either as a transmitter, a receiver, or even both at the same time. Furthermore, an additional link in another city of 60 km fiber (up to 130 km) is seamless integrated into this network based on a trusted relay architecture. On all the links, we have implemented protocol of decoy state scheme. All of necessary electrical hardware, synchronization, feedback control, network software, execution of QKD protocols are made by tailored designing, which allow a completely automatical and stable running. Our system has been put into operation in Hefei in August 2009, and publicly demonstrated during an evaluation conference on quantum network organized by the Chinese Academy of Sciences on August 29, 2009. Real-time voice telephone with one-time pad encoding between any two of the five nodes (four all-pass nodes plus one additional node through relay) is successfully established in the network within 60km.

id: 1008.1513
title: Theoretical comparison of quantum Zeno gates and nonlinear phase gates
authors: Hao You, J.D. Franson
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1513
abstract: Quantum logic operations can be implemented using nonlinear phase shifts (the Kerr effect) or the quantum Zeno effect based on strong two-photon absorption. Both approaches utilize three-level atoms, where the upper level is tuned on resonance for the Zeno gates and off-resonance for the nonlinear phase gates. The performance of nonlinear phase gates and Zeno gates are compared under conditions where the parameters of the resonant cavities and three-level atoms are the same in both cases. It is found that the expected performance is comparable for the two approaches, despite the apparent differences in the way they are implemented.

id: 1008.1515
title: Realization of the spectrum generating algebra for the generalized Kratzer potentials
authors: K.J. Oyewumi
comments: 20pages, 1 figure
journal: Published in International Journal of Theoretical Physics, 49, 2010 ,1303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1515
abstract: The dynamical symmetries of the Kratzer-type molecular potentials (generalized Kratzer molecular potentials) are studied by using the factorization method. The creation and annihilation (ladder) operators for the radial eigenfunctions satisfying quantum dynamical algebra $SU(1, 1)$ are established. Factorization method is a very simple method of calculating the matrix elements from these ladder operators. The matrix elements of different functions of $r$, $r\frac{d}{dr}$, their sum $\Gamma_{1}$ and difference $\Gamma_{2}$ are evaluated in a closed form. The exact bound state energy eigenvalues $E_{n, \ell}$ and matrix elements of $r$, $r\frac{d}{dr}$, their sum $\Gamma_{1}$ and difference $\Gamma_{2}$ are calculated for various values of $n$ and $\ell$ quantum numbers for $CO$ and $NO$ diatomic molecules for the two potentials. The results obtained are in very good agreement with those obtained by other methods.

id: 1008.1521
title: Generation of photon pairs in symmetric factorable state by using photonic crystal fibers
authors: Liang Cui, Xiaoying
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a crucial theoretical error
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1521
abstract: A photonic crystal fiber based source of photon pairs in symmetric factorable state is experimentally demonstrated. The idler and signal photons, with almost the same bandwidth, are centering at 807.5 nm and 1364.1 nm, respectively. The property of the spectral de-correlation is confirmed by measuring the correlation dependence of photon pairs upon the spectra of pump, signal and idler photons.

id: 1008.1523
title: Long-lived qubit from three spin-1/2 atoms
authors: Rui Han, Niels L?rch, Jun Suzuki, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures; version 2 reports a much improved analysis; version 3 contains more details about the four-atom case
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1523
abstract: A system of three spin-1/2 atoms allows the construction of a reference-frame-free (RFF) qubit in the subspace with total angular momentum $j=1/2$. The RFF qubit stays coherent perfectly as long as the spins of the three atoms are affected homogeneously. The inhomogeneous evolution of the atoms causes decoherence, but this decoherence can be suppressed efficiently by applying a bias magnetic field of modest strength perpendicular to the plane of the atoms. The resulting lifetime of the RFF qubit can be many days, making RFF qubits of this kind promising candidates for quantum information storage units. Specifically, we examine the situation of three $^6\textrm{Li}$ atoms trapped in a $\textrm{CO}_2$-laser-generated optical lattice and find that, with conservatively estimated parameters, a stored qubit maintains a fidelity of 0.9999 for two hours.

id: 1008.1528
title: Isospectral Potentials from Modified Factorization
authors: Micheal S. Berger, Nail S. Ussembayev
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:022121,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1528
abstract: Factorization of quantum mechanical potentials has a long history extending back to the earliest days of the subject. In the present paper, the non-uniqueness of the factorization is exploited to derive new isospectral non-singular potentials. Many one-parameter families of potentials can be generated from known potentials using a factorization that involves superpotentials defined in terms of excited states of a potential. For these cases an operator representation is available. If ladder operators are known for the original potential, then a straightforward procedure exists for defining such operators for its isospectral partners. The generality of the method is illustrated with a number of examples which may have many possible applications in atomic and molecular physics.

id: 1008.1548
title: Emergence of coherence in the Mott--superfluid quench of the Bose-Hubbard model
authors: Patrick Navez, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1548
abstract: We study the quench from the Mott to the superfluid phase in the Bose-Hubbard model and investigate the spatial-temporal growth of phase coherence, i.e., phase locking between initially uncorrelated sites. To this end, we establish a hierarchy of correlations via a controlled expansion into inverse powers of the coordination number $1/Z$. It turns out that the off-diagonal long-range order spreads with a constant propagation speed, forming local condensate patches, whereas the phase correlator follows a diffusion-like growth rate.

id: 1008.1549
title: Stimulated Raman adiabatic passage in a $¦«$-system in the presence of quantum noise
authors: M. Scala, B. Militello, A. Messina, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1549
abstract: We exploit a microscopically derived master equation for the study of STIRAP in the presence of decay from the auxiliary level toward the initial and final state, and compare our results with the predictions obtained from a phenomenological model previously used [P. A. Ivanov, N. V. Vitanov, and K. Bergmann, Phys. Rev. A 72, 053412 (2005)]. It is shown that our approach predicts a much higher efficiency. The effects of temperature are also taken into account, proving that in b-STIRAP thermal pumping can increase the efficiency of the population transfer.

id: 1008.1551
title: Nonlinear interferometry with Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Alexandre B. Tacla, Sergio Boixo, Animesh Datta, Anil Shaji, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures. Added references and minor changes to match published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 053636 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1551
abstract: We analyze a proposed experiment [Boixo et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 040403 (2008)] for achieving sensitivity scaling better than $1/N$ in a nonlinear Ramsey interferometer that uses a two-mode Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) of $N$ atoms. We present numerical simulations that confirm the analytical predictions for the effect of the spreading of the BEC ground-state wave function on the ideal $1/N^{3/2}$ scaling. Numerical integration of the coupled, time-dependent, two-mode Gross-Pitaevskii equations allows us to study the several simplifying assumptions made in the initial analytic study of the proposal and to explore when they can be justified. In particular, we find that the two modes share the same spatial wave function for a length of time that is sufficient to run the metrology scheme.

id: 1008.1557
title: Probing the qudit depolarizing channel
authors: Michael Frey, David Collins, Karl Gerlach
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 205306 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1557
abstract: For the quantum depolarizing channel with any finite dimension, we compare three schemes for channel identification: unentangled probes, probes maximally entangled with an external ancilla, and maximally entangled probe pairs. This comparison includes cases where the ancilla is itself depolarizing and where the probe is circulated back through the channel before measurement. Compared on the basis of (quantum Fisher) information gained per channel use, we find broadly that entanglement with an ancilla dominates the other two schemes, but only if entanglement is cheap relative to the cost per channel use and only if the external ancilla is well shielded from depolarization. We arrive at these results by a relatively simple analytical means. A separate, more complicated analysis for partially entangled probes shows for the qudit depolarizing channel that any amount of probe entanglement is advantageous and that the greatest advantage comes with maximal entanglement.

id: 1008.1562
title: Scattering theory and the Aharonov--Bohm effect in quasiclassical physics
authors: Yurii A. Sitenko, Nadiia D. Vlasii
comments: 26 pages, 3 figures, minor corrections
journal: Annals Phys.326:1441-1456,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1562
abstract: Scattering of a nonrelativistic quantum-mechanical particle by an impenetrable magnetic vortex is considered. The nonvanishing transverse size of the vortex is taken into account, and the limit of short, as compared to this size, wavelengths of the scattered particle is analyzed. We show that the scattering Aharonov-Bohm effect persists in the quasiclassical limit owing to the diffraction persisting in the short-wavelength limit. As a result, the vortex flux serves as a gate for the propagation of short-wavelength, almost classical, particles. This quasiclassical effect is more feasible to experimental detection in the case when space outside the vortex is conical.

id: 1008.1599
title: Uniform Approximation by (Quantum) Polynomials
authors: Andrew Drucker, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 9 pages; minor improvements based on journal version; this http URL
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, (3&4):215-225, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1599
abstract: We show that quantum algorithms can be used to re-prove a classical theorem in approximation theory, Jackson's Theorem, which gives a nearly-optimal quantitative version of Weierstrass's Theorem on uniform approximation of continuous functions by polynomials. We provide two proofs, based respectively on quantum counting and on quantum phase estimation.

id: 1008.1603
title: A surface electrode point Paul trap
authors: Tony Hyun Kim, Peter F. Herskind, Taehyun Kim, Jungsang Kim, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 043412 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1603
abstract: We present a model as well as experimental results for a surface electrode radio-frequency Paul trap that has a circular electrode geometry well-suited for trapping of single ions and two-dimensional planar ion crystals. The trap design is compatible with microfabrication and offers a simple method by which the height of the trapped ions above the surface may be changed \emph{in situ}. We demonstrate trapping of single and few Sr+ ions over an ion height range of 200-1000 microns for several hours under Doppler laser cooling, and use these to characterize the trap, finding good agreement with our model.

id: 1008.1630
title: Fast ground-state cooling of mechanical resonator with time-dependent optical cavities
authors: Yong Li, Lian-Ao Wu, Z. D. Wang
comments: Some references including our previous works on cooling of mechanical resonators are added, and some typos are corrected in this new version. Comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 043804 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1630
abstract: We propose a feasible scheme to cool down a mechanical resonator (MR) in a three-mirror cavity optomechanical system with controllable external optical drives. Under the Born-Oppenheimer (BO) approximation, the whole dynamics of the mechanical resonator and cavities is reduced to that of a time-dependent harmonic oscillator, whose effective frequency can be controlled through the optical driving fields. The fast cooling of the MR can be realized by controlling the amplitude of the optical drives. Significantly, we further show that the ground-state cooling may be achieved via the three-mirror cavity optomechanical system without the resolved sideband condition.

id: 1008.1634
title: Fault tolerant Quantum Information Processing with Holographic control
authors: G. A. Paz-Silva, G. K. Brennen, J. Twamley
comments: 20 pages. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1634
abstract: We present a fault-tolerant semi-global control strategy for universal quantum computers. We show that N-dimensional array of qubits where only (N-1)-dimensional addressing resolution is available is compatible with fault-tolerant universal quantum computation. What is more, we show that measurements and individual control of qubits are required only at the boundaries of the fault-tolerant computer, i.e. holographic fault-tolerant quantum computation. Our model alleviates the heavy physical conditions on current qubit candidates imposed by addressability requirements and represents an option to improve their scalability.

id: 1008.1640
title: Smooth double barriers in quantum mechanics
authors: Avik Dutt, Sayan Kar
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures, a slightly reduced version to appear in American Journal of Physics, references corrected
journal: Am.J.Phys. 78, pp 1352-60 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1640
abstract: Quantum mechanical tunneling across smooth double barrier potentials modeled using Gaussian functions, is analyzed numerically and by using the WKB approximation. The transmission probability, resonances as a function of incident particle energy, and their dependence on the barrier parameters are obtained for various cases. We also discuss the tunneling time, for which we obtain generalizations of the known results for rectangular barriers.

id: 1008.1679
title: Optimal path for a quantum teleportation protocol in entangled networks
authors: C. Di Franco, D. Ballester
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 010303(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1679
abstract: Bellman's optimality principle has been of enormous importance in the development of whole branches of applied mathematics, computer science, optimal control theory, economics, decision making, and classical physics. Examples are numerous: dynamic programming, Markov chains, stochastic dynamics, calculus of variations, and the brachistochrone problem. Here we show that Bellman's optimality principle is violated in a teleportation problem on a quantum network. This implies that finding the optimal fidelity route for teleporting a quantum state between two distant nodes on a quantum network with bi-partite entanglement will be a tough problem and will require further investigation.

id: 1008.1713
title: Tailorable couplings of a cantilever with a superconducting charge qubit: Quantum state engineering
authors: Jie-Qiao Liao, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1713
abstract: We propose a theoretical scheme to realize tailorable couplings between a cantilever and a superconducting charge qubit. By tuning the controllable parameters of the qubit, both linear and nonlinear couplings between the cantilever and the qubit can be achieved. Based on these couplings, we show the preparation of the cantilever into some interesting quantum states, such as superposed coherent states and squeezed states, via manipulating and detecting the qubit. We also study the influence of the environment on quantum states of the cantilever. It is indicated that decoherence induced by the environment can drive the cantilever from superposed coherent states into the steady coherent state. It is also found that the environment can induce the steady-state position squeezing of the cantilever under a critical temperature. These results will shed new light on production of nonclassical effects of the cantilever.

id: 1008.1721
title: Squeezed-Light Optical Magnetometry
authors: Florian Wolfgramm, Alessandro Cere, Federica A. Beduini, Ana Predojevic, Marco Koschorreck, Morgan W. Mitchell
comments: v1: version published in Phys. Rev. Lett.; v2: version with five additional citations
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 053601 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1721
abstract: We demonstrate a light-shot-noise-limited magnetometer based on the Faraday effect in a hot unpolarized ensemble of rubidium atoms. By using off-resonant, polarization-squeezed probe light, we improve the sensitivity of the magnetometer by 3.2 dB. The technique could improve the sensitivity of the most advanced magnetometers and quantum nondemolition measurements of atomic spin ensembles.

id: 1008.1768
title: Coherent and semiclassical states in magnetic field in the presence of the Aharonov-Bohm solenoid
authors: V. G. Bagrov, S. P. Gavrilov, D. M. Gitman, D. P. Meira Filho
comments: 35 pages, 2 figures. Some typos in (77), (101), and (135) corrected with respect to the published version. Results unchanged
journal: J.Phys.A44:055301,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1768
abstract: A new approach to constructing coherent states (CS) and semiclassical states (SS) in magnetic-solenoid field is proposed. The main idea is based on the fact that the AB solenoid breaks the translational symmetry in the xy-plane, this has a topological effect such that there appear two types of trajectories which embrace and do not embrace the solenoid. Due to this fact, one has to construct two different kinds of CS/SS, which correspond to such trajectories in the semiclassical limit. Following this idea, we construct CS in two steps, first the instantaneous CS (ICS) and the time dependent CS/SS as an evolution of the ICS. The construction is realized for nonrelativistic and relativistic spinning particles both in (2+1)- and (3+1)- dimensions and gives a non-trivial example of SS/CS for systems with a nonquadratic Hamiltonian. It is stressed that CS depending on their parameters (quantum numbers) describe both pure quantum and semiclassical states. An analysis is represented that classifies parameters of the CS in such respect. Such a classification is used for the semiclassical decompositions of various physical quantities.

id: 1008.1806
title: Parallel State Transfer and Efficient Quantum Routing on Quantum Networks
authors: Christopher Chudzicki, Frederick W. Strauch
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1806
abstract: We study the routing of quantum information in parallel on multi-dimensional networks of tunable qubits and oscillators. These theoretical models are inspired by recent experiments in superconducting circuits using Josephson junctions and resonators. We show that perfect parallel state transfer is possible for certain networks of harmonic oscillator modes. We further extend this to the distribution of entanglement between every pair of nodes in the network, finding that the routing efficiency of hypercube networks is both optimal and robust in the presence of dissipation and finite bandwidth.

id: 1008.1814
title: Quantum-Fluctuation-Initiated Coherence in Multi-Octave Raman Optical Frequency Combs
authors: Y. Y. Wang, Chunbai Wu, F. Couny, M. G. Raymer, F. Benabid
comments: Accepted for publication, Physical Review Letters, 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1814
abstract: We show experimentally and theoretically that the spectral components of a multi-octave frequency comb spontaneously created by stimulated Raman scattering in a hydrogen-filled hollow-core photonic crystal fiber exhibit strong self coherence and mutual coherence within each 12 ns driving laser pulse. This coherence arises in spite of the field's initiation being from quantum zero-point fluctuations, which causes each spectral component to show large phase and energy fluctuations. This points to the possibility of an optical frequency comb with nonclassical correlations between all comb lines.

id: 1008.1831
title: Generation of directional, coherent matter beams through dynamical instabilities in Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Graham R. Dennis, Mattias T. Johnsson
comments: Corrected references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1831
abstract: We present a theoretical analysis of a coupled, two-state Bose-Einstein condensate with non-equal scattering lengths, and show that dynamical instabilities can be excited. We demonstrate that these instabilities are exponentially amplified resulting in highly-directional, oppositely-propagating, coherent matter beams at specific momenta. To accomplish this we prove that the mean field of our system is periodic, and extend the standard Bogoliubov approach to consider a time-dependent, but cyclic, background. This allows us to use Floquet's theorem to gain analytic insight into such systems, rather than employing the usual Bogoliubov-de Gennes approach, which is usually limited to numerical solutions. We apply our theory to the metastable Helium atom laser experiment of Dall et al. [Phys. Rev. A 79, 011601(R) (2009)] and show it explains the anomalous beam profiles they observed. Finally we demonstrate the paired particle beams will be EPR-entangled on formation.

id: 1008.1860
title: A Quantum Mechanical Approach To The Polarization Transport of Photons
authors: Reza Torabi
comments: 7 page
journal: Can. J. Phys, 88, 641 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1860
abstract: Based on quantum mechanical approach the polarization transport of photons which propagate in a medium with slow varying refractive index is studied. The photon polarizations are separated in opposite directions normal to the ray which is called "Spin Hall effect" of photons, and also the rotation of polarization plane, a manifestation of the Berry phase, occurs. This approach can be generalized to other spinning particles in inhomogeneous media as a universal approach.

id: 1008.1876
title: Initialization of NMR Quantum Registers using Long-Lived Singlet States
authors: Soumya Singha Roy, T. S. Mahesh
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1876
abstract: An ensemble of nuclear spin-pairs under certain conditions is known to exhibit singlet state life-times much longer than other non-equilibrium states. This property of singlet state can be exploited in quantum information processing for efficient initialization of quantum registers. Here we describe a general method of initialization and experimentally demonstrate it with two-, three-, and four-qubit nuclear spin registers.

id: 1008.1910
title: Highly-efficient state-selective sub-microsecond photoionization detection of single atoms
authors: Florian Henkel, Michael Krug, Julian Hofmann, Wenjamin Rosenfeld, Markus Weber, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 253001 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1910
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a detection scheme suitable for state analysis of single optically trapped atoms in less than 1 {\mu}s with an overall detection efficiency {\eta} exceeding 98%. The method is based on hyperfine-state-selective photoionization and subsequent registration of the correlated photoion-electron pairs by coincidence counting via two opposing channel electron multipliers. The scheme enables the calibration of absolute detection efficiencies and might be a key ingredient for future quantum information applications or precision spectroscopy of ultracold atoms.

id: 1008.1937
title: A manifestly gauge-invariant description of interaction of atomic systems with strong fields in the dipole approximation
authors: A. Bechler, M. ?l?czka
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1937
abstract: We propose a new type of gauge-invariant expansion of the ionization probability amplitudes of atoms by short pulses of electromagnetic radiation. Contrary to previous gauge-invariant approaches to this problem it does not require different partitions of the total Hamiltonian depending on the choice of gauge. In a natural way the atomic potential is treated as perturbation acting on an electron interacting with strong pulse. Whereas this is a standard assumption of strong field approximation (SFA), we show that grouping consequently together \textit{all} terms of the same order in the atomic potential results in the expansion of the amplitude which is gauge invariant \textit{order by order}, and not only in the limit of infinite series. In this approach, which is illustrated by numerical examples, the "direct ionization" and "rescattering" contributions are different from those commonly used in SFA - calculations.

id: 1008.1948
title: The Hilbertian Tensor Norm and Entangled Two-Prover Games
authors: Dejan D. Dukaric
comments: 33 pages, some of the results have been obtained independently in arXiv:1007.3043v2, v2: an error in Theorem 4 has been corrected; Section 6 rewritten, v3: completely rewritten in order to improve readability; title changed; references added; published version
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 043002 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1948
abstract: We study tensor norms over Banach spaces and their relations to quantum information theory, in particular their connection with two-prover games. We consider a version of the Hilbertian tensor norm $\gamma_2$ and its dual $\gamma_2^*$ that allow us to consider games with arbitrary output alphabet sizes. We establish direct-product theorems and prove a generalized Grothendieck inequality for these tensor norms. Furthermore, we investigate the connection between the Hilbertian tensor norm and the set of quantum probability distributions, and show two applications to quantum information theory: firstly, we give an alternative proof of the perfect parallel repetition theorem for entangled XOR games; and secondly, we prove a new upper bound on the ratio between the entangled and the classical value of two-prover games.

id: 1008.1953
title: Dynamical Decoupling of a single electron spin at room temperature
authors: Boris Naydenov, Florian Dolde, Liam T. Hall, Chang Shin, Helmut Fedder, Lloyd C.L. Hollenberg, Fedor Jelezko, J?rg Wrachtrup
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, Two reference were added reporting results related to our work
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 081201(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1953
abstract: Here we report the increase of the coherence time T$_2$ of a single electron spin at room temperature by using dynamical decoupling. We show that the Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill (CPMG) pulse sequence can prolong the T$_2$ of a single Nitrogen-Vacancy center in diamond up to 2.44 ms compared to the Hahn echo measurement where T$_2 = 390 \mu$s. Moreover, by performing spin locking experiments we demonstrate that with CPMG the maximum possible $T_2$ is reached. On the other hand, we do not observe strong increase of the coherence time in nanodiamonds, possibly due to the short spin lattice relaxation time $T_1=100 \mu$s (compared to T$_1$ = 5.93 ms in bulk). An application for detecting low magnetic field is demonstrated, where we show that the sensitivity using the CPMG method is improved by about a factor of two compared to the Hahn echo method.

id: 1008.1962
title: Performance comparison of dynamical decoupling sequences for a qubit in a rapidly fluctuating spin-bath
authors: Gonzalo A. Alvarez, Ashok Ajoy, Xinhua Peng, Dieter Suter
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. A. 15 pages, 13 figures. Improved presentation concerning the new contributions to the field
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042306 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1962
abstract: Avoiding the loss of coherence of quantum mechanical states is an important prerequisite for quantum information processing. Dynamical decoupling (DD) is one of the most effective experimental methods for maintaining coherence, especially when one can access only the qubit-system and not its environment (bath). It involves the application of pulses to the system whose net effect is a reversal of the system-environment interaction. In any real system, however, the environment is not static, and therefore the reversal of the system-environment interaction becomes imperfect if the spacing between refocusing pulses becomes comparable to or longer than the correlation time of the environment. The efficiency of the refocusing improves therefore if the spacing between the pulses is reduced. Here, we quantify the efficiency of different DD sequences in preserving different quantum states. We use 13C nuclear spins as qubits and an environment of 1H nuclear spins as the environment, which couples to the qubit via magnetic dipole-dipole couplings. Strong dipole-dipole couplings between the proton spins result in a rapidly fluctuating environment with a correlation time of the order of 100 us. Our experimental results show that short delays between the pulses yield better performance if they are compared with the bath correlation time. However, as the pulse spacing becomes shorter than the bath correlation time, an optimum is reached. For even shorter delays, the pulse imperfections dominate over the decoherence losses and cause the quantum state to decay.

id: 1008.1985
title: Unitary expansion of the time evolution operator
authors: N. Zagury, A. Aragao, J. Casanova, E. Solano
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures. Updated version, minor final changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 82, 042110 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1985
abstract: We propose an expansion of the unitary evolution operator, associated to a given Schr\"odinger equation, in terms of a finite product of explicit unitary operators. In this manner, this unitary expansion can be truncated at the desired level of approximation, as shown in the given examples.

id: 1008.2012
title: Gaussian approximation and single-spin measurement in OSCAR MRFM with spin noise
authors: Shesha Raghunathan, Todd A. Brun, Hsi-Sheng Goan
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures in EPS format, RevTeX 4.1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052319 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2012
abstract: A promising technique for measuring single electron spins is magnetic resonance force microscopy (MRFM), in which a microcantilever with a permanent magnetic tip is resonantly driven by a single oscillating spin. If the quality factor of the cantilever is high enough, this signal will be amplified over time to the point that it can be detected by optical or other techniques. An important requirement, however, is that this measurement process occur on a time scale short compared to any noise which disturbs the orientation of the measured spin. We describe a model of spin noise for the MRFM system, and show how this noise is transformed to become time-dependent in going to the usual rotating frame. We simplify the description of the cantilever-spin system by approximating the cantilever wavefunction as a Gaussian wavepacket, and show that the resulting approximation closely matches the full quantum behavior. We then examine the problem of detecting the signal for a cantilever with thermal noise and spin with spin noise, deriving a condition for this to be a useful measurement.

id: 1008.2025
title: The reproduction of the dynamics of a quantum system by an ensemble of classical particles beyond de Broglie--Bohmian mechanics
authors: Denys I. Bondar
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2025
abstract: It is shown that for any given quantum system evolving unitarily with the Hamiltonian, $\hat{H} = \hat{\bf p}^2/(2m) + U({\bf q})$, [bold letters denote $D$-dimensional ($D \geqslant 3$) vectors] and with a sufficiently smooth potential $U({\bf q})$, there exits a classical ensemble with the Hamilton function, $\mathrsfs{H} ({\bf p}, {\bf q}) = {\bf p}^2/(2m) + U^{(\infty)} ({\bf q})$, where the potential $U^{(\infty)}({\bf q})$ coincides with $U({\bf q})$ for almost all ${\bf q}$ (i.e., $U^{(\infty)}$ can be different from $U$ only on a measure zero set), such that the square modulus of the wave function in the coordinate (momentum) representation approximately equals the coordinate (momentum) distribution of the classical ensemble within an arbitrary given accuracy. Furthermore, the trajectories of this classical ensemble, generally speaking, need not coincide with the trajectories obtained from de Broglie--Bohmian mechanics. Consequences of this result are discussed.

id: 1008.2038
title: Macroscopic Multi-Species Entanglement near Quantum Phase Transitions
authors: V. Subrahmanyam
comments: 
journal: Quant. Inf. Comput. Vol. 11, 1 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2038
abstract: Multi-Species entanglement, defined for a many-particle system as the entanglement between different species of particles, is shown to exist in the thermodynamic limit of the system size going to infinity. This macroscopic entanglement, as it can exhibit singular behavior, is capable of tracking quantum phase transitions. The entanglement between up and down spins has been analytically calculated for the one-dimensional Ising model in a transverse magnetic field. As the coupling strength is varied, the first derivative of the entanglement shows a jump discontinuity and the second derivative diverges near the quantum critical point.

id: 1008.2048
title: Topological One-Way Quantum Computation on Verified Logical Cluster States
authors: Keisuke Fujii, Katsuji Yamamoto
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures; V2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 060301(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2048
abstract: We present a scheme to improve the noise threshold for the fault-tolerant topological one-way computation with a constant overhead. Certain cluster states of finite size, say star clusters, are constructed with logical qubits through an efficient verification process to achieve high fidelity. Then, the star clusters are connected near-deterministically with verification to form a three-dimensional cluster state to implement the topological one-way computation. The necessary postselection for verification is localized within the star clusters, ensuring the salability of computation. This scheme works with a high error rate $ \sim 1 % $ and reasonable resources comparable to or less than those for the other fault-tolerant schemes, suggesting potentially a noise threshold higher than 5%.

id: 1008.2078
title: Structural and dynamical aspects of avoided-crossing resonances in a $3$-level $¦«$ system
authors: I. Lizuain, J. Echanobe, A. Ruschhaupt, J. G. Muga, D. A. Steck
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2078
abstract: In a recent publication [Phys. Rev. A 79, 065602 (2009)] it was shown that an avoided-crossing resonance can be defined in different ways, according to level-structural or dynamical aspects, which do not coincide in general. Here a simple $3$-level system in a $\Lambda$ configuration is discussed, where the difference between both definitions of the resonance may be observed. We also discuss the details of a proposed experiment to observe this difference, using microwave fields coupling hyperfine magnetic sublevels in alkali atoms.

id: 1008.2082
title: Cryptohermitian Hamiltonians on graphs
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, the IJTP-special-issue core of talk presented during PHHQP-9 conference (June 21 - 23, 2010, Hangzhou, China, this http URL)
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 50 (2011) 1052 - 1059
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2082
abstract: A family of nonhermitian quantum graphs (exhibiting, presumably, a hidden form of hermiticity) is proposed and studied via their discretization.

id: 1008.2119
title: Universal dynamical decoupling of a single solid-state spin from a spin bath
authors: G. de Lange, Z. H. Wang, D. Rist¨¨, V. V. Dobrovitski, R. Hanson
comments: submitted 24 May 2010; published online 9 September 2010
journal: Science 330, 60 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2119
abstract: Controlling the interaction of a single quantum system with its environment is a fundamental challenge in quantum science and technology. We dramatically suppress the coupling of a single spin in diamond with the surrounding spin bath by using double-axis dynamical decoupling. The coherence is preserved for arbitrary quantum states, as verified by quantum process tomography. The resulting coherence time enhancement is found to follow a general scaling with the number of decoupling pulses. No limit is observed for the decoupling action up to 136 pulses, for which the coherence time is enhanced more than 25 times compared to spin echo. These results uncover a new regime for experimental quantum science and allow to overcome a major hurdle for implementing quantum information protocols.

id: 1008.2129
title: Automated Error Correction For Generalized Bell States
authors: Pratyush Pandey, Sriram Prasath E., Manu Gupta, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2129
abstract: A procedure is developed to automatically correct the bit flip and the arbitrary phase change errors in Generalized Bell states (GBS). The phase and parity characteristics of the GBS are encoded in ancilla bits without altering the state under consideration. The same information is then used to correct the state at a different point, through appropriate unitrary control operations. It is also shown that the distributed/indirect measurements on ancilla can yield the error syndrome. The restricted error correction circuit obtained for N-qubit entangled states of the Bell type, are generalized for the corresponding higher dimensions, thus opening up the possibility of designing of task specific error correction circuits.

id: 1008.2147
title: Quantum Tagging: Authenticating Location via Quantum Information and Relativistic Signalling Constraints
authors: Adrian Kent, William J. Munro, Timothy P. Spiller
comments: Minor update re subsequent refs; typos fixed. To appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012326 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2147
abstract: We define the task of {\it quantum tagging}, that is, authenticating the classical location of a classical tagging device by sending and receiving quantum signals from suitably located distant sites, in an environment controlled by an adversary whose quantum information processing and transmitting power is unbounded. We define simple security models for this task and briefly discuss alternatives. We illustrate the pitfalls of naive quantum cryptographic reasoning in this context by describing several protocols which at first sight appear unconditionally secure but which, as we show, can in fact be broken by teleportation-based attacks. We also describe some protocols which cannot be broken by these specific attacks, but do not prove they are unconditionally secure. We review the history of quantum tagging protocols, which we first discussed in 2002 and described in a 2006 patent (for an insecure protocol). The possibility has recently been reconsidered by other authors. All the more recently discussed protocols of which we are aware were either previously considered by us in 2002-3 or are variants of schemes then considered, and all are provably insecure.

id: 1008.2197
title: Extending Quantum Coherence in Diamond
authors: C.A. Ryan, J.S. Hodges, D.G. Cory
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures; minor syntax/typo. changes and updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105:200402 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2197
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate over two orders of magnitude increase in the coherence time of nitrogen vacancy centres in diamond by implementing decoupling techniques. We show that equal pulse spacing decoupling performs just as well as non-periodic Uhrig decoupling and has the additional benefit that it allows us to take advantage of "revivals" in the echo (due to the coherent nature of the bath) to explore the longest coherence times. At short times, we can extend the coherence of particular quantum states out from T_2*=2.7 us out to an effective T_2 > 340 us. For preserving arbitrary states we show the experimental importance of using pulse sequences, that through judicious choice of the phase of the pulses, compensate the imperfections of individual pulses for all input states. At longer times we use these compensated sequences to enhance the echo revivals and show a coherence time of over 1.6 ms in ultra-pure natural abundance 13C diamond.

id: 1008.2222
title: Microfabrication techniques for trapped ion quantum information processing
authors: Joe Britton
comments: 195 pages, single spaced; PhD thesis, University of Colorado, December 2008
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2222
abstract: Quantum-mechanical principles can be used to process information (QIP). In one approach, linear arrays of trapped, laser cooled ion qubits (two-level quantum systems) are confined in segmented multi-zone electrode structures. The ion trap approach to QIP requires trapping and control of numerous ions in electrode structures with many trapping zones. I investigated microfabrication of structures to trap, transport and couple large numbers of ions. Using 24Mg+ I demonstrated loading and transport between zones in microtraps made of boron doped silicon. This thesis describes the fundamentals of ion trapping, the characteristics of silicon-based traps amenable to QIP work and apparatus to trap ions and characterize traps. Microfabrication instructions appropriate for nonexperts are included. Ion motional heating was measured. <<>> Using MEMs techniques I built a Si micro-mechanical oscillator and demonstrated a method to reduce the kinetic energy of its lowest order mechanical mode via capacitive coupling to a driven radio frequency (RF) oscillator. Cooling resulted from a RF capacitive force, phase shifted relative to the cantilever motion. The technique was demonstrated by cooling the 7 kHz fundamental mode from room temperature to 45 K. <<>> I also discuss an implementation of the semiclassical quantum Fourier transform (QFT) using three beryllium ion qubits. The QFT is a crucial step in a number of quantum algorithms including Shor's algorithm, a quantum approach to integer factorization which is exponentially faster than the fastest known classical factoring algorithm. This demonstration incorporated the key elements of a scalable ion-trap architecture for QIP.

id: 1008.2284
title: Spin Wave Storage using Chirped Control Fields in Atomic Frequency Comb based Quantum Memory
authors: Ji?¨ª Min¨¢?, Nicolas Sangouard, Mikael Afzelius, Hugues de Riedmatten, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042309 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2284
abstract: It has been shown that an inhomogeneously broadened optical transition shaped into an atomic frequency comb can store a large number of temporal modes of the electromagnetic field at the single photon level without the need to increase the optical depth of the storage material. The readout of light modes is made efficient thanks to the rephasing of the optical-wavelength coherence similarly to photon echo-type techniques and the re-emission time is given by the comb structure. For on-demand readout and long storage times, two control fields are used to transfer back and forth the optical coherence into a spin wave. Here, we present a detailed analysis of the spin wave storage based on chirped adiabatic control fields. In particular, we verify that chirped fields require significantly weaker intensities than $\pi$-pulses. The price to pay is a reduction of the multimode storage capacity that we quantify for realistic material parameters associated with solids doped with rare-earth-metal ions.

id: 1008.2299
title: Laser Dressed Scattering of an Attosecond Electron Wave Packet
authors: Justin Gagnon, Ferenc Krausz, Vladislav S. Yakovlev
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2299
abstract: We theoretically investigate the scattering of an attosecond electron wave packet launched by an attosecond pulse under the influence of an infrared laser field. As the electron scatters inside a spatially extended system, the dressing laser field controls its motion. We show that this interaction, which lasts just a few hundreds of attoseconds, clearly manifests itself in the spectral interference pattern between different quantum pathways taken by the outgoing electron. We find that the Coulomb-Volkov approximation, a standard expression used to describe laser-dressed photoionization, cannot properly describe this interference pattern. We introduce a quasi-classical model, based on electron trajectories, which quantitatively explains the laser-dressed photoelectron spectra, notably the laser-induced changes in the spectral interference pattern.

id: 1008.2316
title: Arboreal Bound Entanglement
authors: Alastair Kay
comments: 9 pages + appendices, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, 495301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2316
abstract: In this paper, we discuss the entanglement properties of graph-diagonal states, with particular emphasis on calculating the threshold for the transition between the presence and absence of entanglement (i.e. the separability point). Special consideration is made of the thermal states of trees, including the linear cluster state. We characterise the type of entanglement present, and describe the optimal entanglement witnesses and their implementation on a quantum computer, up to an additive approximation. In the case of general graphs, we invoke a relation with the partition function of the classical Ising model, thereby intimating a connection to computational complexity theoretic tasks. Finally, we show that the entanglement is robust to some classes of local perturbations.

id: 1008.2358
title: Bound state solutions of the Dirac-Rosen-Morse potential with spin and pseudospin symmetry
authors: K. J. Oyewumi, C. O. Akoshile
comments: 18 pages
journal: Eur.Phys.J.A45:311-318,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2358
abstract: The energy spectra and the corresponding two- component spinor wavefunctions of the Dirac equation for the Rosen-Morse potential with spin and pseudospin symmetry are obtained. The $s-$wave ($\kappa = 0$ state) solutions for this problem are obtained by using the basic concept of the supersymmetric quantum mechanics approach and function analysis (standard approach) in the calculations. Under the spin symmetry and pseudospin symmetry, the energy equation and the corresponding two-component spinor wavefunctions for this potential and other special types of this potential are obtained. Extension of this result to $\kappa \neq 0$ state is suggested.

id: 1008.2370
title: Implementing quantum gates through scattering between a static and a flying qubit
authors: G. Cordourier-Maruri, F. Ciccarello, Y. Omar, M. Zarcone, R. de Coss, S. Bose
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052313 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2370
abstract: We investigate whether a two-qubit quantum gate can be implemented in a scattering process involving a flying and a static qubit. To this end, we focus on a paradigmatic setup made out of a mobile particle and a quantum impurity, whose respective spin degrees of freedom couple to each other during a one-dimensional scattering process. Once a condition for the occurrence of quantum gates is derived in terms of spin-dependent transmission coefficients, we show that this can be actually fulfilled through the insertion of an additional narrow potential barrier. An interesting observation is that under resonance conditions the above enables a gate only for isotropic Heisenberg (exchange) interactions and fails for an XY interaction. We show the existence of parameter regimes for which gates able to establish a maximum amount of entanglement can be implemented. The gates are found to be robust to variations of the optimal parameters.

id: 1008.2408
title: Interaction-Free All-Optical Switching via Quantum-Zeno Effect
authors: Yu-Ping Huang, Joseph B. Altepeter, Prem Kumar
comments: 14 pages, 14 figures, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2408
abstract: We propose a novel interaction-free scheme for all-optical switching which does not rely on the physical coupling between signal and control waves. The interaction-free nature of the scheme allows it to overcome the fundamental photon-loss limit imposed by the signal-pump coupling. The same phenomenon protects photonic-signal states from decoherence, making devices based on this scheme suitable for quantum applications. Focusing on $\chi^{(2)}$ waveguides, we provide device designs for traveling-wave and Fabry-Perot switches. In both designs, the performance is optimal when the signal switching is induced by coherent dynamical evolution. In contrast, when the switching is induced by a rapid dissipation channel, it is less efficient.

id: 1008.2413
title: Path integral and wave function collapse
authors: Wei Wen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2413
abstract: Quantum measurement problem is still unconsensus since it has existed many years and inspired a large of literature in physics and philosophy. We show it can be subsumed into the quantum theory if we extend the Feynman path integral by considering the relativistic effect of Feynman paths. According to this extended theory, we deduce not only the Klein-Gordon equation, but also the wave-function-collapse equation. It is showing that the stochastic and instantaneous collapse of the quantum measurement is due to the "potential noise" of the apparatus or environment and "inner correlation" of wave function respectively. Therefore, the definite-status of the macroscopic matter is due to itself and this does not disobey the quantum mechanics. This work will give a new recognition for the measurement problem.

id: 1008.2417
title: Introduction to quantum Fisher information
authors: Denes Petz, Catalin Ghinea
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2417
abstract: The subject of this paper is a mathematical transition from the Fisher information of classical statistics to the matrix formalism of quantum theory. If the monotonicity is the main requirement, then there are several quantum versions parametrized by a function. In physical applications the minimal is the most popular. There is a one-to-one correspondence between Fisher informations (called also monotone metrics) and abstract covariances. The skew information and the chi-square-divergence are treated here as particular cases.

id: 1008.2423
title: Role of initial quantum correlation in transient linear response
authors: Chikako Uchiyama, Masaki Aihara
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, typos are corrected, to be appeared in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2423
abstract: The linear transient response of a two-level system coupled with an environmental system is studied under correlated and factorized initial conditions. We find that the transient response in these cases differs significantly from each other, especially for strong system-environment interaction at intermediate temperatures. This means that it is necessary to pay attention to the initial conditions chosen when analyzing experiments on transient linear response, because the conventional factorized initial condition results in an incorrect response, in which the quantum correlation between the relevant system and the environmental system is disregarded.

id: 1008.2473
title: Appearance of Gauge Fields and Forces beyond the adiabatic approximation
authors: Pierre Gosselin, Herv¨¦ Mohrbach
comments: J . Phys. A (2010) in press
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor., 43 (2010) 354025
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2473
abstract: We investigate the origin of quantum geometric phases, gauge fields and forces beyond the adiabatic regime. In particular, we extend the notions of geometric magnetic and electric forces discovered in studies of the Born-Oppenheimer approximation to arbitrary quantum systems described by matrix valued quantum Hamiltonians. The results are illustrated by several physical relevant examples.

id: 1008.2510
title: Measurement As Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking, Non-locality and Non-Boolean Holism
authors: Partha Ghose
comments: 12 pages, based on talk given at the International Conference on "Quantum Systems, Classical Measurements and Consequences'' at SVYASA University, Bangalore on June 28, 2010 and at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore on July 1, 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2510
abstract: It is shown that having degenerate ground states over the domain of the wavefunction of a system is a sufficient condition for a quantum system to act as a measuring apparatus for the system. Measurements are then instances of spontaneous symmetry breaking to one of these ground states, induced by environmental perturbations. Together with non-Boolean holism this constitutes an optimal formulation of quantum mechanics that does not imply non-locality.

id: 1008.2524
title: Survey of an approach to quantum measurement, classical properties and realist interpretation problems
authors: Petr Hajicek, Jiri Tolar
comments: 133 pages, no figure. Accepted in Acta Phys. Slovaca
journal: Acta Physica Slovaca 60 (2010) 613--716, No. 6
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2524
abstract: The paper gives a systematic review of the basic ideas of (non-relativistic) quantum mechanics including all changes that result from previous work of the authors. This shows that the new theory is self-consistent and (in certain sense) complete. The most important changes are: 1) A new realist interpretation of quantum mechanics based on the observation that there are enough objective properties of quantum systems if one looks for them elsewhere than among values of observables. This enables us to introduce the notion of quantum object. 2) Classical systems are defined as macroscopic quantum objects in states close to maximum entropy. For classical mechanics, new states of such kind are introduced, the so-called maximum-entropy packets, and shown to approximate classical dynamics better than Gaussian wave packets. 3) A new solution of quantum measurement problem is proposed for measurements that are performed on microsystems. First, it is assumed that readings of registration apparatuses are always signals from detectors. This implies restrictions on what is observable. Second, an application of the cluster separability principle leads to the key notion of the paper: the separation status of microsystems. The processes of preparation and registration include changes of separation status. A crucial observation is that standard quantum mechanics does not prescribe the evolution during such changes. This gap can be filled by new rules without contradicting the rest of quantum mechanics. As an example of such a new rule, Beltrametti-Cassinelli-Lahti model of measurement is modified and shown then to satisfy both the probability-reproducibility and the objectification requirements.

id: 1008.2554
title: Effect of Ohmic environment on optimally controlled flux-biased phase qubit
authors: Amrit Poudel, Maxim G. Vavilov
comments: 5 pages and 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 144528 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2554
abstract: We analyze the effect of environment on the gate operation of flux-biased phase qubits. We employ the master equation for a reduced density matrix of the qubit system coupled to an Ohmic environment, described by the Caldeira-Leggett model. Numerically solving this equation, we evaluate the gate error as a function of energy splitting between qubit states, junction capacitance, and temperature. The analysis is presented for single-quadrature microwave (control) pulses as well as for two-quadrature pulses, which lower the gate error significantly for idealized systems in the absence of environment. Our results indicate that two-quadrature pulses outperform single quadrature pulses even in the presence of environment.

id: 1008.2572
title: Ground state in the finite Dicke model for interacting qubits
authors: R. A. Robles Robles, S. A. Chilingaryan, B.M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, Ray-Kuang Lee
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 033819 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2572
abstract: We study the ground state of a finite size ensemble of interacting qubits driven by a quantum field. We find a maximally entangled W-state in the ensemble part of the system for a certain coupling parameters region. The area of this region decreases as the ensemble size increases and, in the classical limit, becomes the line in parameter space that defines the phase transition of the system. In the classical limit, we also study the dynamics of the system and its transition from order to disorder for initial energies close to the ground state energy. We find that a critical energy providing this transition is related to the minimum of the projection of the total angular momentum of the quantum system in the $z$-direction.

id: 1008.2596
title: Finite-key security against coherent attacks in quantum key distribution
authors: Lana Sheridan, Thinh Phuc Le, Valerio Scarani
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 123019
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2596
abstract: The work by Christandl, K\"onig and Renner [Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 020504 (2009)] provides in particular the possibility of studying unconditional security in the finite-key regime for all discrete-variable protocols. We spell out this bound from their general formalism. Then we apply it to the study of a recently proposed protocol [Laing et al., Phys. Rev. A 82, 012304 (2010)]. This protocol is meaningful when the alignment of Alice's and Bob's reference frames is not monitored and may vary with time. In this scenario, the notion of asymptotic key rate has hardly any operational meaning, because if one waits too long time, the average correlations are smeared out and no security can be inferred. Therefore, finite-key analysis is necessary to find the maximal achievable secret key rate and the corresponding optimal number of signals.

id: 1008.2598
title: Entanglement Increases the Error-Correcting Ability of Quantum Error-Correcting Codes
authors: Ching-Yi Lai, Todd Brun
comments: 39 pages, 10 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012320 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2598
abstract: If entanglement is available, the error-correcting ability of quantum codes can be increased. We show how to optimize the minimum distance of an entanglement-assisted quantum error-correcting (EAQEC) code, obtained by adding ebits to a standard quantum error-correcting code, over different encoding operators. By this encoding optimization procedure, we found several new EAQEC codes, including a family of [[n, 1, n; n-1]] EAQEC codes for n odd and code parameters [[7, 1, 5; 2]], [[7, 1, 5; 3]], [[9, 1, 7; 4]], [[9, 1, 7; 5]], which saturate the quantum singleton bound for EAQEC codes. A random search algorithm for the encoding optimization procedure is also proposed.

id: 1008.2621
title: Generation of entanglement density within a reservoir
authors: C. Lazarou, B. M. Garraway, J. Piilo, S. Maniscalco
comments: 9 pages, 4 figure
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 065505 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2621
abstract: We study a single two-level atom interacting with a reservoir of modes defined by its reservoir structure function. Within this framework we are able to define a density of entanglement involving a continuum of reservoir modes. The density of entanglement is derived for a system with a single excitation by taking a limit of the global entanglement. Utilizing the density of entanglement we quantify the entanglement between the atom and the modes, and also between the reservoir modes themselves.

id: 1008.2624
title: Macroscopically local correlations can violate information causality
authors: Daniel Cavalcanti, Alejo Salles, Valerio Scarani
comments: are welcome. 6 pages, 4 figs. This is the originally submitted version. The published version contains some bounds on quantum realizations of d2dd isotropic boxes (table 1), found by T. Vertesi, who kindly shared them with us
journal: Nature Communications 1, 136 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2624
abstract: Although quantum mechanics is a very successful theory, its foundations are still a subject of intense debate. One of the main problems is the fact that quantum mechanics is based on abstract mathematical axioms, rather than on physical principles. Quantum information theory has recently provided new ideas from which one could obtain physical axioms constraining the resulting statistics one can obtain in experiments. Information causality and macroscopic locality are two principles recently proposed to solve this problem. However none of them were proven to define the set of correlations one can observe. In this paper, we present an extension of information causality and study its consequences. It is shown that the two above-mentioned principles are inequivalent: if the correlations allowed by nature were the ones satisfying macroscopic locality, information causality would be violated. This gives more confidence in information causality as a physical principle defining the possible correlation allowed by nature.

id: 1008.2628
title: Interference and inequality in quantum decision theory
authors: Taksu Cheon, Taiki Takahashi
comments: LaTeX Elsevier format 10 pages, 6 figures, reference section expanded, 2nd (and final) version
journal: Physics Letters A 375 (2010) 100-104
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2628
abstract: The quantum decision theory is examined in its simplest form of two-condition two-choice setting. A set of inequalities to be satisfied by any quantum conditional probability describing the decision process is derived. Experimental data indicating the breakdown of classical explanations are critically examined with quantum theory using the full set of quantum phases.

id: 1008.2654
title: Self-Similar Modes of Coherent Diffusion
authors: O. Firstenberg, P. London, D. Yankelev, R. Pugatch, M. Shuker, N. Davidson
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2654
abstract: Self-similar solutions of the coherent diffusion equation are derived and measured. The set of real similarity solutions is generalized by the introduction of a nonuniform phase surface, based on the elegant Gaussian modes of optical diffraction. In an experiment of light storage in a gas of diffusing atoms, a complex initial condition is imprinted, and its diffusion dynamics is monitored. The self-similarity of both the amplitude and the phase pattern is demonstrated, and an algebraic decay associated with the mode order is measured. Notably, as opposed to a regular diffusion spreading, a self-similar contraction of a special subset of the solutions is predicted and observed.

id: 1008.2662
title: Toward scalable information processing with ultracold polar molecules in an electric field: a numerical investigation
authors: La?titia Bomble, Philippe Pellegrini, Pierre Ghesqui¨¨re, Mich¨¨le Desouter-Lecomte
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2662
abstract: We numerically investigate the possibilities of driving quantum algorithms with laser pulses in a register of ultracold NaCs polar molecules in a static electric field. We focuse on the possibilities of performing scalable logical operations by considering circuits that involve intermolecular gates (implemented on adjacent interacting molecules) to enable the transfer of information from one molecule to another during conditional laser-driven population inversions. We study the implementation of an arithmetic operation (the addition of 0 or 1 on a binary digit and a carry in) which requires population inversions only and the Deutsch-Josza algorithm which requires a control of the phases. Under typical experimental conditions, our simulations show that high fidelity logical operations involving several qubits can be performed in a time scale of a few hundred of microseconds, opening promising perspectives for the manipulation of a large number of qubits in these systems.

id: 1008.2675
title: Mutually unbiased bases: tomography of spin states and star-product scheme
authors: S. N. Filippov, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 11 pages, 1 table, partially presented at the 17th Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics (CEWQO'2010), June 6-11, 2010, St. Andrews, Scotland, UK
journal: Physica Scripta T143 (2011) 014010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2675
abstract: Mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) are considered within the framework of a generic star-product scheme. We rederive that a full set of MUBs is adequate for a spin tomography, i.e. knowledge of all probabilities to find a system in each MUB-state is enough for a state reconstruction. Extending the ideas of the tomographic-probability representation and the star-product scheme to MUB-tomography, dequantizer and quantizer operators for MUB-symbols of spin states and operators are introduced, ordinary and dual star-product kernels are found. Since MUB-projectors are to obey specific rules of the star-product scheme, we reveal the Lie algebraic structure of MUB-projectors and derive new relations on triple- and four-products of MUB-projectors. Example of qubits is considered in detail. MUB-tomography by means of Stern-Gerlach apparatus is discussed.

id: 1008.2764
title: Nonlocality as Evidence for a Multiverse Cosmology
authors: Frank J. Tipler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2764
abstract: I show that observations of quantum nonlocality can be interpreted as purely local phenomena, provided one assumes that the cosmos is a multiverse. Conversely, the observation of quantum nonlocality can be interpreted as observation evidence for a multiverse cosmology, just as observation of the setting of the Sun can be interpreted as evidence for the Earth's rotation.

id: 1008.2784
title: Transient entanglement in a spin chain stimulated by phase pulses
authors: Isabel Sainz, Gennadiy Burlak, Andrei B. Klimov
comments: 4 pages 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2784
abstract: Dynamics of the one-dimensional open Ising chain under influence of $\pi$ -pulses is studied. It is shown that the application of a specific sequence of such instant kicks to selective spins stimulates arising of perfect dynamical pairwise entanglement between ends of the spin chain. Analytic formulas for the concurrence dynamics are derived. It is also shown that the time required to perfectly entangle the ends of the chains grows linearly with the number of spins in the chain. The final entangled state of the ending spins is always the same and does not depend on length the chain.

id: 1008.2790
title: Randomized benchmarking of atomic qubits in an optical lattice
authors: S. Olmschenk, R. Chicireanu, K. D. Nelson, J. V. Porto
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 113007 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2790
abstract: We perform randomized benchmarking on neutral atomic quantum bits (qubits) confined in an optical lattice. Single qubit gates are implemented using microwaves, resulting in a measured error per randomized computational gate of 1.4(1) x 10^-4 that is dominated by the system T2 relaxation time. The results demonstrate the robustness of the system, and its viability for more advanced quantum information protocols.

id: 1008.2792
title: Heralding Single Photons Without Spectral Factorability
authors: Yu-Ping Huang, Joseph B. Altepeter, Prem Kumar
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: PhysRevA.82.043826 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2792
abstract: Recent efforts to produce single photons via heralding have relied on creating spectrally factorable two-photon states in order to achieve both high purity and high production rate. Through a careful multimode analysis, we find, however, that spectral factorability is not necessary. Utilizing single-mode detection, a similar or better performance can be achieved with non-factorable states. This conclusion rides on the fact that even when using a broadband filter, a single-mode measurement can still be realized, as long as the coherence time of the triggering photons exceeds the measurement window of the on/off detector.

id: 1008.2881
title: SU(2) and SU(1,1) Approaches to Phase Operators and Temporally Stable Phase States: Applications to Mutually Unbiased Bases and Discrete Fourier Transforms
authors: Natig M. Atakishiyev, Maurice Robert Kibler, Kurt Bernardo Wolf
comments: 
journal: Symmetry 2 (2010) 1461
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2881
abstract: We propose a group-theoretical approach to the generalized oscillator algebra Ak recently investigated in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 115303. The case k > or 0 corresponds to the noncompact group SU(1,1) (as for the harmonic oscillator and the Poeschl-Teller systems) while the case k < 0 is described by the compact group SU(2) (as for the Morse system). We construct the phase operators and the corresponding temporally stable phase eigenstates for Ak in this group-theoretical context. The SU(2) case is exploited for deriving families of mutually unbiased bases used in quantum information. Along this vein, we examine some characteristics of a quadratic discrete Fourier transform in connection with generalized quadratic Gauss sums and generalized Hadamard matrices.

id: 1008.2889
title: Local cloning of CAT states
authors: Ramij Rahaman
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 375 (2011) 2291--2295
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2889
abstract: In this Letter we analyze the (im)possibility of the exact cloning of orthogonal three-qubit CAT states under local operation and classical communication(LOCC) with the help of a restricted entangled state. We also classify the three-qubit CAT states that can(not) be cloned under LOCC restrictions and extend the results to the n-qubit case.

id: 1008.2916
title: The ground state of binary systems with a periodic modulation of the linear coupling
authors: Armand Niederberger, Boris A. Malomed, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2916
abstract: We consider a quasi-one-dimensional two-component systm, described by a pair of Nonlinear Schr\"{o}dinger/Gross-Pitaevskii Equations (NLSEs/GPEs), which are coupled by the linear mixing, with local strength $\Omega $, and by the nonlinear incoherent interaction. We assume the self-repulsive nonlinearity in both components, and include effects of a harmonic trapping potential. The model may be realized in terms of periodically modulated slab waveguides in nonlinear optics, and in Bose-Einstein condensates too. Depending on the strengths of the linear and nonlinear couplings between the components, the ground states (GSs) in such binary systems may be symmetric or asymmetric. In this work, we introduce a periodic spatial modulation of the linear coupling, making $\Omega $ an odd, or even function of the coordinate. The sign flips of $\Omega (x)$ strongly modify the structure of the GS in the binary system, as the relative sign of its components tends to lock to the local sign of $\Omega $. Using a systematic numerical analysis, and an analytical approximation, we demonstrate that the GS of the trapped system contains one or several kinks (dark solitons) in one component, while the other component does not change its sign. Final results are presented in the form of maps showing the number of kinks in the GS as a function of the system's parameters, with the odd/even modulation function giving rise to the odd/even number of the kinks. The modulation of $\Omega (x)$ also produces a strong effect on the transition between states with nearly equal and strongly unequal amplitudes of the two components.

id: 1008.2920
title: General approach to SU(n) quasi-distribution functions
authors: Andrei B Klimov, Hubert de Guise
comments: Accepted for publication in J.Phys.A (FTC)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 402001 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2920
abstract: We propose an operational form for the kernel of a mapping between an operator acting in a Hilbert space of a quantum system with SU(n) symmetry group and its symbol in the corresponding classical phase space. For symmetric irreps of SU(n), this mapping is bijective. We briefly discuss complications that will occur in the general case.

id: 1008.2941
title: Comment on "Entanglement transformation between two-qubit mixed states by LOCC" [Phys. Lett. A 373 (2009) 3610]
authors: Iulia Ghiu
comments: improved version due to the valuable suggestions of the two anonymous referees
journal: Physics Letters A 374, 4633 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2941
abstract: The paper [Phys. Lett. A 373 (2009) 3610] by D.-C. Li analyzes the transformation between two-qubit mixed states by local operations and classical communication. We show that the proof of the main theorem, Theorem 2.6 in [Phys. Lett. A 373 (2009) 3610] is not complete. Therefore the generalization of Nielsen's theorem to mixed states still remains an open problem.

id: 1008.2968
title: Robust and fragile PT-symmetric phases in a tight-binding chain
authors: Yogesh N. Joglekar, Derek Scott, Mark Babbey, Avadh Saxena
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 030103(R) 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2968
abstract: We study the phase-diagram of a parity and time-reversal (PT) symmetric tight-binding chain with $N$ sites and hopping energy $J$, in the presence of two impurities with imaginary potentials $\pm i\gamma$ located at arbitrary (P-symmetric) positions $(m, \bar{m}=N+1-m)$ on the chain where $m\leq N/2$. We find that except in the two special cases where impurities are either the farthest or the closest, the PT-symmetric region - defined as the region in which all energy eigenvalues are real - is algebraically fragile. We analytically and numerically obtain the critical impurity potential $\gamma_{PT}$ and show that $\gamma_{PT}\propto 1/N\rightarrow 0$ as $N\rightarrow\infty$ except in the two special cases. When the PT symmetry is spontaneously broken, we find that the maximum number of complex eigenvalues is given by $2m$. When the two impurities are the closest, we show that the critical impurity strength $\gamma_{PT}$ in the limit $N\rightarrow\infty$ approaches $J$ ($J/2$) provided that $N$ is even (odd). For an even $N$ the PT symmetry is maximally broken whereas for an odd $N$, it is sequentially broken. Our results show that the phase-diagram of a PT-symmetric tight-binding chain is extremely rich and that, in the continuum limit, this model may give rise to new PT-symmetric Hamiltonians.

id: 1008.3058
title: From a single- to a double-well Penning trap
authors: G. Ciaramicoli, I. Marzoli, P. Tombesi
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3058
abstract: The new generation of planar Penning traps promises to be a flexible and versatile tool for quantum information studies. Here, we propose a fully controllable and reversible way to change the typical trapping harmonic potential into a double-well potential, in the axial direction. In this configuration a trapped particle can perform coherent oscillations between the two wells. The tunneling rate, which depends on the barrier height and width, can be adjusted at will by varying the potential difference applied to the trap electrodes. Most notably, tunneling rates in the range of kHz are achievable even with a trap size of the order of 100 microns.

id: 1008.3080
title: Entanglement dynamics of two independent Jaynes-Cummings atoms without rotating-wave approximation
authors: Qing-Hu Chen, Tao Liu, Yuan Yang, Ke-Lin Wang
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052306(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3080
abstract: Entanglement evolution of two independent Jaynes-Cummings atoms without rotating-wave approximation (RWA) is studied by an numerically exact approach. The previous results in the RWA are essentially modified in the strong coupling regime ($g\ge 0.1$), which has been reached in the recent experiments on the flux qubit coupled to the LC resonator. For the initial Bell state with anti-correlated spins, the entanglement sudden death (ESD) is absent in the RWA, but does appear in the present numerical calculation without RWA. Aperiodic entanglement evolution in the strong coupling regime is observed. The strong atom-cavity coupling facilitates the ESD. The sign of detuning play a essential role in the entanglement evolution for strong coupling, which is irrelevant in the RWA. An analytical results based on an unitary transformation are also given, which could not modify the RWA picture essentially. It is suggested that the activation of the photons may be the origin of the ESD. The present theoretical results could be applied to artificial atoms realized in recent experiments.

id: 1008.3087
title: Soliton-like solutions to the ordinary Schroedinger equation
authors: Michel Zamboni-Rached, Erasmo Recami
comments: 31 pages, including 9 Figures; with a LaTeX source-file. Replaced by adding (in sect.4.1) several plots, which show new particular "soliton-like" solutions, and some new brief comments
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 53 (2012) 052102-1 052102-19
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3087
abstract: In recent times it has been paid attention to the fact that (linear) wave equations admit of "soliton-like" solutions, known as Localized Waves or Non-diffracting Waves, which propagate without distortion in one direction. Such Localized Solutions (existing also for K-G and Dirac equations) are a priori suitable, more than Gaussian's, for describing elementary particle motion. In this paper we show that, mutatis mutandis, Localized Solutions exist even for the ordinary Schroedinger equation, within standard Quantum Mechanics; and we obtain both approximate and exact solutions, setting forth particular examples for them. In the ideal case such solutions bear infinite energy, as well as plane or spherical waves: we also demonstrate, therefore, how to obtain finite-energy solutions. At last, we briefly consider solutions for a particle moving in the presence of a potential. Some physical comments are added.

id: 1008.3134
title: New Gauge Field from Extension of Space Time Parallel Transport of Vector Spaces to the Underlying Number Systems
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: 25 pages, 1 figure, Extensively revised, Accepted for publication in International Journal for Theoretical Physics
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.50:1887-1907,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3134
abstract: One way of describing gauge theories in physics is to assign a vector space $V_{x}$ to each space time point $x.$ For each $x$ the field $\psi$ takes values $\psi(x)$ in $V_{x}.$ The freedom to choose a basis in each $V_{x}$ introduces gauge group operators and their Lie algebra representations to define parallel transformations between vector spaces. This paper is an exploration of the extension of these ideas to include the underlying scalar complex number fields. Here a Hilbert space, $\bar{H}_{x},$ as an example of $V_{x},$ and a complex number field, $C_{x},$ are associated with each space time point. The freedom to choose a basis in $H_{x}$ is expanded to include the freedom to choose complex number fields. This expansion is based on the discovery that there exist representations of complex (and other) number systems that differ by arbitrary scale factors. Compensating changes must be made in the basic field operations so that the relevant axioms are satisfied. This results in the presence of a new real valued gauge field $\vec{A}(x).$ Inclusion of $\vec{A}(x)$ into covariant derivatives in Lagrangians results in the description of $\vec{A}(x)$ as a gauge boson that can have mass. The great accuracy of QED suggests that the coupling constant of $\vec{A}(x)$ to matter fields is very small compared to the fine structure constant. Other physical properties of $\vec{A}(x)$ are not known at present.

id: 1008.3205
title: Operational interpretations of quantum discord
authors: D. Cavalcanti, L. Aolita, S. Boixo, K. Modi, M. Piani, A. Winter
comments: v4: 5 pages, 1 fig. Refs added, text improved. Main results unchanged. See arXiv:1008.4135v2 for a related work. v5: close to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032324 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3205
abstract: Quantum discord quantifies non-classical correlations going beyond the standard classification of quantum states into entangled and unentangled ones. Although it has received considerable attention, it still lacks any precise interpretation in terms of some protocol in which quantum features are relevant. Here we give quantum discord its first operational meaning in terms of entanglement consumption in an extended quantum state merging protocol. We further relate the asymmetry of quantum discord with the performance imbalance in quantum state merging and dense coding.

id: 1008.3277
title: Statistical properties of one dimensional Bose gas
authors: Przemyslaw Bienias, Krzysztof Pawlowski, Mariusz Gajda, Kazimierz Rzazewski
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 033610 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3277
abstract: Monte Carlo method within, so called, classical fields approximation is applied to one dimensional weakly interacting repulsive Bose gas trapped in a harmonic potential. Equilibrium statistical properties of the condensate are calculated within a canonical ensemble. We also calculate experimentally relevant low order correlation functions of the whole gas.

id: 1008.3291
title: Unifying parameter estimation and the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm for continuous variables
authors: Marcin Zwierz, Carlos A. P¨¦rez-Delgado, Pieter Kok
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 82, 042320 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3291
abstract: We reveal a close relationship between quantum metrology and the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm on continuous variable quantum systems. We develop a general procedure, characterized by two parameters, that unifies parameter estimation and the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm. Depending on which parameter we keep constant, the procedure implements either the parameter estimation protocol or the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm. The parameter estimation part of the procedure attains the Heisenberg limit and is therefore optimal. Due to the use of approximate normalizable continuous variable eigenstates the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm is probabilistic. The procedure estimates a value of an unknown parameter and solves the Deutsch-Jozsa problem without the use of any entanglement.

id: 1008.3350
title: Quantum Capacity Approaching Codes for the Detected-Jump Channel
authors: Markus Grassl, Zhengfeng Ji, Zhaohui Wei, Bei Zeng
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A, vol. 82, no. 6, December 2010, 062324
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3350
abstract: The quantum channel capacity gives the ultimate limit for the rate at which quantum data can be reliably transmitted through a noisy quantum channel. Degradable quantum channels are among the few channels whose quantum capacities are known. Given the quantum capacity of a degradable channel, it remains challenging to find a practical coding scheme which approaches capacity. Here we discuss code designs for the detected-jump channel, a degradable channel with practical relevance describing the physics of spontaneous decay of atoms with detected photon emission. We show that this channel can be used to simulate a binary classical channel with both erasures and bit-flips. The capacity of the simulated classical channel gives a lower bound on the quantum capacity of the detected-jump channel. When the jump probability is small, it almost equals the quantum capacity. Hence using a classical capacity approaching code for the simulated classical channel yields a quantum code which approaches the quantum capacity of the detected-jump channel.

id: 1008.3398
title: Simulation of noise-assisted transport via optical cavity networks
authors: Filippo Caruso, Nicol¨° Spagnolo, Chiara Vitelli, Fabio Sciarrino, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures. New version with more details
journal: Physical Review A 83, 013811 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3398
abstract: Recently, the presence of noise has been found to play a key role in assisting the transport of energy and information in complex quantum networks and even in biomolecular systems. Here we propose an experimentally realizable optical network scheme for the demonstration of the basic mechanisms underlying noise-assisted transport. The proposed system consists of a network of coupled quantum optical cavities, injected with a single photon, whose transmission efficiency can be measured. Introducing dephasing in the photon path this system exhibits a characteristic enhancement of the transport efficiency that can be observed with presently available technology.

id: 1008.3445
title: Galoisian Approach to integrability of Schr?dinger Equation
authors: Primitivo B. Acosta-Hum¨¢nez, Juan J. Morales-Ruiz, Jacques-Arthur Weil
comments: 62 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3445
abstract: In this paper, we examine the non-relativistic stationary Schr\"odinger equation from a differential Galois-theoretic perspective. The main algorithmic tools are pullbacks of second order ordinary linear differential operators, so as to achieve rational function coefficients ("algebrization"), and Kovacic's algorithm for solving the resulting equations. In particular, we use this Galoisian approach to analyze Darboux transformations, Crum iterations and supersymmetric quantum mechanics. We obtain the ground states, eigenvalues, eigenfunctions, eigenstates and differential Galois groups of a large class of Schr\"odinger equations, e.g. those with exactly solvable and shape invariant potentials (the terms are defined within). Finally, we introduce a method for determining when exact solvability is possible.

id: 1008.3447
title: Mean spin entanglement of two massive Dirac particles under Lorentz transformations
authors: Taeseung Choi, Jin Hur, Jaewan Kim
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3447
abstract: We have studied the relativistic effects on the mean spin entanglement of two massive Dirac particles using the simultaneous eigen-spinors of the Foldy-Woutheysen mean spin operator and the Dirac Hamiltonian. We have obtained the transformation matrix from the spinor with specific momentum to the spinor with a transformed momentum under an arbitrary Lorentz transformation. Using the transformation matrix we have shown the consistent monotonic behavior between the concurrence and the maximum value of Bell parameter in Bell inequality of transformed spin states.

id: 1008.3451
title: Quantum computing applied to calculations of molecular energies: CH2 benchmark
authors: Libor Veis, Ji?¨ª Pittner
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 133, 194106 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3451
abstract: Quantum computers are appealing for their ability to solve some tasks much faster than their classical counterparts. It was shown in [Aspuru-Guzik et al., Science 309, 1704 (2005)] that they, if available, would be able to perform the full configuration interaction (FCI) energy calculations with a polynomial scaling. This is in contrast to conventional computers where FCI scales exponentially. We have developed a code for simulation of quantum computers and implemented our version of the quantum full configuration interaction algorithm. We provide a detailed description of this algorithm and the results of the assessment of its performance on the four lowest lying electronic states of CH2 molecule. This molecule was chosen as a benchmark, since its two lowest lying 1A1 states exhibit a multireference character at the equilibrium geometry. It has been shown that with a suitably chosen initial state of the quantum register, one is able to achieve the probability amplification regime of the iterative phase estimation algorithm even in this case.

id: 1008.3468
title: Continuous Variable Quantum Information Processing
authors: Ulrik L. Andersen, Gerd Leuchs, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 
journal: Laser & Photonics Reviews, Vol.4, 337-354 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3468
abstract: Observables of quantum systems can posses either a discrete or a continuous spectrum. For example, upon measurements of the photon number of a light state, discrete outcomes will result whereas measurements of the light's quadrature amplitudes result in continuous outcomes. If one uses the continuous degree of freedom of a quantum system either for encoding, processing or detecting information, one enters the field of continuous variable (CV) quantum information processing. In this paper we review the basic principles of CV quantum information processing with main focus on recent developments in the field. We will be addressing the three main stages of a quantum informational system; the preparation stage where quantum information is encoded into CVs of coherent states and single photon states, the processing stage where CV information is manipulated to carry out a specified protocol and a detection stage where CV information is measured using homodyne detection or photon counting.

id: 1008.3486
title: Maximal Overlap with a Fully Separable State and Translational Invariance in Multipartite Entangled States
authors: H. T. Cui, Di Yuan, J. L. Tian
comments: published version. comments welcome
journal: PhysRevA_82_062116 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3486
abstract: The maximal overlap with the fully separable state for the multipartite entangled pure state with translational invariance is studied explicitly by some exact and numerical evaluations, focusing on the one-dimensional qubit system and some representative types of translational invariance. The results show that the translational invariance of the multipartite state could have an intrinsic effect on the determinations of the maximal overlap and the nearest fully separable state for multipartite entangled states. Furthermore a hierarchy of the basic entangled states with translational invariance is founded, from which one could readily find the maximal overlap and a related fully separable state for the multipartite state composed of different translational invariance structures.

id: 1008.3494
title: Hawking Radiation on an Ion Ring in the Quantum Regime
authors: Birger Horstmann, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold, Benni Reznik, Serena Fagnocchi, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 42 pages (one column), 17 figures, published revised version
journal: New J.Phys.13:045008,2011; Erratum-ibid.13:069601,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3494
abstract: This paper discusses a recent proposal for the simulation of acoustic black holes with ions. The ions are rotating on a ring with an inhomogeneous, but stationary velocity profile. Phonons cannot leave a region, in which the ion velocity exceeds the group velocity of the phonons, as light cannot escape from a black hole. The system is described by a discrete field theory with a nonlinear dispersion relation. Hawking radiation is emitted by this acoustic black hole, generating entanglement between the inside and the outside of the black hole. We study schemes to detect the Hawking effect in this setup.

id: 1008.3504
title: Enhancement of the Zero Phonon Line emission from a Single NV-Center in a Nanodiamond via Coupling to a Photonic Crystal Cavity
authors: Janik Wolters, Andreas W. Schell, G¨¹ter Kewes, Nils N¨¹sse, Max Schoengen, Henning D?scher, Thomas Hannappel, Bernd L ?hel, Michael Barth, Oliver Benson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3504
abstract: Using a nanomanipulation technique a nanodiamond with a single nitrogen vacancy center is placed directly on the surface of a gallium phosphide photonic crystal cavity. A Purcell-enhancement of the fluorescence emission at the zero phonon line (ZPL) by a factor of 12.1 is observed. The ZPL coupling is a first crucial step towards future diamond-based integrated quantum optical devices.

id: 1008.3509
title: One-step deterministic polarization entanglement purification using spatial entanglement
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 5 pages, 1 figures. A negligible error about the density matrix \rho"_p in Eq. (9) is corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 044305 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3509
abstract: We present a one-step deterministic entanglement purification protocol with linear optics and postselection. Compared with the Simon-Pan protocol (Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 257901 (2002)), this one-step protocol has some advantages. First, it can get a maximally entangled pair with only one step, not only improve the fidelity of less-entangled photon pairs by performing the protocol repeatedly. Second, it works in a deterministic way, not a probabilistic one, which will reduce a great deal of entanglement resources. Third, it does not require the polarization state be entangled, only spatial entanglement is needed. Moreover, it is feasible with current techniques (Nature 423, 417 (2003)). All these advantages will make this one-step protocol more convenient than others in the applications in quantum communication.

id: 1008.3537
title: Perfect and flexible quantum state transfer in the hybrid system atom coupled-cavity
authors: Bruno F. C. Yabu-uti, Jos¨¦ A. Roversi
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, IOP style
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3537
abstract: We investigate a system composed of $N$ coupled cavities and two-level atoms interacting one at a time. Adjusting appropriately the atom-field detuning, and make the hopping rate of photons between neighboring cavities, $A$, greater than the atom-field coupling $g$ (i.e. $A>>g$), we can eliminate the interaction of the atom with the nonresonant normal modes reducing the dynamics to the interaction of the atom with only a single-mode. As an application of this interaction, we analyze the transmission of an arbitrary atomic quantum state between distant coupled cavities. In the ideal case, we obtain a flexible and perfect quantum communication. Considering the influence of dissipation an interesting parity effect emerge and we obtain $N$ maximum in which it is still possible to achieve a quantum communication more efficient than a purely classical channel between the ends. We also studied important sources of imperfections in procedure execution.

id: 1008.3567
title: Non-Markovian quantum state diffusion for absorption spectra of molecular aggregates
authors: Jan Roden, Walter T. Strunz, Alexander Eisfeld
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 134, 034902 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3567
abstract: In many molecular systems one encounters the situation where electronic excitations couple to a quasi-continuum of phonon modes. That continuum may be highly structured e.g. due to some weakly damped high frequency modes. To handle such a situation, an approach combining the non-Markovian quantum state diffusion (NMQSD) description of open quantum systems with an efficient but abstract approximation was recently applied to calculate energy transfer and absorption spectra of molecular aggregates [Roden, Eisfeld, Wolff, Strunz, PRL 103 (2009) 058301]. To explore the validity of the used approximation for such complicated systems, in the present work we compare the calculated (approximative) absorption spectra with exact results. These are obtained from the method of pseudomodes, which we show to be capable of determining the exact spectra for small aggregates and a few pseudomodes. It turns out that in the cases considered, the results of the two approaches mostly agree quite well. The advantages and disadvantages of the two approaches are discussed.

id: 1008.3578
title: Universal quantum computation by discontinuous quantum walk
authors: Michael S. Underwood, David L. Feder
comments: 7 pages, revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042304 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3578
abstract: Quantum walks are the quantum-mechanical analog of random walks, in which a quantum `walker' evolves between initial and final states by traversing the edges of a graph, either in discrete steps from node to node or via continuous evolution under the Hamiltonian furnished by the adjacency matrix of the graph. We present a hybrid scheme for universal quantum computation in which a quantum walker takes discrete steps of continuous evolution. This `discontinuous' quantum walk employs perfect quantum state transfer between two nodes of specific subgraphs chosen to implement a universal gate set, thereby ensuring unitary evolution without requiring the introduction of an ancillary coin space. The run time is linear in the number of simulated qubits and gates. The scheme allows multiple runs of the algorithm to be executed almost simultaneously by starting walkers one timestep apart.

id: 1008.3580
title: Modal Approach to Casimir Forces in Periodic Structures
authors: P. S. Davids, F. Intravaia, F. S. S. Rosa, D.A.R. Dalvit
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062111 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3580
abstract: We present a modal approach to calculate finite temperature Casimir interactions between two periodically modulated surfaces. The scattering formula is used and the reflection matrices of the patterned surfaces are calculated decomposing the electromagnetic field into the natural modes of the structures. The Casimir force gradient from a deeply etched silicon grating is evaluated using the modal approach and compared to experiment for validation. The Casimir force from a two dimensional periodic structure is computed and deviations from the proximity force approximation examined.

id: 1008.3584
title: Long Distance Entanglement Generation in 2D Networks
authors: S. Broadfoot, U. Dorner, D. Jaksch
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3584
abstract: We consider 2D networks composed of nodes initially linked by two-qubit mixed states. In these networks we develop a global error correction scheme that can generate distance-independent entanglement from arbitrary network geometries using rank two states. By using this method and combining it with the concept of percolation we also show that the generation of long distance entanglement is possible with rank three states. Entanglement percolation and global error correction have different advantages depending on the given situation. To reveal the trade-off between them we consider their application on networks containing pure states. In doing so we find a range of pure-state schemes, each of which has applications in particular circumstances: For instance, we can identify a protocol for creating perfect entanglement between two distant nodes. However, this protocol can not generate a singlet between any two nodes. On the other hand, we can also construct schemes for creating entanglement between any nodes, but the corresponding entanglement fidelity is lower.

id: 1008.3612
title: How much measurement independence is needed in order to demonstrate nonlocality?
authors: Jonathan Barrett, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. v2 Various improvements in presentation. Results unchanged
journal: Physical Review Letters, 106, 100406, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3612
abstract: If nonlocality is to be inferred from a violation of Bell's inequality, an important assumption is that the measurement settings are freely chosen by the observers, or alternatively, that they are random and uncorrelated with the hypothetical local variables. We study the case where this assumption is weakened, so that measurement settings and local variables are at least partially correlated. As we show, there is a connection between this type of model and models which reproduce nonlocal correlations by allowing classical communication between the distant parties, and a connection with models that exploit the detection loophole. We show that even if Bob's choices are completely independent, all correlations obtained from projective measurements on a singlet can be reproduced, with the correlation (measured by mutual information) between Alice's choice and local variables less than or equal to a single bit.

id: 1008.3633
title: Characterizing Operations Preserving Separability Measures via Linear Preserver Problems
authors: Nathaniel Johnston
comments: 16 pages, typos corrected, references added, proof of Theorem 4.3 simplified and clarified
journal: Linear Multilinear Algebra 59, 1171-1187 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3633
abstract: We use classical results from the theory of linear preserver problems to characterize operators that send the set of pure states with Schmidt rank no greater than k back into itself, extending known results characterizing operators that send separable pure states to separable pure states. We also provide a new proof of an analogous statement in the multipartite setting. We use these results to develop a bipartite version of a classical result about the structure of maps that preserve rank-1 operators and then characterize the isometries for two families of norms that have recently been studied in quantum information theory. We see in particular that for k at least 2 the operator norms induced by states with Schmidt rank k are invariant only under local unitaries, the swap operator and the transpose map. However, in the k = 1 case there is an additional isometry: the partial transpose map.

id: 1008.3640
title: Progress in Experimental Measurements of the Surface-Surface Casimir Force: Electrostatic Calibrations and Limitations to Accuracy
authors: Steve K. Lamoreaux
comments: three figures. Chapter contribution to a Springer Lecture Notes volume "Casimir Physics"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3640
abstract: Several new experiments have extended studies of the Casimir force into new and interesting regimes. This recent work will be briefly reviewed. With this recent progress, new issues with background electrostatic effects have been uncovered. The myriad of problems associated with both patch potentials and electrostatic calibrations are discussed and the remaining open questions are brought forward.

id: 1008.3643
title: Inferring the Gibbs state of a small quantum system
authors: Jochen Rau
comments: 13 pages; v2: modified title, improved flow of exposition, additional appendices
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012101 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3643
abstract: Gibbs states are familiar from statistical mechanics, yet their use is not limited to that domain. For instance, they also feature in the maximum entropy reconstruction of quantum states from incomplete measurement data. Outside the macroscopic realm, however, estimating a Gibbs state is a nontrivial inference task, due to two complicating factors: the proper set of relevant observables might not be evident a priori; and whenever data are gathered from a small sample only, the best estimate for the Lagrange parameters is invariably affected by the experimenter's prior bias. I show how the two issues can be tackled with the help of Bayesian model selection and Bayesian interpolation, respectively, and illustrate the use of these Bayesian techniques with a number of simple examples.

id: 1008.3661
title: A Logical Proof of the Free Will Theorem
authors: Iegor Reznikoff
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3661
abstract: We give a purely logical proof of the J. Conway and S. Kochen Free Will theorem concerning undeterminacy in Quantum Mechanics (Notices of the AMS, February 2009, Vol. 56/2, p. 226). The logical method seems to be very powerful.

id: 1008.3682
title: Positive finite rank elementary operators and characterizing entanglement of states
authors: Xiaofei Qi, Jinchuan Hou
comments: 26 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 215305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3682
abstract: In this paper, a class of indecomposable positive finite rank elementary operators of order $(n,n)$ are constructed. This allows us to give a simple necessary and sufficient criterion for separability of pure states in bipartite systems of any dimension in terms of positive elementary operators of order $(2,2)$ and get some new mixed entangled states that can not be detected by the positive partial transpose (PPT) criterion and the realignment criterion.

id: 1008.3708
title: On the preferred-basis problem and its possible solutions
authors: Bruno Galvan
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3708
abstract: The preferred basis problem is mentioned in the literature in connection with the measurement problem and with the Many World Interpretation. It is argued that this problem actually corresponds to two inequivalent problems: (i) the preferred-decomposition problem, i.e., what singles out a preferred decomposition of a suitable state vector of a system as the sum of a finite or countable set of vectors?, and (ii) the preferred-representation problem, i.e., what singles out a preferred representation for the Hilbert space of a system? In this paper the preferred-decomposition problem is addressed and two processes, namely decoherence and permanent spatial decomposition (PSD), are examined and compared as possible solutions to this problem. It is shown that, perhaps contrary to common belief, in realistic situations decoherence is not sufficient to solve the preferred-decomposition problem. PSD is the (hypothesized) tendency of the wave function of the universe to decompose into permanently non-overlapping wave packets. Three phases can be roughly identified as composing PSD: Microscopic decomposition, amplification, and interaction with the environment. Decoherence theory considers only the interaction with the environment and ignores the first two phases. For this reason PSD is fundamentally different from decoherence and, unlike decoherence, provides a simple and non-elusive solution to the preferred-decomposition problem.

id: 1008.3752
title: Fault-Tolerant Topological One-Way Quantum Computation with Probabilistic Two-Qubit Gates
authors: Keisuke Fujii, Yuuki Tokunaga
comments: 4.5 pages, 3 figures; V2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105 250503 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3752
abstract: We propose a scalable way to construct a 3D cluster state for fault-tolerant topological one-way computation (TOWC) even if the entangling two-qubit gates succeed with a small probability. It is shown that fault-tolerant TOWC can be performed with the success probability of the two-qubit gate such as 0.5 (0.1) provided that the conditional error probability of the two-qubit gate is less than 0.040% (0.016%). Furthermore, the resource usage is considerably suppressed compared to the conventional fault-tolerant schemes with probabilistic two-qubit gates.

id: 1008.3772
title: Classical Signal Model for Quantum Channels
authors: Andrei Khrennikov, Masanori Ohya, Naboru Watanabe
comments: 
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research, v. 31, N 5, 401-407, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3772
abstract: Recently it was shown that the main distinguishing features of quantum mechanics (QM) can be reproduced by a model based on classical random fields, so called prequantum classical statistical field theory (PCSFT). This model provides a possibility to represent averages of quantum observables, including correlations of observables on subsystems of a composite system (e.g., entangled systems), as averages with respect to fluctuations of classical (Gaussian) random fields. In this note we consider some consequences of PCSFT for quantum information theory. They are based on the observation \cite{W} of two authors of this paper that classical Gaussian channels (important in classical signal theory) can be represented as quantum channels. Now we show that quantum channels can be represented as classical linear transformations of classical Gaussian signal

id: 1008.3777
title: Vacuum induced Berry phases in single-mode Jaynes-Cummings models
authors: Yu Liu, L. F. Wei, W. Z. Jia, J. Q. Liang
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures,
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3777
abstract: Motivated by the work [Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 220404 (2002)] for detecting the vacuum-induced Berry phases with two-mode Jaynes-Cummings models (JCMs), we show here that, for a parameter-dependent single-mode JCM, certain atom-field states also acquire the photon-number-dependent Berry phases after the parameter slowly changed and eventually returned to its initial value. This geometric effect related to the field quantization still exists, even the filed is kept in its vacuum state. Specifically, a feasible Ramsey interference experiment with cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) system is designed to detect the vacuum-induced Berry phase.

id: 1008.3787
title: Distinguishing left- and right-handed molecules by two-step coherent pulses
authors: W. Z. Jia, L. F. Wei
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures,
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3787
abstract: Chiral molecules with broken parity symmetries can be modeled as quantum systems with cyclic-transition structures. By using these novel properties, we design two-step laser pulses to distinguish left- and right-handed molecules from the enantiomers. After the applied pulse drivings, one kind chiral molecules are trapped in coherent population trapping state, while the other ones are pumped to the highest states for ionizations. Then, different chiral molecules can be separated.

id: 1008.3826
title: A scheme comparison of Autler-Townes based slow light in inhomogeneously broadened quantum dot media
authors: Per Lunnemann, Jesper M?rk
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3826
abstract: We propose a method to achieve significant optical signal delays exploiting the effect of Autler-Townes splitting in an inhomogeneously broadened quantum dot medium. The absorption and slow-down effects are compared for three schemes i.e. $\Xi$, V and $\Lambda$, corresponding to different excitation configurations. Qualitative differences of the V-scheme compared to the $\Xi$- and $\Lambda$-scheme are found, which show that features of Autler-Townes splitting are only revealed in the V-scheme. The underlying physical mechanisms causing this discrepancy are analyzed and discussed. Finally we compare field propagation calculations of the schemes showing significantly larger achievable signal delays for the V-scheme despite finite absorption of the coupling field. This opens the possibility for using waveguide structures for both coupling and probe fields, thus significantly increasing the achievable signal delays.

id: 1008.3835
title: Adaptive time-dependent coupled cluster method for multiparticle wavepacket dynamics
authors: Simen Kvaal
comments: Paper has been temporarily withdrawn due to developments in theory. The updated version is at arXiv:1201.5548
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3835
abstract: A dynamical formulation of coupled cluster theory is derived using a variational principle. By allowing time-dependent single-particle functions, a high degree of adaptivity is introduced, allowing complex systems to be simulated with high accuracy. Equations of motion are derived which are shown to be suitable for computer implementation. The method, called adaptive time-dependent coupled cluster, is a strict generalization of the formulation used in standard coupled cluster response theory, and also represents a systematic hierarchy of size-consistent approximations, including standard time-dependent Hartree--Fock as a trivial case.

id: 1008.3847
title: Unified demonstration of nonlocality at detection and the Michelson-Morley result, by a single-photon experiment
authors: Antoine Suarez
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3847
abstract: An experiment demonstrating nonlocality at detection is proposed. A single-photon Michelson-Morley experiment could be performed under exactly the same conditions as well. Hence, the two experiments are "loophole free" to the same extent. It is argued that both quantum theory and relativity share the same experimental basis and derive from the same principles. Relativity and the quantum are two aspects of one and the same physical description of the world.

id: 1008.3853
title: Timescales of tunneling decay of a localized state
authors: Yue Ban, E. Ya. Sherman, J. G. Muga, M. B¨¹ttiker
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062121 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3853
abstract: Motivated by recent time domain experiments on ultrafast atom ionization, we analyze the transients and timescales that characterize, besides the relatively long lifetime, the decay by tunneling of a localized state. While the tunneling starts immediately, some time is required for the outgoing flux to develop. This short-term behavior depends strongly on the initial state. For the initial state tightly localized so that the initial transients are dominated by over-the-barrier motion, the timescale for the flux propagation through the barrier is close to the B\"uttiker-Landauer traversal time. Then a quasistationary, slowly decay process follows, which sets ideal conditions for observing diffraction in time at longer times and distances. To define operationally a tunnelling time at the barrier edge, we extrapolate backwards the propagation of the wave packet escaped from the potential. This extrapolated time is considerably longer than the timescale of the flux and density buildup at the barrier edge.

id: 1008.3856
title: Electric field-dependent dynamic polarizability and "magic" conditions for optical trapping of polar molecules
authors: Svetlana Kotochigova, David DeMille
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 063421 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3856
abstract: Selection of "magic" trapping conditions with ultracold atoms or molecules, where pairs of internal states experience identical trapping potentials, brings substantial benefits to precision measurements and quantum computing schemes. Working at such conditions could ensure that detrimental effects of inevitable inhomogeneities across an ultracold sample are significantly reduced. However, this aspect of confinement remains unexplored for ultracold polar molecules. Here, we present means to control the AC Stark shift of rotational states of ultracold polar molecules, when subjected to both trapping laser light and an external electric field. We show that both the strength and relative orientation of the two fields influence the trapping potential. In particular, we predict "magic electric field strengths" and a "magic angle", where the Stark shift is independent of the DC external field and rotational states of the molecule.

id: 1008.3858
title: Probing light polarization with the quantum Chernoff bound
authors: Iulia Ghiu, Gunnar Bjork, Paulina Marian, Tudor A. Marian
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 82, 023803 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3858
abstract: We recall the framework of a consistent quantum description of polarization of light. Accordingly, the degree of polarization of a two-mode state $\hat \rho$ of the quantum radiation field can be defined as a distance of a related state ${\hat \rho}_b$ to the convex set of all SU(2) invariant two-mode states. We explore a distance-type polarization measure in terms of the quantum Chernoff bound and derive its explicit expression. A comparison between the Chernoff and Bures degrees of polarization leads to interesting conclusions for some particular states chosen as illustrative examples.

id: 1008.3866
title: Quantum correlations as precursors of entanglement
authors: Adriana Auyuanet, Luiz Davidovich
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, accepted in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3866
abstract: We show that for two initially excited qubits, interacting via dipole forces and with a common reservoir, entanglement is preceded by the emergence of quantum and classical correlations. After a time lag, entanglement finally starts building up, giving rise to a peculiar entangled state, with very small classical correlations. Different measures of quantum correlations are discussed, and their dynamics are compared and shown to lead to coincident values of these quantifiers for several ranges of time.

id: 1008.3896
title: Quantum Theory: a Pragmatist Approach
authors: Richard Healey
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3896
abstract: While its applications have made quantum theory arguably the most successful theory in physics, its interpretation continues to be the subject of lively debate within the community of physicists and philosophers concerned with conceptual foundations. This situation poses a problem for a pragmatist for whom meaning derives from use. While disputes about how to use quantum theory have arisen from time to time, they have typically been quickly resolved, and consensus reached, within the relevant scientific sub-community. Yet rival accounts of the meaning of quantum theory continue to proliferate . In this article I offer a diagnosis of this situation and outline a pragmatist solution to the problem it poses, leaving further details for subsequent articles.

id: 1008.3910
title: Interferometry with Synthetic Gauge Fields
authors: Brandon M. Anderson, Jacob M. Taylor, Victor M. Galitski
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 031602(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3910
abstract: We propose a compact atom interferometry scheme for measuring weak, time-dependent accelerations. Our proposal uses an ensemble of dilute trapped bosons with two internal states that couple to a synthetic gauge field with opposite charges. The trapped gauge field couples spin to momentum to allow time dependent accelerations to be continuously imparted on the internal states. We generalize this system to reduce noise and estimate the sensitivity of such a system to be S~10^-7 m / s^2 / Hz^1/2.

id: 1008.3917
title: No classical limit of quantum decay for broad states
authors: N. G. Kelkar, M. Nowakowski
comments: 
journal: J.Phys.A43:385308,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3917
abstract: Though the classical treatment of spontaneous decay leads to an exponential decay law, it is well known that this is an approximation of the quantum mechanical result which is a non-exponential at very small and large times for narrow states. The non exponential nature at large times is however hard to establish from experiments. A method to recover the time evolution of unstable states from a parametrization of the amplitude fitted to data is presented. We apply the method to a realistic example of a very broad state, the sigma meson and reveal that an exponential decay is not a valid approximation at any time for this state. This example derived from experiment, shows the unique nature of broad resonances.

id: 1008.3920
title: Observation of ground-state quantum beats in atomic spontaneous emission
authors: D. G. Norris, L. A. Orozco, P. Barberis-Blostein, H. J. Carmichael
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 123602 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3920
abstract: We report ground-state quantum beats in spontaneous emission from a continuously driven atomic ensemble. Beats are visible only in an intensity autocorrelation and evidence spontaneously generated coherence in radiative decay. Our measurement realizes a quantum eraser where a first photon detection prepares a superposition and a second erases the "which-path" information in the intermediate state.

id: 1008.3924
title: Quantum walks: decoherence and coin-flipping games
authors: Alejandro Romanelli, Guzm¨¢n Hern¨¢ndez
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3924
abstract: We investigate the global chirality distribution of the quantum walk on the line when decoherence is introduced either through simultaneous measurements of the chirality and particle position, or as a result of broken links. The first mechanism drives the system towards a classical diffusive behavior. This is used to build new quantum games, similar to the spin-flip game. The second mechanism involves two different possibilities: (a) All the quantum walk links have the same probability of being broken. (b) Only the quantum walk links on a half-line are affected by random breakage. In case (a) the decoherence drives the system to a classical Markov process, whose master equation is equivalent to the dynamical equation of the quantum density matrix. This is not the case in (b) where the asymptotic global chirality distribution unexpectedly maintains some dependence with the initial condition. Explicit analytical equations are obtained for all cases.

id: 1008.3929
title: Equivalence between free and harmonically trapped quantum particles
authors: Ole Steuernagel
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3929
abstract: It is shown that general solutions of the free-particle Schroedinger equation can be mapped onto solutions of the Schroedinger equation for the harmonic oscillator. This is done in such a way that the time evolution of a free particle subjected to a sudden transition to a harmonic potential can be described by a simple coordinate transformation applied at the transition time. This procedure is computationally more efficient than either state-projection or propagator techniques. A concatenation of the map and its inverse allows us to map from one harmonic oscillator to another with a different spring constant.

id: 1008.4013
title: Quantum discord for a two-parameter class of states in $2 \otimes d$ quantum systems
authors: Mazhar Ali
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, 495303 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4013
abstract: Quantum discord witnesses the nonclassicality of quantum states even when there is no entanglement in these quantum states. This type of quantum correlation also has some interesting and significant applications in quantum information processing. Quantum discord has been evaluated explicitly only for certain class of two-qubit states. We extend the previous studies to $2 \otimes d$ quantum systems and derive an analytical expression for quantum discord for a two-parameter class of states for $d \geq 3$. We compare quantum discord, classical correlation, and entanglement for qubit-qutrit systems to demonstrate that different measures of quantum correlation are not identical and conceptually different.

id: 1008.4022
title: Environment-assisted quantum transport and trapping in dimers
authors: Oliver Muelken, Tobias Schmid
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 82, 042104 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4022
abstract: We study the dynamics and trapping of excitations for a dimer with an energy off-set $\Delta$ coupled to an external environment. Using a Lindblad quantum master equation approach, we calculate the survival probability $\Pi(t)$ of the excitation and define different lifetimes $\tau_s$ of the excitation, corresponding to the duration of the decay of $\Pi(t)$ in between two predefined values. We show that it is not possible to always enhance the overall decay to the trap. However, it is possible, even for not too small environmental couplings and for values of $\Delta$ of the order ${\cal O}(1)$, to decrease certain lifetimes $\tau_s$, leading to faster decay of $\Pi(t)$ in these time intervals: There is an optimal environmental coupling, leading to a maximal decay for fixed $\Delta$.

id: 1008.4041
title: On the generalized intelligent states and certain related nonclassical states of a quantum exactly solvable nonlinear oscillator
authors: V Chithiika Ruby, M Senthilvelan
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures, Accepted for Publication in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4041
abstract: We construct nonlinear coherent states or f-deformed coherent states for a nonpolynomial nonlinear oscillator which can be considered as placed in the middle between the harmonic oscillator and the isotonic oscillator (Cari\~nena J F et al, J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41, 085301 (2008)). The deformed annihilation and creation operators which are required to construct the nonlinear coherent states in the number basis are obtained from the solution of the Schr\"odinger equation. Using these operators, we construct generalized intelligent states, nonlinear coherent states, Gazeau-Klauder coherent states and the even and odd nonlinear coherent states for this newly solvable system. We also report certain nonclassical properties exhibited by these nonlinear coherent states. In addition to the above, we consider position dependent mass Schr\"odinger equation associated with this solvable nonlinear oscillator and construct nonlinear coherent states, Gazeau-Klauder coherent states and the even and odd nonlinear coherent states for it. We also give explicit expressions of all these nonlinear coherent states by considering a mass profile which is often used for studying transport properties in semiconductors.

id: 1008.4055
title: Grobner Bases for Finite-temperature Quantum Computing and their Complexity
authors: P.R. Crompton
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4055
abstract: Following the recent approach of using order domains to construct Grobner bases from general projective varieties, we examine the parity and time-reversal arguments relating de Witt and Lyman's assertion that all path weights associated with homotopy in dimensions d <= 2 form a faithful representation of the fundamental group of a quantum system. We then show how the most general polynomial ring obtained for a fermionic quantum system does not, in fact, admit a faithful representation, and so give a general prescription for calcluating Grobner bases for finite temperature many-body quantum system and show that their complexity class is BQP.

id: 1008.4079
title: Quantum response of dephasing open systems
authors: J.E. Avron, M. Fraas, G.M. Graf, O. Kenneth
comments: Article rewritten, two appendices added. 16 pages, 2 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 053042
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4079
abstract: We develop a theory of adiabatic response for open systems governed by Lindblad evolutions. The theory determines the dependence of the response coefficients on the dephasing rates and allows for residual dissipation even when the ground state is protected by a spectral gap. We give quantum response a geometric interpretation in terms of Hilbert space projections: For a two level system and, more generally, for systems with suitable functional form of the dephasing, the dissipative and non-dissipative parts of the response are linked to a metric and to a symplectic form. The metric is the Fubini-Study metric and the symplectic form is the adiabatic curvature. When the metric and symplectic structures are compatible the non-dissipative part of the inverse matrix of response coefficients turns out to be immune to dephasing. We give three examples of physical systems whose quantum states induce compatible metric and symplectic structures on control space: The qubit, coherent states and a model of the integer quantum Hall effect.

id: 1008.4088
title: Optical pumping into many-body entanglement
authors: Jaeyoon Cho, Sougato Bose, M. S. Kim
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 020504 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4088
abstract: We propose a scheme of optical pumping by which a system of atoms coupled to harmonic oscillators is driven to an entangled steady state through the atomic spontaneous emission. It is shown that the optical pumping can be tailored so that the many-body atomic state asymptotically reaches an arbitrary stabilizer state regardless of the initial state. The proposed scheme can be suited to various physical systems. In particular, the ion-trap realization is well within current technology.

id: 1008.4091
title: Relativistic Treatment of the Spin-Zero Particles Subject to the q-Deformed Hyperbolic Modified P?schl-Teller Potential
authors: K.J. Oyewumi, T.T. Ibrahim, S.O. Ajibola, D.A. Ajadi
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Journal of Vectorial Relativity 5(3), (2010)1
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4091
abstract: In this study, we solve the Klein-Gordon equation with equal scalar and vector q-deformed hyperbolic modified P\"{o}schl-Teller potential. The explicit expressions of bound state spectra and the normalized eigenfunctions for s-wave bound states are obtained analytically. The energy equations and the corresponding wave functions for the special cases of the equally mixed q-deformed hyperbolic modified P\"{o}schl-Teller potential for spinless particle are briefly discussed.

id: 1008.4097
title: Deterministic nano-assembly of a coupled quantum emitter - photonic crystal cavity system
authors: T. van der Sar, J. Hagemeier, W. Pfaff, E.C. Heeres, S.M. Thon, H. Kim, P.M. Petroff, T.H. Oosterkamp, D. Bouwmeester, R. Hanson
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Applied Physics Letters 98, 193103 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4097
abstract: The interaction of a single quantum emitter with its environment is a central theme in quantum optics. When placed in highly confined optical fields, such as those created in optical cavities or plasmonic structures, the optical properties of the emitter can change drastically. In particular, photonic crystal (PC) cavities show high quality factors combined with an extremely small mode volume. Efficiently coupling a single quantum emitter to a PC cavity is challenging because of the required positioning accuracy. Here, we demonstrate deterministic coupling of single Nitrogen-Vacancy (NV) centers to high-quality gallium phosphide PC cavities, by deterministically positioning their 50 nm-sized host nanocrystals into the cavity mode maximum with few-nanometer accuracy. The coupling results in a 25-fold enhancement of NV center emission at the cavity wavelength. With this technique, the NV center photoluminescence spectrum can be reshaped allowing for efficient generation of coherent photons, providing new opportunities for quantum science.

id: 1008.4102
title: Spontaneous PT symmetry breaking and quantum phase transitions in dimerized spin chains
authors: Gian Luca Giorgi
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B 82, 052404 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4102
abstract: The occurrence of parity-time reversal ($\mathcal{PT}$) symmetry breaking is discussed in a non-Hermitian spin chain. The Hermiticity of the model is broken by the presence of an alternating, imaginary, transverse magnetic field. A full real spectrum, which occurs if and only if all the eigenvectors are $\mathcal{PT}$ symmetric, can appear only in presence of dimerization, i.e. only if the hopping amplitudes between nearest-neighbor spins assume alternate values along the chain. In order to make a connection between such system and the Hermitian world, we study the critical magnetic properties of the model and look for the conditions that would allow to observe the same phase diagram in the absence of the imaginary field. Such procedure amounts to renormalizing the spin-spin coupling amplitudes.

id: 1008.4116
title: Quantum simulation of the wavefunction to probe frustrated Heisenberg spin systems
authors: Xiao-song Ma, Borivoje Dakic, William Naylor, Anton Zeilinger, Philip Walther
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 7, 399--405 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4116
abstract: Quantum simulators are controllable quantum systems that can reproduce the dynamics of the system of interest, which are unfeasible for classical computers. Recent developments in quantum technology enable the precise control of individual quantum particles as required for studying complex quantum systems. Particularly, quantum simulators capable of simulating frustrated Heisenberg spin systems provide platforms for understanding exotic matter such as high-temperature superconductors. Here we report the analog quantum simulation of the ground-state wavefunction to probe arbitrary Heisenberg-type interactions among four spin-1/2 particles . Depending on the interaction strength, frustration within the system emerges such that the ground state evolves from a localized to a resonating valence-bond state. This spin-1/2 tetramer is created using the polarization states of four photons. The single-particle addressability and tunable measurement-induced interactions provide us insights into entanglement dynamics among individual particles. We directly extract ground-state energies and pair-wise quantum correlations to observe the monogamy of entanglement.

id: 1008.4121
title: Engineering Quantum States, Nonlinear Measurements, and Anomalous Diffusion by Imaging
authors: Kurt Jacobs, Daniel Steck
comments: revtex4-1, 17 pages, 7 eps figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 013016 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4121
abstract: We show that well-separated quantum superposition states, measurements of strongly nonlinear observables, and quantum dynamics driven by anomalous diffusion can all be achieved for single atoms or molecules by imaging spontaneous photons that they emit via resonance florescence. To generate anomalous diffusion we introduce continuous measurements driven by L\'evy processes, and prove a number of results regarding their properties. In particular we present strong evidence that the only stable L\'evy density that can realize a strictly continuous measurement is the Gaussian.

id: 1008.4135
title: Interpreting quantum discord through quantum state merging
authors: Vaibhav Madhok, Animesh Datta
comments: 5 pages, no figures. See this http URL for similar results. Typos fixed, references and acknowledgements updated. End note added
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 83, 032323 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4135
abstract: We present an operational interpretation of quantum discord based on the quantum state merging protocol. Quantum discord is the markup in the cost of quantum communication in the process of quantum state merging, if one discards relevant prior information. Our interpretation has an intuitive explanation based on the strong subadditivity of von Neumann entropy. We use our result to provide operational interpretations of other quantities like the local purity and quantum deficit. Finally, we discuss in brief some instances where our interpretation is valid in the single copy scenario.

id: 1008.4136
title: Faithful nonclassicality indicators and extremal quantum correlations in two-qubit states
authors: Davide Girolami, Mauro Paternostro, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, 1 table. Published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 352002 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4136
abstract: The state disturbance induced by locally measuring a quantum system yields a signature of nonclassical correlations beyond entanglement. Here we present a detailed study of such correlations for two-qubit mixed states. To overcome the asymmetry of quantum discord and the unfaithfulness of measurement-induced disturbance (severely overestimating quantum correlations), we propose an ameliorated measurement-induced disturbance as nonclassicality indicator, optimized over joint local measurements, and we derive its closed expression for relevant two-qubit states. We study its analytical relation with discord, and characterize the maximally quantum-correlated mixed states, that simultaneously extremize both quantifiers at given von Neumann entropy: among all two-qubit states, these states possess the most robust quantum correlations against noise.

id: 1008.4143
title: Bose-Einstein condensation in perfect crystals
authors: V. A. Golovko
comments: A previous paper by the author is taken into account, minor refinements are made
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4143
abstract: To investigate the phenomenon of Bose-Einstein condensation in perfect crystals a hierarchy of equations for reduced density matrices that describes a thermodynamically equilibrium quantum system is employed, the hierarchy being obtained earlier by the author. The thermodynamics of a crystal with a condensate and the one of a crystal with no condensate are constructed in parallel, which is required for studying the phase transition involving Bose-Einstein condensation. The transition is analysed also with the help of the Landau theory of phase transitions which shows that a superfluid state can result either from two consecutive phase transitions or from only one. To demonstrate how the general equations obtained can be applied for a concrete crystal the bifurcation method for solving the equations is utilized. New results concerning properties of the condensate crystals at zero temperature are obtained as well. In the concluding section, the physical concept of the condensate is discussed.

id: 1008.4162
title: Preparing thermal states of quantum systems by dimension reduction
authors: Ersen Bilgin, Sergio Boixo
comments: Published version. Minor editorial changes, one new reference added. 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 170405 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4162
abstract: We present an algorithm that prepares thermal Gibbs states of one dimensional quantum systems on a quantum computer without any memory overhead, and in a time significantly shorter than other known alternatives. Specifically, the time complexity is dominated by the quantity $N^{\|h\|/ T}$, where $N$ is the size of the system, $\|h\|$ is a bound on the operator norm of the local terms of the Hamiltonian (coupling energy), and $T$ is the temperature. Given other results on the complexity of thermalization, this overall scaling is likely optimal. For higher dimensions, our algorithm lowers the known scaling of the time complexity with the dimension of the system by one.

id: 1008.4168
title: Convex Quantum Logic
authors: F. Holik, C. Massri, N. Ciancaglini
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4168
abstract: In this work we study the convex set of quantum states from a quantum logical point of view. We consider an algebraic structure based on the convex subsets of this set. The relationship of this algebraic structure with the lattice of propositions of quantum logic is shown. This new structure is suitable for the study of compound systems and shows new differences between quantum and classical mechanics. This differences are linked to the nontrivial correlations which appear when quantum systems interact. They are reflected in the new propositional structure, and do not have a classical analogue. This approach is also suitable for an algebraic characterization of entanglement.

id: 1008.4181
title: Casimir potential of a compact object enclosed by a spherical cavity
authors: Saad Zaheer, Sahand Jamal Rahi, Thorsten Emig, Robert L. Jaffe
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052507 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4181
abstract: We study the electromagnetic Casimir interaction of a compact object contained inside a closed cavity of another compact object. We express the interaction energy in terms of the objects' scattering matrices and translation matrices that relate the coordinate systems appropriate to each object. When the enclosing object is an otherwise empty metallic spherical shell, much larger than the internal object, and the two are sufficiently separated, the Casimir force can be expressed in terms of the static electric and magnetic multipole polarizabilities of the internal object, which is analogous to the Casimir-Polder result. Although it is not a simple power law, the dependence of the force on the separation of the object from the containing sphere is a universal function of its displacement from the center of the sphere, independent of other details of the object's electromagnetic response. Furthermore, we compute the exact Casimir force between two metallic spheres contained one inside the other at arbitrary separations. Finally, we combine our results with earlier work on the Casimir force between two spheres to obtain data on the leading order correction to the Proximity Force Approximation for two metallic spheres both outside and within one another.

id: 1008.4200
title: Radiation from accelerated impurities in Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Jun Suzuki
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375, 1396 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4200
abstract: We investigate radiation spectra arising from accelerated point-like impurities in the homogeneous Bose-Einstein condensate. A general formula for the radiation spectrum is obtained in the integral form as a function of given impurity trajectory. The Planckian spectrum is obtained for a special accelerated motion, which is shown to be unphysical. Non-Planckian spectrum is found in the case of a uniformly accelerated impurity. We compare our result with similar settings as discussed in other quantum many-body systems.

id: 1008.4243
title: Quantifying non-Gaussianity for quantum information
authors: Marco G. Genoni, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 22 pages, 13 figures, comments welcome. v2: typos corrected and references added. v3: minor corrections (more similar to published version)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052341 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4243
abstract: We address the quantification of non-Gaussianity of states and operations in continuous-variable systems and its use in quantum information. We start by illustrating in details the properties and the relationships of two recently proposed measures of non-Gaussianity based on the Hilbert-Schmidt (HS) distance and the quantum relative entropy (QRE) between the state under examination and a reference Gaussian state. We then evaluate the non-Gaussianities of several families of non-Gaussian quantum states and show that the two measures have the same basic properties and also share the same qualitative behaviour on most of the examples taken into account. However, we also show that they introduce a different relation of order, i.e. they are not strictly monotone each other. We exploit the non-Gaussianity measures for states in order to introduce a measure of non-Gaussianity for quantum operations, to assess Gaussification and de-Gaussification protocols, and to investigate in details the role played by non-Gaussianity in entanglement distillation protocols. Besides, we exploit the QRE-based non-Gaussianity measure to provide new insight on the extremality of Gaussian states for some entropic quantities such as conditional entropy, mutual information and the Holevo bound. We also deal with parameter estimation and present a theorem connecting the QRE nonG to the quantum Fisher information. Finally, since evaluation of the QRE nonG measure requires the knowledge of the full density matrix, we derive some {\em experimentally friendly} lower bounds to nonG for some class of states and by considering the possibility to perform on the states only certain efficient or inefficient measurements.

id: 1008.4255
title: Mass spectrum and L¨¦vy-Schr?dinger relativistic equation
authors: Nicola Cufaro Petroni, Modesto Pusterla
comments: 6 pages, no figures; references added; Section VI and Conclusions reformulated; modified notations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4255
abstract: We introduce a modification in the relativistic hamiltonian in such a way that (1) the relativistic Schr\"odinger equations can always be based on an underlying L\'evy process, (2) several families of particles with different rest masses can be selected, and finally (3) the corresponding Feynman diagrams are convergent when we have at least three different masses.

id: 1008.4261
title: Paradox or non-paradox in wave-particle duality
authors: A. Drezet
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4261
abstract: We analyze the experiment recently realized by S. Afshar et al. [1] in order to refute the principle of complementarity. We discuss the general meaning of this principle and show that contrarily to the claim of the authors Bohr's complementarity is not in danger in this experiment.

id: 1008.4274
title: The Parametric Symmetry and Numbers of the Entangled Class of 2 \times M \times N System
authors: Xikun Li, Junli Li, Bin Liu, Cong-Feng Qiao
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Sci. China G54:1471-1475,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4274
abstract: We present in the work two intriguing results in the entanglement classification of pure and true tripartite entangled state of $2\times M\times N$ under stochastic local operation and classical communication. (i) the internal symmetric properties of the nonlocal parameters in the continuous entangled class; (ii) the analytic expression for the total numbers of the true and pure entangled class $2\times M \times N$ states. These properties help people to know more of the nature of the $2\times M\times N$ entangled system.

id: 1008.4294
title: A fast algorithm for approximating the ground state energy on a quantum computer
authors: Anargyros Papageorgiou, Iasonas Petras, Joseph F. Traub, Chi Zhang
comments: 19 pages. This vesrion will appear in Mathemetics of Computation
journal: Mathematics of Computation, 82 (2013), 2293-2304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4294
abstract: Estimating the ground state energy of a multiparticle system with relative error $\e$ using deterministic classical algorithms has cost that grows exponentially with the number of particles. The problem depends on a number of state variables $d$ that is proportional to the number of particles and suffers from the curse of dimensionality. Quantum computers can vanquish this curse. In particular, we study a ground state eigenvalue problem and exhibit a quantum algorithm that achieves relative error $\e$ using a number of qubits $C^\prime d\log \e^{-1}$ with total cost (number of queries plus other quantum operations) $Cd\e^{-(3+\delta)}$, where $\delta>0$ is arbitrarily small and $C$ and $C^\prime$ are independent of $d$ and $\e$.

id: 1008.4307
title: On the role of coherent states in quantum foundations
authors: John R. Klauder
comments: ICQOQI'2010, Kiev, Ukraine, May-June 2010, Conference Proceedings (9 pages)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4307
abstract: Coherent states, and the Hilbert space representations they generate, provide ideal tools to discuss classical/quantum relationships. In this paper we analyze three separate classical/quantum problems using coherent states, and show that useful connections arise among them. The topics discussed are: (1) a truly natural formulation of phase space path integrals; (2) how this analysis implies that the usual classical formalism is ``simply a subset'' of the quantum formalism, and thus demonstrates a universal coexistence of both the classical and quantum formalisms; and (3) how these two insights lead to a complete analytic solution of a formerly insoluble family of nonlinear quantum field theory models.

id: 1008.4411
title: Quantum Fluctuations in the Chirped Pendulum
authors: K. W. Murch, R. Vijay, I. Barth, O. Naaman, J. Aumentado, L. Friedland, I. Siddiqi
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4411
abstract: An anharmonic oscillator when driven with a fast, frequency chirped voltage pulse can oscillate with either small or large amplitude depending on whether the drive voltage is below or above a critical value-a well studied classical phenomenon known as autoresonance. Using a 6 GHz superconducting resonator embedded with a Josephson tunnel junction, we have studied for the first time the role of noise in this non-equilibrium system and find that the width of the threshold for capture into autoresonance decreases as the square root of T, and saturates below 150 mK due to zero point motion of the oscillator. This unique scaling results from the non-equilibrium excitation where fluctuations, both quantum and classical, only determine the initial oscillator motion and not its subsequent dynamics. We have investigated this paradigm in an electrical circuit but our findings are applicable to all out of equilibrium nonlinear oscillators.

id: 1008.4412
title: Separability and entanglement in finite dimer-type chains in general transverse fields
authors: Norma Canosa, Raul Rossignoli, Juan Mauricio Matera
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review B 81, 054415 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4412
abstract: We determine the conditions under which general dimer-type spin chains with $XYZ$ couplings of arbitrary range in a general transverse field will exhibit an exactly separable parity-breaking eigenstate. We also provide sufficient conditions which ensure that it will be a ground state. We then examine the exact side limits at separability of the entanglement between any two spins in a finite chain, showing that in the vicinity of separability, the system will loose all signatures of dimerization, with pairwise entanglement approaching infinite range and becoming independent of separation and interaction range. The possibility of a non-uniform exactly separable ground state induced by an alternating field is also shown. As illustration, we examine the behavior of the pairwise entanglement in a finite $XY$ dimer chain under a uniform as well as alternating field. Related aspects of the magnetization are also discussed.

id: 1008.4415
title: State space dimensionality in short memory hidden variable theories
authors: Alberto Montina
comments: Added a lemma on the dynamical properties of the set S that solves some bugs in the proof of the theorem in section IV
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032107 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4415
abstract: Recently we have presented a hidden variable model of measurements for a qubit where the hidden variable state space dimension is one-half the quantum state manifold dimension. The absence of a short memory (Markov) dynamics is the price paid for this dimensional reduction. The conflict between having the Markov property and achieving the dimensional reduction was proved in [A. Montina, Phys. Rev. A, 77, 022104 (2008)] using an additional hypothesis of trajectory relaxation. Here we analyze in more detail this hypothesis introducing the concept of invertible process and report a proof that makes clearer the role played by the topology of the hidden variable space. This is accomplished by requiring suitable properties of regularity of the conditional probability governing the dynamics. In the case of minimal dimension the set of continuous hidden variables is identified with an object living an N-dimensional Hilbert space, whose dynamics is described by the Schr\"odinger equation. A method for generating the economical non-Markovian model for the qubit is also presented.

id: 1008.4430
title: Unified single-photon and single-electron counting statistics: from cavity-QED to electron transport
authors: Neill Lambert, Yueh-Nan Chen, Franco Nori
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 063840 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4430
abstract: A key ingredient of cavity quantum-electrodynamics (QED) is the coupling between the discrete energy levels of an atom and photons in a single-mode cavity. The addition of periodic ultra-short laser pulses allows one to use such a system as a source of single photons; a vital ingredient in quantum information and optical computing schemes. Here, we analyze and ``time-adjust'' the photon-counting statistics of such a single-photon source, and show that the photon statistics can be described by a simple `transport-like' non-equilibrium model. We then show that there is a one-to-one correspondence of this model to that of non-equilibrium transport of electrons through a double quantum dot nanostructure. Then we prove that the statistics of the tunnelling electrons is equivalent to the statistics of the emitted photons. This represents a unification of the fields of photon counting statistics and electron transport statistics. This correspondence empowers us to adapt several tools previously used for detecting quantum behavior in electron transport systems (e.g., super-Poissonian shot noise, and an extension of the Leggett-Garg inequality) to single-photon-source experiments.

id: 1008.4453
title: How orthogonalities set Kochen-Specker sets
authors: Kate Blanchfield
comments: 3 pages, contribution to the V\"axj\"o conference "Advances in Quantum Theory"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4453
abstract: We look at generalisations of sets of vectors proving the Kochen-Specker theorem in 3 and 4 dimensions. It has been shown that two such sets, although unitarily inequivalent, are part of a larger 3-parameter family of vectors that share the same orthogonality graph. We find that these sets are unusual, in that the vectors in all other Kochen-Specker sets investigated here are fully determined by orthogonality conditions and thus admit no free parameters.

id: 1008.4591
title: Strong correspondence principle for joint measurement of conjugate observables
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042104 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4591
abstract: It is demonstrated that the the statistics for a joint measurement of two conjugate variables in Quantum Mechanics are expressed through an equation identical to the classical one, provided that joint classical probabilities are substituted by Wigner functions and that the interaction between system and detectors is accounted for. This constitutes an extension of Ehrenfest correspondence principle, and it is thereby dubbed strong correspondence principle. Furthermore, it is proved that the detectors provide an additive term to all the cumulants, and that if they are prepared in a Gaussian state they only contribute to the first and second cumulant.

id: 1008.4593
title: Hacking commercial quantum cryptography systems by tailored bright illumination
authors: Lars Lydersen, Carlos Wiechers, Christoffer Wittmann, Dominique Elser, Johannes Skaar, Vadim Makarov
comments: Revised version, rewritten for clarity. 5 pages, 5 figures. To download the Supplementary information (which is in open access), go to the journal web site at this http URL
journal: Nature Photonics 4, 686 - 689 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4593
abstract: The peculiar properties of quantum mechanics allow two remote parties to communicate a private, secret key, which is protected from eavesdropping by the laws of physics. So-called quantum key distribution (QKD) implementations always rely on detectors to measure the relevant quantum property of single photons. Here we demonstrate experimentally that the detectors in two commercially available QKD systems can be fully remote-controlled using specially tailored bright illumination. This makes it possible to tracelessly acquire the full secret key; we propose an eavesdropping apparatus built of off-the-shelf components. The loophole is likely to be present in most QKD systems using avalanche photodiodes to detect single photons. We believe that our findings are crucial for strengthening the security of practical QKD, by identifying and patching technological deficiencies.

id: 1008.4597
title: DNA Replication via Entanglement Swapping
authors: Onur Pusuluk, Cemsinan Deliduman
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures; v2: Medium-sized revision in order to increase understandability, v3: figure corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4597
abstract: Quantum effects are mainly used for the determination of molecular shapes in molecular biology, but quantum information theory may be a more useful tool to understand the physics of life. Organic molecules and quantum circuits/protocols can be considered as hardware and software of living systems that are co-optimized during evolution. We try to model DNA replication in this sense as a multi-body entanglement swapping with a reliable qubit representation of the nucleotides. In our model molecular recognition of a nucleotide triggers an intrabase entanglement corresponding to a superposition state of different tautomer forms. Then, base pairing occurs by swapping intrabase entanglements with interbase entanglements. We examine possible realizations of quantum circuits to be used to obtain intrabase entanglement and swapping protocols to be employed to obtain interbase entanglement. Finally, we discuss possible ways for computational and experimental verification of the model.

id: 1008.4605
title: Two-electron entanglement in elliptically deformed quantum dots
authors: Przemyslaw Koscik, Anna Okopinska
comments: 7 pages,5 number
journal: Physics Letters A 374 (2010) 3841-3846
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4605
abstract: Entropic entanglement measures of a two-dimensional system of two Coulombically interacting particles confined in an anisotropic harmonic potential are discussed in dependence on the anisotropy and the interaction strength. The harmonic approximation appears exact in the strong interaction limit, allowing determination of the asymptotic expression for the linear entropy. Entanglement properties are dramatically influenced by the anisotropy of the confining potential in the strong-correlation regime.

id: 1008.4606
title: The optimized Rayleigh-Ritz scheme for determining the quantum-mechanical spectrum
authors: Przemyslaw Koscik, Anna Okopinska
comments: 22 pages,8 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 10851-10869
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4606
abstract: The convergence of the Rayleigh-Ritz method with nonlinear parameters optimized through minimization of the trace of the truncated matrix is demonstrated by a comparison with analytically known eigenstates of various quasi-solvable systems. We show that the basis of the harmonic oscillator eigenfunctions with optimized frequency ? enables determination of boundstate energies of one-dimensional oscillators to an arbitrary accuracy, even in the case of highly anharmonic multi-well potentials. The same is true in the spherically symmetric case of V (r) = {\omega}2r2 2 + {\lambda}rk, if k > 0. For spiked oscillators with k < -1, the basis of the pseudoharmonic oscillator eigenfunctions with two parameters ? and {\gamma} is more suitable, and optimization of the latter appears crucial for a precise determination of the spectrum.

id: 1008.4607
title: Quantum information analysis of electronic states at different molecular structures
authors: G. Barcza, ?. Legeza, K. H. Marti, M. Reiher
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012508 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4607
abstract: We have studied transition metal clusters from a quantum information theory perspective using the density-matrix renormalization group (DMRG) method. We demonstrate the competition between entanglement and interaction localization. We also discuss the application of the configuration interaction based dynamically extended active space procedure which significantly reduces the effective system size and accelerates the speed of convergence for complicated molecular electronic structures to a great extent. Our results indicate the importance of taking entanglement among molecular orbitals into account in order to devise an optimal orbital ordering and carry out efficient calculations on transition metal clusters. We propose a recipe to perform DMRG calculations in a black-box fashion and we point out the connections of our work to other tensor network state approaches.

id: 1008.4636
title: On a measure of distance for quantum strategies
authors: Gus Gutoski
comments: 25 pages: 17 main body, 6 appendix, 2 references. Final version, minor changes
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics Volume 53, Issue 3, 032202 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4636
abstract: The present paper studies an operator norm that captures the distinguishability of quantum strategies in the same sense that the trace norm captures the distinguishability of quantum states or the diamond norm captures the distinguishability of quantum channels. Characterizations of its unit ball and dual norm are established via strong duality of a semidefinite optimization problem. A full, formal proof of strong duality is presented for the semidefinite optimization problem in question. This norm and its properties are employed to generalize a state discrimination result of Ref. [GW05]. The generalized result states that for any two convex sets S,T of strategies there exists a fixed interactive measurement scheme that successfully distinguishes any choice of s in S from any choice of t in T with bias proportional to the minimal distance between the sets S and T as measured by this norm. A similar discrimination result for channels then follows as a special case.

id: 1008.4643
title: Quantum Oracles in Terms of Universal Gate Set
authors: Yuji Tanaka, Tsubasa Ichikawa, Masahito Tada-Umezaki, Yukihiro Ota, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures. To appear in Int. J. Quant. Info
journal: Int. J. Quant. Info. 9 (2011) 1363
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4643
abstract: We present a systematic construction of quantum circuits implementing Grover's database search algorithm for arbitrary number of targets. We introduce a new operator which flips the sign of the targets and evaluate its circuit complexity. We find the condition under which the circuit complexity of the database search algorithm based on this operator is less than that of the conventional one.

id: 1008.4663
title: Security of six-state quantum key distribution protocol with threshold detectors
authors: Go Kato, Kiyoshi Tamaki
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4663
abstract: We prove the unconditional security of the six-state protocol with threshold detectors and one-way classical communication. Unlike the four-state protocol (BB84), it has been proven that the squash operator for the six-state does not exist, i.e., the statistics of the measurements cannot be obtained via measurement on qubits. We propose a technique to determine which photon number states are important, and we consider a fictitious measurement on a qubit, which is defined through the squash operator of BB84, for the better estimation of Eve's information. As a result, we prove that the bit error rate threshold for the six-state protocol (12.611%) remains almost the same as the one of the qubit-based six-state protocol (12.619%). This clearly demonstrates the robustness of the six-state protocol against the use of the practical devices.

id: 1008.4680
title: Conceptual Aspects of PT-Symmetry and Pseudo-Hermiticity: A status report
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys. Scr.82:038110, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4680
abstract: We survey some of the main conceptual developments in the study of PT-symmetric and pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonian operators that have taken place during the past ten years or so. We offer a precise mathematical description of a quantum system and its representations that allows us to describe the idea of unitarization of a quantum system by modifying the inner product of the Hilbert space. We discuss the role and importance of the quantum-to-classical correspondence principle that provides the physical interpretation of the observables in quantum mechanics. Finally, we address the problem of constructing an underlying classical Hamiltonian for a unitary quantum system defined by an a priori non-Hermitian Hamiltonian.

id: 1008.4689
title: Analyzing three-player quantum games in an EPR type setup
authors: James M. Chappell, Azhar Iqbal, Derek Abbott
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures
journal: PLoS ONE, Volume 6(7): e21623, (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4689
abstract: We use the formalism of Clifford Geometric Algebra (GA) to develop an analysis of quantum versions of three-player non-cooperative games. The quantum games we explore are played in an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) type setting. In this setting, the players' strategy sets remain identical to the ones in the mixed-strategy version of the classical game that is obtained as a proper subset of the corresponding quantum game. Using GA we investigate the outcome of a realization of the game by players sharing GHZ state, W state, and a mixture of GHZ and W states. As a specific example, we study the game of three-player Prisoners' Dilemma.

id: 1008.4692
title: Coherent Nonlinear Single Molecule Microscopy
authors: Ilja Gerhardt, Gert Wrigge, Jaseuk Hwang, Gert Zumofen, Vahid Sandoghdar
comments: 7 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 063823 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4692
abstract: We investigate a nonlinear localization microscopy method based on Rabi oscillations of single emitters. We demonstrate the fundamental working principle of this new technique using a cryogenic far-field experiment in which subwavelength features smaller than $\lambda$/10 are obtained. Using Monte Carlo simulations, we show the superior localization accuracy of this method under realistic conditions and a potential for higher acquisition speed or a lower number of required photons as compared to conventional linear schemes. The method can be adapted to other emitters than molecules and allows for the localization of several emitters at different distances to a single measurement pixel.

id: 1008.4731
title: Symmetries and time operators
authors: G. C. Hegerfeldt, J. G. Muga
comments: 
journal: J. Phys.A: Math. Theor. 43, 505303 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4731
abstract: All covariant time operators with normalized probability distribution are derived. Symmetry criteria are invoked to arrive at a unique expression for a given Hamiltonian. As an application, a well known result for the arrival time distribution of a free particle is generalized and extended. Interestingly, the resulting arrival time distribution operator is connected to a particular, positive, quantization of the classical current. For particles in a potential we also introduce and study the notion of conditional arrival-time distribution.

id: 1008.4736
title: Single photon emission from silicon-vacancy centres in CVD-nano-diamonds on iridium
authors: Elke Neu, David Steinmetz, Janine Riedrich-Moeller, Stefan Gsell, Martin Fischer, Matthias Schreck, Christoph Becher
comments: 20 pages, 13 figures, accepted by New Journal of Physics
journal: New Journal of Physics, 13 025012 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4736
abstract: We introduce a process for the fabrication of high quality, spatially isolated nano-diamonds on iridium via microwave plasma assisted CVD-growth. We perform spectroscopy of single silicon-vacancy (SiV)-centres produced during the growth of the nano-diamonds. The colour centres exhibit extraordinary narrow zero-phonon-lines down to 0.7 nm at room temperature. Single photon count rates up to 4.8 Mcps at saturation make these SiV-centres the brightest diamond based single photon sources to date. We measure for the first time the fine structure of a single SiV-centre thus confirming the atomic composition of the investigated colour centres.

id: 1008.4828
title: One real function instead of the Dirac spinor function
authors: Andrey Akhmeteli
comments: 8 pages. Version 3: postprint of the published article; minor modifications; acknowledgements added
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, vol. 52, p. 082303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4828
abstract: Three out of four complex components of the Dirac spinor can be algebraically eliminated from the Dirac equation (if some linear combination of electromagnetic fields does not vanish), yielding a partial differential equation of the fourth order for the remaining complex component. This equation is generally equivalent to the Dirac equation. Furthermore, following Schr\"{o}dinger (Nature, \textbf{169}, 538 (1952)), the remaining component can be made real by a gauge transform, thus extending to the Dirac field the Schr\"{o}dinger's conclusion that charged fields do not necessarily require complex representation. One of the two resulting real equations for the real function describes current conservation and can be obtained from the Maxwell equations in spinor electrodynamics (the Dirac-Maxwell electrodynamics). As the Dirac equation is one of the most fundamental, these results both belong in textbooks and can be used for development of new efficient methods and algorithms of quantum chemistry.

id: 1008.4846
title: Laguerre-Gaussian modes: entangled state representation and generalized Wigner transform in quantum optics
authors: Li-yun Hu, Hong-yi Fan
comments: 10 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4846
abstract: By introducing a new entangled state representation, we show that the Laguerre-Gaussian (LG) mode is just the wave function of the common eigenvector of the orbital angular momentum and the total photon number operators of 2-d oscillator, which can be generated by 50:50 beam splitter with the phase difference phi=Pi/2{\phi} between the reflected and transmitted fields. Based on this and using the Weyl ordering invariance under similar transforms, the Wigner representation of LG is directly obtained, which can be considered as the generalized Wigner transform of Hermite Gaussian modes.

id: 1008.4849
title: About empty waves, their effect, and the quantum theory
authors: Sofia Wechsler
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4849
abstract: When a quantum object -- a particle as we call it in a non-rigorous way -- is described by a multi-branched wave- function, with the corresponding wave-packets occupying separated regions of the time-space, a frequently asked question is whether the quantum object is actually contained in only one of these wave-packets. If the answer is positive, then the other wave-packets are called in literature empty waves. The wave-packet containing the object is called a full wave, and is the only one that would produce a recording in a detector. A question immediately arising is whether the empty waves may also have an observable effect. Different works were dedicated to the elucidation of this question. None of them proved that the hypothesis of full/empty waves is correct - it may be that the Nature is indeed non-deterministic and the quantum object is not confined to one region of the space-time. All the works that proved that the empty waves have an effect, in fact, proved that if there exist full and empty waves, then the latter may have an observable effect. This is also the purpose and the limitation of the present work. What is shown here is that if the hypothesis is true, the empty waves have an influence. An experiment is indicated which reveals this influence. The analysis of the experiment is according to the quantum formalism. This experiment has the advantage of being more intuitive and practically more feasible than a previous proposal also in agreement with the quantum formalism. However, the presently proposed experiment also shows that the quantum theory is not in favor of the above hypothesis.

id: 1008.4855
title: Bipartite Entanglement in Continuous-Variable Cluster States
authors: Hugo Cable, Daniel E. Browne
comments: 22 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 113046 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4855
abstract: We present a study of the entanglement properties of Gaussian cluster states, proposed as a universal resource for continuous-variable quantum computing. A central aim is to compare mathematically-idealized cluster states defined using quadrature eigenstates, which have infinite squeezing and cannot exist in nature, with Gaussian approximations which are experimentally accessible. Adopting widely-used definitions, we first review the key concepts, by analysing a process of teleportation along a continuous-variable quantum wire in the language of matrix product states. Next we consider the bipartite entanglement properties of the wire, providing analytic results. We proceed to grid cluster states, which are universal for the qubit case. To extend our analysis of the bipartite entanglement, we adopt the entropic-entanglement width, a specialized entanglement measure introduced recently by Van den Nest M et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 97 150504 (2006), adapting their definition to the continuous-variable context. Finally we add the effects of photonic loss, extending our arguments to mixed states. Cumulatively our results point to key differences in the properties of idealized and Gaussian cluster states. Even modest loss rates are found to strongly limit the amount of entanglement. We discuss the implications for the potential of continuous-variable analogues of measurement-based quantum computation.

id: 1008.4879
title: Ultrafast switching of photonic entanglement
authors: Matthew A. Hall, Joseph B. Altepeter, Prem Kumar
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 053901 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4879
abstract: To deploy and operate a quantum network which utilizes existing telecommunications infrastructure, it is necessary to be able to route entangled photons at high speeds, with minimal loss and signal-band noise, and---most importantly---without disturbing the photons' quantum state. Here we present a switch which fulfills these requirements and characterize its performance at the single photon level; it exhibits a 200-ps switching window, a 120:1 contrast ratio, 1.5 dB loss, and induces no measurable degradation in the switched photons' entangled-state fidelity (< 0.002). Furthermore, because this type of switch couples the temporal and spatial degrees of freedom, it provides an important new tool with which to encode multiple-qubit states in a single photon. As a proof-of-principle demonstration of this capability, we demultiplex a single quantum channel from a dual-channel, time-division-multiplexed entangled photon stream, effectively performing a controlled-bit-flip on a two-qubit subspace of a five-qubit, two-photon state.

id: 1008.4926
title: Vacuum entanglement enhancement by a weak gravitational field
authors: Mathieu Cliche, Achim Kempf
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:045019,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4926
abstract: Separate regions in space are generally entangled, even in the vacuum state. It is known that this entanglement can be swapped to separated Unruh-DeWitt detectors, i.e., that the vacuum can serve as a source of entanglement. Here, we demonstrate that, in the presence of curvature, the amount of entanglement that Unruh-DeWitt detectors can extract from the vacuum can be increased.

id: 1008.5002
title: Short-range interaction in three-dimensional quantum mechanics
authors: Taksu Cheon
comments: LaTeX 7 pages, 3 figures, Elsevier format
journal: Phys.Lett.A374:4585-4588,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5002
abstract: We show that it is possible to define shape-independent three-dimensional short-range quantum interactions in two parameter form for non-spherical angular momentum channels through double rescaling of potential strength. Unlike the special case of $l=0$, where the zero range limit of the system is renormalizable, the effective ranges diverge for $l /ne 0$ channels, and the system becomes trivial at zero-size limit. It is also shown that the two-parameter representation with finite interaction range is useful in analyzing phase shifts with accuracy and describing resonances in non-spherical scatterings.

id: 1008.5014
title: Unified criteria for multipartite quantum nonlocality
authors: E. G. Cavalcanti, Q. Y. He, M. D. Reid, H. M. Wiseman
comments: V2: corrected image display; V3: substantial changes including new proofs, arguments, and results
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032115 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5014
abstract: Wiseman and co-workers (Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 140402, 2007) proposed a distinction between the nonlocality classes of Bell's nonlocality, steering and entanglement based on whether or not an overseer trusts each party in a bipartite scenario where they are asked to demonstrate entanglement. Here we extend that concept to the multipartite case and derive inequalities that progressively test for those classes of nonlocality, with different thresholds for each level. This framework includes the three classes of nonlocality above in special cases and introduces a family of others.

id: 1008.5022
title: Quantum Measurements Cannot be Proved to be Random
authors: Caroline Rogers
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5022
abstract: We show that it is impossible to prove that the outcome of a quantum measurement is random.

id: 1008.5056
title: On structural physical approximations and entanglement breaking maps
authors: Remigiusz Augusiak, Joonwoo Bae, ?ukasz Czekaj, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 22 pages, improved version, accepted by Journal of Physics A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 185308 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5056
abstract: Very recently a conjecture saying that the so-called structural physical approximations (SPAa) to optimal positive maps (optimal entanglement witnesses) give entanglement breaking (EB) maps (separable states) has been posed [J. K. Korbicz {\it et al.}, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 78}, 062105 (2008)]. The main purpose of this contribution is to explore this subject. First, we extend the set of entanglement witnesses (EWs) supporting the conjecture. Then, we ask if SPAs constructed from other than the depolarizing channel maps also lead to EB maps and show that in general this is not the case. On the other hand, we prove an interesting fact that for any positive map $\Lambda$ there exists an EB channel $\Phi$ such that the SPA of $\Lambda$ constructed with the aid of $\Phi$ is again an EB channel. Finally, we ask similar questions in the case of continuous variable systems. We provide a simple way of construction of SPA and prove that in the case of the transposition map it gives EB channel.

id: 1008.5093
title: An $¦¨(\sqrt{n})$-depth Quantum Adder on a 2D NTC Quantum Computer Architecture
authors: Byung-Soo Choi, Rodney Van Meter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Hardware Architecture (cs.AR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5093
abstract: In this work, we propose an adder for the 2D NTC architecture, designed to match the architectural constraints of many quantum computing technologies. The chosen architecture allows the layout of logical qubits in two dimensions and the concurrent execution of one- and two-qubit gates with nearest-neighbor interaction only. The proposed adder works in three phases. In the first phase, the first column generates the summation output and the other columns do the carry-lookahead operations. In the second phase, these intermediate values are propagated from column to column, preparing for computation of the final carry for each register position. In the last phase, each column, except the first one, generates the summation output using this column-level carry. The depth and the number of qubits of the proposed adder are $\Theta(\sqrt{n})$ and O(n), respectively. The proposed adder executes faster than the adders designed for the 1D NTC architecture when the length of the input registers $n$ is larger than 58.

id: 1008.5109
title: Localization of discrete-time quantum walks on a half line via the CGMV method
authors: Norio Konno, Etsuo Segawa
comments: 9 pages
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 11 (2011) pp. 0485-0495
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5109
abstract: We study discrete-time quantum walks on a half line by means of spectral analysis. Cantero et al. [1] showed that the CMV matrix, which gives a recurrence relation for the orthogonal Laurent polynomials on the unit circle [2], expresses the dynamics of the quantum walk. Using the CGMV method introduced by them, the name is taken from their initials, we obtain the spectral measure for the quantum walk. As a corollary, we give another proof for localization of the quantum walk on homogeneous trees shown by Chisaki et al. [3].

id: 1008.5121
title: Parrondo's game using a discrete-time quantum walk
authors: C. M. Chandrashekar, Subhashish Banerjee
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, In press : Phys. Lett. A (2011)
journal: Physics Letters A 375 (2011), pp. 1553-1558
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5121
abstract: We present a new form of a Parrondo game using discrete-time quantum walk on a line. The two players A and B with different quantum coins operators, individually losing the game can develop a strategy to emerge as joint winners by using their coins alternatively, or in combination for each step of the quantum walk evolution. We also present a strategy for a player A (B) to have a winning probability more than player B (A). Significance of the game strategy in information theory and physical applications are also discussed.

id: 1008.5122
title: Zeno and anti-Zeno polarization control of spin-ensembles by induced dephasing
authors: Gonzalo A. Alvarez, D. D. Bhaktavatsala Rao, Lucio Frydman, Gershon Kurizki
comments: Main Text: 5 pages, 2 figures. Sup. Inf.: 5pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 160401 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5122
abstract: We experimentally and theoretically demonstrate the purity (polarization) control of qubits entangled with multiple spins, using induced dephasing in nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) setups to simulate repeated quantum measurements. We show that one may steer the qubit ensemble towards a quasi-equilibrium state of certain purity, by choosing suitable time intervals between dephasing operations. These results demonstrate that repeated dephasing at intervals associated with the anti-Zeno regime lead to ensemble purification, whereas those associated with the Zeno regime lead to ensemble mixing.

id: 1008.5126
title: Monotonically convergent optimization in quantum control using Krotov's method
authors: Daniel Reich, Mamadou Ndong, Christiane P. Koch
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 136, 104103 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5126
abstract: The non-linear optimization method developed by Konnov and Krotov [Automation and Remote Control 60, 1427 (1999)] has been used previously to extend the capabilities of optimal control theory from the linear to the non-linear Schr\"odinger equation [Sklarz and Tannor, Phys. Rev. A 66, 053619 (2002)]. Here we show that based on the Konnov-Krotov method, monotonically convergent algorithms are obtained for a large class of quantum control problems. It includes, in addition to non-linear equations of motion, control problems that are characterized by non-unitary time evolution, non-linear dependencies of the Hamiltonian on the control, time-dependent targets and optimization functionals that depend to higher than second order on the time-evolving states. We furthermore show that the non-linear (second order) contribution can be estimated either analytically or numerically, yielding readily applicable optimization algorithms. We demonstrate monotonic convergence for an optimization functional that is an eighth-degree polynomial in the states. For the 'standard' quantum control problem of a convex final-time functional, linear equations of motion and linear dependency of the Hamiltonian on the field, the second-order contribution is not required for monotonic convergence but can be used to speed up convergence. We demonstrate this by comparing the performance of first and second order algorithms for two examples.

id: 1008.5173
title: Generation of Kerr non-Gaussian motional states of trapped ions
authors: Magdalena Stobi¨½ska, Alessandro S. Villar, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: EPL 94 (2011) 54002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5173
abstract: Non-Gaussian states represent a powerful resource for quantum information protocols in the continuous variables regime. Cat states, in particular, have been produced in the motional degree of freedom of trapped ions by controlled displacements dependent on the ionic internal state. An alternative method harnesses the Kerr nonlinearity naturally existent in this kind of system. We present detailed calculations confirming its feasibility for typical experimental conditions. Additionally, this method permits the generation of complex non-Gaussian states with negative Wigner functions. Especially, superpositions of many coherent states are achieved at a fraction of the time necessary to produce the cat state.

id: 1008.5181
title: Transmission properties of the one-dimensional array of delta potentials
authors: G. Cordourier-Maruri, R. de Coss, V. Gupta
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. B 25 1349 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5181
abstract: The problem of one-dimensional quantum wire along which a moving particle interacts with a linear array of N delta-function potentials is studied. Using a quantum waveguide approach, the transfer matrix is calculated to obtain the transmission probability of the particle. Results for arbitrary N and for specific regular arrays are presented. Some particular symmetries and invariances of the delta-function potential array for the N = 2 case are analyzed in detail. It is shown that perfect transmission can take place in a variety of situations.

id: 1008.5197
title: Dynamics of the collective modes of an inhomogeneous spin ensemble in a cavity
authors: Janus H. Wesenberg, Zoltan Kurucz, Klaus M?lmer
comments: Published version. Some small changes and corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 023826 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5197
abstract: We study the excitation dynamics of an inhomogeneously broadened spin ensemble coupled to a single cavity mode. The collective excitations of the spin ensemble can be described in terms of generalized spin waves and, in the absence of the cavity, the free evolution of the spin ensemble can be described as a drift in the wave number without dispersion. In this article we show that the dynamics in the presence of coupling to the cavity mode can be described solely by a modified time evolution of the wave numbers. In particular, we show that collective excitations with a well- defined wave number pass without dispersion from negative to positive valued wave numbers without populating the zero wave number spin wave mode. The results are relevant for multi-mode collective quantum memories where qubits are encoded in different spin waves.

id: 1008.5237
title: On demand entanglement in double quantum dots via coherent carrier scattering
authors: Fabrizio Buscemi, Paolo Bordone, Andrea Bertoni
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 013023
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5237
abstract: We show how two qubits encoded in the orbital states of two quantum dots can be entangled or disentangled in a controlled way through their interaction with a weak electron current. The transmission/reflection spectrum of each scattered electron, acting as an entanglement mediator between the dots, shows a signature of the dot-dot entangled state. Strikingly, while few scattered carriers produce decoherence of the whole two-dots system, a larger number of electrons injected from one lead with proper energy is able to recover its quantum coherence. Our numerical simulations are based on a real-space solution of the three-particle Schroedinger equation with open boundaries. The computed transmission amplitudes are inserted in the analytical expression of the system density matrix in order to evaluate the entanglement.

id: 1008.5253
title: Entanglement and nonlocality of one- and two-mode combination squeezed state
authors: Li-yun Hu, Xue-xiang Xu, Qin Guo, Hong-yi Fan
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures, accepted by Optics communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5253
abstract: We investigate the entanglement and nonlocality properties of one- and two-mode combination squeezed vacuum state (OTCSS, with two-parameter lamda and gamma) by analyzing the logarithmic negativity and the Bell's inequality. It is found that this state exhibits larger entanglement than that of the usual two-mode squeezed vacuum state (TSVS), and that in a certain regime of lamda, the violation of Bell's inequality becomes more obvious, which indicates that the nonlocality of OTCSS can be stronger than that of TSVS. As an application of OTCSS, the quantum teleportaion is examined, which shows that there is a region spanned by lamda and gamma in which the fidelity of OTCSS channel is larger than that of TSVS.

id: 1008.5256
title: Photon-subtracted squeezed thermal state: nonclassicality and decoherence
authors: Li-yun Hu, Xue-xiang Xu, Zi-sheng Wang, Xue-fen Xu
comments: 22 pages, five figures, submitted to PRA (2010/3/25)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 043842 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5256
abstract: {\small We investigate nonclassical properties of the field states generated by subtracting any number photon from the squeezed thermal state (STS). It is found that the normalization factor of photon-subtracted STS (PSSTS) is a Legendre polynomial of squeezing parameter }${\small r}${\small \ and average photon number }$\bar{n}$ {\small of thermal state. Expressions of several quasi-probability distributions of PSSTS are derived analytically. Furthermore, the nonclassicality is discussed in terms of the negativity of Wigner function (WF). It is shown that the WF of single PSSTS always has negative values if }$\bar{n}<\sinh^{2}r${\small \ at the phase space center. The decoherence effect on PSSTS is then included by analytically deriving the time evolution of WF. The results show that the WF of single PSSTS has negative value if }$2\kappa t<\ln\{1-(2\bar{n}+1)(\bar{n}-\sinh^{2}% r)${\small }$[(2\mathfrak{N}+1)(\bar{n}\cosh2r+\sinh^{2}r)]\}${\small, which is dependent not only on average number }$\mathfrak{N}${\small \ of environment, but also on }$\bar{n}$ {\small and }$r${\small . }

id: 1008.5263
title: On Preparing Entangled Pairs of Polarization Qubits in the Frequency Non-Degenerate Regime
authors: Stanislav Straupe, Sergey Kulik
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: JETP vol.110 (2), 185 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5263
abstract: The problems associated with practical implementation of the scheme proposed for preparation of arbitrary states of polarization ququarts based on biphotons are discussed. The influence of frequency dispersion effects are considered, and the necessity of group velocities dispersion compensation in the frequency non-degenerate case even for continuous pumping is demonstrated. A method for this compensation is proposed and implemented experimentally. Physical restrictions on the quality of prepared two-photon states are revealed.

id: 1008.5298
title: PT-symmetric laser-absorber
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 5 pages; to be published in Phys. Rev. A (Rapid Communications)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 031801(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5298
abstract: In a recent work, Y.D. Chong et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 105}, 053901 (2010)] proposed the idea of a coherent perfect absorber (CPA) as the time-reversed counterpart of a laser, in which a purely incoming radiation pattern is completely absorbed by a lossy medium. The optical medium that realizes CPA is obtained by reversing the gain with absorption, and thus it generally differs from the lasing medium. Here it is shown that a laser with an optical medium that satisfies the parity-time $(\mathcal{PT})$ symmetry condition $\epsilon(-\mathbf{r})=\epsilon^*(\mathbf{r})$ for the dielectric constant behaves simultaneously as a laser oscillator (i.e. it can emit outgoing coherent waves) and as a CPA (i.e. it can fully absorb incoming coherent waves with appropriate amplitudes and phases). Such a device can be thus referred to as a $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric CPA-laser. The general amplification/absorption features of the $\mathcal{PT}$ CPA-laser below lasing threshold driven by two fields are determined.

id: 1008.5303
title: Optical realization of relativistic non-Hermitian quantum mechanics
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 013903 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5303
abstract: Light propagation in distributed feedback optical structures with gain/loss regions is shown to provide an accessible laboratory tool to visualize in optics the spectral properties of the one-dimensional Dirac equation with non-Hermitian interactions. Spectral singularities and PT symmetry breaking of the Dirac Hamiltonian are shown to correspond to simple observable physical quantities and related to well-known physical phenomena like resonance narrowing and laser oscillation.

id: 1008.5306
title: Invisibility in non-Hermitian tight-binding lattices
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032111 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5306
abstract: Reflectionless defects in Hermitian tight-binding lattices, synthesized by the intertwining operator technique of supersymmetric quantum mechanics, are generally not invisible and time-of-flight measurements could reveal the existence of the defects. Here it is shown that, in a certain class of non-Hermitian tight-binding lattices with complex hopping amplitudes, defects in the lattice can appear fully invisible to an outside observer. The synthesized non-Hermitian lattices with invisible defects possess a real-valued energy spectrum, however they lack of parity-time (PT) symmetry, which does not play any role in the present work.

id: 1008.5330
title: Entanglement charge of thermal states
authors: Ming-Yong Ye, Xiu-Min Lin, Yan-Kui Bai, Z. D. Wang
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5330
abstract: Entanglement charge is an operational measure to quantify nonlocalities in ensembles consisting of bipartite quantum states. Here we generalize this nonlocality measure to single bipartite quantum states. As an example, we analyze the entanglement charges of some thermal states of two-qubit systems and show how they depend on the temperature and the system parameters in an analytical way.

id: 1008.5331
title: Topological phase effects
authors: J.M. Robbins
comments: Manuscript of an article published in the Encyclopedia of Applied Physics in 1997, 59 pages
journal: Encyclopedia of Applied Physics, Vol 21, 1997, Wiley-VCH
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5331
abstract: Quantum eigenstates undergoing cyclic changes acquire a phase factor of geometric origin. This phase, known as the Berry phase, or the geometric phase, has found applications in a wide range of disciplines throughout physics, including atomic and molecular physics, condensed matter physics, optics, and classical dynamics. In this article, the basic theory of the geometric phase is presented along with a number of representative applications. The article begins with an account of the geometric phase for cyclic adiabatic evolutions. An elementary derivation is given along with a worked example for two-state systems. The implications of time-reversal are explained, as is the fundamental connection between the geometric phase and energy level degeneracies. We also discuss methods of experimental observation. A brief account is given of geometric magnetism; this is a Lorenz-like force of geometric origin which appears in the dynamics of slow systems coupled to fast ones. A number of theoretical developments of the geometric phase are presented. These include an informal discussion of fibre bundles, and generalizations of the geometric phase to degenerate eigenstates (the nonabelian case) and to nonadiabatic evolution. There follows an account of applications. Manifestations in classical physics include the Hannay angle and kinematic geometric phases. Applications in optics concern polarization dynamics, including the theory and observation of Pancharatnam's phase. Applications in molecular physics include the molecular Aharonov-Bohm effect and nuclear magnetic resonance studies. In condensed matter physics, we discuss the role of the geometric phase in the theory of the quantum Hall effect.

id: 1008.5334
title: Experimental quantum process tomography of non trace-preserving maps
authors: I. Bongioanni, L. Sansoni, F. Sciarrino, G. Vallone, P. Mataloni
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures, revtex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042307 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5334
abstract: The ability of fully reconstructing quantum maps is a fundamental task of quantum information, in particular when coupling with the environment and experimental imperfections of devices are taken into account. In this context we carry out a quantum process tomography (QPT) approach for a set of non trace-preserving maps. We introduce an operator $\OO$ to characterize the state dependent probability of success for the process under investigation. We also evaluate the result of approximating the process with a trace-preserving one.

id: 1008.5337
title: Entanglement of stabilizer codewords
authors: Xiao-yu Chen, Li-zhen Jiang
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5337
abstract: The geometric measure, the logarithmic robustness and the relative entropy of entanglement are proved to be equal for a stabilizer quantum codeword. The entanglement upper and lower bounds are determined with the generators of code. The entanglement of dual-containing CSS codes, Gottesman codes and the related codes are given. An iterative algorithm is developed to determine the exact value of the entanglement when the two bounds are not equal.

id: 1008.5380
title: Quantum Tagging for Tags Containing Secret Classical Data
authors: Adrian Kent
comments: Title changed for clarity. Refs updated. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022335 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5380
abstract: Various authors have considered schemes for {\it quantum tagging}, that is, authenticating the classical location of a classical tagging device by sending and receiving quantum signals from suitably located distant sites, in an environment controlled by an adversary whose quantum information processing and transmitting power is potentially unbounded. This task raises some interesting new questions about cryptographic security assumptions, as relatively subtle details in the security model can dramatically affect the security attainable. We consider here the case in which the tag is cryptographically secure, and show how to implement tagging securely within this model.

id: 1008.5384
title: Optimized Entanglement-Assisted Quantum Error Correction
authors: Soraya Taghavi, Todd A. Brun, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042321 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5384
abstract: Using convex optimization, we propose entanglement-assisted quantum error correction procedures that are optimized for given noise channels. We demonstrate through numerical examples that such an optimized error correction method achieves higher channel fidelities than existing methods. This improved performance, which leads to perfect error correction for a larger class of error channels, is interpreted in at least some cases by quantum teleportation, but for general channels this interpretation does not hold.

id: 1008.0007
title: Viscosity and scale invariance in the unitary Fermi gas
authors: Tilman Enss, Rudolf Haussmann, Wilhelm Zwerger
comments: 34 pages, 9 figures; final form (contains new derivation of sum rule), accepted for publication in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals Phys.326:770-796,2011
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0007
abstract: We compute the shear viscosity of the unitary Fermi gas above the superfluid transition temperature, using a diagrammatic technique that starts from the exact Kubo formula. The formalism obeys a Ward identity associated with scale invariance which guarantees that the bulk viscosity vanishes identically. For the shear viscosity, vertex corrections and the associated Aslamazov-Larkin contributions are shown to be crucial to reproduce the full Boltzmann equation result in the high-temperature, low fugacity limit. The frequency dependent shear viscosity $\eta(\omega)$ exhibits a Drude-like transport peak and a power-law tail at large frequencies which is proportional to the Tan contact. The weight in the transport peak is given by the equilibrium pressure, in agreement with a sum rule due to Taylor and Randeria. Near the superfluid transition the peak width is of the order of $0.5 T_F$, thus invalidating a quasiparticle description. The ratio $\eta/s$ between the static shear viscosity and the entropy density exhibits a minimum near the superfluid transition temperature whose value is larger than the string theory bound $\hbar/(4\pi k_B)$ by a factor of about seven.

id: 1008.0056
title: Three-Dimensional Topological Insulators in I-III-VI$_2$ and II-IV-V$_2$ Chalcopyrite Semiconductors
authors: Wanxiang Feng, Jun Ding, Di Xiao, Yugui Yao
comments: 5 pages, 4 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 016402 (2011)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0056
abstract: The recent discovery of topological insulators with exotic metallic surface states has garnered great interest in the fields of condensed matter physics and materials science. A number of spectacular quantum phenomena have been predicted when the surface states are under the influence of magnetism and superconductivity, which could open up new opportunities for technological applications in spintronics and quantum computing. To achieve this goal, material realization of topological insulators with desired physical properties is of crucial importance. Based on first-principles calculations, here we show that a large number of ternary chalcopyrite compounds of composition I-III-VI$_2$ and II-IV-V$_2$ can realize the topological insulating phase in their native states. The crystal structure of chalcopyrites is derived from the frequently used zinc-blende structure, and many of them possess a close lattice match to important mainstream semiconductors, which is essential for a smooth integration into current semiconductor technology. The diverse optical, electrical and structural properties of chalcopyrite semiconductors, and particularly their ability to host room-temperature ferromagnetism, make them appealing candidates for novel spintronic devices.

id: 1008.0057
title: Half-Heusler Compounds as a New Class of Three-Dimensional Topological Insulators
authors: Di Xiao, Yugui Yao, Wanxiang Feng, Jun Wen, Wenguang Zhu, Xingqiu Chen, G. Malcolm Stocks, Zhenyu Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures; Phys. Rev. Lett. (in press)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 096404 (2010)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0057
abstract: Using first-principles calculations within density functional theory, we explore the feasibility of converting ternary half-Heusler compounds into a new class of three-dimensional topological insulators (3DTI). We demonstrate that the electronic structure of unstrained LaPtBi as a prototype system exhibits distinct band-inversion feature. The 3DTI phase is realized by applying a uniaxial strain along the [001] direction, which opens a bandgap while preserving the inverted band order. A definitive proof of the strained LaPtBi as a 3DTI is provided by directly calculating the topological Z2 invariants in systems without inversion symmetry. We discuss the implications of the present study to other half-Heusler compounds as 3DTI, which, together with the magnetic and superconducting properties of these materials, may provide a rich platform for novel quantum phenomena.

id: 1008.0086
title: Delta-like singularity in the Reduction of the Laplace Equation for Spherical Coordinates and the Validity of Radial Schrodinger Equation
authors: Anzor A.Khelashvili, Teimuraz P. Nadareishvili
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0086
abstract: By careful exploration of separation of variables into the Laplacian in spherical coordinates, we obtain the extra delta-like singularity, elimination of which restricts the radial wave function at the origin. This constraint has the form of boundary condition for the radial Schrodinger equation.

id: 1008.0306
title: A diagrammatic treatment of neutrino oscillations
authors: Dmitry V. Naumov, Vadim A. Naumov
comments: 27 pages,7 figures, iopart class. Includes minor corrections made in proofs. References updated
journal: J.Phys.G37:105014,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0306
abstract: We present a covariant wave-packet approach to neutrino flavor transitions in vacuum. The approach is based on the technique of macroscopic Feynman diagrams describing the lepton number violating processes of production and absorption of virtual massive neutrinos at the macroscopically separated space-time regions ("source" and "detector"). Accordingly, the flavor transitions are a result of interference of the diagrams with neutrinos of different masses in the intermediate states. The statistically averaged probability of the process is representable as a multidimensional integral of the product of the factors which describe the differential flux density of massless neutrinos from the source, differential cross section of the neutrino interaction with the detector and a dimensionless factor responsible for the flavor transition. The conditions are analyzed under which the last factor can be treated as the flavor transition probability in the usual quantum-mechanical sense.

id: 1008.0337
title: Measuring the temperature dependence of individual two-level systems by direct coherent control
authors: J. Lisenfeld, C. M¨¹ller, J. H. Cole, P. Bushev, A. Lukashenko, A. Shnirman, A. V. Ustinov
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 230504 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0337
abstract: We demonstrate a new method to directly manipulate the state of individual two-level systems (TLS) in phase qubits. It allows one to characterize the coherence properties of TLS using standard microwave pulse sequences, while the qubit is used only for state readout. We apply this method to measure the temperature dependence of TLS coherence for the first time. The energy relaxation time $T_1$ is found to decrease quadratically with temperature for the two TLS studied in this work, while their dephasing time measured in Ramsey and spin-echo experiments is found to be $T_1$ limited at all temperatures.

id: 1008.0359
title: Many-body calculations of low-energy eigenstates in magnetic and periodic systems with self-healing diffusion Monte Carlo: steps beyond the fixed-phase
authors: Fernando Agust¨ªn Reboredo
comments: Important correction due to a timely comment of a referee: The nodal structure of anti-symmetric eigenstates has nodes if the phase is a scalar function but may only have nodes at the coincidental points otherwise
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0359
abstract: The self-healing diffusion Monte Carlo algorithm (SHDMC) [Reboredo, Hood and Kent, Phys. Rev. B {\bf 79}, 195117 (2009); Reboredo, {\it ibid.} {\bf 80}, 125110 (2009)] is extended to study the ground and excited states of magnetic and periodic systems. The method converges to exact eigenstates as the statistical data collected increases if the wave function is sufficiently flexible. It is shown that the wave functions of complex anti-symmetric eigen-states can be written as the product of an anti-symmetric real factor and a symmetric phase factor. The dimensionality of the nodal surface is dependent on whether phase is a scalar function or not. A recursive optimization algorithm is derived from the time evolution of the mixed probability density, which is given by an ensemble of electronic configurations (walkers) with complex weight. This complex weight allows the amplitude of the fixed-node wave function to move away from the trial wave function phase. This novel approach is both a generalization of SHDMC and the fixed-phase approximation [Ortiz, Ceperley and Martin, Phys Rev. Lett. {\bf 71}, 2777 (1993)]. When used recursively it simultaneously improves the node and the phase. The algorithm is demonstrated to converge to nearly exact solutions of model systems with periodic boundary conditions or applied magnetic fields. The computational cost is proportional to the number of independent degrees of freedom of the phase. The method is applied to obtain low-energy excitations of Hamiltonians with magnetic field or periodic boundary conditions. The method is used to optimize wave functions with twisted boundary conditions, which are included in a many-body Bloch phase. The potential applications of this new method to study periodic, magnetic, and complex Hamiltonians are discussed.

id: 1008.0361
title: Localization in one dimensional lattices with non-nearest-neighbor hopping: Generalized Anderson and Aubry-Andr¨¦ models
authors: J. Biddle, D. J. Priour, B. Wang, S. Das Sarma
comments: 18 pages, 24 figures updated with additional references
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 075105 (2011)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0361
abstract: We study the quantum localization phenomena of noninteracting particles in one-dimensional lattices based on tight-binding models with various forms of hopping terms beyond the nearest neighbor, which are generalizations of the famous Aubry-Andr\'e and noninteracting Anderson model. For the case with deterministic disordered potential induced by a secondary incommensurate lattice (i.e. the Aubry-Andr\'e model), we identify a class of self dual models, for which the boundary between localized and extended eigenstates are determined analytically by employing a generalized Aubry-Andr\'e transformation. We also numerically investigate the localization properties of non-dual models with next-nearest-neighbor hopping, Gaussian, and power-law decay hopping terms. We find that even for these non-dual models, the numerically obtained mobility edges can be well approximated by the analytically obtained condition for localization transition in the self dual models, as long as the decay of the hopping rate with respect to distance is sufficiently fast. For the disordered potential with genuinely random character, we examine scenarios with next-nearest-neighbor hopping, exponential, Gaussian, and power-law decay hopping terms numerically. We find that the higher order hopping terms can remove the symmetry in the localization length about the energy band center compared to the Anderson model. Furthermore, our results demonstrate that for the power-law decay case, there exists a critical exponent below which mobility edges can be found. Our theoretical results could, in principle, be directly tested in shallow atomic optical lattice systems enabling non-nearest-neighbor hopping.

id: 1008.0464
title: Backward Causation in Complex Action Model --- Superdeterminism and Transactional Interpretations
authors: Holger B. Nielsen, Masao Ninomiya
comments: 28 pages, To apper in Proceedings for 13 Bled workshop "What Comes Beyond the Standard models", 12-22. July 2010
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0464
abstract: It is shown that the transactional interpretation of quantum mechanics being referred back to Feynman-Wheeler's time reversal symmetric radiation theory has reminiscences to our complex action model. In this complex action model the initial conditions are in principle even calculable. Thus it philosophically points towards superdeterminism, but really the Bell theorem problem is solved in our model of complex action by removing the significance of signals running slower than by light velocity. Our model as earlier published predicts that LHC should have some failure before reaching to have produced as many Higgs-particles as would have been produced the SSC accelerator. In the present article, we point out that a cardgame involving whether to restrict LHC-running as we have proposed to test our model will under all circumstances be a success.

id: 1008.0512
title: Quasiclassical and Quantum Systems of Angular Momentum. Part II. Quantum Mechanics on Lie Groups and Methods of Group Algebras
authors: J. J. S?awianowski, V. Kovalchuk, A. Martens, B. Go?ubowska, E. E. Ro?ko
comments: 
journal: Journal of Geometry and Symmetry in Physics, vol. 22, 2011, pp. 67-94
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0512
abstract: In Part I of this series we presented the general ideas of applying group-algebraic methods for describing quantum systems. The treatment was there very "ascetic" in that only the structure of a locally compact topological group was used. Below we explicitly make use of the Lie group structure. Basing on differential geometry enables one to introduce explicitly representation of important physical quantities and formulate the general ideas of quasiclassical representation and classical analogy.

id: 1008.0697
title: Calculation of the eigenfunctions and eigenvalues of Schr?dinger type equations by asymptotic Taylor expansion method (ATEM)
authors: Ramazan Koc, Eser Olgar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0697
abstract: A novel method is proposed to determine an analytical expression for eigenfunctions and numerical result for eigenvalues of the Schr\"odinger type equations, within the context of Taylor expansion of a function. Optimal truncation of the Taylor series gives a best possible analytical expression for eigenfunctions and numerical result for eigenvalues.

id: 1008.0765
title: Gravitational Atom in Compactified Extra Dimensions
authors: E.G. Floratos, G.K. Leontaris, N.D. Vlachos
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Lett.B694:410-416,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0765
abstract: We consider quantum mechanical effects of the modified Newtonian potential in the presence of extra compactified dimensions. We develop a method to solve the resulting Schroedinger equation and determine the energy shifts caused by the Yukawa-type corrections of the potential. We comment on the possibility of detecting the modified gravitational bound state Energy spectrum by present day and future experiments.

id: 1008.0905
title: Anharmonic oscillators in the complex plane, $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetry, and real eigenvalues
authors: Kwang C. Shin
comments: 27 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0905
abstract: For integers $m\geq 3$ and $1\leq\ell\leq m-1$, we study the eigenvalue problems $-u^{\prime\prime}(z)+[(-1)^{\ell}(iz)^m-P(iz)]u(z)=\lambda u(z)$ with the boundary conditions that $u(z)$ decays to zero as $z$ tends to infinity along the rays $\arg z=-\frac{\pi}{2}\pm \frac{(\ell+1)\pi}{m+2}$ in the complex plane, where $P$ is a polynomial of degree at most $m-1$. We provide asymptotic expansions of the eigenvalues $\lambda_{n}$. Then we show that if the eigenvalue problem is $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric, then the eigenvalues are all real and positive with at most finitely many exceptions. Moreover, we show that when $\gcd(m,\ell)=1$, the eigenvalue problem has infinitely many real eigenvalues if and only if its translation or itself is $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric. Also, we will prove some other interesting direct and inverse spectral results.

id: 1008.0946
title: Black Hole Entropy: From Shannon to Bekenstein
authors: Subir Ghosh
comments: 9 pages Latex, Comments are welcome; Thoroughly revised version, reference and acknowledgements sections enlarged, numerical error in final result corrected, no major changes, to appear in IJTP
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0946
abstract: In this note we have applied directly the Shannon formula for information theory entropy to derive the Black Hole (Bekenstein-Hawking) entropy. Our analysis is semi-classical in nature since we use the (recently proposed [8]) quantum mechanical near horizon mode functions to compute the tunneling probability that goes in to the Shannon formula, following the general idea of [5]. Our framework conforms to the information theoretic origin of Black Hole entropy, as originally proposed by Bekenstein.

id: 1008.0965
title: Cluster Entanglement Mean Field inspired approach to Criticality in Classical Systems
authors: Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 5 (and a bit more) pages, 1 eps figure, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377, 1832 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0965
abstract: We propose an entanglement mean field theory inspired approach for dealing with interacting classical many-body systems. It involves a coarse-graining technique that terminates a step before the mean field theory: While mean field theory deals with only single-body physical parameters, the entanglement mean field theory deals with single- as well as two-body ones. We improve the theory to a cluster entanglement mean field, that deals with a fundamental unit of the lattice of the many-body system. We apply these methods to interacting Ising spin systems in several lattice geometries and dimensions, and show that the predictions of the onset of criticality of these models are much better in the proposed theories as compared to the corresponding ones in mean field theories.

id: 1008.0987
title: Spatial Light Modulators for the Manipulation of Individual Atoms
authors: Lukas Brandt, Cecilia Muldoon, Tobias Thiele, Jian Dong, Edouard Brainis, Axel Kuhn
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0987
abstract: We propose a novel dipole trapping scheme using spatial light modulators (SLM) for the manipulation of individual atoms. The scheme uses a high numerical aperture microscope to map the intensity distribution of a SLM onto a cloud of cold atoms. The regions of high intensity act as optical dipole force traps. With a SLM fast enough to modify the trapping potential in real time, this technique is well suited for the controlled addressing and manipulation of arbitrarily selected atoms.

id: 1008.0990
title: Demonstration of a microfabricated surface electrode ion trap
authors: D Stick, K M Fortier, R Haltli, C Highstrete, D L Moehring, C Tigges, M G Blain
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0990
abstract: In this paper we present the design, modeling, and experimental testing of surface electrode ion traps fabricated in a heterostructure configuration comprising a silicon substrate, silicon dioxide insulators, and aluminum electrodes. This linear trap has a geometry with symmetric RF leads, two interior DC electrodes, and 40 individual lateral DC electrodes. Plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD) was used to grow silicon dioxide pillars to electrically separate overhung aluminum electrodes from an aluminum ground plane. In addition to fabrication, we report techniques for modeling the control voltage solutions and the successful demonstration of trapping and shuttling ions in two identically constructed traps.

id: 1008.1088
title: Sum rules for light-by-light scattering
authors: Vladimir Pascalutsa, Marc Vanderhaeghen
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; minor corrections, published version
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:201603,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1088
abstract: We derive a set of sum rules for the light-by-light scattering and fusion: $\gamma\gamma \to all$, and verify them in lowest order QED calculations. A prominent implication of these sum rules is the superconvergence of the helicity-difference total cross-section for photon fusion, which in the hadron sector reveals an intricate cancellation between the pseudoscalar and tensor mesons. An experimental verification of superconvergence of the polarized photon fusion into hadrons is called for, but will only be possible at $e^+ e^-$ and $\gamma\gamma$ colliders with both beams polarized. We also show how the sum rules can be used to measure various contributions to the low-energy light-by-light scattering.

id: 1008.1142
title: Connes' embedding problem and Tsirelson's problem
authors: M. Junge, M. Navascues, C. Palazuelos, D. Perez-Garcia, V. B. Scholz, R. F. Werner
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 012102 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1142
abstract: We show that Tsirelson's problem concerning the set of quantum correlations and Connes' embedding problem on finite approximations in von Neumann algebras (known to be equivalent to Kirchberg's QWEP conjecture) are essentially equivalent. Specifically, Tsirelson's problem asks whether the set of bipartite quantum correlations generated between tensor product separated systems is the same as the set of correlations between commuting C*-algebras. Connes' embedding problem asks whether any separable II$_1$ factor is a subfactor of the ultrapower of the hyperfinite II$_1$ factor. We show that an affirmative answer to Connes' question implies a positive answer to Tsirelson's. Conversely, a positve answer to a matrix valued version of Tsirelson's problem implies a positive one to Connes' problem.

id: 1008.1184
title: Non-Equilibrium Fluctuations of Black Hole Horizons
authors: Satoshi Iso, Susumu Okazawa, Sen Zhang
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1184
abstract: We investigate non-equilibrium nature of fluctuations of black hole horizons by applying the fluctuation theorems and the Jarzynski equality developed in the non-equilibrium statistical physics. These theorems applied to space-times with black hole horizons lead to the generalized second law of thermodynamics. It is also suggested that the second law should be violated microscopically so as to satisfy the Jarzynski equality.

id: 1008.1365
title: The Symmetry Properties of a Non-Linear Relativistic Wave Equation: Lorentz Covariance, Gauge Invariance and Poincare Transformation
authors: Ayodeji M. Awobode
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1365
abstract: The Lorentz covariance of a non-linear, time-dependent relativistic wave equation is demonstrated; the equation has recently been shown to have highly interesting and significant empirical consequences. It is established here that an operator already exists which ensures the relativistic properties of the equation. Furthermore, we show that the time-dependent equation is gauge invariant. The equation however, breaks Poincare symmetry via time translation in a way consistent with its physical interpretation. It is also shown herein that the Casimir invariant PmuPmu of the Poincare group, which corresponds to the square of the rest mass M-squared can be expressed in terms of quaternions such that M is described by an operator Q which has a constant norm and a phase phi which varies in hypercomplex space.

id: 1008.1415
title: On highly accurate calculations of the excited $n^1S(L = 0)-$states in helium atoms
authors: Alexei M. Frolov, David M. Wardlaw
comments: 
journal: European Physical Journal D (At. Mol. & Opt. Phys.), v. 61, 305 - 313 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1415
abstract: The total energies and various bound state properties of the excited $2^1S(L = 0)-$states in two-electron helium atoms, including the ${}^{\infty}$He, ${}^4$He and ${}^3$He atoms, are determined to very high numerical accuracy. The convergence of the results obtained for some electron-nuclear and electron-electron expectation values and, in particular, for the electron-nuclear and electron-electron cusp values, is discussed. The field component of the isotope shift and lowest order QED correction are estimated for the $2^1S(L = 0)-$states in the ${}^4$He and ${}^3$He atoms. We also apply our highly accurate methods to numerical computations of the excited $n^1S-$states (for $n$ = 3 and 4) in two-electron atomic systems.

id: 1008.1416
title: Cooling of mechanical motion with a two level system: the high temperature regime
authors: P. Rabl
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 165320 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1416
abstract: We analyze cooling of a nano-mechanical resonator coupled to a dissipative solid state two level system focusing on the regime of high initial temperatures. We derive an effective Fokker-Planck equation for the mechanical mode which accounts for saturation and other non-linear effects and allows us to study the cooling dynamics of the resonator mode for arbitrary occupation numbers. We find a degrading of the cooling rates and eventually a breakdown of cooling at very high initial temperatures and discuss the dependence of these effects on various system parameters. Our results apply to most solid state systems which have been proposed for cooling a mechanical resonator including quantum dots, superconducting qubits and electronic spin qubits.

id: 1008.1451
title: A New Perspective on Path Integral Quantum Mechanics in Curved Space-Time
authors: Dinesh Singh, Nader Mobed
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure; major additions and revisions introduced; main conclusions are unchanged; new affiliation added
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1451
abstract: A fundamentally different approach to path integral quantum mechanics in curved space-time is presented, as compared to the standard approaches currently available in the literature. Within the context of scalar particle propagation in a locally curved background, such as described by Fermi or Riemann normal co-ordinates, this approach requires use of a constructed operator to rotate the initial, intermediate, and final position ket vectors onto their respective local tangent spaces, defined at each local time step along some arbitrary classical reference worldline. Local time translation is described using a quantum mechanical representation of Lie transport, that while strictly non-unitary in operator form, nevertheless correctly recovers the free-particle Lagrangian in curved space-time, along with new contributions. This propagator yields the prediction that all probability violating terms due to curvature contribute to a quantum violation of the weak equivalence principle, while the remaining terms that conserve probability also correspondingly satisfy the weak equivalence principle, at least to leading-order in the particle's Compton wavelength. Furthermore, this propagator possesses an overall curvature-dependent and gauge-invariant phase factor that can be interpreted as the gravitational Aharonov-Bohm effect and Berry's phase.

id: 1008.1452
title: A Green Laser Pointer Hazard
authors: Jemellie Galang, Allesandro Restelli, Edward W. Hagley, Charles W. Clark
comments: Document available from the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1452
abstract: An inexpensive green laser pointer was found to emit 20 mW of infrared radiation during normal use. This is potentially a serious hazard that would not be noticed by most users of such pointers. We find that this infrared emission derives from the design of the pointer, and describe a simple method of testing for infrared emissions using common household items.

id: 1008.1467
title: Thermal conductance in a spin-boson model: Cotunneling and low temperature properties
authors: Tomi Ruokola, Teemu Ojanen
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 045417 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1467
abstract: Bosonic thermal transport through a two-level system is analyzed at temperatures below and comparable to the two-level energy splitting. It is shown that in the low-temperature regime transport is dominated by correlated two-boson processes analogous to electron cotunneling in quantum dots under Coulomb blockade. We present a detailed analysis of the sequential-cotunneling crossover and obtain essentially an analytic description of the transport problem. Perturbative analysis is complemented by employing scaling properties of the Ohmic spin-boson model, allowing us to extract an anomalous low temperature scaling of thermal conductance.

id: 1008.1494
title: Coherent electron transport by adiabatic passage in an imperfect donor chain
authors: Rajib Rahman, Richard P. Muller, James E. Levy, Malcolm S. Carroll, Gerhard Klimeck, Andrew D. Greentree, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physical Review B 82, 155315 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1494
abstract: Coherent Tunneling Adiabatic Passage (CTAP) has been proposed as a long-range physical qubit transport mechanism in solid-state quantum computing architectures. Although the mechanism can be implemented in either a chain of quantum dots or donors, a 1D chain of donors in Si is of particular interest due to the natural confining potential of donors that can in principle help reduce the gate densities in solid-state quantum computing architectures. Using detailed atomistic modeling, we investigate CTAP in a more realistic triple donor system in the presence of inevitable fabrication imperfections. In particular, we investigate how an adiabatic pathway for CTAP is affected by donor misplacements, and propose schemes to correct for such errors. We also investigate the sensitivity of the adiabatic path to gate voltage fluctuations. The tight-binding based atomistic treatment of straggle used here may benefit understanding of other donor nanostructures, such as donor-based charge and spin qubits. Finally, we derive an effective 3 \times 3 model of CTAP that accurately resembles the voltage tuned lowest energy states of the multi-million atom tight-binding simulations, and provides a translation between intensive atomistic Hamiltonians and simplified effective Hamiltonians while retaining the relevant atomic-scale information. This method can help characterize multi-donor experimental structures quickly and accurately even in the presence of imperfections, overcoming some of the numeric intractabilities of finding optimal eigenstates for non-ideal donor placements.

id: 1008.1688
title: All-optical switching of dark states in nonlinear coupled microring resonators
authors: Jacob Scheuer, Andrey A. Sukhorukov, Yuri S. Kivshar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1688
abstract: We propose and analyze an on-chip all-optical dynamical tuning scheme for coupled nonlinear resonators employing a single control beam injected in parallel with a signal beam. We show that nonlinear Kerr response can be used to dynamically switch the spectral properties between "dark-state" and electromagnetically-induced transparency configurations. Such scheme can be realized in integrated optical applications for pulse trapping and delaying.

id: 1008.1691
title: New Understandings of Quantum Mechanics Based on Interaction
authors: Tian-Hai Zeng
comments: 9pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1691
abstract: The interaction between two parts in a compound quantum system may be reconsidered more completely than before and some new understandings and conclusions different from current quantum mechanics are obtained, including the conservation law in the evolution in an isolated quantum system, new understandings of duality of particle and wave and the superposition principle of states, three laws corresponding to Newton's laws, new understandings of measurement and the uncertainty relation, arguments against the non-locality of any entangled state and a simple criterion of coherence which is obtained for the experimenter to examine the correctness of the non-locality. These may make quantum mechanics be easily understood intuitively and some strange properties will not appear.

id: 1008.1743
title: Fermionic current densities induced by magnetic flux in a conical space with a circular boundary
authors: E.R. Bezerra de Mello, V.B. Bezerra, A.A. Saharian, V.M. Bardeghyan
comments: 34 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:085033,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1743
abstract: We investigate the vacuum expectation value of the fermionic current induced by a magnetic flux in a (2+1)-dimensional conical spacetime in the presence of a circular boundary. On the boundary the fermionic field obeys MIT bag boundary condition. For irregular modes, a special case of boundary conditions at the cone apex is considered, when the MIT bag boundary condition is imposed at a finite radius, which is then taken to zero. We observe that the vacuum expectation values for both charge density and azimuthal current are periodic functions of the magnetic flux with the period equal to the flux quantum whereas the expectation value of the radial component vanishes. For both exterior and interior regions, the expectation values of the current are decomposed into boundary-free and boundary-induced parts. For a massless field the boundary-free part in the vacuum expectation value of the charge density vanishes, whereas the presence of the boundary induces nonzero charge density. Two integral representations are given for the boundary-free part in the case of a massive fermionic field for arbitrary values of the opening angle of the cone and magnetic flux. The behavior of the induced fermionic current is investigated in various asymptotic regions of the parameters. At distances from the boundary larger than the Compton wavelength of the fermion particle, the vacuum expectation values decay exponentially with the decay rate depending on the opening angle of the cone. We make a comparison with the results already known from the literature for some particular cases.

id: 1008.1867
title: Dynamic coarse-graining approach to quantum field theory
authors: Hans Christian ?ttinger
comments: Expansion of the previous letter version to a fully detailed paper; 22 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1867
abstract: We build quantum field theory on the thermodynamic master equation for dissipative quantum systems. The vacuum is represented by a thermodynamic equilibrium state in the low-temperature limit. All regularization is consistently provided by a friction mechanism; with decreasing friction parameter, only degrees of freedom on shorter and shorter length scales are damped out of a quantum field theory. No divergent integrals need to be manipulated. Renormalization occurs as a tool to refine perturbation expansions, not to remove divergences. Relativistic covariance is recovered in the final results. We illustrate the proposed thermodynamic approach to quantum fields for the phi^4 theory by calculating the propagator and the beta function, and we offer some suggestions on its application to gauge theories.

id: 1008.1913
title: Edge channel mixing induced by potential steps in an integer quantum Hall system
authors: D. Venturelli, V. Giovannetti, F. Taddei, R. Fazio, D. Feinberg, G. Usaj, C. A. Balseiro
comments: final version: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 075315 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.1913
abstract: We investigate the coherent mixing of co-propagating edge channels in a quantum Hall bar produced by step potentials. In the case of two edge channels it is found that, although a single step induces only a few percent mixing, a series of steps could yield 50% mixing. In addition, a strong mixing is found when the potential height of a single step allows a different number of edge channels on the two sides of the step. Charge density probability has been also calculated even for the case where the step is smoothened.

id: 1008.2035
title: Generation of a Complete Set of Supersymmetric Shape Invariant Potentials from an Euler Equation
authors: Jonathan Bougie, Asim Gangopadhyaya, Jeffry V. Mallow
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:210402,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2035
abstract: In supersymmetric quantum mechanics, shape invariance is a sufficient condition for solvability. We show that all conventional additive shape invariant superpotentials that are independent of $\hbar$ obey two partial differential equations. One of these is equivalent to the one-dimensional Euler equation expressing momentum conservation for inviscid fluid flow, and it is closed by the other. We solve these equations, generate the set of all conventional shape invariant superpotentials, and show that there are no others in this category. We then develop an algorithm for generating all additive shape invariant superpotentials including those that depend on $\hbar$ explicitly.

id: 1008.2096
title: Periodically-driven cold atoms: the role of the phase
authors: K. Kudo, T.S. Monteiro
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2096
abstract: Numerous theoretical and experimental studies have investigated the dynamics of cold atoms subjected to time periodic fields. Novel effects dependent on the amplitude and frequency of the driving field, such as Coherent Destruction of Tunneling have been identified and observed. However, in the last year or so, three distinct types of experiments have demonstrated for the first time, interesting behaviour associated with the driving phase: i.e. for systems experiencing a driving field of general form $V(x)\sin (\omega t + \phi)$, different types of large scale oscillations and directed motion were observed. We investigate and explain the phenomenon of Super-Bloch Oscillations (SBOs) in relation to the other experiments and address the role of initial phase in general. We analyse and compare the role of $\phi$ in systems with homogeneous forces ($V'(x)= const$), such as cold atoms in shaken or amplitude-modulated optical lattices, as well as non-homogeneous forces ($V'(x)\neq const$), such as the sloshing of atoms in driven traps, and clarify the physical origin of the different $\phi$-dependent effects.

id: 1008.2098
title: On the kinetic equation approach to pair production by time-dependent electric field
authors: A.M. Fedotov, E.G. Gelfer, K.Yu. Korolev, S.A. Smolyansky
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:025011,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2098
abstract: We investigate the quantum kinetic approach to pair production from vacuum by time-dependent electric field. Equivalence between this approach and the more familiar S-matrix approach is explicitly established for both scalar and fermion cases. For the particular case of a constant electric field exact solution for kinetic equations is provided and the accuracy of low-density approximation is estimated.

id: 1008.2100
title: Towards Rigorous Derivation of Quantum Kinetic Equations
authors: V.I. Gerasimenko, Zh.A. Tsvir
comments: 25 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (48) (2010) 485203
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2100
abstract: We develop a rigorous formalism for the description of the evolution of states of quantum many-particle systems in terms of a one-particle density operator. For initial states which are specified in terms of a one-particle density operator the equivalence of the description of the evolution of quantum many-particle states by the Cauchy problem of the quantum BBGKY hierarchy and by the Cauchy problem of the generalized quantum kinetic equation together with a sequence of explicitly defined functionals of a solution of stated kinetic equation is established in the space of trace class operators. The links of the specific quantum kinetic equations with the generalized quantum kinetic equation are discussed.

id: 1008.2165
title: On the response of a particle detector in Anti-de Sitter spacetime
authors: David Jennings
comments: 13 pages, no figures, accepted for publication in Class. Quantum Grav
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.27:205005,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2165
abstract: We consider the vacuum response of a particle detector in Anti-de Sitter spacetime, and in particular analyze how spacetime features such as curvature and dimensionality affect the response spectrum of an accelerated detector. We calculate useful limits on Wightman functions, analyze the dynamics of the detector in terms of vacuum fluctuations and radiation reactions, and discuss the thermalization process for the detector. We also present a generalization of the GEMS approach and obtain the Gibbons-Hawking temperature of de Sitter spacetime as an embedded Unruh temperature in a curved Anti-de Sitter spacetime.

id: 1008.2168
title: On bound state computations in three- and four-electron atomic systems
authors: Alexei M Frolov, David M. Wardlaw
comments: This paper was published in ZhETPh (JETP), v.137, 1 - 11 (2010). In this version only a few corrections have been made in formulas
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2168
abstract: A variational approach is developed for bound state calculations in three- and four-electron atomic systems. This approach can be applied to determine, in principle, an arbitrary bound state in three- and four-electron ions and atoms. Our variational wave functions are constructed from four- and five-body gaussoids which depend upon the six ($r_{12}, r_{13}, r_{14}, r_{23}, r_{24}, r_{34}$) and ten ($r_{12}, r_{13}, r_{14}, r_{15}, r_{23}, r_{24}, r_{25}, r_{34}, r_{35}$ and $r_{45}$) relative coordinates, respectively. The approach allows one to operate with the different number of electron spin functions. In particular, the trial wave functions for the ${}^1S$-states in four-electron atomic systems include the two independent spin functions $\chi_1 = \alpha \beta \alpha \beta + \beta \alpha \beta \alpha - \beta \alpha \alpha \beta - \alpha \beta \beta \alpha$ and $\chi_2 = 2 \alpha \alpha \beta \beta + 2 \beta \beta \alpha \alpha - \beta \alpha \alpha \beta - \alpha \beta \beta \alpha - \beta \alpha \beta \alpha - \alpha \beta \alpha \beta$. We also discuss the construction of variational wave functions for the excited $2^3S$-states in four-electron atomic systems.

id: 1008.2190
title: Directional Quasi-Phase Matching in Curved Waveguides
authors: Rolf T. Horn, Gregor Weihs
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, submitted to NJP
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2190
abstract: In materials that do not allow birefringent phase-matching or periodic poling we propose to use waveguides to exploit the tensor structure of the second order nonlinearity for quasi-phase matching of nonlinear interactions. In particular, we concentrate on curved waveguides in which the interplay between the propagation direction, electric field polarizations and the nonlinearity can change the strength and sign of the nonlinear interaction periodically to achieve quasi-phase matching.

id: 1008.2236
title: Efficient energy transfer in light-harvesting systems, I: optimal temperature, reorganization energy, and spatial-temporal correlations
authors: Jianlan Wu, Fan Liu, Young Shen, Jianshu Cao, Robert J. Silbey
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics, 12, 105012 (2010)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2236
abstract: Understanding the mechanisms of efficient and robust energy transfer in light-harvesting systems provides new insights for the optimal design of artificial systems. In this paper, we use the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) protein complex and phycocyanin 645 (PC 645) to explore the general dependence on physical parameters that help maximize the efficiency and maintain its stability. With the Haken-Strobl model, the maximal energy transfer efficiency (ETE) is achieved under an intermediate optimal value of dephasing rate. To avoid the infinite temperature assumption in the Haken-Strobl model and the failure of the Redfield equation in predicting the Forster rate behavior, we use the generalized Bloch-Redfield (GBR) equation approach to correctly describe dissipative exciton dynamics and find that maximal ETE can be achieved under various physical conditions, including temperature, reorganization energy, and spatial-temporal correlations in noise. We also identify regimes of reorganization energy where the ETE changes monotonically with temperature or spatial correlation and therefore cannot be optimized with respect to these two variables.

id: 1008.2242
title: The Construction of Quantum Field Operators: Something of Interest
authors: Valeri V. Dvoeglazov
comments: 31 pages, no figures. The invited talk at the VIII International Workshop "Applied Category Theory. Graph-Operad-Logic", San Blas, Nayarit, Mexico, January 9-16, 2010, and at the 6th International Conference on the Dark Side of the Universe (DSU2010), Leon, Gto, Mexico, June 1-6, 2010
journal: J. Phys. Conf. Ser.284:012024, 2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2242
abstract: We draw attention to some tune problems in constructions of the quantum-field operators for spins 1/2 and 1. They are related to the existence of negative-energy and acausal solutions of relativistic wave equations. Particular attention is paid to the chiral theories, and to the method of the Lorentz boosts.

id: 1008.2276
title: Surface-induced charge state conversion of nitrogen-vacancy defects in nanodiamonds
authors: L. Rondin, G. Dantelle, A. Slablab, F. Grosshans, F. Treussart, P. Bergonzo, S. Perruchas, T. Gacoin, M. Chaigneau, H.-C. Chang, V. Jacques, J.-F. Roch
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 115449 (2010)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2276
abstract: We present a study of the charge state conversion of single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) defects hosted in nanodiamonds (NDs). We first show that the proportion of negatively-charged NV$^{-}$ defects, with respect to its neutral counterpart NV$^{0}$, decreases with the size of the ND. We then propose a simple model based on a layer of electron traps located at the ND surface which is in good agreement with the recorded statistics. By using thermal oxidation to remove the shell of amorphous carbon around the NDs, we demonstrate a significant increase of the proportion of NV$^{-}$ defects in 10-nm NDs. These results are invaluable for further understanding, control and use of the unique properties of negatively-charged NV defects in diamond

id: 1008.2326
title: Quantum zigzag transition in ion chains
authors: Efrat Shimshoni, Giovanna Morigi, Shmuel Fishman
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. Revised version, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 106, 010401 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2326
abstract: A string of trapped ions at zero temperature exhibits a structural phase transition to a zigzag structure, tuned by reducing the transverse trap potential or the interparticle distance. The transition is driven by transverse, short wavelength vibrational modes. We argue that this is a quantum phase transition, which can be experimentally realized and probed. Indeed, by means of a mapping to the Ising model in a transverse field, we estimate the quantum critical point in terms of the system parameters, and find a finite, measurable deviation from the critical point predicted by the classical theory. A measurement procedure is suggested which can probe the effects of quantum fluctuations at criticality. These results can be extended to describe the transverse instability of ultracold polar molecules in a one dimensional optical lattice.

id: 1008.2342
title: Resolved Sideband Emission of InAs/GaAs Quantum Dots Strained by Surface Acoustic Waves
authors: Michael Metcalfe, Stephen M. Carr, Andreas Muller, Glenn S. Solomon, John Lawall
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 037401 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2342
abstract: The dynamic response of InAs/GaAs self-assembled quantum dots (QDs) to strain is studied experimentally by periodically modulating the QDs with a surface acoustic wave and measuring the QD fluorescence with photoluminescence and resonant spectroscopy. When the acoustic frequency is larger than the QD linewidth, we resolve phonon sidebands in the QD fluorescence spectrum. Using a resonant pump laser, we have demonstrated optical frequency conversion via the dynamically modulated QD, which is the physical mechanism underlying laser sideband cooling a nanomechanical resonator by means of an embedded QD.

id: 1008.2390
title: The McEliece Cryptosystem Resists Quantum Fourier Sampling Attacks
authors: Hang Dinh, Cristopher Moore, Alexander Russell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2390
abstract: Quantum computers can break the RSA and El Gamal public-key cryptosystems, since they can factor integers and extract discrete logarithms. If we believe that quantum computers will someday become a reality, we would like to have \emph{post-quantum} cryptosystems which can be implemented today with classical computers, but which will remain secure even in the presence of quantum attacks. In this article we show that the McEliece cryptosystem over \emph{well-permuted, well-scrambled} linear codes resists precisely the attacks to which the RSA and El Gamal cryptosystems are vulnerable---namely, those based on generating and measuring coset states. This eliminates the approach of strong Fourier sampling on which almost all known exponential speedups by quantum algorithms are based. Specifically, we show that the natural case of the Hidden Subgroup Problem to which the McEliece cryptosystem reduces cannot be solved by strong Fourier sampling, or by any measurement of a coset state. We start with recent negative results on quantum algorithms for Graph Isomorphism, which are based on particular subgroups of size two, and extend them to subgroups of arbitrary structure, including the automorphism groups of linear codes. This allows us to obtain the first rigorous results on the security of the McEliece cryptosystem in the face of quantum adversaries, strengthening its candidacy for post-quantum cryptography.

id: 1008.2422
title: The Quantum Query Complexity of AC0
authors: Paul Beame, Widad Machmouchi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2422
abstract: We show that any quantum algorithm deciding whether an input function $f$ from $[n]$ to $[n]$ is 2-to-1 or almost 2-to-1 requires $\Theta(n)$ queries to $f$. The same lower bound holds for determining whether or not a function $f$ from $[2n-2]$ to $[n]$ is surjective. These results yield a nearly linear $\Omega(n/\log n)$ lower bound on the quantum query complexity of $\cl{AC}^0$. The best previous lower bound known for any $\cl{AC^0}$ function was the $\Omega ((n/\log n)^{2/3})$ bound given by Aaronson and Shi's $\Omega(n^{2/3})$ lower bound for the element distinctness problem.

id: 1008.2450
title: Ephemeral properties and the illusion of microscopic particles
authors: Massimiliano Sassoli de Bianchi
comments: 
journal: Foundations of Science, Vol. 16, Issue 4 (2011), pp. 393-409
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2450
abstract: Founding our analysis on the Geneva-Brussels approach to quantum mechanics, we use conventional macroscopic objects as guiding examples to clarify the content of two important results of the beginning of twentieth century: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen's reality criterion and Heisenberg's uncertainty principle. We then use them in combination to show that our widespread belief in the existence of microscopic particles is only the result of a cognitive illusion, as microscopic particles are not particles, but are instead the ephemeral spatial and local manifestations of non-spatial and non-local entities.

id: 1008.2455
title: On the Necessary Conditions for the Validity of the Hohenberg-Kohn Theorem
authors: V.B. Bobrov, S. A. Trigger, G.J.F. van Heijst
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2455
abstract: It is shown that the Hohenberg-Kohn lemma and theorem are direct consequences of the statement that the ground state energy (or free energy) of a system of interacting particles in an external field is a unique functional of the potential of this field. This means that, if the Hohenberg-Kohn theorem is valid, the nonuniform density in the equilibrium system and the external field potential are biunique functionals. In this case, the nonuniform density is intimately related to the inverse response function. On this basis, a regular procedure can be constructed for determining the density functional for the free energy or ground state energy.

id: 1008.2477
title: The Canonical Coset Decomposition of Unitary Matrices Through Householder Transformations
authors: Renan Cabrera, Traci Strohecker, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 082101 (2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2477
abstract: This paper reveals the relation between the canonical coset decomposition of unitary matrices and the corresponding decomposition via Householder reflections. These results can be used to parametrize unitary matrices via Householder reflections.

id: 1008.2511
title: Compact variational wave functions for bound states in three-electron atomic systems
authors: Alexei M. Frolov, David M. Wardlaw
comments: 
journal: published in:JETP, v. 108, pp. 583 - 592 (2009). In this version only a few corrections (in formulas) have been made
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2511
abstract: The variational procedure to construct compact and accurate wave functions for three-electron atoms and ions is developed. The procedure is based on the use of six-dimensional gaussoids written in the relative four-body coordinates $r_{12}, r_{13}, r_{23}, r_{14}, r_{24}$ and $r_{34}$. The non-linear parameters in each basis function have been optimized carefully. By using these variational wave functions we have determined the energies and other bound state properties are determined for the ground $1^2S$-states in a number of three-electron atoms and ions. The three-electron atomic systems considered in this work include the neutral Li atom and nine positively charged lithium-like ions: Be$^+$, B$^{2+}$, C$^{3+}, ...$Na$^{8+}$ and Mg$^{9+}$. Our variational wave functions are used to determine the hyperfine structure splitting and field shifts for some lithium-like ions. The explicit formulas of the $Q^{-1}$ expansion are derived for the total energies of these three-electron systems.

id: 1008.2529
title: Quantum f-divergences and error correction
authors: F. Hiai, M. Mosonyi, D. Petz, C. Beny
comments: v5: Extended analysis of the Chernoff and the Hoeffding distances in Section 6. The operator Holder and inverse Holder inequalities are derived in Appendix A as an application of the monotonicity under pinching
journal: Reviews in Mathematical Physics, volume 23, issue 7, pp. 691 -- 747, (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2529
abstract: Quantum f-divergences are a quantum generalization of the classical notion of f-divergences, and are a special case of Petz' quasi-entropies. Many well known distinguishability measures of quantum states are given by, or derived from, f-divergences; special examples include the quantum relative entropy, the Renyi relative entropies, and the Chernoff and Hoeffding measures. Here we show that the quantum f-divergences are monotonic under the dual of Schwarz maps whenever the defining function is operator convex. This extends and unifies all previously known monotonicity results. We also analyze the case where the monotonicity inequality holds with equality, and extend Petz' reversibility theorem for a large class of f-divergences and other distinguishability measures. We apply our findings to the problem of quantum error correction, and show that if a stochastic map preserves the pairwise distinguishability on a set of states, as measured by a suitable f-divergence, then its action can be reversed on that set by another stochastic map that can be constructed from the original one in a canonical way. We also provide an integral representation for operator convex functions on the positive half-line, which is the main ingredient in extending previously known results on the monotonicity inequality and the case of equality. We also consider some special cases where the convexity of f is sufficient for the monotonicity, and obtain the inverse Holder inequality for operators as an application. The presentation is completely self-contained and requires only standard knowledge of matrix analysis.

id: 1008.2544
title: Thermodynamic Gravity and the Schrodinger Equation
authors: Merab Gogberashvili
comments: Minor corrections, the version accepted by Int. J. Theor. Phys
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 50 (2011) 2391-2402
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2544
abstract: We adopt a 'thermodynamical' formulation of Mach's principle that the rest mass of a particle in the Universe is a measure of its long-range collective interactions with all other particles inside the horizon. We consider all particles in the Universe as a 'gravitationally entangled' statistical ensemble and apply the approach of classical statistical mechanics to it. It is shown that both the Schrodinger equation and the Planck constant can be derived within this Machian model of the universe. The appearance of probabilities, complex wave functions, and quantization conditions is related to the discreetness and finiteness of the Machian ensemble.

id: 1008.2587
title: Local field effect as a function of pulse duration
authors: Denis V. Novitsky
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 015802 (2010)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2587
abstract: In this note we give semiclassical consideration of the role of pulse duration in observation of local field effects in the regime of optical switching. We show that the main parameter governing local field influence is the ratio of peak Rabi frequency corresponding to medium inversion and Lorentz frequency of the medium. To obtain significant local field effect, this parameter should be near unity that is valid only for long enough pulses. We also discuss the role of relaxation and pulse shape in this processes.

id: 1008.2611
title: Single-qubit lasing in the strong-coupling regime
authors: Stephan Andr¨¦, Pei-Qing Jin, Valentina Brosco, Jared H. Cole, Alessandro Romito, Alexander Shnirman, Gerd Sch?n
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 053802 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2611
abstract: Motivated by recent ``circuit QED'' experiments we study the lasing transition and spectral properties of single-qubit lasers. In the strong coupling, low-temperature regime quantum fluctuations dominate over thermal noise and strongly influence the linewidth of the laser. When the qubit and the resonator are detuned, amplitude and phase fluctuations of the radiation field are coupled, and the phase diffusion model, commonly used to describe conventional lasers, fails. We predict pronounced effects near the lasing transition, with an enhanced linewidth and non-exponential decay of the correlation functions. We cover a wide range of parameters by using two complementary approaches, one based on the Liouville equation in a Fock state basis, covering arbitrarily strong coupling but limited to low photon numbers, the other based on the coherent-state representation, covering large photon numbers but restricted to weak or intermediate coupling.

id: 1008.2623
title: Exceptional Points in a Microwave Billiard with Time-Reversal Invariance Violation
authors: B. Dietz, H. L. Harney, O. N. Kirillov, M. Miski-Oglu, A. Richter, F. Schaefer
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:150403,2011
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2623
abstract: We report on the experimental study of an exceptional point (EP) in a dissipative microwave billiard with induced time-reversal invariance (T) violation. The associated two-state Hamiltonian is non-Hermitian and non-symmetric. It is determined experimentally on a narrow grid in a parameter plane around the EP. At the EP the size of T violation is given by the relative phase of the eigenvector components. The eigenvectors are adiabatically transported around the EP, whereupon they gather geometric phases and in addition geometric amplitudes different from unity.

id: 1008.2735
title: Key pairing interaction in layered doped ionic insulators
authors: A. S. Alexandrov, A. M. Bratkovsky
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105 (2010) 226408
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2735
abstract: A controversial issue on whether the electron-phonon interaction (EPI) is crucial for high-temperature superconductivity or it is weak and inessential has remained one of the most challenging problems of contemporary condensed matter physics. We employ a continuum RPA approximation for the dielectric response function allowing for a selfconsistent semi-analytical evaluation of the EPI strength, electron-electron attractions, and the carrier mass renormalisation in layered high-temperature superconductors. We show that the Fr\"{o}hlich EPI with high-frequency optical phonons in doped ionic lattices is the key pairing interaction, which is beyond the BCS-Migdal-Eliashberg approximation in underdoped superconductors, and it remains a significant player in overdoped compounds.

id: 1008.2812
title: Imaging and quantum efficiency measurement of chromium emitters in diamond
authors: I. Aharonovich, S. Castelletto, B. C. Gibson, B. C. Johnson, S. Prawer
comments: 11 pages and 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2812
abstract: We present direct imaging of the emission pattern of individual chromium-based single photon emitters in diamond and measure their quantum efficiency. By imaging the excited state transition dipole intensity distribution in the back focal plane of high numerical aperture objective, we determined that the emission dipole is oriented nearly orthogonal to the diamond-air interface. Employing ion implantation techniques, the emitters were engineered with various proximities from the diamond-air interface. By comparing the decay rates from the single chromium emitters at different depths in the diamond crystal, an average quantum efficiency of 28% was measured.

id: 1008.2853
title: A thermodynamic geometric study of R¨¦nyi and Tsallis entropies
authors: B. N. Tiwari, Vinod Chandra, Subhashish Banerjee
comments: 26 pages, 23 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2853
abstract: A general investigation is made into the intrinsic Riemannian geometry for complex systems, from the perspective of statistical mechanics. The entropic formulation of statistical mechanics is the ingredient which enables a connection between statistical mechanics and the corresponding Riemannian geometry. The form of the entropy used commonly is the Shannon entropy. However, for modelling complex systems, it is often useful to make use of entropies such as the R\'{e}nyi and Tsallis entropies. We consider, here, Shannon, R\'{e}nyi, Tsallis, Abe and structural entropies, for our analysis. We focus on one, two and three particle thermally excited configurations. We find that statistical pair correlation functions, determined by the components of the covariant metric tensor of the underlying thermodynamic geometry, associated with the various entropies have well defined, definite expressions, which may be extended for arbitrary finite particle systems. In all cases, we find a non-degenerate intrinsic Riemannian manifold. In particular, any finite particle system described in terms of R\'{e}nyi, Tsallis, Abe and structural entropies, always corresponds to an interacting statistical system, thereby highlighting their importance in the study of complex systems. On the other hand, a statistical description by the Gibbs-Shannon entropy corresponds to a non-interacting system.

id: 1008.2904
title: The Kantian Framework of Complementarity
authors: Michael E. Cuffaro
comments: Slight change between this version and previous in the wording of the first paragraph of the section 'Complementarity'
journal: Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics, 41 (2010). 309-317
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2904
abstract: A growing number of commentators have, in recent years, noted the important affinities in the views of Immanuel Kant and Niels Bohr. While these commentators are correct, the picture they present of the connections between Bohr and Kant is painted in broad strokes; it is open to the criticism that these affinities are merely superficial. In this essay, I provide a closer, structural, analysis of both Bohr's and Kant's views that makes these connections more explicit. In particular, I demonstrate the similarities between Bohr's argument, on the one hand, that neither the wave nor the particle description of atomic phenomena pick out an object in the ordinary sense of the word, and Kant's requirement, on the other hand, that both 'mathematical' (having to do with magnitude) and 'dynamical' (having to do with an object's interaction with other objects) principles must be applicable to appearances in order for us to determine them as objects of experience. I argue that Bohr's 'Complementarity interpretation' of quantum mechanics, which views atomic objects as idealizations, and which licenses the repeal of the principle of causality for the domain of atomic physics, is perfectly compatible with, and indeed follows naturally from a broadly Kantian epistemological framework.

id: 1008.2906
title: Scattering and self-adjoint extensions of the Aharonov-Bohm hamiltonian
authors: Cesar R. de Oliveira, Marciano Pereira
comments: 40 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 354011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2906
abstract: We consider the hamiltonian operator associated with planar sec- tions of infinitely long cylindrical solenoids and with a homogeneous magnetic field in their interior. First, in the Sobolev space $\mathcal H^2$, we characterize all generalized boundary conditions on the solenoid bor- der compatible with quantum mechanics, i.e., the boundary conditions so that the corresponding hamiltonian operators are self-adjoint. Then we study and compare the scattering of the most usual boundary con- ditions, that is, Dirichlet, Neumann and Robin.

id: 1008.3004
title: Modulation stabilization of Bloch oscillations of two-component Bose-Einstein condensates in optical lattices
authors: Huai-Qiang Gu, Jun-Hong An, Kang Jin
comments: 13 pages in IOP preprint style, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43, 205308 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3004
abstract: We study the Bloch oscillations (BOs) of two-component Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) trapped in spin-dependent optical lattices. Based on the derived equations of motion of the wave packet in the basis of localized wave functions of the lattice sites, the damping effect induced by the intercomponent and intracomponent interactions to the BOs is explored analytically and numerically. We also show that such damping of the BOs can be suppressed entirely if all the atom-atom interactions are modulated synchronously and harmonically in time with suitable frequency via the Feshbach resonance. When the intercomponent and the intracomponent interactions have inverse signs, we find that the long-living BOs and even the revival of the BOs can be achieved via only statically modulating the configuration of optical lattices. The results provide a valuable guidance for achieving long-living BOs in the two-component BEC system by the Feshbach resonances and manipulating the configuration of the optical lattices.

id: 1008.3010
title: Bound state spectra of three-body muonic molecular ions
authors: Alexei M. Frolov, David M. Wardlaw
comments: This is the final version. All `techical' troubles with the Latex-file have been resolved. A few misprints/mistakes in the text were corrected
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3010
abstract: The results of highly accurate calculations are presented for all twenty-two known bound $S(L = 0)-, P(L = 1)-, D(L = 2)-$ and $F(L = 3)-$states in the six three-body muonic molecular ions $pp\mu, pd\mu, pt\mu, dd\mu, dt\mu$ and $tt\mu$. A number of bound state properties of these muonic molecular ions have been determined numerically to high accuracy. The dependence of the total energies of these muonic molecules upon particle masses is considered. We also discuss the current status of muon-catalysis of nuclear fusion reactions.

id: 1008.3020
title: The Casimir force of Quantum Spring in the (D+1)-dimensional spacetime
authors: Xiang-hua Zhai, Xin-zhou Li, Chao-Jun Feng
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, v2, massive case added, refs. added
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A26:669-679,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3020
abstract: The Casimir effect for a massless scalar field on the helix boundary condition which is named as quantum spring is studied in our recent paper\cite{Feng}. In this paper, the Casimir effect of the quantum spring is investigated in $(D+1)$-dimensional spacetime for the massless and massive scalar fields by using the zeta function techniques. We obtain the exact results of the Casimir energy and Casimir force for any $D$, which indicate a $Z_2$ symmetry of the two space dimensions. The Casimir energy and Casimir force have different expressions for odd and even dimensional space in the massless case but in both cases the force is attractive. In the case of odd-dimensional space, the Casimir energy density can be expressed by the Bernoulli numbers, while in the even case it can be expressed by the $\zeta$-function. And we also show that the Casimir force has a maximum value which depends on the spacetime dimensions. In particular, for a massive scalar field, we found that the Casimir force varies as the mass of the field changes.

id: 1008.3074
title: Quasiclassical and Quantum Systems of Angular Momentum. Part III. Group Algebra of ${\rm SU}(2)$, Quantum Angular Momentum and Quasiclassical Asymptotics
authors: J. J. S?awianowski, V. Kovalchuk, A. Martens, B. Go\lubowska, E. E. Ro?ko
comments: 
journal: Journal of Geometry and Symmetry in Physics, vol. 23, 2011, pp. 59-95
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3074
abstract: This is the third part of our series "Quasiclassical and Quantum Systems of Angular Momentum". In two previous parts we have discussed the methods of group algebras in formulation of quantum mechanics and certain quasiclassical problems. Below we specify to the special case of the group ${\rm SU}(2)$ and its quotient ${\rm SO}(3,\mathbb{R})$, and discuss just our main subject in this series, i.e., angular momentum problems. To be more precise, this is the purely ${\rm SU}(2)$-treatment, so formally this might also apply to isospin. However. it is rather hard to imagine realistic quasiclassical isospin problems.

id: 1008.3089
title: Quantum Coherence in a One-Electron Semiconductor Charge Qubit
authors: K. D. Petersson, J. R. Petta, H. Lu, A. C. Gossard
comments: Related papers at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 246804 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3089
abstract: We study quantum coherence in a semiconductor charge qubit formed from a GaAs double quantum dot containing a single electron. Voltage pulses are applied to depletion gates to drive qubit rotations and non-invasive state readout is achieved using a quantum point contact charge detector. We measure a maximum coherence time of ~7 ns at the charge degeneracy point, where the qubit level splitting is first-order-insensitive to gate voltage fluctuations. We compare measurements of the coherence time as a function of detuning with predictions from a 1/f noise model.

id: 1008.3099
title: Laws of large numbers for eigenvectors and eigenvalues associated to random subspaces in a tensor product
authors: S. Belinschi, B. Collins, I. Nechita
comments: v3 changes: minor typographic improvements; accepted version
journal: Inventiones mathematicae, vol. 190, no. 3, 2012, pp. 647-697
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3099
abstract: Given two positive integers $n$ and $k$ and a parameter $t\in (0,1)$, we choose at random a vector subspace $V_{n}\subset \mathbb{C}^{k}\otimes\mathbb{C}^{n}$ of dimension $N\sim tnk$. We show that the set of $k$-tuples of singular values of all unit vectors in $V_n$ fills asymptotically (as $n$ tends to infinity) a deterministic convex set $K_{k,t}$ that we describe using a new norm in $\R^k$. Our proof relies on free probability, random matrix theory, complex analysis and matrix analysis techniques. The main result result comes together with a law of large numbers for the singular value decomposition of the eigenvectors corresponding to large eigenvalues of a random truncation of a matrix with high eigenvalue degeneracy.

id: 1008.3126
title: Choi matrices, norms and entanglement associated with positive maps on matrix algebras
authors: ?ukasz Skowronek, Erling St?rmer
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3126
abstract: We study positive maps of B(K) into B(H) for finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces K and H. Our main emphasis is on how Choi matrices and estimates of their norms with respect to mapping cones reflect various properties of the maps. Special attention will be given to entanglement properties and k-positive maps, in particular tensor products of 2-positive maps. The latter problem is directly related to the question of n-copy distillability of quantum states, for which we obtain a partial result.

id: 1008.3127
title: Quantitative Excited State Spectroscopy of a Single InGaAs Quantum Dot Molecule through Multi-million Atom Electronic Structure Calculations
authors: Muhammad Usman, Yui-Hong Matthias Tan, Hoon Ryu, Shaikh S. Ahmed, Hubert Krenner, Timothy B. Boykin, Gerhard Klimeck
comments: Accepted for publication in IOP Nanotechnology Journal
journal: Nanotechnology 22, 315709, 2011
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3127
abstract: Atomistic electronic structure calculations are performed to study the coherent inter-dot couplings of the electronic states in a single InGaAs quantum dot molecule. The experimentally observed excitonic spectrum [12] is quantitatively reproduced, and the correct energy states are identified based on a previously validated atomistic tight binding model. The extended devices are represented explicitly in space with 15 million atom structures. An excited state spectroscopy technique is presented in which the externally applied electric field is swept to probe the ladder of the electronic energy levels (electron or hole) of one quantum dot through anti-crossings with the energy levels of the other quantum dot in a two quantum dot molecule. This technique can be applied to estimate the spatial electron-hole spacing inside the quantum dot molecule as well as to reverse engineer quantum dot geometry parameters such as the quantum dot separation. Crystal deformation induced piezoelectric effects have been discussed in the literature as minor perturbations lifting degeneracies of the electron excited (P and D) states, thus affecting polarization alignment of wave function lobes for III-V Heterostructures such as single InAs/GaAs quantum dots. In contrast this work demonstrates the crucial importance of piezoelectricity to resolve the symmetries and energies of the excited states through matching the experimentally measured spectrum in an InGaAs quantum dot molecule under the influence of an electric field. Both linear and quadratic piezoelectric effects are studied for the first time for a quantum dot molecule and demonstrated to be indeed important. The net piezoelectric contribution is found to be critical in determining the correct energy spectrum, which is in contrast to recent studies reporting vanishing net piezoelectric contributions.

id: 1008.3144
title: Low-Energy Structures in Strong Field Ionization Revealed by Quantum Orbits
authors: Tian-Min Yan, S.V. Popruzhenko, M.J.J. Vrakking, D. Bauer
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, REVTeX
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3144
abstract: Experiments on atoms in intense laser pulses and the corresponding exact ab initio solutions of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation (TDSE) yield photoelectron spectra with low-energy features that are not reproduced by the otherwise successful work horse of strong field laser physics: the "strong field approximation" (SFA). In the semi-classical limit, the SFA possesses an appealing interpretation in terms of interfering quantum trajectories. It is shown that a conceptually simple extension towards the inclusion of Coulomb effects yields very good agreement with exact TDSE results. Moreover, the Coulomb quantum orbits allow for a physically intuitive interpretation and detailed analysis of all low-energy features in the semi-classical regime, in particular the recently discovered "low-energy structure" [C.I. Blaga et al., Nature Physics 5, 335 (2009) and W. Quan et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 093001 (2009)].

id: 1008.3212
title: Collective modes in multiband superfluids and superconductors: Multiple dynamical classes
authors: Yukihiro Ota, Masahiko Machida, Tomio Koyama, Hideo Aoki
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 060507(R) (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3212
abstract: One important way to characterize the states having a gauge symmetry spontaneously broken over multibands should be to look at their collective excitation modes. We find that a three-band system has multiple Leggett modes with significantly different masses, which can be classified into different dynamical classes according to whether multiple inter-band Josephson currents add or cancel. This provides a way to dynamically characterize multiband superconductivity while the pairing symmetry is a static property.

id: 1008.3237
title: Cones with a Mapping Cone Symmetry in the Finite-Dimensional Case
authors: ?ukasz Skowronek
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, to appear in LAA
journal: Lin. Alg. Appl. 435 (2011), 361--370
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3237
abstract: In the finite-dimensional case, we present a new approach to the theory of cones with a mapping cone symmetry, first introduced by St{\o}rmer. Our method is based on a definition of an inner product in the space of linear maps between two algebras of operators and the fact that the Jamio{\l}kowski-Choi isomorphism is an isometry. We consider a slightly modified class of cones, although not substantially different from the original mapping cones by St{\o}rmer. Using the new approach, several known results are proved faster and often in more generality than before. For example, the dual of a mapping cone turns out to be a mapping cone as well, without any additional assumptions. The main result of the paper is a characterization of cones with a mapping cone symmetry, saying that a given map is an element of such cone if and only if the composition of the map with the conjugate of an arbitrary element in the dual cone is completely positive. A similar result was known in the case where the map goes from an algebra of operators into itself and the cone is a symmetric mapping cone. Our result is proved without the additional assumptions of symmetry and equality between the domain and the target space. We show how it gives a number of older results as a corollary, including an exemplary application.

id: 1008.3336
title: Electromagnetic energy-momentum in dispersive media
authors: T. G. Philbin
comments: 7 pages. Incorporates the Erratum to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83 (2011) 013823; Erratum: Phys. Rev. A 85 (2012) 059902(E)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3336
abstract: The standard derivations of electromagnetic energy and momentum in media take Maxwell's equations as the starting point. It is well known that for dispersive media this approach does not directly yield exact expressions for the energy and momentum densities. Although Maxwell's equations fully describe electromagnetic fields, the general approach to conserved quantities in field theory is not based on the field equations, but rather on the action. Here an action principle for macroscopic electromagnetism in dispersive, lossless media is used to derive the exact conserved energy-momentum tensor. The time-averaged energy density reduces to Brillouin's simple formula when the fields are monochromatic. The momentum density is not given by the familiar Minkowski expression $\mathbf{D}\times\mathbf{B}$, even for time-averaged monochromatic fields. The results are unaffected by the debate over momentum balance in light-matter interactions.

id: 1008.3363
title: Quantum non-demolition measurement of microwave photons using engineered quadratic interactions
authors: Chunqing Deng, J. M. Gambetta, A. Lupascu
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 220505(R) (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3363
abstract: We present a quantum electrical circuit with Josephson junctions formed of two anharmonic oscillators coupled with an interaction $g\gamma_{1}^{2}\gamma_{2}^{2}$ where $\gamma_{1}$ and $\gamma_{2}$ are position-like coordinates. This type of coupling allows the quantum non-demolition measurement of the energy of one oscillator by monitoring the frequency of the second oscillator. Despite the fundamental tradeoff between the coupling strength $g$ and maximum photon storage capacity of the oscillators, it is possible to achieve high fidelity detection of up to 10 photons over time scale of the order of microseconds. We discuss the possibility of observing quantum jumps in the number of photons and related applications.

id: 1008.3366
title: Quantum realization of extensive games
authors: Piotr Frackiewicz
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3366
abstract: We generalize a concept of classical finite extensive game to make it useful for application of quantum objects. The generalization extends a quantum realization scheme of static games to any finite extensive game. It represents an extension of any classical finite extensive games to the quantum domain. In addition our model is compatible with well-known quantum schemes of static games. The paper is summed up by two examples.

id: 1008.3403
title: Relation between Zitterbewegung and the charge conductivity, Berry curvature and the Chern number of multi band systems
authors: J¨®zsef Cserti, Gyula D¨¢vid
comments: 4 pages and a little
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 201405(R) (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3403
abstract: We show that the charge conductivity for impurity free multi band electronic systems can be expressed in terms of the diagonal and non-diagonal elements of the Zitterbewegung amplitudes while the Berry curvature and the Chern number is related only to the diagonal elements. Thus, the phenomenon of the Zitterbewegung can no longer be viewed just as an interesting consequence of quantum physics but it has also an experimental relevance. Moreover, through several examples we demonstrate how efficient our approach is in the analytical calculation of the charge conductivity.

id: 1008.3406
title: Quantum phase diagram of the integrable p_x+ip_y fermionic superfluid
authors: Stefan M.A. Rombouts, Jorge Dukelsky, Gerardo Ortiz
comments: 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3406
abstract: We determine the zero temperature quantum phase diagram of a p_x+ip_y pairing model based on the exactly solvable hyperbolic Richardson-Gaudin model. We present analytical and large-scale numerical results for this model. In the continuum limit, the exact solution exhibits a third-order quantum phase transition, separating a strong-pairing from a weak-pairing phase. The mean field solution allows to connect these results to other models with p_x+ip_y pairing order. We define an experimentally accessible characteristic length scale, associated with the size of the Cooper pairs, that diverges at the transition point, indicating that the phase transition is of a confinement-deconfinement type without local order parameter. We show that this phase transition is not limited to the p_x+ip_y pairing model, but can be found in any representation of the hyperbolic Richardson-Gaudin model and is related to a symmetry that is absent in the rational Richardson-Gaudin model.

id: 1008.3439
title: Measuring Black Hole Formations by Entanglement Entropy via Coarse-Graining
authors: Tadashi Takayanagi, Tomonori Ugajin
comments: 25 pages, Latex, 8 figures
journal: JHEP 1011:054,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3439
abstract: We argue that the entanglement entropy offers us a useful coarse-grained entropy in time-dependent AdS/CFT. We show that the total von-Neumann entropy remains vanishing even when a black hole is created in a gravity dual, being consistent with the fact that its corresponding CFT is described by a time-dependent pure state. We analytically calculate the time evolution of entanglement entropy for a free Dirac fermion on a circle following a quantum quench. This is interpreted as a toy holographic dual of black hole creations and annihilations. It is manifestly free from the black hole information problem.

id: 1008.3458
title: Transverse Field Ising Model Under Hyperbolic Deformation
authors: Hiroshi Ueda, Andrej Gendiar, Valentin Zauner, Takatsugu Iharagi, Tomotoshi Nishino
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3458
abstract: Ground state of the one-dimensional transverse field Ising model is investigated under the hyperbolic deformation, where the energy scale of j-th bond is proportional to the function \cosh ( j \lambda ) that contains a parameter \lambda. Although the Hamiltonian is position dependent, the ground state is nearly uniform and finitely correlated. We observe the energy cross over between the ordered and disordered state with respect to the transverse field. The model shows first order phase transition, and the discontinuities in the magnetization and entanglement entropy at the transition point detect the Ising universality.

id: 1008.3482
title: Product numerical range in a space with tensor product structure
authors: Zbigniew Pucha?a, Piotr Gawron, Jaros?aw Adam Miszczak, ?ukasz Skowronek, Man-Duen Choi, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures. Original preprint "Local numerical range: a versatile tool in the theory of quantum information" [arXiv:0905.3646v1] was broadened and split into two papers: "Restricted numerical range: a versatile tool in the theory of quantum information", and "Product numerical range in a space with tensor product structure"
journal: Linear Algebra Appl., 434 (2011) 327-342
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3482
abstract: We study operators acting on a tensor product Hilbert space and investigate their product numerical range, product numerical radius and separable numerical range. Concrete bounds for the product numerical range for Hermitian operators are derived. Product numerical range of a non-Hermitian operator forms a subset of the standard numerical range containing the barycenter of the spectrum. While the latter set is convex, the product range needs not to be convex nor simply connected. The product numerical range of a tensor product is equal to the Minkowski product of numerical ranges of individual factors.

id: 1008.3507
title: Nuclear spin cooling using Overhauser field selective coherent population trapping
authors: Mena Issler, Eric Kessler, Geza Giedke, Susanne Yelin, Ignacio Cirac, Mikhail Lukin, Atac Imamoglu
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 267202 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3507
abstract: Hyperfine interactions with a nuclear spin environment fundamentally limit the coherence properties of confined electron spins in the solid-state. Here, we show that a quantum interference effect in optical absorption from two electronic spin states of a solid-state emitter can be used to prepare the surrounding environment of nuclear spins in well-defined states, thereby suppressing electronic spin dephasing. The evolution of the coupled electron-nuclei system into a coherent population trapping state by optical excitation induced nuclear spin diffusion can be described in terms of Levy flights, in close analogy with sub-recoil laser cooling of atoms. The large difference in electronic and nuclear time scales simultaneously allow for a measurement of the magnetic field produced by nuclear spins, making it possible to turn the lasers that cause the anomalous spin diffusion process off when the strength of the resonance fluorescence reveals that the nuclear spins are in the desired narrow state.

id: 1008.3611
title: Spectral properties of molecular oligomers. A non-Markovian quantum state diffusion approach
authors: Jan Roden, Walter T. Strunz, Alexander Eisfeld
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B (IJMPB), 24, 5060 (2010)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3611
abstract: Absorption spectra of small molecular aggregates (oligomers) are considered. The dipole-dipole interaction between the monomers leads to shifts of the oligomer spectra with respect to the monomer absorption. The line-shapes of monomer as well as oligomer absorption depend strongly on the coupling to vibrational modes. Using a recently developed approach [Roden et. al, PRL 103, 058301] we investigate the length dependence of spectra of one-dimensional aggregates for various values of the interaction strength between the monomers. It is demonstrated, that the present approach is well suited to describe the occurrence of the J- and H-bands.

id: 1008.3623
title: The J- and H-bands of dye aggregate spectra: Analysis of the coherent exciton scattering (CES) approximation
authors: Jan Roden, Alexander Eisfeld, John S. Briggs
comments: 
journal: Chem. Phys. 352 (2008) 258
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3623
abstract: The validity of the CES approximation is investigated by comparison with direct diagonalisation of a model vibronic Hamiltonian of $N$ identical monomers interacting electronically. Even for quite short aggregates (N\gtrsim 6) the CES approximation is shown to give results in agreement with direct diagonalisation, for all coupling strengths, except that of intermediate positive coupling (the H-band region). However, previously excellent agreement of CES calculations and measured spectra in the H-band region was obtained [A. Eisfeld, J. S. Briggs, Chem. Phys. 324, 376]. This is shown to arise from use of the measured monomer spectrum which includes implicitly dissipative effects not present in the model calculation.

id: 1008.3656
title: Alternative derivation of the Feigel effect and call for its experimental verification
authors: O. A. Croze
comments: 20 pages, 1 figures. revised and improved version
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 2012 vol. 468 pp. 429-447
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3656
abstract: A recent theory by Feigel [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 92}, 020404 (2004)] predicts the finite transfer of momentum from the quantum vacuum to a fluid placed in strong perpendicular electric and magnetic fields. The momentum transfer arises because of the optically anisotropic magnetoelectric response induced in the fluid by the fields. After summarising Feigel's original assumptions and derivation (corrected of trivial mistakes), we rederive the same result by a simpler route, validating Feigel's semi-classical approach. We then derive the stress exerted by the vacuum on the fluid which, if the Feigel hypothesis is correct, should induce a Poiseuille flow in a tube with maximum speed $\approx 100\mu$m/s (2000 times larger than Feigel's original prediction). An experiment is suggested to test this prediction for an organometallic fluid in a tube passing through the bore of a high strength magnet. The predicted flow can be measured directly by tracking microscopy or indirectly by measuring the flow rate ($\approx 1$ml/min) corresponding to the Poiseuille flow. A second experiment is also proposed whereby a `vacuum radiometer' is used to test a recent prediction that the net force on a magnetoelectric slab in the vacuum should be zero.

id: 1008.3665
title: Fermion localization on two-field thick branes
authors: L.B. Castro
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:045002,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3665
abstract: In a recent paper published in this journal, Almeida and collaborators [Phys. Rev. D \textbf{79}, 125022 (2009)] analyze the issue of fermion localization of fermions on a brane constructed from two scalar fields coupled with gravity (Bloch brane model). In this meritorious research the simplest Yukawa coupling $\eta\bar{\Psi}\phi\chi\Psi$ was considered. In that work does not analyze the zero mode in details. In this paper, the localization of fermions on two-field thick branes is reinvestigated. It is found that the simplest Yukawa coupling does not support the localization of fermions on the brane. In addition, the problem of fermion localization for some other Yukawa couplings are analyzed. It is shown that the zero mode for left-handed and right-handed fermions can be localized on the brane depending on the values for the coupling constant $\eta$ and the Bloch brane's parameter $a$.

id: 1008.3738
title: Exact solutions for a family of spin-boson systems
authors: Yuan-Harng Lee, Jon Links, Yao-Zhong Zhang
comments: LaTex 15 pages. To appear in Nonlinearity
journal: Nonlinearity 24:1975-1986, 2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3738
abstract: We obtain the exact solutions for a family of spin-boson systems. This is achieved through application of the representation theory for polynomial deformations of the $su(2)$ Lie algebra. We demonstrate that the family of Hamiltonians includes, as special cases, known physical models which are the two-site Bose-Hubbard model, the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model, the molecular asymmetric rigid rotor, the Tavis-Cummings model, and a two-mode generalisation of the Tavis-Cummings model.

id: 1008.3745
title: Classification of Gapped Symmetric Phases in 1D Spin Systems
authors: Xie Chen, Zheng-Cheng Gu, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures. Version 2, classification for parity and translation symmetry updated
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 035107 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3745
abstract: Quantum many-body systems divide into a variety of phases with very different physical properties. The question of what kind of phases exist and how to identify them seems hard especially for strongly interacting systems. Here we make an attempt to answer this question for gapped interacting quantum spin systems whose ground states are short-range correlated. Based on the local unitary equivalence relation between short-range correlated states in the same phase, we classify possible quantum phases for 1D matrix product states, which represent well the class of 1D gapped ground states. We find that in the absence of any symmetry all states are equivalent to trivial product states, which means that there is no topological order in 1D. However, if certain symmetry is required, many phases exist with different symmetry protected topological orders. The symmetric local unitary equivalence relation also allows us to obtain some simple results for quantum phases in higher dimensions when some symmetries are present.

id: 1008.3820
title: Coherent Control of Rydberg States in Silicon
authors: P. T. Greenland, S. A. Lynch, A. F. G. van der Meer, B. N. Murdin, C. R. Pidgeon, B. Redlich, N. Q. Vinh, G. Aeppli
comments: 
journal: Nature, 465, 1057-1061 (24 June 2010)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3820
abstract: We demonstrate coherent control of donor wavefunctions in phosphorous-doped silicon. Our experiments take advantage of a free electron laser to stimulate and observe photon echoes from, and Rabi oscillations between the ground and first excited state of P donors in Si.

id: 1008.3865
title: Quantum ring models and action-angle variables
authors: Stefano Bellucci, Armen Nersessian, Armen Saghatelian, Vahagn Yeghikyan
comments: 9 pages, nofigures
journal: J.Comput.Theor.Nanosci.8:769-775,2011
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3865
abstract: We suggest to use the action-angle variables for the study of properties of (quasi)particles in quantum rings. For this purpose we present the action-angle variables for three two-dimensional singular oscillator systems. The first one is the usual (Euclidean) singular oscillator, which plays the role of the confinement potential for the quantum ring. We also propose two singular spherical oscillator models for the role of the confinement system for the spherical ring. The first one is based on the standard Higgs oscillator potential. We show that, in spite of the presence of a hidden symmetry, it is not convenient for the study of the system's behaviour in a magnetic field. The second model is based on the so-called CP(1) oscillator potential and respects the inclusion of a constant magnetic field.

id: 1008.3878
title: Statistics of resonance states in a weakly open chaotic cavity
authors: Charles Poli, Olivier Legrand, Fabrice Mortessagne
comments: 
journal: Physical Review E: Statistical, Nonlinear, and Soft Matter Physics 82, 5 (2010) 055201(R)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3878
abstract: In this letter, we demonstrate that a non-Hermitian Random Matrix description can account for both spectral and spatial statistics of resonance states in a weakly open chaotic wave system with continuously distributed losses. More specifically, the statistics of resonance states in an open 2D chaotic microwave cavity are investigated by solving the Maxwell equations with lossy boundaries subject to Ohmic dissipation. We successfully compare the statistics of its complex-valued resonance states and associated widths with analytical predictions based on a non-Hermitian effective Hamiltonian model defined by a finite number of fictitious open channels.

id: 1008.3968
title: Centre-of-mass separation in quantum mechanics: Implications for the many-body treatment in quantum chemistry and solid state physics
authors: Michal Svrcek
comments: 39 pages, 11 sections, 3 appendices
journal: Progress in Theoretical Chemistry and Physics, Volume 22, Part 7, 511-552, 2012
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3968
abstract: We address the question to what extent the centre-of-mass (COM) separation can change our view of the many-body problem in quantum chemistry and solid state physics. It was shown that the many-body treatment based on the electron-vibrational Hamiltonian is fundamentally inconsistent with the Born-Handy ansatz so that such a treatment can never respect the COM problem. Born-Oppenheimer (B-O) approximation reveals some secret: it is a limit case where the degrees of freedom can be treated in a classical way. Beyond the B-O approximation they are inseparable in principle. The unique covariant description of all equations with respect to individual degrees of freedom leads to new types of interaction: besides the known vibronic (electron-phonon) one the rotonic (electron-roton) and translonic (electron-translon) interactions arise. We have proved that due to the COM problem only the hypervibrations (hyperphonons, i.e. phonons + rotons + translons) have true physical meaning in molecules and crystals; nevertheless, the use of pure vibrations (phonons) is justified only in the adiabatic systems. This fact calls for the total revision of our contemporary knowledge of all non-adiabatic effects, especially the Jahn-Teller effect and superconductivity. The vibronic coupling is responsible only for removing of electron (quasi)degeneracies but for the explanation of symmetry breaking and forming of structure the rotonic and translonic coupling is necessary.

id: 1008.4016
title: Coherent Operation of a Gap-tunable Flux Qubit
authors: Xiaobo Zhu, Alexander Kemp, Shiro Saito, Kouichi Semba
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4016
abstract: We replace the Josephson junction defining a three-junction flux qubit's properties with a tunable direct current superconducting quantum interference devices (DC-SQUID) in order to tune the qubit gap during the experiment. We observe different gaps as a function of the external magnetic pre-biasing field and the local magnetic field through the DC-SQUID controlled by high-bandwidth on chip control lines. The persistent current and gap behavior correspond to numerical simulation results. We set the sensitivity of the gap on the control lines during the sample design stage. With a tuning range of several GHz on a qubit dynamics timescale, we observe coherent system dynamics at the degeneracy point.

id: 1008.4114
title: Optimal Gaussian squeezed states for atom-interferometry in the presence of phase diffusion
authors: Igor Tikhonenkov, Michael G. Moore, Amichay Vardi
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 043624 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4114
abstract: We optimize the signal-to-noise ratio of a Mach-Zehnder atom interferometer with Gaussian squeezed input states, in the presence interactions. For weak interactions, our results coincide with Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 100}, 250406 (2008), with optimal initial number-variance $\sigma_o\propto N^{1/3}$ and optimal signal-to-noise ratio $s_o\propto N^{2/3}$ for total atom number $N$. As the interaction strength $u$ increases past unity, phase-diffusion becomes dominant, leading to a transition in the optimal squeezing from initial number-squeezing to initial {\it phase}-squeezing with $\sigma_o\propto\sqrt{uN}$ and $s_o\propto\sqrt{N/u}$ shot-noise scaling. The initial phase-squeezing translates into hold-time number-squeezing, which is less sensitive to interactions than coherent states and improves $s_o$ by a factor of $\sqrt{u}$.

id: 1008.4124
title: Polarization-engineered GaN/InGaN/GaN tunnel diodes
authors: Sriram Krishnamoorthy, Digbijoy N. Nath, Fatih Akyol, Pil Sung Park, Michele Esposto, Siddharth Rajan
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 97, 203502 (2010)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4124
abstract: We report on the design and demonstration of polarization-engineered GaN/InGaN/GaN tunnel junction diodes with high current density and low tunneling turn-on voltage. Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin (WKB) calculations were used to model and design tunnel junctions with narrow bandgap InGaN-based barrier layers. N-polar p-GaN/In0.33Ga0.67N/n-GaN heterostructure tunnel diodes were grown using molecular beam epitaxy. Efficient zero bias tunneling turn-on with a high current density of 118 A/cm2 at a reverse bias of 1V, reaching a maximum current density up to 9.2 kA/cm2 were obtained. These results represent the highest current density reported in III-nitride tunnel junctions, and demonstrate the potential of III-nitride tunnel devices for a broad range of optoelectronic and electronic applications.

id: 1008.4163
title: Performance of W4 theory for spectroscopic constants and electrical properties of small molecules
authors: Amir Karton, Jan M.L. Martin
comments: Journal of Chemical Physics, in press
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4163
abstract: Accurate spectroscopic constants and electrical properties of small molecules are determined by means of W4 and post-W4 theories. For a set of 28 first- and second-row diatomic molecules for which very accurate experimental spectroscopic constants are available, W4 theory affords near-spectroscopic or better predictions. Specifically, the root-mean-square deviations (RMSD) from experiment are 0.04 pm for the equilibrium bond distances (r_e), 1.03 cm^{-1} for the harmonic frequencies (\omega_e), 0.20 cm^{-1} for the first anharmonicity constants (\omega_e x_e), 0.10 cm^{-1} for the second anharmonicity constants (\omega_e y_e), and 0.001 cm^{-1} for the vibration-rotation coupling constants (\alpha_e). Higher-order connected triples, \hat{T}_3-(T), improve agreement with experiment for the hydride systems, but their inclusion (in the absence of \hat{T}_4) tends to worsen agreement with experiment for the nonhydride systems. Connected quadruple excitations, \hat{T}_4, have significant and systematic effects on r_e, \omega_e, and \omega_e x_e, in particular they universally increase r_e (by up to 0.5 pm), universally reduce \omega_e (by up to 32 cm^{-1}), and universally increase \omega_e x_e (by up to 1 cm^{-1}). Connected quintuple excitations, \hat{T}_5, are spectroscopically significant for \omega_e of the nonhydride systems, affecting \omega_e by up to 4 cm^{-1}. The triatomic molecules H_2O, CO_2, and O_3, as well as the pathologically multireference BN and BeO diatomics, are also considered. The asymmetric stretch of ozone represents a severe challenge to W4 theory, in particular the connected quadruple contribution converges very slowly with the basis set size. Finally, the importance of post-CCSD(T) correlation effects for electrical properties, namely dipole moments (\mu), polarizabilities (\alpha), and first hyperpolarizabilities (\beta) is evaluated.

id: 1008.4212
title: A superconducting qubit as a quantum transformer routing entanglement between a microscopic quantum memory and a macroscopic resonator
authors: Alexander Kemp, Shiro Saito, William J. Munro, Kae Nemoto, Kouichi Semba
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 104505 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4212
abstract: We demonstrate experimentally the creation and measurement of an entangled state between a microscopic two level system and a macroscopic superconducting resonator where their indirect interaction is mediated by an artificial atom, a superconducting persistent current qubit (PCQB). We show that the microscopic two level system, formed by a defect in an oxide layer, exhibits an order of magnitude longer dephasing time than the PCQB, while the dephasing time of the entangled states between the microscopic two level system and macroscopic superconducting resonator is significantly longer than the dephasing time in the persistent current qubits. This demonstrates the possibility that a qubit of moderate coherence properties can be used in practice to address low decoherence quantum memories by connecting them to macroscopic circuit QED quantum buses, leading future important implications for quantum information processing tasks.

id: 1008.4303
title: Finite Temperature Matrix Product State Algorithms and Applications
authors: Michael L. Wall, Lincoln D. Carr
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Chapter in "Non-Equilibrium Quantum Gases at Finite Temperatures", ed. M. Davis, S. Gardiner, N. Nygaard, N. Proukakis, and M. Szymanska (World Scientific, 2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4303
abstract: We review the basic theory of matrix product states (MPS) as a numerical variational ansatz for time evolution, and present two methods to simulate finite temperature systems with MPS: the ancilla method and the minimally entangled typical thermal state method. A sample calculation with the Bose-Hubbard model is provided.

id: 1008.4338
title: FAPP and Non-FAPP
authors: Jeremy Bernstein
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4338
abstract: This is a pedagogical discussion of the foundations of the quantum theory.

id: 1008.4346
title: Topological Phases of One-Dimensional Fermions: An Entanglement Point of View
authors: Ari M. Turner, Frank Pollmann, Erez Berg
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure; journal ref. added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 075102 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4346
abstract: The effect of interactions on topological insulators and superconductors remains, to a large extent, an open problem. Here, we describe a framework for classifying phases of one-dimensional interacting fermions, focusing on spinless fermions with time-reversal symmetry and particle number parity conservation, using concepts of entanglement. In agreement with an example presented by Fidkowski \emph{et. al.} (Phys. Rev. B 81, 134509 (2010)), we find that in the presence of interactions there are only eight distinct phases, which obey a $\mathbb{Z}_8$ group structure. This is in contrast to the $\mathbb{Z}$ classification in the non-interacting case. Each of these eight phases is characterized by a unique set of bulk invariants, related to the transformation laws of its entanglement (Schmidt) eigenstates under symmetry operations, and has a characteristic degeneracy of its entanglement levels. If translational symmetry is present, the number of distinct phases increases to 16.

id: 1008.4395
title: Single-spin magnetometry with multi-pulse sensing sequences
authors: G. de Lange, D. Rist¨¨, V. V. Dobrovitski, R. Hanson
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 080802 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4395
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate single-spin magnetometry with multi-pulse sensing sequences. The use of multi-pulse sequences can greatly increase the sensing time per measurement shot, resulting in enhanced ac magnetic field sensitivity. We theoretically derive and experimentally verify the optimal number of sensing cycles, for which the effects of decoherence and increased sensing time are balanced. We perform these experiments for oscillating magnetic fields with fixed phase as well as for fields with random phase. Finally, by varying the phase and frequency of the ac magnetic field, we measure the full frequency-filtering characteristics of different multi-pulse schemes and discuss their use in magnetometry applications.

id: 1008.4417
title: Spectral-based Propagation Schemes for Time-Dependent Quantum Systems with Application to Carbon Nanotubes
authors: Zuojing Chen, Eric Polizzi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4417
abstract: Effective modeling and numerical spectral-based propagation schemes are proposed for addressing the challenges in time-dependent quantum simulations of systems ranging from atoms, molecules, and nanostructures to emerging nanoelectronic devices. While time-dependent Hamiltonian problems can be formally solved by propagating the solutions along tiny simulation time steps, a direct numerical treatment is often considered too computationally demanding. In this paper, however, we propose to go beyond these limitations by introducing high-performance numerical propagation schemes to compute the solution of the time-ordered evolution operator. In addition to the direct Hamiltonian diagonalizations that can be efficiently performed using the new eigenvalue solver FEAST, we have designed a Gaussian propagation scheme and a basis transformed propagation scheme (BTPS) which allow to reduce considerably the simulation times needed by time intervals. It is outlined that BTPS offers the best computational efficiency allowing new perspectives in time-dependent simulations. Finally, these numerical schemes are applied to study the AC response of a (5,5) carbon nanotube within a 3D real-space mesh framework.

id: 1008.4426
title: Numerical simulation of a multi-level atom interferometer
authors: Brynle Barrett, Itay Yavin, Scott Beattie, A. Kumarakrishnan
comments: 18 pages, 13 figures, version accepted to Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 82, 023625 (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4426
abstract: We present a comprehensive numerical simulation of an echo-type atom interferometer. The simulation confirms a new theoretical description of this interferometer that includes effects due to spontaneous emission and magnetic sub-levels. Both the simulation and the theoretical model agree with the results of experiments. These developments provide an improved understanding of several observable effects. The evolution of state populations due to stimulated emission and absorption during the standing wave interaction imparts a time-dependent phase on each atomic momentum state. This manifests itself as an asymmetry in the signal shape that depends on the strength of the interaction as well as spontaneous emission due to a non-zero population in the excited states. The degree of asymmetry is a measure of a non-zero relative phase between interfering momentum states.

id: 1008.4476
title: Interplay of defect cluster and the stability of xenon in uranium dioxide by density functional calculations
authors: Hua Y. Geng, Ying Chen, Yasunori Kaneta, Motoyasu Kinoshita, Q. Wu
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures, accepted by Phys. Rev. B for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 094106 (2010)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4476
abstract: Self-defect clusters in bulk matrix might affect the thermodynamic behavior of fission gases in nuclear fuel such as uranium dioxide. With first-principles LSDA+U calculations and taking xenon as a prototype, we find that the influence of oxygen defect clusters on the thermodynamics of gas atoms is prominent, which increases the solution energy of xenon by a magnitude of 0.5 eV, about 43% of the energy difference between the two lowest lying states at 700 K. Calculation also reveals a thermodynamic competition between the uranium vacancy and tri-vacancy sites to incorporate xenon in hyper-stoichiometric regime at high temperatures. The results show that in hypo-stoichiometric regime neutral tri-vacancy sites are the most favored position for diluted xenon gas, whereas in hyper-stoichiometric condition they prefer to uranium vacancies even after taking oxygen self-defect clusters into account at low temperatures, which not only confirms previous studies but also extends the conclusion to more realistic fuel operating conditions. The observation that gas atoms are ionized to a charge state of Xe+ when at a uranium vacancy site due to strong Madelung potential implies that one can control temperature to tune the preferred site of gas atoms and then the bubble growth rate. A solution to the notorious meta-stable states difficulty that frequently encountered in DFT+U applications, namely, the quasi-annealing procedure, is also discussed.

id: 1008.4512
title: Two-electron excitation of an interacting cold Rydberg gas
authors: J. Millen, G. Lochead, M. P. A. Jones
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 213004 (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4512
abstract: We report the creation of an interacting cold Rydberg gas of strontium atoms. We show that the excitation spectrum of the inner valence electron is sensitive to the interactions in the Rydberg gas, even though they are mediated by the outer Rydberg electron. By studying the evolution of this spectrum we observe density-dependent population transfer to a state of higher angular momentum l. We determine the fraction of Rydberg atoms transferred, and identify the dominant transfer mechanism to be l-changing electron-Rydberg collisions associated with the formation of a cold plasma.

id: 1008.4543
title: Reply to the comment on "Topological phase in two flavor neutrino oscillations"
authors: Poonam Mehta
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4543
abstract: In a recent paper [arXiv:0901.0790], we showed that there is a neat geometric interpretation of two flavor neutrino oscillation formulae, and that the geometric phase involved in the physics of oscillations is restricted to be topological as long as CP is conserved. This paper has been criticised by Bhandari [arXiv:1006.5935]. In the present note, we show that the criticisms are not valid and only reflect his failure to understand some crucial points.

id: 1008.4603
title: Local and spatially extended sub-Poisson atom number fluctuations in optical lattices
authors: C. Gross, J. Esteve, M. K. Oberthaler, A. D. Martin, J. Ruostekoski
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84 (2011) 011609(R)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4603
abstract: We demonstrate that ultracold interacting bosonic atoms in an optical lattice show sub-Poissonian on-site and inter-site atom number fluctuations. The experimental observations agree with numerical predictions of the truncated Wigner approximation. The correlations persist in the presence of multi-mode atom dynamics and even over large spatially extended samples involving several sites and large populations.

id: 1008.4624
title: Canonical form of the Evolution Operator of a Time-Dependent Hamiltonian in the Three Level System
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex 10 pages; no figure
journal: Int. J. Geom. Meth. Mod. Phys. 8(2011) 647-655
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4624
abstract: In this paper we study the evolution operator of a time-dependent Hamiltonian in the three level system. The evolution operator is based on $SU(3)$ and its dimension is $8$, so we obtain three complex Riccati differential equations interacting with one another (which have been obtained by Fujii and Oike) and two real phase equations. This is a canonical form of the evolution operator.

id: 1008.4628
title: Analyticity of The Ground State Energy For Massless Nelson Models
authors: Abdelmalek Abdesselam, David Hasler
comments: 33 pages, 1 figure, added a section on the calculation of the effective mass
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4628
abstract: We show that the ground state energy of the translationally invariant Nelson model, describing a particle coupled to a relativistic field of massless bosons, is an analytic function of the coupling constant and the total momentum. We derive an explicit expression for the ground state energy which is used to determine the effective mass.

id: 1008.4652
title: Charge Localization Dynamics induced by Oxygen Vacancies on the Titania TiO$_2$(110) Surface
authors: Piotr M. Kowalski, Matteo Farnesi Camellone, Nisanth N. Nair, Bernd Meyer, Dominik Marx
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Letters
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4652
abstract: The dynamics of an F--center created by an oxygen vacancy on the $\mathrm{TiO_{2}(110)}$ rutile surface has been investigated using {\it ab initio} molecular dynamics. These simulations uncover a truly complex, time-dependent behavior of fluctuating electron localization topologies in the vicinity of the oxygen vacancy. Although the two excess electrons are found to populate preferentially the second subsurface layer, they occasionally visit surface sites and also the third subsurface layer. This dynamical behavior of the excess charge explains hitherto conflicting interpretations of both theoretical findings and experimental data.

id: 1008.4678
title: A Hamiltonian Formulation of the Pais-Uhlenbeck Oscillator that Yields a Stable and Unitary Quantum System
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A375: 93-98,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4678
abstract: We offer a new Hamiltonian formulation of the classical Pais-Uhlenbeck Oscillator and consider its canonical quantization. We show that for the non-degenerate case where the frequencies differ, the quantum Hamiltonian operator is a Hermitian operator with a positive spectrum, i.e., the quantum system is both stable and unitary. A consistent description of the degenerate case based on a Hamiltonian that is quadratic in momenta requires its analytic continuation into a complex Hamiltonian system possessing a generalized PT-symmetry (an involutive antilinear symmetry). We devise a real description of this complex system, derive an integral of motion for it, and explore its quantization.

id: 1008.4715
title: Possibility to measure thermal effects in the Casimir force
authors: B. Geyer, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 35 pages, 9 figures; Phys. Rev. A, to appear
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:032513,2010
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4715
abstract: We analyze the possibility to measure small thermal effects in the Casimir force between metal test bodies in configurations of a sphere above a plate and two parallel plates. For sphere-plate geometry used in many experiments we investigate the applicability of the proximity force approximation (PFA) to calculate thermal effects in the Casimir force and its gradient. It is shown that for real metals the two formulations of the PFA used in the literature lead to relative differences in the obtained results being less than a small parameter equal to the ratio of separation distance to sphere radius. For ideal metals the PFA results for the thermal correction are obtained and compared with available exact results. It is emphasized that in the experimental region in the zeroth order of the small parameter mentioned above the thermal Casimir force and its gradient calculated using the PFA (and thermal corrections in their own right) coincide with respective exact results. For real metals available exact results are outside the application region of the PFA. However, the exact results are shown to converge to the PFA results when the small parameter goes down to the experimental values. We arrive at the conclusion that large thermal effects predicted by the Drude model approach, if existing at all, could be measured in both static and dynamic experiments in sphere-plate and plate-plate configurations. As to the small thermal effects predicted by the plasma model approach, the static experiment in the configuration of two parallel plates is found to be the best for its observation.

id: 1008.4716
title: Dynamic and spectral mixing in nanosystems
authors: V.A.Benderskii, E. I. Kats
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4716
abstract: In the framework of simple spin-boson Hamiltonian we study an interplay between dynamic and spectral roots to stochastic-like behavior. The Hamiltonian describes an initial vibrational state coupled to discrete dense spectrum reservoir. The reservoir states are formed by three sequences with rationally independent periodicities typical for vibrational states in many nanosize systems. We show that quantum evolution of the system is determined by a dimensionless parameter which is characteristic number of the reservoir states relevant for the initial vibrational level dynamics. Our semi-quantitative analytic results are confirmed by numerical solution of the equation of motion. We anticipate that predicted in the paper both kinds of stochastic-like behavior (namely, due to spectral mixing and recurrence cycle dynamic mixing) can be observed by femtosecond spectroscopy methods in nanosystems.

id: 1008.4747
title: Entanglement-assisted quantum low-density parity-check codes
authors: Yuichiro Fujiwara, David Clark, Peter Vandendriessche, Maarten De Boeck, Vladimir D. Tonchev
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures. Final version appearing in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042338 (2010)
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4747
abstract: This paper develops a general method for constructing entanglement-assisted quantum low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes, which is based on combinatorial design theory. Explicit constructions are given for entanglement-assisted quantum error-correcting codes (EAQECCs) with many desirable properties. These properties include the requirement of only one initial entanglement bit, high error correction performance, high rates, and low decoding complexity. The proposed method produces infinitely many new codes with a wide variety of parameters and entanglement requirements. Our framework encompasses various codes including the previously known entanglement-assisted quantum LDPC codes having the best error correction performance and many new codes with better block error rates in simulations over the depolarizing channel. We also determine important parameters of several well-known classes of quantum and classical LDPC codes for previously unsettled cases.

id: 1008.4778
title: Casimir Energies of Cylinders: Universal Function
authors: E. K. Abalo, K. A. Milton, L. Kaplan
comments: 29 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:125007,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4778
abstract: New exact results are given for the interior Casimir energies of infinitely long waveguides of triangular cross section (equilateral, hemiequilateral, and isosceles right triangles). Results for cylinders of rectangular cross section are rederived. In particular, results are obtained for interior modes belonging to Dirichlet and Neumann boundary conditions (TM and TE modes). These results are expressed in rapidly convergent series using the Chowla-Selberg formula, and in fact may be given in closed form, except for general rectangles. The energies are finite because only the first three heat-kernel coefficients can be nonzero for the case of polygonal boundaries. What appears to be a universal behavior of the Casimir energy as a function of the shape of the regular or quasi-regular cross-sectional figure is presented. Furthermore, numerical calculations for arbitrary right triangular cross sections suggest that the universal behavior may be extended to waveguides of general polygonal cross sections. The new exact and numerical results are compared with the proximity force approximation (PFA).

id: 1008.4805
title: Space-time and special relativity from causal networks
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Alessandro Tosini
comments: 4 pages and 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4805
abstract: We show how the Minkowskian space-time emerges from a topologically homogeneous causal network, presenting a simple analytical derivation of the Lorentz transformations, with metric as pure event-counting. The derivation holds generally for d=1 space dimension, however, it can be extended to d>1 for special causal networks.

id: 1008.4836
title: Entanglement of Grassmannian Coherent States for Multi-Partite n-Level Systems
authors: Ghader Najarbashi, Yusef Maleki
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 7:011,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4836
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the entanglement of multi-partite Grassmannian coherent states (GCSs) described by Grassmann numbers for $n>2$ degree of nilpotency. Choosing an appropriate weight function, we show that it is possible to construct some well-known entangled pure states, consisting of {\bf GHZ}, {\bf W}, Bell, cluster type and bi-separable states, which are obtained by integrating over tensor product of GCSs. It is shown that for three level systems, the Grassmann creation and annihilation operators $b$ and $b^\dag$ together with $b_{z}$ form a closed deformed algebra, i.e., $SU_{q}(2)$ with $q=e^{\frac{2\pi i}{3}}$, which is useful to construct entangled qutrit-states. The same argument holds for three level squeezed states. Moreover combining the Grassmann and bosonic coherent states we construct maximal entangled super coherent states.

id: 1008.4868
title: A Graphene Quantum Dot with a Single Electron Transistor as Integrated Charge Sensor
authors: Ling-Jun Wang, Gang Cao, Tao Tu, Hai-Ou Li, Cheng Zhou, Xiao-Jie Hao, Zhan Su, Guang-Can Guo, Guo-Ping Guo, Hong-Wen Jiang
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Applied. Phys. Letters 97, 262113 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4868
abstract: We have developed an etching process to fabricate a quantum dot and a nearby single electron transistor as a charge detector in a single layer graphene. The high charge sensitivity of the detector is used to probe Coulomb diamonds as well as excited spectrum in the dot, even in the regime where the current through the quantum dot is too small to be measured by conventional transport means. The graphene based quantum dot and integrated charge sensor serve as an essential building block to form a solid-state qubit in a nuclear-spin-free quantum world.

id: 1008.4877
title: On the Use of Minimum Volume Ellipsoids and Symplectic Capacities for Studying Classical Uncertainties for Joint Position-Momentum Measurements
authors: Maurice de Gosson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4877
abstract: We study the minimum volume ellipsoid estimator associates to a cloud of points in phase space. Using as a natural measure of uncertainty the symplectic capacity of the covariance ellipsoid we find that classical uncertainties obey relations similar to those found in non-standard quantum mechanics.

id: 1008.4890
title: Quantum and pseudoclassical descriptions of nonrelativistic spinning particles in noncommutative space
authors: T. C. Adorno, M. C. Baldiotti, D. M. Gitman
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:123516,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4890
abstract: We construct a nonrelativistic wave equation for spinning particles in the noncommutative space (in a sense, a $\theta$-modification of the Pauli equation). To this end, we consider the nonrelativistic limit of the $\theta$-modified Dirac equation. To complete the consideration, we present a pseudoclassical model (\`a la Berezin-Marinov) for the corresponding nonrelativistic particle in the noncommutative space. To justify the latter model, we demonstrate that its quantization leads to the $\theta$-modified Pauli equation. We extract $\theta$-modified interaction between a nonrelativistic spin and a magnetic field from such a Pauli equation and construct a $\theta$-modification of the Heisenberg model for two coupled spins placed in an external magnetic field. In the framework of such a model, we calculate the probability transition between two orthogonal EPR (Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen) states for a pair of spins in an oscillatory magnetic field and show that some of such transitions, which are forbidden in the commutative space, are possible due to the space noncommutativity. This allows us to estimate an upper bound on the noncommutativity parameter.

id: 1008.4901
title: Magnetic Edge States in Graphene
authors: Gabriela Murguia
comments: To appear in the proceedings of XII Mexican Workshop on Particles and Fields (MWPF 2009), Mazatlan, Sinaloa, Mexico, 9-14 Nov 2009. 3 pages, 2 Postscript figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4901
abstract: Magnetic confinement in graphene has been of recent and growing interest because its potential applications in nanotechnology. In particular, the observation of the so called magnetic edge states in graphene has opened the possibility to deepen into the generation of spin currents and its applications in spintronics. We study the magnetic edge states of quasi-particles arising in graphene monolayers due to an inhomogeneous magnetic field of a magnetic barrier in the formalism of the two-dimensional massless Dirac equation. We also show how the solutions of such states in each of both triangular sublattices of the graphene are related through a supersymmetric transformation in the quantum mechanical sense.

id: 1008.4943
title: Tensor factorizations of local second-order M?ller Plesset theory
authors: Jun Yang, Yuki Kurashige, Frederick R. Manby, Garnet K.L. Chan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4943
abstract: Efficient electronic structure methods can be built around efficient tensor representations of the wavefunction. Here we describe a general view of tensor factorization for the compact representation of electronic wavefunctions. We use these ideas to construct low-complexity representations of the doubles amplitudes in local second order M{\o}ller-Plesset perturbation theory. We introduce two approximations - the direct orbital specific virtual approximation and the full orbital specific virtual approximation. In these approximations, each occupied orbital is associated with a small set of correlating virtual orbitals. Conceptually, the representation lies between the projected atomic orbital representation in Pulay-Saeb{\o} local correlation theories and pair natural orbital correlation theories. We have tested the orbital specific virtual approximations on a variety of systems and properties including total energies, reaction energies, and potential energy curves. Compared to the Pulay-Saeb{\o} ansatz, we find that these approximations exhibit favourable accuracy and computational times, while yielding smooth potential energy curves.

id: 1008.4982
title: Bond Alternation, Polarizability and Resonance Detuning in Methine Dyes
authors: Seth Olsen, Ross H. McKenzie
comments: Keywords: Structure-property relationships, Brooker dyes, methine dyes, push-pull polyenes, nonlinear optical response, bond length alternation, bond order - bond length relationships, fluorescent proteins
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4982
abstract: We derive structure-property relationships for methine ("Brooker") dyes relating the color of the dye and its symmetric parents to its bond alternation in the ground state and also to the dipole properties associated with its low-lying charge-resonance (or charge-transfer) transition. We calibrate and test these relationships on an array of different protonation states of the green fluorescent protein chromophore motif (an asymmetric halochromic methine dye) and its symmetric parent dyes. The relationships rely on the assumption that the diabatic states that define the Platt model for methine dye color [J.R. Platt, J. Chem. Phys. 25 80 (1956)] can also be distinguished by their single-double bond alternation and by their charge localization character. These assumptions are independent of the primary constraint that defines the diabatic states in the Platt model - specifically, the Brooker deviation rule for methine dyes [L.G.S. Brooker, Rev. Mod. Phys. 14 275 (1942)]. Taking these assumptions, we show that the Platt model offers an alternate route to known structure-property relationships between the bond length alternation and the quadratic nonlinear polarizability {\beta}. We show also that the Platt model can be parameterized without the need for synthesis of the symmetric parents of a given dye, using dipole data obtained through spectroscopic measurements. This suggests that the Platt model parameters may be used as independent variables in free-energy relationships for chromophores whose symmetric parents cannot be synthesized or chromophores strongly bound to biomolecular environments. The latter category includes several recently characterized biomolecular probe constructs. We illustrate these concepts by an analysis of previously reported electroabsorption and second-harmonic generation experiments on green fluorescent proteins.

id: 1008.5137
title: Locality in Quantum Systems
authors: M. B. Hastings
comments: lecture notes from Les Houches summer school
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5137
abstract: These lecture notes focus on the application of ideas of locality, in particular Lieb-Robinson bounds, to quantum many-body systems. We consider applications including correlation decay, topological order, a higher dimensional Lieb-Schultz-Mattis theorem, and a nonrelativistic Goldstone theorem. The emphasis is on trying to show the ideas behind the calculations. As a result, the proofs are only sketched with an emphasis on the intuitive ideas behind them, and in some cases we use techniques that give very slightly weaker bounds for simplicity. This is a preliminary version of the lecture notes, with the goal of getting the notes out close to the end of the school. Comments welcome.

id: 1008.5158
title: Dispersive Photon Blockade in a Superconducting Circuit
authors: A.J. Hoffman, S.J. Srinivasan, S. Schmidt, L. Spietz, J. Aumentado, H. E. T¨¹reci, A.A. Houck
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5158
abstract: Mediated photon-photon interactions are realized in a superconducting coplanar waveguide cavity coupled to a superconducting charge qubit. These non-resonant interactions blockade the transmission of photons through the cavity. This so-called dispersive photon blockade is characterized by measuring the total transmitted power while varying the energy spectrum of the photons incident on the cavity. A staircase with four distinct steps is observed and can be understood in an analogy with electron transport and the Coulomb blockade in quantum dots. This work differs from previous efforts in that the cavity-qubit excitations retain a photonic nature rather than a hybridization of qubit and photon and provides the needed tolerance to disorder for future condensed matter experiments.

id: 1008.5190
title: Caldeira-Leggett Model, Landau Damping, and the Vlasov-Poisson System
authors: George I. Hagstrom, P.J. Morrison
comments: Submitted to Physica D
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5190
abstract: The Caldeira-Leggett Hamiltonian (Eq. (1) below) describes the interaction of a discrete harmonic oscillator with a continuous bath of harmonic oscillators. This system is a standard model of dissipation in macroscopic low temperature physics, and has applications to superconductors, quantum computing, and macroscopic quantum tunneling. The similarities between the Caldeira-Leggett model and the linearized Vlasov-Poisson equation are analyzed, and it is shown that the damping in the Caldeira-Leggett model is analogous to that of Landau damping in plasmas [1]. An invertible linear transformation [2, 3] is presented that converts solutions of the Caldeira-Leggett model into solutions of the linearized Vlasov-Poisson system.

id: 1008.5191
title: Entanglement from Charge Statistics: Exact Relations for Many-Body Systems
authors: H. Francis Song, Christian Flindt, Stephan Rachel, Israel Klich, Karyn Le Hur
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 161408(R) (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5191
abstract: We present exact formulas for the entanglement and R\'{e}nyi entropies generated at a quantum point contact (QPC) in terms of the statistics of charge fluctuations, which we illustrate with examples from both equilibrium and non-equilibrium transport. The formulas are also applicable to groundstate entanglement in systems described by non-interacting fermions in any dimension, which in one dimension includes the critical spin-1/2 XX and Ising models where conformal field theory predictions for the entanglement and R\'{e}nyi entropies are reproduced from the full counting statistics. These results may play a crucial role in the experimental detection of many-body entanglement in mesoscopic structures and cold atoms in optical lattices.

id: 1008.5192
title: Does Quantum Mechanics Clash with the Equivalence Principle - and Does it Matter?
authors: Elias Okon, Craig Callender
comments: 12 pages
journal: Euro Jnl Phil Sci (2011) 1:133
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5192
abstract: With an eye on developing a quantum theory of gravity, many physicists have recently searched for quantum challenges to the equivalence principle of general relativity. However, as historians and philosophers of science are well aware, the principle of equivalence is not so clear. When clarified, we think quantum tests of the equivalence principle won't yield much. The problem is that the clash/not-clash is either already evident or guaranteed not to exist. Nonetheless, this work does help teach us what it means for a theory to be geometric.

id: 1008.5194
title: Plasma Analogy and Non-Abelian Statistics for Ising-type Quantum Hall States
authors: Parsa Bonderson, Victor Gurarie, Chetan Nayak
comments: 68 pages, 3 figures; v2: substantial revisions and additions for clarity, minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 075303 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5194
abstract: We study the non-Abelian statistics of quasiparticles in the Ising-type quantum Hall states which are likely candidates to explain the observed Hall conductivity plateaus in the second Landau level, most notably the one at filling fraction nu=5/2. We complete the program started in Nucl. Phys. B 506, 685 (1997) and show that the degenerate four-quasihole and six-quasihole wavefunctions of the Moore-Read Pfaffian state are orthogonal with equal constant norms in the basis given by conformal blocks in a c=1+1/2 conformal field theory. As a consequence, this proves that the non-Abelian statistics of the excitations in this state are given by the explicit analytic continuation of these wavefunctions. Our proof is based on a plasma analogy derived from the Coulomb gas construction of Ising model correlation functions involving both order and (at most two) disorder operators. We show how this computation also determines the non-Abelian statistics of collections of more than six quasiholes and give an explicit expression for the corresponding conformal block-derived wavefunctions for an arbitrary number of quasiholes. Our method also applies to the anti-Pfaffian wavefunction and to Bonderson-Slingerland hierarchy states constructed over the Moore-Read and anti-Pfaffian states.

id: 1008.5221
title: A Dynamical System with Q-deformed Phase Space Represented in Ordinary Variable Spaces
authors: S. Naka, H. Toyoda, T. Takanashi
comments: 17page, 2 figures
journal: Prog.Theor.Phys.124:1019-1035,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5221
abstract: Dynamical systems associated with a q-deformed two dimensional phase space are studied as effective dynamical systems described by ordinary variables. In quantum theory, the momentum operator in such a deformed phase space becomes a difference operator instead of the differential operator. Then, using the path integral representation for such a dynamical system, we derive an effective short-time action, which contains interaction terms even for a free particle with q-deformed phase space. Analysis is also made on the eigenvalue problem for a particle with q-deformed phase space confined in a compact space. Under some boundary conditions of the compact space, there arises fairly different structures from $q=1$ case in the energy spectrum of the particle and in the corresponding eigenspace .

id: 1008.5289
title: Entanglement Spectrum and Entanglement Thermodynamics of Quantum Hall Bilayers at nu=1
authors: John Schliemann
comments: New findings in Eqs.(5)-(8) and pertaining discussion, and addendum to the title, version as published
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 115322 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5289
abstract: We study the entanglement spectra of bilayer quantum Hall systems at total filling factor nu=1. In the interlayer-coherent phase at layer separations smaller than a critical value, the entanglement spectra show a striking similarity to the energy spectra of the corresponding monolayer systems around half filling. The transition to the incoherent phase can be followed in terms of low-lying entanglement levels. Finally, we describe the connection between those two types of spectra in terms of an effective temperature leading to relations for the entanglement entropy which are in full analogy to canonical thermodynamics.

id: 1008.5333
title: Projective flatness in the quantisation of bosons and fermions
authors: Siye Wu
comments: 20 pages, typo and other minor corrections made
journal: 
subjects: Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5333
abstract: We compare the quantisation of linear systems of bosons and fermions. We recall the appearance of projectively flat connection and results on parallel transport in the quantisation of bosons. We then discuss pre-quantisation and quantisation of fermions using the calculus of fermionic variables. We then define a natural connection on the bundle of Hilbert spaces and show that it is projectively flat. This identifies, up to a phase, equivalent spinor representations constructed by various polarisations. We introduce the concept of metaplectic correction for fermions and show that the bundle of corrected Hilbert spaces is naturally flat. We then show that the parallel transport in the bundle of Hilbert spaces along a geodesic is the rescaled projection or the Bogoliubov transformation provided that the geodesic lies within the complement of a cut locus. Finally, we study the bundle of Hilbert spaces when there is a symmetry.

id: 1008.5365
title: Layered Quantum Hall Insulators with Ultracold Atoms
authors: A. Zamora, G. Szirmai, M. Lewenstein
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053620 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5365
abstract: We consider a generalization of the 2-dimensional (2D) quantum-Hall insulator to a non-compact, non-Abelian gauge group, the Heisenberg-Weyl group. We show that this kind of insulator is actually a layered 3D insulator with nontrivial topology. We further show that nontrivial combinations of quantized transverse conductivities can be engineered with the help of a staggered potential. We investigate the robustness and topological nature of this conductivity and connect it to the surface modes of the system. We also propose a simple experimental realization with ultracold atoms in 3D confined to a 2D square lattice with the third dimension being mapped to a gauge coordinate.

id: 1008.5378
title: Artificial gauge potentials for neutral atoms
authors: Jean Dalibard, Fabrice Gerbier, Gediminas Juzeli¨±nas, Patrik ?hberg
comments: Accepted for publication in Reviews of Modern Physics (Colloquium)
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 83, 1523 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5378
abstract: When a neutral atom moves in a properly designed laser field, its center-of-mass motion may mimic the dynamics of a charged particle in a magnetic field, with the emergence of a Lorentz-like force. In this Colloquium we present the physical principles at the basis of this artificial (synthetic) magnetism and relate the corresponding Aharonov-Bohm phase to the Berry's phase that emerges when the atom follows adiabatically one of its dressed states. We also discuss some manifestations of artificial magnetism for a cold quantum gas, in particular in terms of vortex nucleation. We then generalise our analysis to the simulation of non-Abelian gauge potentials and present some striking consequences, such as the emergence of an effective spin-orbit coupling. We address both the case of bulk gases and discrete systems, where atoms are trapped in an optical lattice.

id: 1008.2382
title: Electron spin decoherence in isotope-enriched silicon
authors: Wayne M. Witzel, Malcolm S. Carroll, Andrea Morello, Lukasz Cywinski, S. Das Sarma
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 187602 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2382
abstract: Silicon is promising for spin-based quantum computation because nuclear spins, a source of magnetic noise, may be eliminated through isotopic enrichment. Long spin decoherence times, $T_2$, have been measured in isotope-enriched silicon but come far short of the $T_2 = 2 T_1$ limit. The effect of nuclear spins on $T_2$ is well established. However, the effect of background electron spins from ever present residual phosphorus impurities in silicon can also produce significant decoherence. We study spin decoherence decay as a function of donor concentration, $^{29}$Si concentration, and temperature using cluster expansion techniques specifically adapted to the problem of a sparse dipolarly coupled electron spin bath. Our results agree with the existing experimental spin echo data in Si:P and establish the importance of background dopants as the ultimate decoherence mechanism in isotope-enriched silicon.

id: 1008.4269
title: Chiral super-Tremblay-Turbiner-Winternitz Hamiltonians and their dynamical superalgebra
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 14 pages, no figure, published version
journal: J.Phys.A43:495203,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.4269
abstract: The family of Tremblay-Turbiner-Winternitz (TTW) Hamiltonians $H_k$ on a plane, corresponding to any positive real value of $k$, is shown to admit another ${\cal N} = 2$ supersymmetric extension than that previously introduced by the present author. This new extension is of the same kind as that considered by D'Hoker and Vinet in the study of magnetic monopoles and is characterized by the fact that all the irreducible representations of the corresponding ${\rm osp}(2/2, \R)$ dynamical superalgebra are atypical lowest-weight state ones. The new supersymmetric Hamiltonians may be referred to as chiral super-TTW Hamiltonians, the role of chirality being played here by the fermion number parity operator.

id: 1008.0052
title: On the Ambainis-Bach-Nayak-Vishwanath-Watrous Conjecture
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: 9 Pages, Accepted to appear in the Far East Journal of Applied Mathematics
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.0052
abstract: We show the flaw in a theorem of Konno, Namiki, Soshi, and Sudbury in [3] and provide the necessary correction in the case of the Finite Hadamard walk and use it to show that a conjecture of Ambainis, Bach, Nayak, Vishwanath, and Watrous in [1] is false.

id: 1008.3935
title: Noise-enhanced trapping in chaotic scattering
authors: Eduardo G. Altmann, Antonio Endler
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 205, 244102 (2010)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.3935
abstract: We show that noise enhances the trapping of trajectories in scattering systems. In fully chaotic systems, the decay rate can decrease with increasing noise due to a generic mismatch between the noiseless escape rate and the value predicted by the Liouville measure of the exit set. In Hamiltonian systems with mixed phase space we show that noise leads to a slower algebraic decay due to trajectories performing a random walk inside Kolmogorov-Arnold-Moser islands. We argue that these noise-enhanced trapping mechanisms exist in most scattering systems and are likely to be dominant for small noise intensities, which is confirmed through a detailed investigation in the Henon map. Our results can be tested in fluid experiments, affect the fractal Weyl's law of quantum systems, and modify the estimations of chemical reaction rates based on phase-space transition state theory.

id: 1008.5156
title: PT-symmetry breaking and laser-absorber modes in optical scattering systems
authors: Y. D. Chong, Li Ge, A. Douglas Stone
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 093902 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.5156
abstract: Using a scattering matrix formalism, we derive the general scattering properties of optical structures that are symmetric under a combination of parity and time-reversal (PT). We demonstrate the existence of a transition beween PT-symmetric scattering eigenstates, which are norm-preserving, and symmetry-broken pairs of eigenstates exhibiting net amplification and loss. The system proposed by Longhi, which can act simultaneously as a laser and coherent perfect absorber, occurs at discrete points in the broken symmetry phase, when a pole and zero of the S-matrix coincide.

id: 1008.2216
title: Correlated few-photon transport in one-dimensional waveguides: linear and nonlinear dispersions
authors: Dibyendu Roy
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, revised version, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 043823 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1008.2216
abstract: We address correlated few-photon transport in one-dimensional waveguides coupled to a two-level system (TLS), such as an atom or a quantum dot. We derive exactly the single-photon and two-photon current (transmission) for linear and nonlinear (tight-binding sinusoidal) energy-momentum dispersion relations of photons in the waveguides and compare the results for the different dispersions. A large enhancement of the two-photon current for the sinusoidal dispersion has been seen at a certain transition energy of the TLS away from the single-photon resonances.

