id: 1009.0032
title: Optical properties of the nitrogen-vacancy singlet levels in diamond
authors: V. M. Acosta, A. Jarmola, E. Bauch, D. Budker
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 201202(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0032
abstract: We report measurements of the optical properties of the 1042 nm transition of negatively-charged Nitrogen-Vacancy (NV) centers in type 1b diamond. The results indicate that the upper level of this transition couples to the m_s=+/-1 sublevels of the {^3}E excited state and is short-lived, with a lifetime <~ 1 ns. The lower level is shown to have a temperature-dependent lifetime of 462(10) ns at 4.4 K and 219(3) ns at 295 K. The light-polarization dependence of 1042 nm absorption confirms that the transition is between orbitals of A_1 and E character. The results shed new light on the NV level structure and optical pumping mechanism.

id: 1009.0036
title: A cryogenic surface-electrode elliptical ion trap for quantum simulation
authors: Robert J. Clark, Ziliang Lin, Kenan S. Diab, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0036
abstract: Two-dimensional crystals of trapped ions are a promising system with which to implement quantum simulations of challenging problems such as spin frustration. Here, we present a design for a surface-electrode elliptical ion trap which produces a 2-D ion crystal and is amenable to microfabrication, which would enable higher simulated coupling rates, as well as interactions based on magnetic forces generated by on-chip currents. Working in an 11 K cryogenic environment, we experimentally verify to within 5% a numerical model of the structure of ion crystals in the trap. We also explore the possibility of implementing quantum simulation using magnetic forces, and calculate J-coupling rates on the order of 10^3 / s for an ion crystal height of 10 microns, using a current of 1 A.

id: 1009.0042
title: Storage of Quantum Coherences as Phase Labeled Local Polarization in Solid State NMR
authors: Mar¨ªa Bel¨¦n Franzoni, Rodolfo H. Acosta, Horacio M. Pastawski, Patricia R. Levstein
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures Accepted for publication in the upcoming theme issue of Philosophical Transactions A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0042
abstract: Nuclear spins are promising candidates for quantum information processing because their good isolation from the environment precludes the rapid loss of quantum coherence. Many strategies have been developed to further extend their decoherence times. Some of them make use of decoupling techniques based on the Carr-Purcell and Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill pulse sequences. In many cases, when applied to inhomogeneous samples, they yield a magnetization decay much slower than the Hahn echo. However, we have proved that these decays cannot be associated with longer decoherence times as coherences remain frozen. They result from coherences recovered after their storage as local polarization and thus they can be used as memories. We show here how this freezing of the coherent state, which can subsequently be recovered after times longer than the natural decoherence time of the system, can be generated in a controlled way with the use of field gradients. A similar behaviour of homogeneous samples in inhomogeneous fields are demonstrated. It is emphasized that the effects of inhomogeneities in solid state NMR, independently of their origin, should not be disregarded as they play a crucial role in multipulse sequences.

id: 1009.0044
title: Improved Loss-Tolerant Quantum Coin Flipping
authors: Andr¨¦ Chailloux
comments: v3 13pages, minor typos fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0044
abstract: In this paper, we present a loss-tolerant quantum strong coin flipping protocol with bias 0.359. This is an improvement over Berlin etal's protocol [BBBG08] which achieves a bias of 0.4. To achieve this, we extend Berlin et al.'s protocol by adding an encryption step that hides some information to Bob until he confirms that he successfully measured. We also show using numerical analysis that a we cannot improve this bias by considering a k-fold repetition of Berlin etal's protocol for k > 2.

id: 1009.0055
title: Ultralong Efficient Photon Storage Using Optical Locking
authors: Byoung S. Ham
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0055
abstract: For the last decade quantum memories have been intensively studied for potential applications to quantum information and communications using atomic and ionic ensembles. With the importance of a multimode storage capability in quantum memories, on-demand control of reversible inhomogeneous broadening of an optical medium has been broadly investigated recently. However, the photon storage time in these researches is still too short to apply for long-distance quantum communications. In this paper, we demonstrate new physics of spin population decay dependent ultralong photon storage method, where spin population decay time is several orders of magnitude longer than the conventional constraint of spin phase decay time.

id: 1009.0095
title: Stark-tuned F?rster resonance and dipole blockade for two to five cold Rydberg atoms: Monte Carlo simulations for various spatial configurations
authors: I.I.Ryabtsev, D.B.Tretyakov, I.I.Beterov, V.M.Entin, E.A.Yakshina
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 2010, v.82, p.053409
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0095
abstract: Results of numerical Monte Carlo simulations for the Stark-tuned F\"orster resonance and dipole blockade between two to five cold rubidium Rydberg atoms in various spatial configurations are presented. The effects of the atoms' spatial uncertainties on the resonance amplitude and spectra are investigated. The feasibility of observing coherent Rabi-like population oscillations at a F\"orster resonance between two cold Rydberg atoms is analyzed. Spectra and the fidelity of the Rydberg dipole blockade are calculated for various experimental conditions, including nonzero detuning from the F\"orster resonance and finite laser linewidth. The results are discussed in the context of quantum-information processing with Rydberg atoms.

id: 1009.0116
title: The RCCN criterion of separability for states in infinite-dimensional quantum systems
authors: Yu Guo, Jinchuan Hou
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0116
abstract: In this paper, the realignment criterion and the RCCN criterion of separability for states in infinite-dimensional bipartite quantum systems are established. Let $H_A$ and $H_B$ be complex Hilbert spaces with $\dim H_A\otimes H_B=+\infty$. Let $\rho$ be a state on $H_A\otimes H_B$ and $\{\delta_k\}$ be the Schmidt coefficients of $\rho$ as a vector in the Hilbert space ${\mathcal C}_2(H_A)\otimes{\mathcal C}_2(H_B)$. We introduce the realignment operation $\rho^R$ and the computable cross norm $\|\rho\|_{\rm CCN}$ of $\rho$ and show that, if $\rho$ is separable, then $\|\rho^{R}\|_{\rm Tr}=\|\rho\|_{\rm CCN}=\sum\limits_k\delta_k\leq1.$ In particular, if $\rho$ is a pure state, then $\rho$ is separable if and only if $\|\rho^{R}\|_{\rm Tr}=\|\rho\|_{\rm CCN}=\sum\limits_k\delta_k=1$.

id: 1009.0160
title: Field-induced decay of quantum vacuum: visualizing pair production in a classical photonic system
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 022118 1-9 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0160
abstract: The phenomenon of vacuum decay, i.e. electron-positron pair production due to the instability of the quantum electrodynamics vacuum in an external field, is a remarkable prediction of Dirac theory whose experimental observation is still lacking. Here a classic wave optics analogue of vacuum decay, based on light propagation in curved waveguide superlattices, is proposed. Our photonic analogue enables a simple and experimentally-accessible visualization in space of the process of pair production as break up of an initially negative-energy Gaussian wave packet, representing an electron in the Dirac sea, under the influence of an oscillating electric field.

id: 1009.0200
title: Interference Phenomena in Quantum Information
authors: Martin Stefanak
comments: Thesis defended at the Faculty of Nuclear Sciences and Physical Engineering, Czech Technical University in Prague, in June 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0200
abstract: One of the key features of quantum mechanics is the interference of probability amplitudes. The reason for the appearance of interference is mathematically very simple. It is the linear structure of the Hilbert space which is used for the description of quantum systems. In terms of physics we usually talk about the superposition principle valid for individual and composed quantum objects. So, while the source of interference is understandable it leads in fact to many counter-intuitive physical phenomena which puzzle physicists for almost hundred years. The present thesis studies interference in two seemingly disjoint fields of physics. However, both have strong links to quantum information processing and hence are related. In the first part we study the intriguing properties of quantum walks. In the second part we analyze a sophisticated application of wave packet dynamics in atoms and molecules for factorization of integers. The main body of the thesis is based on the original contributions listed separately at the end of the thesis. The more technical aspects and brief summaries of used methods are left for appendices.

id: 1009.0250
title: Remarks on the Solution of the Position Dependent Mass (PDM) Schr?dinger Equation
authors: Ramazan Koc, Seda Sayin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0250
abstract: An approximate method is proposed to solve position dependent mass Schr\"odinger equation. The procedure suggested here leads to the solution of the PDM Schr\"odinger equation without transforming the potential function to the mass space or vice verse. The method based on asymptotic Taylor expansion of the function, produces an approximate analytical expression for eigenfunction and numerical results for eigenvalues of the PDM Schr\"odinger equation. The results show that PDM and constant mass Schr\"odinger equations are not isospectral. The calculations are carried out with the aid of a computer system of symbolic or numerical calculation by constructing a simple algorithm.

id: 1009.0293
title: Local unitary equivalence and distinguishability of arbitrary multipartite pure states
authors: Adam Sawicki, Marek Ku?
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0293
abstract: We give an universal algorithm for testing the local unitary equivalence of states for multipartite system with arbitrary dimensions.

id: 1009.0322
title: Foundations of quantum mechanics: decoherence and interpretation
authors: Olimpia Lombardi, Juan Sebasti¨¢n Ardenghi, Sebastian Fortin, Martin Narvaja
comments: 18 pages, no figures
journal: IJMPD, Volume 20, Issue 5 (2011) 861-875
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0322
abstract: In this paper we review Castagnino's contributions to the foundations of quantum mechanics. First, we recall his work on quantum decoherence in closed systems, and the proposal of a general framework for decoherence from which the phenomenon acquires a conceptually clear meaning. Then, we introduce his contribution to the hard field of the interpretation of quantum mechanics: the modal-Hamiltonian interpretation solves many of the interpretive problems of the theory, and manifests its physical relevance in its application to many traditional models of the practice of physics. In the third part of this work we describe the ontological picture of the quantum world that emerges from the modal-Hamiltonian interpretation, stressing the philosophical step toward a deep understanding of the reference of the theory.

id: 1009.0399
title: Protecting unknown two-qubit entangled states by nesting Uhrig's dynamical decoupling sequences
authors: Musawwadah Mukhtar, Wee Tee Soh, Thuan Beng Saw, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052338 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0399
abstract: Future quantum technologies rely heavily on good protection of quantum entanglement against environment-induced decoherence. A recent study showed that an extension of Uhrig's dynamical decoupling (UDD) sequence can (in theory) lock an arbitrary but known two-qubit entangled state to the $N$th order using a sequence of $N$ control pulses [Mukhtar et al., Phys. Rev. A 81, 012331 (2010)]. By nesting three layers of explicitly constructed UDD sequences, here we first consider the protection of unknown two-qubit states as superposition of two known basis states, without making assumptions of the system-environment coupling. It is found that the obtained decoherence suppression can be highly sensitive to the ordering of the three UDD layers and can be remarkably effective with the correct ordering. The detailed theoretical results are useful for general understanding of the nature of controlled quantum dynamics under nested UDD. As an extension of our three-layer UDD, it is finally pointed out that a completely unknown two-qubit state can be protected by nesting four layers of UDD sequences. This work indicates that when UDD is applicable (e.g., when environment has a sharp frequency cut-off and when control pulses can be taken as instantaneous pulses), dynamical decoupling using nested UDD sequences is a powerful approach for entanglement protection.

id: 1009.0411
title: Aharonov-Anandan phase in Lipkin-Meskov-Glick model
authors: Da-Bao Yang, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0411
abstract: In the system of several interacting spins, geometric phases have been researched intensively.However, the studies are mainly focused on the adiabatic case (Berry phase), so it is necessary for us to study the non-adiabatic counterpart (Aharonov and Anandan phase). In this paper, we analyze both the non-degenerate and degenerate geometric phase of Lipkin-Meskov-Glick type model, which has many application in Bose-Einstein condensates and entanglement theory. Furthermore, in order to calculate degenerate geometric phases, the Floquet theorem and decomposition of operator are generalized. And the general formula is achieved.

id: 1009.0415
title: Bloch oscillations of Path-Entangled Photons
authors: Yaron Bromberg, Yoav Lahini, Yaron Silberberg
comments: An error in figure 1b of the original manuscript was corrected, and the period $\lambda_B$ was redefined
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 263604 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0415
abstract: We show that when photons in N-particle path entangled |N,0> + |0,N> state undergo Bloch oscillations, they exhibit a periodic transition between spatially bunched and antibunched states. The transition occurs even when the photons are well separated in space. We study the scaling of the bunching-antibunching period, and show it is proportional to 1/N.

id: 1009.0416
title: Quantum Counterfeit Coin Problems
authors: Kazuo Iwama, Harumichi Nishimura, Rudy Raymond, Junichi Teruyama
comments: 18 pages
journal: Theor. Comput. Sci. 456 (2012) 51-64
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0416
abstract: The counterfeit coin problem requires us to find all false coins from a given bunch of coins using a balance scale. We assume that the balance scale gives us only ``balanced'' or ``tilted'' information and that we know the number k of false coins in advance. The balance scale can be modeled by a certain type of oracle and its query complexity is a measure for the cost of weighing algorithms (the number of weighings). In this paper, we study the quantum query complexity for this problem. Let Q(k,N) be the quantum query complexity of finding all k false coins from the N given coins. We show that for any k and N such that k < N/2, Q(k,N)=O(k^{1/4}), contrasting with the classical query complexity, \Omega(k\log(N/k)), that depends on N. So our quantum algorithm achieves a quartic speed-up for this problem. We do not have a matching lower bound, but we show some evidence that the upper bound is tight: any algorithm, including our algorithm, that satisfies certain properties needs \Omega(k^{1/4}) queries.

id: 1009.0441
title: Automatic Hermiticity
authors: Keiichi Nagao, Holger Bech Nielsen
comments: 8 pages, references added, typos etc. corrected, the final version to appear in Prog.Theor.Phys
journal: Prog.Theor.Phys.125:633-640,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0441
abstract: We study a diagonalizable Hamiltonian that is not at first hermitian. Requirement that a measurement shall not change one Hamiltonian eigenstate into another one with a different eigenvalue imposes that an inner product must be defined so as to make the Hamiltonian normal with regard to it. After a long time development with the non-hermitian Hamiltonian, only a subspace of possible states will effectively survive. On this subspace the effect of the anti-hermitian part of the Hamiltonian is suppressed, and the Hamiltonian becomes hermitian. Thus hermiticity emerges automatically, and we have no reason to maintain that at the fundamental level the Hamiltonian should be hermitian. If the Hamiltonian is given in a local form, a conserved probability current density can be constructed with two kinds of wave functions. We also point out a possible misestimation of a past state by extrapolating back in time with the hermitian Hamiltonian. It is a seeming past state, not a true one.

id: 1009.0482
title: Finding structural anomalies in graphs by means of quantum walks
authors: Edgar Feldman, Mark Hillery, Hai-Woong Lee, Daniel Reitzner, Hongjun Zheng, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0482
abstract: We explore the possibility of using quantum walks on graphs to find structural anomalies, such as extra edges or loops, on a graph. We focus our attention on star graphs, whose edges are like spokes coming out of a central hub. If there are $N$ spokes, we show that a quantum walk can find an extra edge connecting two of the spokes or a spoke with a loop on it in $O(\sqrt{N})$ steps. We initially find that if all of the spokes have loops except one, the walk will not find the spoke without a loop, but this can be fixed if we choose the phase with which the particle is reflected from the vertex without the loop. Consequently, quantum walks can, under some circumstances, be used to find structural anomalies in graphs.

id: 1009.0489
title: Quantum Storage of Photonic Entanglement in a Crystal
authors: Christoph Clausen, Imam Usmani, Felix Bussieres, Nicolas Sangouard, Mikael Afzelius, Hugues de Riedmatten, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures + supplementary information; fixed typo in ref. [36]
journal: Nature 469, 508-511 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0489
abstract: Entanglement is the fundamental characteristic of quantum physics. Large experimental efforts are devoted to harness entanglement between various physical systems. In particular, entanglement between light and material systems is interesting due to their prospective roles as "flying" and stationary qubits in future quantum information technologies, such as quantum repeaters and quantum networks. Here we report the first demonstration of entanglement between a photon at telecommunication wavelength and a single collective atomic excitation stored in a crystal. One photon from an energy-time entangled pair is mapped onto a crystal and then released into a well-defined spatial mode after a predetermined storage time. The other photon is at telecommunication wavelength and is sent directly through a 50 m fiber link to an analyzer. Successful transfer of entanglement to the crystal and back is proven by a violation of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality by almost three standard deviations (S=2.64+/-0.23). These results represent an important step towards quantum communication technologies based on solid-state devices. In particular, our resources pave the way for building efficient multiplexed quantum repeaters for long-distance quantum networks.

id: 1009.0490
title: Broadband waveguide quantum memory for entangled photons
authors: Erhan Saglamyurek, Neil Sinclair, Jeongwan Jin, Joshua A. Slater, Daniel Oblak, Felix Bussieres, Mathew George, Raimund Ricken, Wolfgang Sohler, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures; added reference
journal: Nature 469, 512-515 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0490
abstract: The reversible transfer of quantum states of light in and out of matter constitutes an important building block for future applications of quantum communication: it allows synchronizing quantum information, and enables one to build quantum repeaters and quantum networks. Much effort has been devoted worldwide over the past years to develop memories suitable for the storage of quantum states. Of central importance to this task is the preservation of entanglement, a quantum mechanical phenomenon whose counter intuitive properties have occupied philosophers, physicists and computer scientists since the early days of quantum physics. Here we report, for the first time, the reversible transfer of photon-photon entanglement into entanglement between a photon and collective atomic excitation in a solid-state device. Towards this end, we employ a thulium-doped lithium niobate waveguide in conjunction with a photon-echo quantum memory protocol, and increase the spectral acceptance from the current maximum of 100 MHz to 5 GHz. The entanglement-preserving nature of our storage device is assessed by comparing the amount of entanglement contained in the detected photon pairs before and after the reversible transfer, showing, within statistical error, a perfect mapping process. Our integrated, broadband quantum memory complements the family of robust, integrated lithium niobate devices. It renders frequency matching of light with matter interfaces in advanced applications of quantum communication trivial and institutes several key properties in the quest to unleash the full potential of quantum communication.

id: 1009.0492
title: Entropic Inequalities for a Class of Quantum Secret Sharing States
authors: Pradeep Sarvepalli
comments: LaTex, 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042303, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0492
abstract: It is well-known that von Neumann entropy is nonmonotonic unlike Shannon entropy (which is monotonically nondecreasing). Consequently, it is difficult to relate the entropies of the subsystems of a given quantum state. In this paper, we show that if we consider quantum secret sharing states arising from a class of monotone span programs, then we can partially recover the monotonicity of entropy for the so-called unauthorized sets. Furthermore, we can show for these quantum states the entropy of the authorized sets is monotonically nonincreasing.

id: 1009.0535
title: On a possible definition of the moving preferred basis
authors: Mario Castagnino, Sebastian Fortin
comments: 38 pages and 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0535
abstract: There are many formalisms to describe quantum decoherence. However, many of them give a non general and ad hoc definition of "pointer basis" or "moving preferred basis", and this fact is a problem for the decoherence program. In this paper we will consider quantum systems under a general theoretical framework for decoherence and present a tentative very general definition of the moving preferred basis. which is implemented in a well known open system model. The obtained decoherence and the relaxation times are defined and compared with those of this model.

id: 1009.0558
title: Sliding Mode Control of Two-Level Quantum Systems
authors: Daoyi Dong, Ian R. Petersen
comments: 29 pages, 4 figures, accepted by Automatica
journal: Automatica 48 (2012) 725-735
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0558
abstract: This paper proposes a robust control method based on sliding mode design for two-level quantum systems with bounded uncertainties. An eigenstate of the two-level quantum system is identified as a sliding mode. The objective is to design a control law to steer the system's state into the sliding mode domain and then maintain it in that domain when bounded uncertainties exist in the system Hamiltonian. We propose a controller design method using the Lyapunov methodology and periodic projective measurements. In particular, we give conditions for designing such a control law, which can guarantee the desired robustness in the presence of the uncertainties. The sliding mode control method has potential applications to quantum information processing with uncertainties.

id: 1009.0560
title: Phase-space characterization of complexity in quantum many-body dynamics
authors: Vinitha Balachandran, Giuliano Benenti, Giulio Casati, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 82, 046216 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0560
abstract: We propose a phase-space Wigner harmonics entropy measure for many-body quantum dynamical complexity. This measure, which reduces to the well known measure of complexity in classical systems and which is valid for both pure and mixed states in single-particle and many-body systems, takes into account the combined role of chaos and entanglement in the realm of quantum mechanics. The effectiveness of the measure is illustrated in the example of the Ising chain in a homogeneous tilted magnetic field. We provide numerical evidence that the multipartite entanglement generation leads to a linear increase of entropy until saturation in both integrable and chaotic regimes, so that in both cases the number of harmonics of the Wigner function grows exponentially with time. The entropy growth rate can be used to detect quantum phase transitions. The proposed entropy measure can also distinguish between integrable and chaotic many-body dynamics by means of the size of long term fluctuations which become smaller when quantum chaos sets in.

id: 1009.0567
title: High efficiency coherent optical memory with warm rubidium vapour
authors: M. Hosseini, B.M. Sparkes, G. Campbell, P.K. Lam, B.C. Buchler
comments: 
journal: Nat. Commun. 2, 174 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0567
abstract: By harnessing aspects of quantum mechanics, communication and information processing could be radically transformed. Promising forms of quantum information technology include optical quantum cryptographic systems and computing using photons for quantum logic operations. As with current information processing systems, some form of memory will be required. Quantum repeaters, which are required for long distance quantum key distribution, require optical memory as do deterministic logic gates for optical quantum computing. In this paper we present results from a coherent optical memory based on warm rubidium vapour and show 87% efficient recall of light pulses, the highest efficiency measured to date for any coherent optical memory. We also show storage recall of up to 20 pulses from our system. These results show that simple warm atomic vapour systems have clear potential as a platform for quantum memory.

id: 1009.0607
title: Integrated Diamond Optics for Single Photon Detection
authors: P. Siyushev, F. Kaiser, V. Jacques, I. Gerhardt, S. Bischof, H. Fedder, J. Dodson, M. Markham, D. Twitchen, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 97, 241902 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0607
abstract: Optical detection of single defect centers in the solid state is a key element of novel quantum technologies. This includes the generation of single photons and quantum information processing. Unfortunately the brightness of such atomic emitters is limited. Therefore we experimentally demonstrate a novel and simple approach that uses off-the-shelf optical elements. The key component is a solid immersion lens made of diamond, the host material for single color centers. We improve the excitation and detection of single emitters by one order of magnitude, as predicted by theory.

id: 1009.0612
title: On Teleportation in a System of Identical Particles
authors: S.N.Molotkov, S.P.Kulik, S.S.Straupe
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: JETP Letters, Vol. 92 (3), 188, (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0612
abstract: The teleportation of an unknown polarization state of one of the photons in a system of identical particles has been considered. It has been shown that spatial degrees of freedom, which are various directions of the momentum of three photons, are of significant importance for teleportation in the system of identical particles. The inclusion of the spatial degrees of freedom increases the dimension of single-particle state space. In view of this increase, a four-dimensional subspace of two-particle states, which is similar to the state space spanned by the Bell states in a system of two distinguishable qubits, can be separated in the experimental configuration.

id: 1009.0640
title: Atomic Fock states by gradual trap reduction: from sudden to adiabatic limits
authors: D.Sokolovski, M.Pons, A.del Campo, J.G.Muga
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 013402 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0640
abstract: We investigate the possibility to form high fidelity atomic Fock states by gradual reduction of a quasi one dimensional trap containing spin polarized fermions or strongly interacting bosons in the Tonk-Girardeau regime. Making the trap shallower and simultaneously squeezing it can lead to the preparation of an ideal atomic Fock state as one approaches either the sudden or the adiabatic limits. Nonetheless, the fidelity of the resulting state is shown to exhibit a non-monotonic behaviour with the time scale in which the trapping potential is changed.

id: 1009.0648
title: Entanglement in a Time-Dependent Coupled XY Spin Chain in an External Magnetic Field
authors: Gehad Sadiek, Bedoor Alkurtass, Omar Aldossary
comments: 33 pages, 17 figures; v3: Grammar errors and typos corrected, Figure 17(b) updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052337 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0648
abstract: We consider an infinite one dimensional anisotropic XY spin chain with a nearest neighbor time-dependent Heisenberg coupling J(t) between the spins in presence of a time-dependent magnetic field h(t). We discuss a general solution for the system and present an exact solution for particular choice of J and h of practical interest. We investigate the dynamics of entanglement for different degrees of anisotropy of the system and at both zero and finite temperatures. We find that the time evolution of entanglement in the system show non-ergodic and critical behavior at zero and finite temperatures and different degrees of anisotropy. The asymptotic behavior of entanglement at the infinite time limit at zero temperature and constant J and h depends only the parameter lambda=J/h rather than the individual values of J and h for all degrees of anisotropy but changes for nonzero temperature. Furthermore, the asymptotic behavior is very sensitive to the initial values of J and h and for particular choices we may create finite asymptotic entanglement regardless of the final values of J and h. The persistence of quantum effects in the system as it evolves and as the temperature is raised is studied by monitoring the entanglement. We find that the quantum effects dominates within certain regions of the kT-lambda space that vary significantly depending on the degree of the anisotropy of the system. Particularly, the quantum effects in the Ising model case persists in the vicinity of both its critical phase transition point and zero temperature as it evolves in time. Moreover, the interplay between the different system parameters to tune and control the entanglement evolution is explored.

id: 1009.0653
title: Non-Linear Dynamics of Continuously Measured Bose-Einstein Condensates in One-Dimensional Harmonic Traps
authors: T.Yu. Ivanova, M.S. Samoylova, D.A. Ivanov
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0653
abstract: Continuous center-of-mass position measurements performed on an interacting harmonically trapped Bose-gas are considered. Using both semi-analytical mean-field approach and completely quantum numerical technique based on positive P-representation, it is demonstrated that the atomic delocalization due to the measurement back action is smaller for a strongly interacting gas. The numerically calculated second-order correlation functions demonstrate appearance of atomic bunching as a result of the center-of-mass measurement. Though being rather small the bunching is present also for strongly interacting gas which is in contrast with the case of unperturbed gas. The performed analysis allows to speculate that for relatively strong interactions the size of atomic cloud determined with a single snapshot measurement can become smaller than the ground-state cloud size.

id: 1009.0698
title: Deriving Bell's nonlocality from nonlocality at detection
authors: Antoine Suarez
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0698
abstract: It is argued that Bell's nonlocality is a particular case of nonlocality at detection, which appears already in single-particle interference experiments. The unity of nonlocality and local causality is crucial to provide a consistent description of the world.

id: 1009.0770
title: Towards T1-limited magnetic resonance imaging using Rabi beats
authors: H. Fedder, F. Dolde, F. Rempp, T. Wolf, P. Hemmer, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0770
abstract: Two proof-of-principle experiments towards T1-limited magnetic resonance imaging with NV centers in diamond are demonstrated. First, a large number of Rabi oscillations is measured and it is demonstrated that the hyperfine interaction due to the NV's 14N can be extracted from the beating oscillations. Second, the Rabi beats under V-type microwave excitation of the three hyperfine manifolds is studied experimentally and described theoretically.

id: 1009.0771
title: Embezzlement States are Universal for Non-Local Strategies
authors: Mateus de Oliveira Oliveira
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0771
abstract: We prove that the family of embezzlement states defined by van Dam and Hayden [vanDamHayden2002] is universal for both quantum and classical entangled two-prover non-local games with an arbitrary number of rounds. More precisely, we show that for each $\epsilon>0$ and each strategy for a k-round two-prover non-local game which uses a bipartite shared state on 2m qubits and makes the provers win with probability $\omega$, there exists a strategy for the same game which uses an embezzlement state on $2m + 2m/\epsilon$ qubits and makes the provers win with probability $\omega-\sqrt{2\epsilon}$. Since the value of a game can be defined as the limit of the value of a maximal 2m-qubit strategy as m goes to infinity, our result implies that the classes QMIP*_{c,s}[2,k] and MIP*_{c,s}[2,k] remain invariant if we allow the provers to share only embezzlement states, for any completeness value c in [0,1] and any soundness value s < c. Finally we notice that the circuits applied by each prover may be put into a very simple universal form.

id: 1009.0813
title: Statistical dynamics of a non-Abelian anyonic quantum walk
authors: Lauri Lehman, Vaclav Zatloukal, Gavin K. Brennen, Jiannis K. Pachos, Zhenghan Wang
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:230404,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0813
abstract: We study the single particle dynamics of a mobile non-Abelian anyon hopping around many pinned anyons on a surface. The dynamics is modelled by a discrete time quantum walk and the spatial degree of freedom of the mobile anyon becomes entangled with the fusion degrees of freedom of the collective system. Each quantum trajectory makes a closed braid on the world lines of the particles establishing a direct connection between statistical dynamics and quantum link invariants. We find that asymptotically a mobile Ising anyon becomes so entangled with its environment that its statistical dynamics reduces to a classical random walk with linear dispersion in contrast to particles with Abelian statistics which have quadratic dispersion.

id: 1009.0841
title: Efficient polarization qubit transmission assisted by frequency degree of freedom
authors: Xi-Han Li
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 065503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0841
abstract: We present an efficient arbitrary polarization qubit transmission scheme against channel noise by utilizing frequency degree of freedom, which is more stable in transmission surroundings. The information of quantum state is encoded in frequency state during the transmission and transferred to polarization state later. Both the fidelity of quantum state transmitted and the success probability of this scheme are 1 in principle.

id: 1009.0845
title: Canonical form of master equations and characterization of non-Markovianity
authors: Michael J. W. Hall, James D. Cresser, Li Li, Erika Andersson
comments: v2: Significant update, with many new results and one new author. 12 pages; v3: Minor clarifications, to appear in PRA; v4: matches published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 042120 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0845
abstract: Master equations govern the time evolution of a quantum system interacting with an environment, and may be written in a variety of forms. Time-independent or memoryless master equations, in particular, can be cast in the well-known Lindblad form. Any time-local master equation, Markovian or non-Markovian, may in fact also be written in a Lindblad-like form. A diagonalisation procedure results in a unique, and in this sense canonical, representation of the equation, which may be used to fully characterize the non-Markovianity of the time evolution. Recently, several different measures of non-Markovianity have been presented which reflect, to varying degrees, the appearance of negative decoherence rates in the Lindblad-like form of the master equation. We therefore propose using the negative decoherence rates themselves, as they appear in the canonical form of the master equation, to completely characterize non-Markovianity. The advantages of this are especially apparent when more than one decoherence channel is present. We show that a measure proposed by Rivas et al. is a surprisingly simple function of the canonical decoherence rates, and give an example of a master equation that is non-Markovian for all times t>0, but to which nearly all proposed measures are blind. We also give necessary and sufficient conditions for trace distance and volume measures to witness non-Markovianity, in terms of the Bloch damping matrix.

id: 1009.0865
title: The smallest refrigerators can reach maximal efficiency
authors: Paul Skrzypczyk, Nicolas Brunner, Noah Linden, Sandu Popescu
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure. v2: published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 492002 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0865
abstract: We investigate whether size imposes a fundamental constraint on the efficiency of small thermal machines. We analyse in detail a model of a small self-contained refrigerator consisting of three qubits. We show analytically that this system can reach the Carnot efficiency, thus demonstrating that there exists no complementarity between size and efficiency.

id: 1009.0900
title: Comment on "Entanglement of two interacting bosons in a two-dimensional isotropic harmonic trap" [Phys. Lett. A 373 (2009) 3833]
authors: Przemyslaw Koscik
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 374 (2010) 2999-3000
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0900
abstract: The correct form of the Schmidt decomposition of the stationary wave functions for a system of two interacting particles trapped in a two-dimensional harmonic potential is given

id: 1009.0930
title: Singular inverse square potential in arbitrary dimensions with a minimal length: Application to the motion of a dipole in a cosmic string background
authors: Djamil Bouaziz, Michel Bawin
comments: 12 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A78:032110,2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0930
abstract: We solve analytically the Schr\"odinger equation for the N-dimensional inverse square potential in quantum mechanics with a minimal length in terms of Heun's functions. We apply our results to the problem of a dipole in a cosmic string background. We find that a bound state exists only if the angle between the dipole moment and the string is larger than {\pi}/4. We compare our results with recent conflicting conclusions in the literature. The minimal length may be interpreted as a radius of the cosmic string.

id: 1009.0935
title: Hydrogen atom in momentum space with a minimal length
authors: Djamil Bouaziz, Nourredine Ferkous
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:022105,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0935
abstract: A momentum representation treatment of the hydrogen atom problem with a generalized uncertainty relation,which leads to a minimal length ({\Delta}X_{i})_{min}= \hbar \sqrt(3{\beta}+{\beta}'), is presented. We show that the distance squared operator can be factorized in the case {\beta}'=2{\beta}. We analytically solve the s-wave bound-state equation. The leading correction to the energy spectrum caused by the minimal length depends on \sqrt{\beta}. An upper bound for the minimal length is found to be about 10^{-9} fm.

id: 1009.0940
title: Consistent thermodynamics for spin echoes
authors: Charis Anastopoulos, Ntina Savvidou
comments: 15 pages, 2 figs. Changed figures, version to appear in PRE
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 021118 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0940
abstract: Spin-echo experiments are often said to constitute an instant of anti-thermodynamic behavior in a concrete physical system that violates the second law of thermodynamics. We argue that a proper thermodynamic treatment of the effect should take into account the correlations between the spin and translational degrees of freedom of the molecules. To this end, we construct an entropy functional using Boltzmann macrostates that incorporates both spin and translational degrees of freedom. With this definition there is nothing special in the thermodynamics of spin echoes: dephasing corresponds to Hamiltonian evolution and leaves the entropy unchanged; dissipation increases the entropy. In particular, there is no phase of entropy decrease in the echo. We also discuss the definition of macrostates from the underlying quantum theory and we show that the decay of net magnetization provides a faithful measure of entropy change.

id: 1009.0984
title: Dynamical decoupling for a qubit in telegraph-like noises
authors: Ke Chen, Ren-Bao Liu
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 82, 052324 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0984
abstract: Based on the stochastic theory developed by Kubo and Anderson, we present an exact result of the decoherence function of a qubit in telegraph-like noises under dynamical decoupling control. We prove that for telegraph-like noises, the decoherence can be suppressed at most to the third order of the time and the periodic Carr-Purcell-Merboom-Gill sequences are the most efficient scheme in protecting the qubit coherence in the short-time limit.

id: 1009.0995
title: Squeezing Inequalities and Entanglement for Identical Particles
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, U. Marzolino
comments: 13 pages, LaTex
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44, 091001 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0995
abstract: By identifying non-local effects in systems of identical Bosonic qubits through correlations of their commuting observables, we show that entanglement is not necessary to violate certain squeezing inequalities that hold for distinguishable qubits and that spin squeezing may not be necessary to achieve sub-shot noise accuracies in ultra-cold atom interferometry.

id: 1009.1011
title: Generating single-mode behavior in fiber-coupled optical cavities
authors: Jonathan Busch, Almut Beige
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, final version, accepted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 053824 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1011
abstract: We propose to turn two resonant distant cavities effectively into one by coupling them via an optical fiber which is coated with two-level atoms [Franson et al., Phys. Rev. A 70, 062302 (2004)]. The purpose of the atoms is to destructively measure the evanescent electric field of the fiber on a time scale which is long compared to the time it takes a photon to travel from one cavity to the other. Moreover, the boundary conditions imposed by the setup should support a small range of standing waves inside the fiber, including one at the frequency of the cavities. In this way, the fiber provides an additional decay channel for one common cavity field mode but not for the other. If the corresponding decay rate is sufficiently large, this mode decouples effectively from the system dynamics. A single non-local resonator mode is created.

id: 1009.1047
title: Security of quantum key distribution with state-dependent imperfections
authors: Hong-Wei Li, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Zheng-Fu Han, Wan-Su Bao, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 11, No. 11&12 (2011) 0937-0947
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1047
abstract: In practical quantum key distribution (QKD) system, the state preparation and measurement are imperfect comparing with the ideal BB84 protocol, which are always state-dependent in practical realizations. If the state-dependent imperfections can not be regarded as an unitary transformation, it should not be considered as part of quantum channel noise introduced by the eavesdropper, the commonly used secret key rate formula GLLP can not be applied correspondingly. In this paper, the unconditional security of quantum key distribution with state-dependent imperfection has been analyzed by estimating the upper bound of the phase error rate about the quantum channel.

id: 1009.1068
title: Squeezed vacuum reservoir effect for entanglement decay in nonlinear quantum scissors system
authors: A. Kowalewska-Kud?aszyk, W. Leo¨½ski
comments: Accepted for publication in J. Phys.B
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43 (2010) 205503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1068
abstract: We discuss the coupler system of two nonlinear oscillators excited by an external coherent field prepared in a maximally entangled state (Bell-like state). We show that as a result of the coupler interaction of the system with external broadband squeezed vacuum bath, entanglement decay dynamics can be considerably affected. Besides the phenomena of sudden entanglement death and its rebirth, a shortening (or lengthening) of the total disentanglement time {\tau}D can be observed, depending on the squeezing parameters. Moreover, on the example of one of the reborn entanglement cases it is shown that by changing the values of these parameters the maximal values of the negativity for the 3 \otimes 2 system discussed can be tailored.

id: 1009.1077
title: Simultaneous time-optimal control of the inversion of two spin 1/2 particles
authors: E. Assemat, M. Lapert, Y. Zhang, M. Braun, S. J. Glaser, D. Sugny
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 82, 013415 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1077
abstract: We analyze the simultaneous time-optimal control of two-spin systems. The two non coupled spins which differ in the value of their chemical offsets are controlled by the same magnetic fields. Using an appropriate rotating frame, we restrict the study to the case of opposite shifts. We then show that the optimal solution of the inversion problem in a rotating frame is composed of a pulse sequence of maximum intensity and is similar to the optimal solution for inverting only one spin by using a non-resonant control field in the laboratory frame. An example is implemented experimentally using techniques of Nuclear Magnetic Resonance.

id: 1009.1108
title: The optimal unitary dilation for bosonic Gaussian channels
authors: Filippo Caruso, Jens Eisert, Vittorio Giovannetti, Alexander S. Holevo
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022306 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1108
abstract: A generic quantum channel can be represented in terms of a unitary interaction between the information-carrying system and a noisy environment. Here, the minimal number of quantum Gaussian environmental modes required to provide a unitary dilation of a multi-mode bosonic Gaussian channel is analyzed both for mixed and pure environment corresponding to the Stinespring representation. In particular, for the case of pure environment we compute this quantity and present an explicit unitary dilation for arbitrary bosonic Gaussian channel. These results considerably simplify the characterization of these continuous-variable maps and can be applied to address some open issues concerning the transmission of information encoded in bosonic systems.

id: 1009.1109
title: Full Counting Statistics of Stationary Particle Beams
authors: J. Kiukas, A. Ruschhaupt, R. F. Werner
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures. This is an extended version of the previous submission
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1109
abstract: We present a general scheme for treating particle beams as many particle systems. This includes the full counting statistics and the requirements of Bose/Fermi symmetry. In the stationary limit, i.e., for longer and longer beams, the total particle number diverges, and a description in Fock space is no longer possible. We therefore extend the formalism to include stationary beams. These beams exhibit a well-defined "local" counting statistics, by which we mean the full counting statistics of all clicks falling into any given finite interval. We treat in detail a model of a source, creating particles in a fixed state, which then evolve under the free time evolution, and we determine the resulting stationary beam in the far field. In comparison to the one-particle picture we obtain a correction due to Bose/Fermi statistics, which depends on the emission rate. We also consider plane waves as stationary many particle states, and determine the distribution of intervals between successive clicks in such a beam.

id: 1009.1115
title: Information geometry of density matrices and state estimation
authors: Dorje C. Brody
comments: published version
journal: J.Phys.A44:252002,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1115
abstract: Given a pure state vector |x> and a density matrix rho, the function p(x|rho)=<x|rho|x> defines a probability density on the space of pure states parameterised by density matrices. The associated Fisher-Rao information measure is used to define a unitary invariant Riemannian metric on the space of density matrices. An alternative derivation of the metric, based on square-root density matrices and trace norms, is provided. This is applied to the problem of quantum-state estimation. In the simplest case of unitary parameter estimation, new higher-order corrections to the uncertainty relations, applicable to general mixed states, are derived.

id: 1009.1195
title: Entanglement can increase asymptotic rates of zero-error classical communication over classical channels
authors: Debbie Leung, Laura Mancinska, William Matthews, Maris Ozols, Aidan Roy
comments: 14 pages, 2 figure
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 311, 97-111 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1195
abstract: It is known that the number of different classical messages which can be communicated with a single use of a classical channel with zero probability of decoding error can sometimes be increased by using entanglement shared between sender and receiver. It has been an open question to determine whether entanglement can ever increase the zero-error communication rates achievable in the limit of many channel uses. In this paper we show, by explicit examples, that entanglement can indeed increase asymptotic zero-error capacity, even to the extent that it is equal to the normal capacity of the channel. Interestingly, our examples are based on the exceptional simple root systems E7 and E8.

id: 1009.1220
title: An Alternative to Decoherence by Environment and the Appearance of a Classical World
authors: Manfred Requardt
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1220
abstract: We provide an alternative approach to the decoherence-by-environment paradigm in the field of the quantum measurement process and the appearance of a classical world. In contrast to the decoherence approach we argue that the transition from pure states to mixtures and the appearance of macro objects (and macroscopic properties) can be understood without invoking the measurement-like influence of the environment on the pointer-states of the measuring instrument. We show that every generic many-body system contains within the class of microscopic quantum observables a subalgebra of macro observables, the spectrum of which comprises the macroscopic properties of the many-body system. Our analysis is based (among other things) on two ingenious papers by v.Neumann and v.Kampen.

id: 1009.1223
title: Higher-Order-Schmidt-Representations and their Relevance for the Basis-Ambiguity
authors: Manfred Requardt
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1223
abstract: With the help of a useful mathematical tool, the polar decomposition of closed operators, and a simple observation, i.e. the unique relation between tensor-product states and compact operators, we manage to give a compact and coherent account of the various properties of higher-order-Schmidt-representations.

id: 1009.1284
title: Three qubits in a symmetric environment: dissipatively generated asymptotic entanglement
authors: Fabio Benatti, Adam Nagy
comments: 18 pages, accepted to Annals of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1284
abstract: We study the asymptotic entanglement of three identical qubits under the action of a Markovian open system dynamics that does not distinguish them. We show that by adding a completely depolarized qubit to a special class of two qubit states, by letting them reach the asymptotic state and by finally eliminating the added qubit, can provide more entanglement than by direct immersion of the two qubits within the same environment.

id: 1009.1306
title: Limit Theorems for the Discrete-Time Quantum Walk on a Graph with Joined Half Lines
authors: Kota Chisaki, Norio Konno, Etsuo Segawa
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 12, (2012) 0314--0333
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1306
abstract: We consider a discrete-time quantum walk $W_{t,\kappa}$ at time $t$ on a graph with joined half lines $\mathbb{J}_\kappa$, which is composed of $\kappa$ half lines with the same origin. Our analysis is based on a reduction of the walk on a half line. The idea plays an important role to analyze the walks on some class of graphs with \textit{symmetric} initial states. In this paper, we introduce a quantum walk with an enlarged basis and show that $W_{t,\kappa}$ can be reduced to the walk on a half line even if the initial state is \textit{asymmetric}. For $W_{t,\kappa}$, we obtain two types of limit theorems. The first one is an asymptotic behavior of $W_{t,\kappa}$ which corresponds to localization. For some conditions, we find that the asymptotic behavior oscillates. The second one is the weak convergence theorem for $W_{t,\kappa}$. On each half line, $W_{t,\kappa}$ converges to a density function like the case of the one-dimensional lattice with a scaling order of $t$. The results contain the cases of quantum walks starting from the general initial state on a half line with the general coin and homogeneous trees with the Grover coin.

id: 1009.1319
title: NP-hardness of decoding quantum error-correction codes
authors: Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Francois Le Gall
comments: 5 pages, no figure. Final version for publication
journal: Physical Review A 83, 052331 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1319
abstract: Though the theory of quantum error correction is intimately related to the classical coding theory, in particular, one can construct quantum error correction codes (QECCs) from classical codes with the dual containing property, this does not necessarily imply that the computational complexity of decoding QECCs is the same as their classical counterparts. Instead, decoding QECCs can be very much different from decoding classical codes due to the degeneracy property. Intuitively, one expect degeneracy would simplify the decoding since two different errors might not and need not be distinguished in order to correct them. However, we show that general quantum decoding problem is NP-hard regardless of the quantum codes being degenerate or non-degenerate. This finding implies that no considerably fast decoding algorithm exists for the general quantum decoding problems, and suggests the existence of a quantum cryptosystem based on the hardness of decoding QECCs.

id: 1009.1340
title: Perfect state transfer, graph products and equitable partitions
authors: Yang Ge, Benjamin Greenberg, Oscar Perez, Christino Tamon
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 9(3):823-842, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1340
abstract: We describe new constructions of graphs which exhibit perfect state transfer on continuous-time quantum walks. Our constructions are based on variants of the double cones [BCMS09,ANOPRT10,ANOPRT09] and the Cartesian graph products (which includes the n-cube) [CDDEKL05]. Some of our results include: (1) If $G$ is a graph with perfect state transfer at time $t_{G}$, where $t_{G}\Spec(G) \subseteq \ZZ\pi$, and $H$ is a circulant with odd eigenvalues, their weak product $G \times H$ has perfect state transfer. Also, if $H$ is a regular graph with perfect state transfer at time $t_{H}$ and $G$ is a graph where $t_{H}|V_{H}|\Spec(G) \subseteq 2\ZZ\pi$, their lexicographic product $G[H]$ has perfect state transfer. (2) The double cone $\overline{K}_{2} + G$ on any connected graph $G$, has perfect state transfer if the weights of the cone edges are proportional to the Perron eigenvector of $G$. This generalizes results for double cone on regular graphs studied in [BCMS09,ANOPRT10,ANOPRT09]. (3) For an infinite family $\GG$ of regular graphs, there is a circulant connection so the graph $K_{1}+\GG\circ\GG+K_{1}$ has perfect state transfer. In contrast, no perfect state transfer exists if a complete bipartite connection is used (even in the presence of weights) [ANOPRT09]. We also describe a generalization of the path collapsing argument [CCDFGS03,CDDEKL05], which reduces questions about perfect state transfer to simpler (weighted) multigraphs, for graphs with equitable distance partitions.

id: 1009.1350
title: Entanglement dynamics of two qubits under the influence of external kicks and Gaussian pulses
authors: Ferdi Altintas, Resul Eryigit
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 405302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1350
abstract: We have investigated the dynamics of entanglement between two spin-1/2 qubits that are subject to independent kick and Gaussian pulse type external magnetic fields analytically as well as numerically. Dyson time ordering effect on the dynamics is found to be important for the sequence of kicks. We show that "almost-steady" high entanglement can be created between two initially unentangled qubits by using carefully designed kick or pulse sequences.

id: 1009.1357
title: Multi-partite entanglement and quantum phase transition in the one-, two-, and three-dimensional transverse field Ising model
authors: Afshin Montakhab, Ali Asadian
comments: 7 pages, 8 Figures. To appear in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 82, 062313 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1357
abstract: In this paper we consider the quantum phase transition in the Ising model in the presence of a transverse field in one, two and three dimensions from a multi-partite entanglement point of view. Using \emph{exact} numerical solutions, we are able to study such systems up to 25 qubits. The Meyer-Wallach measure of global entanglement is used to study the critical behavior of this model. The transition we consider is between a symmetric GHZ-like state to a paramagnetic product-state. We find that global entanglement serves as a good indicator of quantum phase transition with interesting scaling behavior. We use finite-size scaling to extract the critical point as well as some critical exponents for the one and two dimensional models. Our results indicate that such multi-partite measure of global entanglement shows universal features regardless of dimension $d$. Our results also provides evidence that multi-partite entanglement is better suited for the study of quantum phase transitions than the much studied bi-partite measures.

id: 1009.1403
title: Tunneling under Coherent Control by Sequences of Unitary Pulses
authors: Rajdeep Saha, Victor S. Batista
comments: 24 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1403
abstract: A general coherent control scenario to suppress, or accelerate, tunneling of quantum states decaying into a continuum, is investigated. The method is based on deterministic, or stochastic, sequences of unitary pulses that affect the underlying interference phenomena responsible for quantum dynamics, without inducing decoherence, or collapsing the coherent evolution of the system. The influence of control sequences on the ensuing quantum dynamics is analyzed by using perturbation theory to first order in the control pulse fields and compared to dynamical decoupling (DD) protocols and sequences of pulses that collapse the coherent evolution and induce quantum Zeno (QZE) or quantum anti-Zeno effects (AZE). The analysis reveals a subtle interplay between coherent and incoherent phenomena and demonstrating that dynamics analogous to evolution due to QZE or AZE can be generated from stochastic sequences of unitary pulses when averaged over all possible realizations.

id: 1009.1422
title: Spatial quantum search in a triangular network
authors: G. Abal, R. Donangelo, M. Forets, R. Portugal
comments: 10 pages, 4 Postscript figures, uses sbc-template.sty, appeared in Annals of WECIQ 2010, III Workshop of Quantum Computation and Quantum Information
journal: Mathematical Structures in Computer Science, 22, pp 521-531 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1422
abstract: The spatial search problem consists in minimizing the number of steps required to find a given site in a network, under the restriction that only oracle queries or translations to neighboring sites are allowed. We propose a quantum algorithm for the spatial search problem on a triangular lattice with N sites and torus-like boundary conditions. The proposed algortithm is a special case of the general framework for abstract search proposed by Ambainis, Kempe and Rivosh [AKR05] (AKR) and Tulsi [Tulsi08], applied to a triangular network. The AKR-Tulsi formalism was employed to show that the time complexity of the quantum search on the triangular lattice is O(sqrt(N logN)).

id: 1009.1425
title: Position dependent energy level shifts of an accelerated atom in the presence of a boundary
authors: Zhiying Zhu, Hongwei Yu
comments: 26 pages, 6 figures, version published in PRA
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:042108,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1425
abstract: We consider a uniformly accelerated atom interacting with a vacuum electromagnetic field in the presence of an infinite conducting plane boundary and calculate separately the contributions of vacuum fluctuations and radiation reaction to the atomic energy level shift. We analyze in detail the behavior of the total energy shift in three different regimes of the distance in both the low acceleration and high acceleration limits. Our results show that, in general, an accelerated atom does not behave as if immersed in a thermal bath at the Unruh temperature in terms of the atomic energy level shifts, and the effect of the acceleration on the atomic energy level shifts may in principle become appreciable in certain circumstances, although it may not be realistic for actual experimental measurements. We also examine the effects of the acceleration on the level shifts when the acceleration is of the order of the transition frequency of the atom and we find some features differ from what was obtained in the existing literature.

id: 1009.1445
title: Laser and Microwave Excitations of Rabi Oscillations of a Single Nitrogen-Vacancy Electron Spin in Diamond
authors: Chunyang Tang, Xin Hu, Xinyu Pan
comments: This manuscript was submitted to Physical Review Letters on June 08, 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1445
abstract: A collapse and revival shape of Rabi oscillations of a single Nitrogen-Vacancy (NV) center electron spin has been observed in diamond at room temperature. Because of hyperfine interaction between the host 14N nuclear spin and NV center electron spin, different orientation of the 14N nuclear spin leads to a triplet splitting of the transition between the ground ms=0 and excited states ms=1. Microwave can excite the three transitions equally to induce three independent nutations and the shape of Rabi oscillations is a combination of the three nutations. This result provides an innovative view of electron spin oscillations in diamond.

id: 1009.1469
title: 100 MHz Amplitude and Polarization Modulated Optical Source for Free-Space Quantum Key Distribution at 850 nm
authors: M. Jofre, A. Gardelein, G. Anzolin, G. Molina-Terriza, J. P. Torres, M. W. Mitchell, V. Pruneri
comments: 6 figures, 2 tables
journal: Lightwave Technology, Journal of , vol.28, no.17, pp.2572-2578, Sept.1, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1469
abstract: We report on an integrated photonic transmitter of up to 100 MHz repetition rate, which emits pulses centered at 850 nm with arbitrary amplitude and polarization. The source is suitable for free space quantum key distribution applications. The whole transmitter, with the optical and electronic components integrated, has reduced size and power consumption. In addition, the optoelectronic components forming the transmitter can be space-qualified, making it suitable for satellite and future space missions.

id: 1009.1476
title: Optimal measurements to access classical correlations of two-qubit states
authors: Xiao-Ming Lu, Jian Ma, Zhengjun Xi, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, version accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012327 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1476
abstract: We analyze the optimal measurements accessing classical correlations in arbitrary two-qubit states. Two-qubit states can be transformed into the canonical forms via local unitary operations. For the canonical forms, we investigate the probability distribution of the optimal measurements. The probability distribution of the optimal measurement is found to be centralized in the vicinity of a specific von Neumann measurement, which we call the maximal-correlation-direction measurement (MCDM). We prove that for the states with zero-discord and maximally mixed marginals, the MCDM is the very optimal measurement. Furthermore, we give an upper bound of quantum discord based on the MCDM, and investigate its performance for approximating the quantum discord.

id: 1009.1482
title: Two-boson Correlations in Various One-dimensional Traps
authors: Anna Okopinska, Przemyslaw Koscik
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Few-Body System,Volume 45, Numbers 2-4, 223-226 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1482
abstract: A one-dimensional system of two trapped bosons which interact through a contact potential is studied using the optimized configuration interaction method. The rapid convergence of the method is demonstrated for trapping potentials of convex and non-convex shapes. The energy spectra, as well as natural orbitals and their occupation numbers are determined in function of the inter-boson interaction strength. Entanglement characteristics are discussed in dependence on the shape of the confining potential.

id: 1009.1485
title: Qubit-oscillator system under ultrastrong coupling and extreme driving
authors: Johannes Hausinger, Milena Grifoni
comments: 4+ pages, 5 figures (published version)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 030301(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1485
abstract: We introduce an approach to studying a driven qubit-oscillator system in the ultrastrong coupling regime, where the ratio $g/\Omega$ between coupling strength and oscillator frequency approaches unity or goes beyond, and simultaneously for driving strengths much bigger than the qubit energy splitting (extreme driving). Both qubit-oscillator coupling and external driving lead to a dressing of the qubit tunneling matrix element of different nature: the former can be used to suppress selectively certain oscillator modes in the spectrum, while the latter can bring the qubit's dynamics to a standstill at short times (coherent destruction of tunneling) even in the case of ultrastrong coupling.

id: 1009.1532
title: On the Nature of $a^{*}_{k}a_{k}$ and the Emergence of the Born's Rule
authors: Armando V.D.B. Assis
comments: Author required. Copyright reasons
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1532
abstract: This paper is intended to show that a review in the concept of the game theoretical utility, the revised utility to be applied to the definition of the utility of a wave function representing an object subsystem relative to its observer subsystem, both within an isolated system, leads to the emergence of the Max Born's rule as a profit under a von Neumann's good measure game.

id: 1009.1546
title: The hierarchical structure of local unitary invariants
authors: Graeme Mitchison
comments: Some errors in the background explanation of invariant theory have been corrected, the conclusions simplified, and a more appropriate title chosen
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1546
abstract: Local unitary invariants allow one to test whether multipartite states are equivalent up to local basis changes. Equivalently, they specify the geometry of the "orbit space" obtained by factoring out local unitary action from the state space. This space is of interest because of its intimate relationship to entanglement. Unfortunately, the dimension of the orbit space grows exponentially with the number of subsystems, and the number of invariants needed to characterise orbits grows at least as fast. This makes the study of entanglement via local unitary invariants seem very daunting. I point out here that there is a simplifying principle: Invariants fall into families related by the tracing-out of subsystems, and these families grow exponentially with the number of subsystems. In particular, in the case of pure qubit systems, there is a family whose size is about half the dimension of orbit space. These invariants are closely related to cumulants and to multipartite separability. Members of the family have been repeatedly discovered in the literature, but the fact that they are related to cumulants and constitute a family has apparently not been observed.

id: 1009.1567
title: Secure device-independent quantum key distribution with causally independent measurement devices
authors: Lluis Masanes, Stefano Pironio, Antonio Acin
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures, see also the related work arXiv:1009.1833
journal: Nat. Commun. 2, 238 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1567
abstract: Device-independent quantum key distribution aims to provide key distribution schemes whose security is based on the laws of quantum physics but which does not require any assumptions about the internal working of the quantum devices used in the protocol. This strong form of security, unattainable with standard schemes, is possible only when using correlations that violate a Bell inequality. We provide a general security proof valid for a large class of device-independent quantum key distribution protocols in a model in which the raw key elements are generated by causally independent measurement processes. The validity of this independence condition may be justifiable in a variety of implementations and is necessarily satisfied in a physical realization where the raw key is generated by N separate pairs of devices. Our work shows that device-independent quantum key distribution is possible with key rates comparable to those of standard schemes.

id: 1009.1568
title: Changes in the statistical and quantum features of the cavity radiation of a two-photon coherent beat laser due to phase fluctuation
authors: Sintayehu Tesfa
comments: 8 pages and no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1568
abstract: Detailed derivation of the master equation and the corresponding time evolution of the cavity radiation of a coherent beat laser when the atoms are initially prepared in a partial coherent superposition is presented. It turns out that the quantum features and intensity of the cavity radiation are considerably modified by the phase fluctuation arising due to the practical incapability of preparing atoms in the intended coherent superposition. New terms having an opposite sign with the contribution of the driving radiation emerged in the master equation. This can be taken as an indication for a competing effect between the two in the manifestation of the nonclassical features. This, on the other hand, entails that there is a chance for regaining the quantum properties that might have lost due to faulty preparation by engineering the driving mechanism and vice versa. In light of this, quite remarkably, the cavity radiation is shown to exhibit nonclassical features including two-mode squeezing and entanglement when there is no driving and if the atoms are initially prepared in a partial maximum atomic coherence superposition, contrary to earlier predictions for the case of perfect coherence.

id: 1009.1569
title: New prospects for de Broglie interferometry
authors: Thomas Juffmann, Stefan Nimmrichter, Markus Arndt, Herbert Gleiter, Klaus Hornberger
comments: This paper is dedicated to Daniel Greenberger and Helmut Rauch, two pioneers in explorations of the foundations of quantum physics. 10 pages; 3 figures
journal: Found. Phys. 42, 98 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1569
abstract: We consider various effects that are encountered in matter wave interference experiments with massive nanoparticles. The text-book example of far-field interference at a grating is compared with diffraction into the dark field behind an opaque aperture, commonly designated as Poisson's spot or the spot of Arago. Our estimates indicate that both phenomena may still be observed in a mass range exceeding present-day experiments by at least two orders of magnitude. They both require, however, the development of sufficiently cold, intense and coherent cluster beams. While the observation of Poisson's spot offers the advantage of non-dispersiveness and a simple distinction between classical and quantum fringes in the absence of particle wall interactions, van der Waals forces may severely limit the distinguishability between genuine quantum wave diffraction and classically explicable spots already for moderately polarizable objects and diffraction elements as thin as 100 nm.

id: 1009.1596
title: Achieving the physical limits of the bounded-storage model
authors: Prabha Mandayam, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 10 pages (revtex), 2 figures, v2: published version, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022329 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1596
abstract: Secure two-party cryptography is possible if the adversary's quantum storage device suffers imperfections. For example, security can be achieved if the adversary can store strictly less then half of the qubits transmitted during the protocol. This special case is known as the bounded-storage model, and it has long been an open question whether security can still be achieved if the adversary's storage were any larger. Here, we answer this question positively and demonstrate a two-party protocol which is secure as long as the adversary cannot store even a small fraction of the transmitted pulses. We also show that security can be extended to a larger class of noisy quantum memories.

id: 1009.1609
title: Bright source of spectrally uncorrelated polarization-entangled photons with nearly single-mode emission
authors: P. G. Evans, J. Schaake, R. S. Bennink, W. P. Grice, T. S. Humble
comments: 4 pages, 7 color figures. Revised manuscript includes the following changes: corrected pair generation rate from 44,000/s/mW pump to 123,000/s/mW pump; replaced Fig. 1b to enhance clarity; minor alterations to the title, abstract and introduction; grammatical corrections
journal: Physical Review Letters, Vol. 105, 253601 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1609
abstract: We present results of a bright polarization-entangled photon source operating at 1552 nm via type-II collinear degenerate spontaneous parametric down-conversion in a periodically poled potassium titanyl phosphate crystal. We report a conservative inferred pair generation rate of 123,000 pairs/s/mW into collection modes. Minimization of spectral and spatial entanglement was achieved by group velocity matching the pump, signal and idler modes and through properly focusing the pump beam. By utilizing a pair of calcite beam displacers, we are able to overlap photons from adjacent down-conversion processes to obtain polarization-entanglement visibility of 94.7 +/- 1.1% with accidentals subtracted.

id: 1009.1613
title: Against a proposed alternative explanation of the Aharonov-Bohm effect
authors: Murray Peshkin
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 354031
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1613
abstract: The Aharonov-Bohm effect is understood to demonstrate that the Maxwell fields can act nonlocally in some situations. However it has been suggested from time to time that the AB effect is somehow a consequence of a local classical electromagnetic field phenomenon involving energy that is temporarily stored in the overlap between the external field and the field of which the beam particle is the source. That idea was shown in the past not to work for some models of the source of the external field. Here a more general proof is presented for the magnetic AB effect to show that the overlap energy is always compensated by another contribution to the energy of the magnetic field in such a way that the sum of the two is independent of the external flux. Therefore no such mechanism can underlie the Aharonov-Bohm effect.

id: 1009.1630
title: The thermodynamic meaning of negative entropy
authors: L¨ªdia del Rio, Johan Aberg, Renato Renner, Oscar Dahlsten, Vlatko Vedral
comments: Added clarification on non-cyclic erasure and reversible computation (Appendix E). For a new version of all technical proofs see the Supplementary Information of the journal version (free access)
journal: Nature 474, 61--63 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1630
abstract: Landauer's erasure principle exposes an intrinsic relation between thermodynamics and information theory: the erasure of information stored in a system, S, requires an amount of work proportional to the entropy of that system. This entropy, H(S|O), depends on the information that a given observer, O, has about S, and the work necessary to erase a system may therefore vary for different observers. Here, we consider a general setting where the information held by the observer may be quantum-mechanical, and show that an amount of work proportional to H(S|O) is still sufficient to erase S. Since the entropy H(S|O) can now become negative, erasing a system can result in a net gain of work (and a corresponding cooling of the environment).

id: 1009.1668
title: Optimal Protocols for Nonlocality Distillation
authors: Peter Hoyer, Jibran Rashid
comments: RevTeX4, 6 pages with 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042118 (2010) [6 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1668
abstract: Forster, Winkler, and Wolf recently showed that weak nonlocality can be amplified by giving the first protocol that distills a class of nonlocal boxes (NLBs) [Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 120401 (2009)]. We first show that their protocol is optimal among all non-adaptive protocols. We next consider adaptive protocols. We show that the depth 2 protocol of Allcock et al. [Phys. Rev. A 80, 062107, (2009)] performs better than previously known adaptive depth 2 protocols for all symmetric NLBs. We present a new depth 3 protocol that extends the known region of distillable NLBs. We give examples of NLBs for which each of Forster et al.'s, Allcock et al.'s, and our protocol performs best. The new understanding we develop is that there is no single optimal protocol for NLB distillation. The choice of which protocol to use depends on the noise parameters for the NLB.

id: 1009.1717
title: Reply to the Comment by A.J. Leggett and Anupam Garg
authors: Karl Hess, Kristel Michielsen, Hans De Raedt
comments: Published version with minor corrections
journal: EPL, 91 (2010) 40002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1717
abstract: In their comment[1] on our Letter [arXiv:0907.0767], Leggett and Garg claim that they have introduced in their original paper (LG1) a dependence on measurement times. They also claim that Eqs.(HMDR1) and (LG2a) can therefore not be linked in such a way that the arguments of [arXiv:0907.0767] can be transcribed. However, (LG1) distinguishes only three time differences, and all experimental results corresponding to the same time differences are identically labeled and therefore treated as mathematically identical. We therefore cannot agree with the argumentation of Leggett and Garg: except for a change of nomenclature Eqs.(HMDR1) and (LG2a) are the same. A more extensive discussion of this point can be found in [arXiv:0901.2546].

id: 1009.1720
title: Is there a physically universal cellular automaton or Hamiltonian?
authors: Dominik Janzing
comments: 27 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1720
abstract: It is known that both quantum and classical cellular automata (CA) exist that are computationally universal in the sense that they can simulate, after appropriate initialization, any quantum or classical computation, respectively. Here we introduce a different notion of universality: a CA is called physically universal if every transformation on any finite region can be (approximately) implemented by the autonomous time evolution of the system after the complement of the region has been initialized in an appropriate way. We pose the question of whether physically universal CAs exist. Such CAs would provide a model of the world where the boundary between a physical system and its controller can be consistently shifted, in analogy to the Heisenberg cut for the quantum measurement problem. We propose to study the thermodynamic cost of computation and control within such a model because implementing a cyclic process on a microsystem may require a non-cyclic process for its controller, whereas implementing a cyclic process on system and controller may require the implementation of a non-cyclic process on a "meta"-controller, and so on. Physically universal CAs avoid this infinite hierarchy of controllers and the cost of implementing cycles on a subsystem can be described by mixing properties of the CA dynamics. We define a physical prior on the CA configurations by applying the dynamics to an initial state where half of the CA is in the maximum entropy state and half of it is in the all-zero state (thus reflecting the fact that life requires non-equilibrium states like the boundary between a hold and a cold reservoir). As opposed to Solomonoff's prior, our prior does not only account for the Kolmogorov complexity but also for the cost of isolating the system during the state preparation if the preparation process is not robust.

id: 1009.1744
title: On the consistency of the quantum-like representation algorithm for hyperbolic interference
authors: Peter Nyman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1744
abstract: Recently quantum-like representation algorithm (QLRA) was introduced by A. Khrennikov [20]--[28] to solve the so-called "inverse Born's rule problem": to construct a representation of probabilistic data by a complex or more general (in particular, hyperbolic) probability amplitude which matches Born's rule or its generalizations. The outcome from QLRA is coupled to the formula of total probability with an additional term corresponding to trigonometric, hyperbolic or hyper-trigonometric interference. The consistency of QLRA for probabilistic data corresponding to trigonometric interference was recently proved [29]. We now complete the proof of the consistency of QLRA to cover hyperbolic interference as well. We will also discuss hyper trigonometric interference. The problem of consistency of QLRA arises, because formally the output of QLRA depends on the order of conditioning. For two observables (e.g., physical or biological) a and b, b|a- and a|b- conditional probabilities produce two representations, say in Hilbert spaces H^{b| a} and H^{a|b} (in this paper over the hyperbolic algebra). We prove that under "natural assumptions" these two representations are unitary equivalent (in the sense of hyperbolic Hilbert space).

id: 1009.1749
title: Temporal Leggett-Garg-Bell inequalities for sequential multi-time actions in quantum information processing, and a re-definition of Macroscopic Realism
authors: Marek Zukowski
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1749
abstract: The usual formulation of Macrorealism is recast to make this notion fully concurrent with the basic ideas behind classical physics. The assumption of non-invasiveness of measurements is dropped. Instead, it is assumed that the current state of the system defines full initial conditions for its subsequent evolution. An example of a new family of temporal Bell inequalities is derived which can be applied to processes in which the state of the system undergoes arbitrarily many transformations (which was not the case in the original approach). An exponential (in terms of number of operations) violation of this inequality is demonstrated theoretically. Finally it is shown that such inequalities were indirectly tested in a 2005 experiment by the Weinfurter group.

id: 1009.1750
title: Evaluation of ground state entanglement in spin systems with the random phase approximation
authors: J.M. Matera, R. Rossignoli, N. Canosa
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 82, 052332 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1750
abstract: We discuss a general treatment based on the mean field plus random phase approximation (RPA) for the evaluation of subsystem entropies and negativities in ground states of spin systems. The approach leads to a tractable general method, becoming straightforward in translationally invariant arrays. The method is examined in arrays of arbitrary spin with $XYZ$ couplings of general range in a uniform transverse field, where the RPA around both the normal and parity breaking mean field state, together with parity restoration effects, are discussed in detail. In the case of a uniformly connected $XYZ$ array of arbitrary size, the method is shown to provide simple analytic expressions for the entanglement entropy of any global bipartition, as well as for the negativity between any two subsystems, which become exact for large spin. The limit case of a spin $s$ pair is also discussed.

id: 1009.1810
title: Limits on Preserving Quantum Coherence using Multi-Pulse Control
authors: Kaveh Khodjasteh, Tam¨¢s Erd¨¦lyi, Lorenza Viola
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. Updated to match the journal version, including the EPAPS
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 020305(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1810
abstract: We explore the physical limits of pulsed dynamical decoupling methods for decoherence control as determined by finite timing resources. By focusing on a decohering qubit controlled by arbitrary sequences of $\pi$-pulses, we establish a non-perturbative quantitative upper bound to the achievable coherence for specified maximum pulsing rate and noise spectral bandwidth. We introduce numerically optimized control "bandwidth-adapted" sequences that saturate the performance bound, and show how they outperform existing sequences in a realistic excitonic-qubit system where timing constraints are significant. As a byproduct, our analysis reinforces the impossibility of fault-tolerance accuracy thresholds for generic open quantum systems under purely reversible error control.

id: 1009.1833
title: Device-Independent Quantum Key Distribution with Commuting Measurements
authors: Esther H?nggi, Renato Renner
comments: 26 pages. See also the related work arXiv:1009.1567
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1833
abstract: We consider quantum key distribution in the device-independent scenario, i.e., where the legitimate parties do not know (or trust) the exact specification of their apparatus. We show how secure key distribution can be realized against the most general attacks by a quantum adversary under the condition that measurements on different subsystems by the honest parties commute.

id: 1009.1844
title: Quantum Interference between a Single-Photon Fock State and a Coherent State
authors: Armin Windhager, Martin Suda, Christoph Pacher, Momtchil Peev, Andreas Poppe
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Optics Communications 284 (2011) 1907-1912
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1844
abstract: We derive analytical expressions for the single mode quantum field state at the individual output ports of a beam splitter when a single-photon Fock state and a coherent state are incident on the input ports. The output states turn out to be a statistical mixture between a displaced Fock state and a coherent state. Consequently we are able to find an analytical expression for the corresponding Wigner function. Because of the generality of our calculations the obtained results are valid for all passive and lossless optical four port devices. We show further how the results can be adapted to the case of the Mach-Zehnder interferometer. In addition we consider the case for which the single-photon Fock state is replaced with a general input state: a coherent input state displaces each general quantum state at the output port of a beam splitter with the displacement parameter being the amplitude of the coherent state.

id: 1009.1918
title: s-wave scattering and the zero-range limit of the finite square well in arbitrary dimensions
authors: Aaron Farrell, Brandon P. van Zyl
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1918
abstract: We examine the zero-range limit of the finite square well in arbitrary dimensions through a systematic analysis of the reduced, s-wave two-body time-independent Schr\"odinger equation. A natural consequence of our investigation is the requirement of a delta-function multiplied by a regularization operator to model the zero-range limit of the finite-square well when the dimensionality is greater than one. The case of two dimensions turns out to be surprisingly subtle, and needs to be treated separately from all other dimensions.

id: 1009.2007
title: Complementarity in categorical quantum mechanics
authors: Chris Heunen
comments: 17 pages
journal: Foundations of Physics 42(7): 856--873, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2007
abstract: We relate notions of complementarity in three layers of quantum mechanics: (i) von Neumann algebras, (ii) Hilbert spaces, and (iii) orthomodular lattices. Taking a more general categorical perspective of which the above are instances, we consider dagger monoidal kernel categories for (ii), so that (i) become (sub)endohomsets and (iii) become subobject lattices. By developing a `point-free' definition of copyability we link (i) commutative von Neumann subalgebras, (ii) classical structures, and (iii) Boolean subalgebras.

id: 1009.2013
title: Efficient Algorithm for Asymptotics-Based Configuration-Interaction Methods and Electronic Structure of Transition Metal Atoms
authors: Christian Mendl, Gero Friesecke
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 133, 184101 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2013
abstract: Asymptotics-based configuration-interaction (CI) methods [G. Friesecke and B. D. Goddard, Multiscale Model. Simul. 7, 1876 (2009)] are a class of CI methods for atoms which reproduce, at fixed finite subspace dimension, the exact Schr\"odinger eigenstates in the limit of fixed electron number and large nuclear charge. Here we develop, implement, and apply to 3d transition metal atoms an efficient and accurate algorithm for asymptotics-based CI. Efficiency gains come from exact (symbolic) decomposition of the CI space into irreducible symmetry subspaces at essentially linear computational cost in the number of radial subshells with fixed angular momentum, use of reduced density matrices in order to avoid having to store wavefunctions, and use of Slater-type orbitals (STO's). The required Coulomb integrals for STO's are evaluated in closed form, with the help of Hankel matrices, Fourier analysis, and residue calculus. Applications to 3d transition metal atoms are in good agreement with experimental data. In particular we reproduce the anomalous magnetic moment and orbital filling of Chromium in the otherwise regular series Ca, Sc, Ti, V, Cr.

id: 1009.2015
title: The Uncertainty Relation for Smooth Entropies
authors: Marco Tomamichel, Renato Renner
comments: Weakened claim concerning semi device-independence in the application to QKD. A full security proof for this setup without any restrictions on the measurement devices can be found in arXiv:1210.4359
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 110506 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2015
abstract: Uncertainty relations give upper bounds on the accuracy by which the outcomes of two incompatible measurements can be predicted. While established uncertainty relations apply to cases where the predictions are based on purely classical data (e.g., a description of the system's state before measurement), an extended relation which remains valid in the presence of quantum information has been proposed recently [Berta et al., Nat. Phys. 6, 659 (2010)]. Here, we generalize this uncertainty relation to one formulated in terms of smooth entropies. Since these entropies measure operational quantities such as extractable secret key length, our uncertainty relation is of immediate practical use. To illustrate this, we show that it directly implies security of a family of quantum key distribution protocols including BB84. Our proof remains valid even if the measurement devices used in the experiment deviate arbitrarily from the theoretical model.

id: 1009.2019
title: Asymptotic evolution of quantum walks with random coin
authors: Andre Ahlbrecht, Holger Vogts, Albert H. Werner, Reinhard F. Werner
comments: 34 pages, 20 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 042201 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2019
abstract: We study the asymptotic position distribution of general quantum walks on a lattice, including walks with a random coin, which is chosen from step to step by a general Markov chain. In the unitary (i.e., non-random) case, we allow any unitary operator, which commutes with translations, and couples only sites at a finite distance from each other. For example, a single step of the walk could be composed of any finite succession of different shift and coin operations in the usual sense, with any lattice dimension and coin dimension. We find ballistic scaling, and establish a direct method for computing the asymptotic distribution of position divided by time, namely as the distribution of the discrete time analog of the group velocity. In the random case, we let a Markov chain (control process) pick in each step one of finitely many unitary walks, in the sense described above. In ballistic order we find a non-random drift, which depends only on the mean of the control process and not on the initial state. In diffusive scaling the limiting distribution is asymptotically Gaussian, with a covariance matrix (diffusion matrix) depending on momentum. The diffusion matrix depends not only on the mean but also on the transition rates of the control process. In the non-random limit, i.e., when the coins chosen are all very close, or the transition rates of the control process are small, leading to long intervals of ballistic evolution, the diffusion matrix diverges. Our method is based on spatial Fourier transforms, and the first and second order perturbation theory of the eigenvalue 1 of the transition operator for each value of the momentum.

id: 1009.2025
title: Ground-state geometric quantum computing in superconducting systems
authors: P. Solinas, J.-M. Pirkkalainen, M. M?tt?nen
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures. Final version with notation and typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052304 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2025
abstract: We present a theoretical proposal for the implementation of geometric quantum computing based on a Hamiltonian which has a doubly degenerate ground state. Thus the system which is steered adiabatically, remains in the ground-state. The proposed physical implementation relies on a superconducting circuit composed of three SQUIDs and two superconducting islands with the charge states encoding the logical states. We obtain a universal set of single-qubit gates and implement a non-trivial two-qubit gate exploiting the mutual inductance between two neighboring circuits, allowing us to realize a fully geometric ground-state quantum computing. The introduced paradigm for the implementation of geometric quantum computing is expected to be robust against environmental effects.

id: 1009.2079
title: Entanglement dynamics via coherent-state propagators
authors: A. D. Ribeiro, R. M. Angelo
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052335 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2079
abstract: The dynamical generation of entanglement in closed bipartite systems is investigated in the semiclassical regime. We consider a model of two particles, initially prepared in a product of coherent states, evolving in time according to a generic Hamiltonian, and derive a formula for the linear entropy of the reduced density matrix using the semiclassical propagator in the coherent-state representation. The formula is explicitly written in terms of quantities that define the stability of classical trajectories of the underlying classical system. The formalism is then applied to the problem of two nonlinearly coupled harmonic oscillators and the result is shown to be in remarkable agreement with the exact quantum measure of entanglement in the short-time regime. An important byproduct of our approach is a unified semiclassical formula which contemplates both the coherent-state propagator and its complex conjugate.

id: 1009.2080
title: Semiclassics around a phase space caustic: an illustration using the Nelson Hamiltonian
authors: A. D. Ribeiro
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375, 812 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2080
abstract: The semiclassical formula for the coherent-state propagator is written in terms of complex classical trajectories of an equivalent classical system. Depending on the parameters involved, more than one trajectory may contribute to the calculation. Eventually, however, two contributing trajectories coalesce, characterizing what is called phase space caustic. In this case, the usual semiclassical formula for the propagator diverges, so that a uniform approximation is required to avoid this singularity. In this paper, we present a non-trivial application illustrating this scenario, and showing the accuracy of the uniform formula that we have previously derived.

id: 1009.2096
title: Secure two-party quantum evaluation of unitaries against specious adversaries
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Dupuis, Jesper Buus Nielsen, Louis Salvail
comments: 
journal: Full version of Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2010, LNCS 6223, pages 685--706
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2096
abstract: We describe how any two-party quantum computation, specified by a unitary which simultaneously acts on the registers of both parties, can be privately implemented against a quantum version of classical semi-honest adversaries that we call specious. Our construction requires two ideal functionalities to garantee privacy: a private SWAP between registers held by the two parties and a classical private AND-box equivalent to oblivious transfer. If the unitary to be evaluated is in the Clifford group then only one call to SWAP is required for privacy. On the other hand, any unitary not in the Clifford requires one call to an AND-box per R-gate in the circuit. Since SWAP is itself in the Clifford group, this functionality is universal for the private evaluation of any unitary in that group. SWAP can be built from a classical bit commitment scheme or an AND-box but an AND-box cannot be constructed from SWAP. It follows that unitaries in the Clifford group are to some extent the easy ones. We also show that SWAP cannot be implemented privately in the bare model.

id: 1009.2128
title: Qubit Entanglement Dephasing Dynamics Driven by a Bath of Spins
authors: Jie Xu, Jun Jing, Ting Yu
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures.Submitted to New Journal of Physics
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 185304 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2128
abstract: We study the entanglement dynamics for a two-spin system coupled to a spin environment of different configurations by z-x type interaction. The models considered in this paper are solved both analytically and numerically giving rise to some concise analytical expressions when certain approximations are properly made. Our purpose is to find how the initial states of the environment with different numbers of spins affect the decay or revival of the entanglement between central qubits. In Particular, it is found that the block-entangled environment could speed up the decay and revival of the qubit entanglement. Our results exhibit some interesting features that have not been found for a boson bath.

id: 1009.2131
title: Crossovers induced by discrete-time quantum walks
authors: Kota Chisaki, Norio Konno, Etsuo Segawa, Yutaka Shikano
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 11 (2011) pp.0741-0760
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2131
abstract: We consider crossovers with respect to the weak convergence theorems from a discrete-time quantum walk (DTQW). We show that a continuous-time quantum walk (CTQW) and discrete- and continuous-time random walks can be expressed as DTQWs in some limit. At first we generalize our previous study [Phys. Rev. A \textbf{81}, 062129 (2010)] on the DTQW with position measurements. We show that the position measurements per each step with probability $p \sim 1/n^\beta$ can be evaluated, where $n$ is the final time and $0<\beta<1$. We also give a corresponding continuous-time case. As a consequence, crossovers from the diffusive spreading (random walk) to the ballistic spreading (quantum walk) can be seen as the parameter $\beta$ shifts from 0 to 1 in both discrete- and continuous-time cases of the weak convergence theorems. Secondly, we introduce a new class of the DTQW, in which the absolute value of the diagonal parts of the quantum coin is proportional to a power of the inverse of the final time $n$. This is called a final-time-dependent DTQW (FTD-DTQW). The CTQW is obtained in a limit of the FTD-DTQW. We also obtain the weak convergence theorem for the FTD-DTQW which shows a variety of spreading properties. Finally, we consider the FTD-DTQW with periodic position measurements. This weak convergence theorem gives a phase diagram which maps sufficiently long-time behaviors of the discrete- and continuous-time quantum and random walks.

id: 1009.2154
title: Variational and perturbative approaches to the confined hydrogen atom with a moving nucleus
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez, N. Aquino, A. Flores-Riveros
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2154
abstract: We calculate the ground--state energy and other physical properties of the hydrogen atom inside a spherical box with an impenetrable wall. We apply the variational method and perturbation theory and compare both approximate results. We show that the total, kinetic and potential energies for the moving--nucleus model are greater than those for the case in which the nucleus is clamped at the box center.

id: 1009.2159
title: Suppressing decoherence and improving entanglement by quantum-jump-based feedback control in two-level systems
authors: S. C. Hou, X. L. Huang, X. X. Yi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012336 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2159
abstract: We study the quantum-jump-based feedback control on the entanglement shared between two qubits with one of them subject to decoherence, while the other qubit is under the control. This situation is very relevant to a quantum system consisting of nuclear and electron spins in solid states. The possibility to prolong the coherence time of the dissipative qubit is also explored. Numerical simulations show that the quantum-jump-based feedback control can improve the entanglement between the qubits and prolong the coherence time for the qubit subject directly to decoherence.

id: 1009.2164
title: Error probability analysis in quantum tomography: a tool for evaluating experiments
authors: Takanori Sugiyama, Peter S. Turner, Mio Murao
comments: 14pages, 2 figures (an analysis of an example is added, and the proof of Lemma 2 is corrected)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012105 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2164
abstract: We expand the scope of the statistical notion of error probability, i.e., how often large deviations are observed in an experiment, in order to make it directly applicable to quantum tomography. We verify that the error probability can decrease at most exponentially in the number of trials, derive the explicit rate that bounds this decrease, and show that a maximum likelihood estimator achieves this bound. We also show that the statistical notion of identifiability coincides with the tomographic notion of informational completeness. Our result implies that two quantum tomographic apparatuses that have the same risk function, (e.g. variance), can have different error probability, and we give an example in one qubit state tomography. Thus by combining these two approaches we can evaluate, in a reconstruction independent way, the performance of such experiments more discerningly.

id: 1009.2203
title: Automated searching for quantum subsystem codes
authors: Gregory M. Crosswhite, Dave Bacon
comments: 38 pages, 15 figure, 10 tables. The algorithm described in this paper is available as both library and a command line program (including full source code) that can be downloaded from this http URL The source code used to apply the algorithm to scan the lattices is available upon request. Please feel free to contact the authors with questions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2203
abstract: Quantum error correction allows for faulty quantum systems to behave in an effectively error free manner. One important class of techniques for quantum error correction is the class of quantum subsystem codes, which are relevant both to active quantum error correcting schemes as well as to the design of self-correcting quantum memories. Previous approaches for investigating these codes have focused on applying theoretical analysis to look for interesting codes and to investigate their properties. In this paper we present an alternative approach that uses computational analysis to accomplish the same goals. Specifically, we present an algorithm that computes the optimal quantum subsystem code that can be implemented given an arbitrary set of measurement operators that are tensor products of Pauli operators. We then demonstrate the utility of this algorithm by performing a systematic investigation of the quantum subsystem codes that exist in the setting where the interactions are limited to 2-body interactions between neighbors on lattices derived from the convex uniform tilings of the plane.

id: 1009.2210
title: A Survey of Dynamical Matrices Theory
authors: Lin Zhang, Junde Wu
comments: 22 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2210
abstract: In this note, we survey some elementary theorems and proofs concerning dynamical matrices theory. Some mathematical concepts and results involved in quantum information theory are reviewed. A little new result on the matrix representation of quantum operation are obtained. And best separable approximation for quantum operations is presented.

id: 1009.2211
title: Parallelized Solution to Semidefinite Programmings in Quantum Complexity Theory
authors: Xiaodi Wu
comments: 22 pages. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2211
abstract: In this paper we present an equilibrium value based framework for solving SDPs via the multiplicative weight update method which is different from the one in Kale's thesis \cite{Kale07}. One of the main advantages of the new framework is that we can guarantee the convertibility from approximate to exact feasibility in a much more general class of SDPs than previous result. Another advantage is the design of the oracle which is necessary for applying the multiplicative weight update method is much simplified in general cases. This leads to an alternative and easier solutions to the SDPs used in the previous results \class{QIP(2)}$\subseteq$\class{PSPACE} \cite{JainUW09} and \class{QMAM}=\class{PSPACE} \cite{JainJUW09}. Furthermore, we provide a generic form of SDPs which can be solved in the similar way. By parallelizing every step in our solution, we are able to solve a class of SDPs in \class{NC}. Although our motivation is from quantum computing, our result will also apply directly to any SDP which satisfies our conditions. In addition to the new framework for solving SDPs, we also provide a novel framework which improves the range of equilibrium value problems that can be solved via the multiplicative weight update method. Before this work we are only able to calculate the equilibrium value where one of the two convex sets needs to be the set of density operators. Our work demonstrates that in the case when one set is the set of density operators with further linear constraints, we are still able to approximate the equilibrium value to high precision via the multiplicative weight update method.

id: 1009.2217
title: New invariants for entangled states
authors: Roman V. Buniy, Thomas W. Kephart
comments: published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 182001 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2217
abstract: We propose new algebraic invariants that distinguish and classify entangled states. Considering qubits as well as higher spin systems, we obtained complete entanglement classifications for cases that were either unsolved or only conjectured in the literature.

id: 1009.2242
title: Minimal-memory realization of pearl-necklace encoders of general quantum convolutional codes
authors: Monireh Houshmand, Saied Hosseini-Khayat
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures; extends paper arXiv:1004.5179v1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2242
abstract: Quantum convolutional codes, like their classical counterparts, promise to offer higher error correction performance than block codes of equivalent encoding complexity, and are expected to find important applications in reliable quantum communication where a continuous stream of qubits is transmitted. Grassl and Roetteler devised an algorithm to encode a quantum convolutional code with a "pearl-necklace encoder." Despite their theoretical significance as a neat way of representing quantum convolutional codes, they are not well-suited to practical realization. In fact, there is no straightforward way to implement any given pearl-necklace structure. This paper closes the gap between theoretical representation and practical implementation. In our previous work, we presented an efficient algorithm for finding a minimal-memory realization of a pearl-necklace encoder for Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS) convolutional codes. This work extends our previous work and presents an algorithm for turning a pearl-necklace encoder for a general (non-CSS) quantum convolutional code into a realizable quantum convolutional encoder. We show that a minimal-memory realization depends on the commutativity relations between the gate strings in the pearl-necklace encoder. We find a realization by means of a weighted graph which details the non-commutative paths through the pearl-necklace. The weight of the longest path in this graph is equal to the minimal amount of memory needed to implement the encoder. The algorithm has a polynomial-time complexity in the number of gate strings in the pearl-necklace encoder.

id: 1009.2256
title: Insecurity of position-based quantum cryptography protocols against entanglement attacks
authors: Hoi Kwan Lau, Hoi Kwong Lo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2256
abstract: Recently, position-based quantum cryptography has been claimed to be unconditionally secure. In contrary, here we show that the existing proposals for position-based quantum cryptography are, in fact, insecure if entanglement is shared among two adversaries. Specifically, we demonstrate how the adversaries can incorporate ideas of quantum teleportation and quantum secret sharing to compromise the security with certainty. The common flaw to all current protocols is that the Pauli operators always map a codeword to a codeword (up to an irrelevant overall phase). We propose a modified scheme lacking this property in which the same cheating strategy used to undermine the previous protocols can succeed with a rate at most 85%. We conjecture that the modified protocol is unconditionally secure and prove this to be true when the shared quantum resource between the adversaries is a two- or three- level system.

id: 1009.2267
title: Quantum Computing
authors: Thaddeus D. Ladd, Fedor Jelezko, Raymond Laflamme, Yasunobu Nakamura, Christopher Monroe, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 26 pages, 7 figures, 291 references. Early draft of Nature 464, 45-53 (4 March 2010). Published version is more up-to-date and has several corrections, but is half the length with far fewer references
journal: Nature 464, 45-53 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2267
abstract: Quantum mechanics---the theory describing the fundamental workings of nature---is famously counterintuitive: it predicts that a particle can be in two places at the same time, and that two remote particles can be inextricably and instantaneously linked. These predictions have been the topic of intense metaphysical debate ever since the theory's inception early last century. However, supreme predictive power combined with direct experimental observation of some of these unusual phenomena leave little doubt as to its fundamental correctness. In fact, without quantum mechanics we could not explain the workings of a laser, nor indeed how a fridge magnet operates. Over the last several decades quantum information science has emerged to seek answers to the question: can we gain some advantage by storing, transmitting and processing information encoded in systems that exhibit these unique quantum properties? Today it is understood that the answer is yes. Many research groups around the world are working towards one of the most ambitious goals humankind has ever embarked upon: a quantum computer that promises to exponentially improve computational power for particular tasks. A number of physical systems, spanning much of modern physics, are being developed for this task---ranging from single particles of light to superconducting circuits---and it is not yet clear which, if any, will ultimately prove successful. Here we describe the latest developments for each of the leading approaches and explain what the major challenges are for the future.

id: 1009.2268
title: Photon Antibunching and Magnetospectroscopy of a Single Fluorine Donor in ZnSe
authors: K. De Greve, S. M. Clark, D. Sleiter, K. Sanaka, T. D. Ladd, M. Panfilova, A. Pawlis, K. Lischka, Y. Yamamoto
comments: 3.1 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 97, 241913 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2268
abstract: We report on the optical investigation of single electron spins bound to fluorine donor impurities in ZnSe. Measurements of photon antibunching establish the presence of single, isolated optical emitters, and magneto-optical studies are consistent with the presence of an exciton bound to the spin-impurity complex. The isolation of this single donor-bound exciton complex and its potential homogeneity offer promising prospects for a scalable semiconductor qubit with an optical interface.

id: 1009.2272
title: Coherence properties of a single dipole emitter in diamond
authors: Graham D. Marshall, Torsten Gaebel, Jonathan C. F. Matthews, Jorg Enderlein, Jeremy L. O'Brien, James R. Rabeau
comments: 10 pages, 4 colour figures
journal: New Journal of Physics, vol. 13, art. 055016, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2272
abstract: On-demand, high repetition rate sources of indistinguishable, polarised single photons are the key component for future photonic quantum technologies. Colour centres in diamond offer a promising solution, and the narrow line-width of the recently identified nickel-based NE8 centre makes it particularly appealing for realising the transform-limited sources necessary for quantum interference. Here we report the characterisation of dipole orientation and coherence properties of a single NE8 colour centre in a diamond nanocrystal at room-temperature. We observe a single photon coherence time of 0.21 ps and an emission lifetime of 1.5 ns. Combined with an emission wavelength that is ideally suited for applications in existing quantum optical systems, these results show that the NE8 is a far more promising source than the more commonly studied nitrogen-vacancy centre and point the way to the realisation of a practical diamond colour centre-based single photon source.

id: 1009.2306
title: Linear amplification and quantum cloning for non-Gaussian continuous variables
authors: Hyunchul Nha, G. J. Milburn, H. J. Carmichael
comments: published version with reference update
journal: New J.Phys.12:103010,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2306
abstract: We investigate phase-insensitive linear amplification at the quantum limit for single- and two-mode states and show that there exists a broad class of non-Gaussian states whose nonclassicality survives even at an arbitrarily large gain. We identify the corresponding observable nonclassical effects and find that they include, remarkably, two-mode entanglement. The implications of our results for quantum cloning outside the Gaussian regime are also addressed.

id: 1009.2317
title: Highly multimode memory in a crystal
authors: M. Bonarota, J.-L. Le Gou?t, T. Chaneli¨¨re
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 013013 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2317
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the storage of 1060 temporal modes onto a thulium-doped crystal using an atomic frequency comb (AFC). The comb covers 0.93 GHz defining the storage bandwidth. As compared to previous AFC preparation methods (pulse sequences i.e. amplitude modulation), we only use frequency modulation to produce the desired optical pumping spectrum. To ensure an accurate spectrally selective optical pumping, the frequency modulated laser is self-locked on the atomic comb. Our approach is general and should be applicable to a wide range of rare-earth doped material in the context of multimode quantum memory.

id: 1009.2330
title: Proposal of a two-qutrit contextuality test free of the finite precision and compatibility loopholes
authors: Adan Cabello, Marcelo Terra Cunha
comments: REVTeX4-1, 5+2 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106 (2011) 190401
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2330
abstract: It has been argued that any test of quantum contextuality is nullified by the fact that perfect orthogonality and perfect compatibility cannot be achieved in finite precision experiments. We introduce experimentally testable two-qutrit violations of inequalities for noncontextual theories in which compatibility is guaranteed by the fact that measurements are performed on separated qutrits. The inequalities are inspired by the basic building block of the Kochen-Specker proof of quantum contextuality for a qutrit, despite the fact that their proof is completely independent of it.

id: 1009.2344
title: QED with a spherical mirror
authors: G. H¨¦tet, L. Slodicka, A. Glaetzle, M. Hennrich, R. Blatt
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2344
abstract: We investigate the Quantum-Electro-Dynamic properties of an atomic electron close to the focus of a spherical mirror. We first show that the spontaneous emission and excited state level shift of the atom can be fully suppressed with mirror-atom distances of many wavelengths. A three-dimensional theory predicts that the spectral density of vacuum fluctuations can indeed vanish within a volume $\lambda^3$ around the atom, with the use of a far distant mirror covering only half of the atomic emission solid angle. The modification of these QED atomic properties is also computed as a function of the mirror size and large effects are found for only moderate numerical apertures. We also evaluate the long distance ground state energy shift (Casimir-Polder shift) and find that it scales as $(\lambda/R)^2$ at the focus of a hemi-spherical mirror of radius $R$, as opposed to the well known $(\lambda/R)^4$ scaling law for an atom at a distance $R$ from an infinite plane mirror. Our results are relevant for investigations of QED effects, and also free space coupling to single atoms using high-numerical aperture lenses.

id: 1009.2365
title: On the analogy between a single atom and an optical resonator
authors: Simon Heugel, Alessandro S. Villar, Markus Sondermann, Ulf Peschel, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 
journal: Laser Physics, vol. 20, 100-106 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2365
abstract: A single atom in free space can have a strong influence on a light beam and a single photon can have a strong effect on a single atom in free space. Regarding this interaction, two conceptually different questions can be asked: can a single atom fully absorb a single photon and can a single atom fully reflect a light beam. The conditions for achieving the full effect in either case are different. Here we discuss related questions in the context of an optical resonator. When shaping a laser pulse properly it will be fully absorbed by an optical resonator, i.e., no light will be reflected and all the pulse energy will accumulate inside the resonator before it starts leaking out. We show in detail that in this case the temporal pulse shape has to match the time-reversed pulse obtained by the cavity's free decay. On the other hand a resonator, made of highly reflecting mirrors which normally reflect a large portion of any incident light, may fully transmit the light, as long as the light is narrow band and resonant with the cavity. The analogy is the single atom - normally letting most of the light pass - which under special conditions may fully reflect the incident light beam. Using this analogy we are able to study the effects of practical experimental limitations in the atom-photon coupling, such as finite pulses, bandwidths, and solid angle coverage, and to use the optical resonator as a test bed for the implementation of the quantum experiment.

id: 1009.2390
title: Quantum state engineering by a coherent superposition of photon subtraction and addition
authors: Su-Yong Lee, Hyunchul Nha
comments: published version, 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 053812 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2390
abstract: We study a coherent superposition of field annihilation and creation operator acting on continuous variable systems and propose its application for quantum state engineering. Specifically, it is investigated how the superposed operation transforms a classical state to a nonclassical one, together with emerging nonclassical effects. We also propose an experimental scheme to implement this elementary coherent operation and discuss its usefulness to produce an arbitrary superposition of number states involving up to two photons.

id: 1009.2407
title: A Fourier analytic approach to the problem of mutually unbiased bases
authors: Mate Matolcsi
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Commutative Algebra (math.AC); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2407
abstract: We give an entirely new approach to the problem of mutually unbiased bases (MUBs), based on a Fourier analytic technique in additive combinatorics. The method provides a short and elegant generalization of the fact that there are at most $d+1$ MUBs in $\Co^d$. It may also yield a proof that no complete system of MUBs exists in some composite dimensions -- a long standing open problem.

id: 1009.2408
title: "Quantum Interference with Slits" Revisited
authors: Tony Rothman, Stephen Boughn
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 32, 107-113 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2408
abstract: Marcella [arXiv:quant-ph/0703126] has presented a straightforward technique employing the Dirac formalism to calculate single- and double-slit interference patterns. He claims that no reference is made to classical optics or scattering theory and that his method therefore provides a purely quantum mechanical description of these experiments. He also presents his calculation as if no approximations are employed. We show that he implicitly makes the same approximations found in classical treatments of interference and that no new physics has been introduced. At the same time, some of the quantum mechanical arguments Marcella gives are, at best, misleading.

id: 1009.2417
title: Toward third order ghost imaging with thermal light
authors: G. Brida, I. P. Degiovanni, G. A. Fornaro, M. Genovese, A. Meda
comments: To be published in Proceedings of Recent advances in Foundations of Quantum Mechanics and Quantum Information
journal: Int.Journ. Quant. Inf. 9 (2011) 341
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2417
abstract: Recently it has been suggested that an enhancement in the visibility of ghost images obtained with thermal light can be achieved exploiting higher order correlations [3]. This paper reports on the status of an higher order ghost imaging experiment carried on at INRIM labs exploiting a pseudo-thermal source and a CCD camera.

id: 1009.2426
title: Polarization entangled state measurement on a chip
authors: L. Sansoni, F. Sciarrino, G. Vallone, P. Mataloni, A. Crespi, R. Ramponi, R. Osellame
comments: Revtex, 5+2 pages (with supplementary information), 4+1 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 200503 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2426
abstract: The emerging strategy to overcome the limitations of bulk quantum optics consists of taking advantage of the robustness and compactness achievable by the integrated waveguide technology. Here we report the realization of a directional coupler, fabricated by femtosecond laser waveguide writing, acting as an integrated beam splitter able to support polarization encoded qubits. This maskless and single step technique allows to realize circular transverse waveguide profiles able to support the propagation of Gaussian modes with any polarization state. Using this device, we demonstrate the quantum interference with polarization entangled states and singlet state projection.

id: 1009.2438
title: A Weakly Intuitionistic Quantum Logic
authors: Ronnie Hermens
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2438
abstract: In this paper we motivate and study the possibility of an intuitionistic quantum logic. An explicit investigation of the application of the theory of Bruns and Lakser on distributive hulls on traditional quantum logic (as suggested in [Coe]) leads us to a small modification of this scheme. In this way we obtain a weak Heyting algebra (cf. [CJ]) for describing the language of quantum mechanics.

id: 1009.2441
title: Enhancement of laser cooling by the use of magnetic gradients
authors: Andreas Albrecht, Alex Retzker, Christof Wunderlich, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 033009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2441
abstract: We present a laser cooling scheme for trapped ions and atoms using a combination of laser couplings and a magnetic gradient field. In a Schrieffer-Wolff transformed picture, this setup cancels the carrier and blue sideband terms completely resulting in an improved cooling behaviour compared to standard cooling schemes (e.g. sideband cooling) and allowing cooling to the vibrational ground state. A condition for optimal cooling rates is presented and the cooling behaviour for different Lamb-Dicke parameters and spontaneous decay rates is discussed. Cooling rates of one order of magnitude less than the trapping frequency are achieved using the new cooling method. Furthermore the scheme turns out to be robust under deviations from the optimal parameters and moreover provides good cooling rates also in the multi particle case.

id: 1009.2467
title: Optimal Entanglement Transformations Among N-qubit W-Class States
authors: Wei Cui, Eric Chitambar, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062314 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2467
abstract: We investigate the physically allowed probabilities for transforming one N-partite W-class state to another by means of local operations assisted with classical communication (LOCC). Recently, Kintas and Turgut have obtained an upper bound for the maximum probability of transforming two such states [arXiv:1003.2118v1]. Here, we provide a simple sufficient and necessary condition for when this upper bound can be satisfied and thus when optimality of state transformation can be achieved. Our discussion involves obtaining lower bounds for the transformation of arbitrary W-class states and showing precisely when this bound saturates the bound of [arXiv:1003.2118v1]. Finally, we consider the question of transforming symmetric W-class states and find that in general, the optimal one-shot procedure for converting two symmetric states requires a non-symmetric filter by all the parties.

id: 1009.2490
title: Position-Based Quantum Cryptography: Impossibility and Constructions
authors: Harry Buhrman, Nishanth Chandran, Serge Fehr, Ran Gelles, Vipul Goyal, Rafail Ostrovsky, Christian Schaffner
comments: 27 pages, 5 figures. v4: improved proofs for the impossibility theorem and for the instantaneous computation theorem
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2490
abstract: In this work, we study position-based cryptography in the quantum setting. The aim is to use the geographical position of a party as its only credential. On the negative side, we show that if adversaries are allowed to share an arbitrarily large entangled quantum state, no secure position-verification is possible at all. We show a distributed protocol for computing any unitary operation on a state shared between the different users, using local operations and one round of classical communication. Using this surprising result, we break any position-verification scheme of a very general form. On the positive side, we show that if adversaries do not share any entangled quantum state but can compute arbitrary quantum operations, secure position-verification is achievable. Jointly, these results suggest the interesting question whether secure position-verification is possible in case of a bounded amount of entanglement. Our positive result can be interpreted as resolving this question in the simplest case, where the bound is set to zero. In models where secure positioning is achievable, it has a number of interesting applications. For example, it enables secure communication over an insecure channel without having any pre-shared key, with the guarantee that only a party at a specific location can learn the content of the conversation. More generally, we show that in settings where secure position-verification is achievable, other position-based cryptographic schemes are possible as well, such as secure position-based authentication and position-based key agreement.

id: 1009.2493
title: Absence of Thermalization in Nonintegrable Systems
authors: Christian Gogolin, Markus P. Mueller, Jens Eisert
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, to appear in PRL, improved presentation of the numerical findings, editorial changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 040401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2493
abstract: We establish a link between unitary relaxation dynamics after a quench in closed many-body systems and the entanglement in the energy eigenbasis. We find that even if reduced states equilibrate, they can have memory on the initial conditions even in certain models that are far from integrable. We show that in such situations the equilibrium states are still described by a maximum entropy or generalized Gibbs ensemble, regardless of whether a model is integrable or not, thereby contributing to a recent debate. In addition, we discuss individual aspects of the thermalization process, comment on the role of Anderson localization, and collect and compare different notions of integrability.

id: 1009.2536
title: Maximally efficient quantum thermal machines: The basic principles
authors: Sandu Popescu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2536
abstract: Following the result by Skrzypczyk et al., arXiv:1009.0865, that certain self-contained quantum thermal machines can reach Carnot efficiency, we discuss the functioning of self-contained quantum thermal machines and show, in a very general case, that they can reach the Carnot efficiency limit. Most importantly, the full analytical solution for the functioning of the machines is not required; the efficiency can be deduced from a very small number of fundamental and highly intuitive equations which capture the core of the problem.

id: 1009.2545
title: Dense-Coding Attack on Three-Party Quantum Key Distribution Protocols
authors: Fei Gao, Su-Juan Qin, Fen-Zhuo Guo, Qiao-Yan Wen
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: IEEE Journal of Quantum Electronics, vol.47, no.5, pp.630-635, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2545
abstract: Cryptanalysis is an important branch in the study of cryptography, including both the classical cryptography and the quantum one. In this paper we analyze the security of two three-party quantum key distribution protocols (QKDPs) proposed recently, and point out that they are susceptible to a simple and effective attack, i.e. the dense-coding attack. It is shown that the eavesdropper Eve can totally obtain the session key by sending entangled qubits as the fake signal to Alice and performing collective measurements after Alice's encoding. The attack process is just like a dense-coding communication between Eve and Alice, where a special measurement basis is employed. Furthermore, this attack does not introduce any errors to the transmitted information and consequently will not be discovered by Alice and Bob. The attack strategy is described in detail and a proof for its correctness is given. At last, the root of this insecurity and a possible way to improve these protocols are discussed.

id: 1009.2548
title: New 3-mode squeezing operator and squeezed vacuum state in 3-wave mixing
authors: Xue-xiang Xu, Hong-yi Fan, Li-yun Hu, Hong-chun Yuan
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, submitted to EPL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2548
abstract: In a 3-wave mixing process occurring in some nonlinear optical medium when }$a_{1}^{\dagger}${\small mode interacts with both }$a_{2}^{\dagger}% ${\small mode and }$a_{3}^{\dagger}${\small mode, we theoretically study the squeezing effect generated by the operator }$S_{3}\equiv \exp[\mu(a_{1}% a_{2}-a_{1}^{\dagger}a_{2}^{\dagger})+\nu(a_{1}a_{3}-a_{1}^{\dagger}% a_{3}^{\dagger})]${\small . The new 3-mode squeezed vacuum state in Fock space is derived, and the uncertainty relation for it is demonstrated, It turns out that }$S_{3}${\small may exhibit enhanced squeezing. By virtue of the technique of integration within an ordered product (IWOP) of operators, we also derive }$S_{3}${\small 's normally ordered expansion. The Wigner function of new 3-mode squeezed vacuum state is calculated by using the Weyl ordering invariance under similar transformations.

id: 1009.2564
title: Coherent states for quadratic Hamiltonians
authors: Alonso Contreras-Astorga, David J Fernandez C, Mercedes Velazquez
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure, small changes. Accepted for publication in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A 44: 035304,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2564
abstract: The coherent states for a set of quadratic Hamiltonians in the trap regime are constructed. A matrix technique which allows to identify directly the creation and annihilation operators will be presented. Then, the coherent states as simultaneous eigenstates of the annihilation operators will be derived, and they are going to be compared with those attained through the displacement operator method. The corresponding wave function will be found, and a general procedure for obtaining several expected values involving the canonical operators in these states will be described. The results will be illustrated through the asymmetric Penning trap.

id: 1009.2571
title: Entanglement, discord and the power of quantum computation
authors: Aharon Brodutch, Daniel R. Terno
comments: Published version. More results are added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 010301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2571
abstract: We show that the ability to create entanglement is necessary for execution of bipartite quantum gates even when they are applied to unentangled states and create no entanglement. Starting with a simple example we demonstrate that to execute such a gate bi-locally the local operations and classical communications (LOCC) should be supplemented by shared entanglement. Our results point to the changes in quantum discord, which is a measure of quantumness of correlations even in the absence of entanglement, as the indicator of failure of a LOCC implementation of the gates.

id: 1009.2603
title: An Experimental Proposal to Test Dynamic Quantum Non-locality with Single-Atom Interferometry
authors: Shi-Liang Zhu, Zheng-Yuan Xue, Dan-Wei Zhang, Lu-Ming Duan
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2603
abstract: Quantum non-locality based on the well-known Bell inequality is of kinematic nature. A different type of quantum non-locality, the non-locality of the quantum equation of motion, is recently put forward with connection to the Aharonov-Bohm effect [Nature Phys. 6, 151 (2010)]. Evolution of the displacement operator provides an example to manifest such dynamic quantum non-locality. We propose an experiment using single-atom interferometry to test such dynamic quantum non-locality. We show how to measure evolution of the displacement operator with clod atoms in a spin-dependent optical lattice potential and discuss signature to identify dynamic quantum non-locality under a realistic experimental setting.

id: 1009.2618
title: Solid-State Optimal Phase-Covariant Quantum Cloning Machine
authors: Xin-Yu Pan, Gang-Qin Liu, Li-Li Yang, Heng Fan
comments: 3 pages; 5 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 99, 051113 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2618
abstract: Here we report an experimental realization of optimal phase-covariant quantum cloning machine with a single electron spin in solid state system at room temperature. The involved three states of two logic qubits are encoded physically in three levels of a single electron spin with two Zeeman sub-levels at a nitrogen-vacancy defect center in diamond. The preparation of input state and the phase-covariant quantum cloning transformation are controlled by two independent microwave fields. The average experimental fidelity reaches 85.2% which is very close to theoretical optimal fidelity 85.4% and is beyond the bound 83.3% of universal cloning.

id: 1009.2623
title: Dephasing effects on stimulated Raman adiabatic passage in tripod configurations
authors: C. Lazarou, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 13 pages; 9 figures; Accepted for publication Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 82, 033437 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2623
abstract: We present an analytic description of the effects of dephasing processes on stimulated Raman adiabatic passage in a tripod quantum system. To this end, we develop an effective two-level model. Our analysis makes use of the adiabatic approximation in the weak dephasing regime. An effective master equation for a two-level system formed by two dark states is derived, where analytic solutions are obtained by utilizing the Demkov-Kunike model. From these, it is found that the fidelity for the final coherent superposition state decreases exponentially for increasing dephasing rates. Depending on the pulse ordering and for adiabatic evolution the pulse delay can have an inverse effect.

id: 1009.2638
title: High Order Coherent Control Sequences of Finite-Width Pulses
authors: S. Pasini, P. Karbach, G. S. Uhrig
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, new figures, published version
journal: Europhysics Letters 96, 10003 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2638
abstract: The performance of sequences of designed pulses of finite length $\tau$ is analyzed for a bath of spins and it is compared with that of sequences of ideal, instantaneous pulses. The degree of the design of the pulse strongly affects the performance of the sequences. Non-equidistant, adapted sequences of pulses, which equal instantaneous ones up to $\mathcal{O}(\tau^3)$, outperform equidistant or concatenated sequences. Moreover, they do so at low energy cost which grows only logarithmically with the number of pulses, in contrast to standard pulses with linear growth.

id: 1009.2654
title: Are there fundamental limits for observing quantum phenomena from within quantum theory?
authors: Johannes Kofler, Caslav Brukner
comments: 4 pages, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2654
abstract: Does there exist a limit for the applicability of quantum theory for objects of large mass or size, or objects whose states are of large complexity or dimension of the Hilbert space? The possible answers range from practical limitations due to decoherence within quantum theory to fundamental limits due to collapse models that modify quantum theory. Here, we suggest the viewpoint that there might be also fundamental limits without altering the quantum laws. We first demonstrate that for two quantum spins systems of a given spin length, no violation of local realism can be observed, if the measurements are sufficiently coarse-grained. Then we show that there exists a fundamental limit for the precision of measurements due to (i) the Heisenberg uncertainty relation which has to be applied to the measuring apparatus, (ii) relativistic causality, and (iii) the finiteness of resources in any laboratory including the whole universe. This suggests that there might exist a limit for the size of the systems (dimension of the Hilbert space) above which no violation of local realism can be seen anymore.

id: 1009.2655
title: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Correlations of Ultracold Atomic Gases
authors: Nir Bar-Gill, Christian Gross, Gershon Kurizki, Igor Mazets, Markus Oberthaler
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:120404,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2655
abstract: Einstein, Podolsky & Rosen (EPR) pointed out that correlations induced between quantum objects will persist after these objects have ceased to interact. Consequently, their joint continuous variables (CV), e.g., the difference of their positions and the sum of their momenta, may be specified, regardless of their distance, with arbitrary precision. EPR correlations give rise to two fundamental notions: {\em nonlocal ``steering''} of the quantum state of one object by measuring the other, and inseparability ({\em entanglement}) of their quantum states. EPR entanglement is a resource of quantum information (QI) and CV teleportation of light and matter waves. It has lately been demonstrated for {\em collective} CV of distant thermal-gas clouds, correlated by interaction with a common field. Here we demonstrate that collective CV of two species of trapped ultracold bosonic gases can be EPR-correlated (entangled) via {\em inherent} interactions between the species. This paves the way to further QI applications of such systems, which are atomic analogs of coupled superconducting Josephson Junctions (JJ). A precursor of this study has been the observation of quantum correlations (squeezing) in a single bosonic JJ.

id: 1009.2663
title: Thermal blinding of gated detectors in quantum cryptography
authors: Lars Lydersen, Carlos Wiechers, Christoffer Wittmann, Dominique Elser, Johannes Skaar, Vadim Makarov
comments: 10 pages, 12 figures
journal: Optics Express 18, 27938-27954 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2663
abstract: It has previously been shown that the gated detectors of two commercially available quantum key distribution (QKD) systems are blindable and controllable by an eavesdropper using continuous-wave illumination and short bright trigger pulses, manipulating voltages in the circuit [L. Lydersen et al., Nat. Photonics DOI:10.1038/nphoton.2010.214]. This allows for an attack eavesdropping the full raw and secret key without increasing the quantum bit error rate (QBER). Here we show how thermal effects in detectors under bright illumination can lead to the same outcome. We demonstrate that the detectors in a commercial QKD system Clavis2 can be blinded by heating the avalanche photo diodes (APDs) using bright illumination, so-called thermal blinding. Further, the detectors can be triggered using short bright pulses once they are blind. For systems with pauses between packet transmission such as the plug-and-play systems, thermal inertia enables Eve to apply the bright blinding illumination before eavesdropping, making her more difficult to catch.

id: 1009.2672
title: Quantum Maxwell's Demon in Thermodynamic Cycles
authors: H. Dong, D.Z. Xu, C.P. Sun
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2672
abstract: We study the physical mechanism of Maxwell's Demon (MD) helping to do extra work in thermodynamic cycles, by describing measurement of position, insertion of wall and information erasing of MD in a quantum mechanical fashion. The heat engine is exemplified with one molecule confined in an infinitely deep square potential inserted with a movable solid wall, while the MD is modeled as a two-level system (TLS) for measuring and controlling the motion of the molecule. It is discovered that the the MD with quantum coherence or on a lower temperature than that of the heat bath of the particle would enhance the ability of the whole work substance formed by the system plus the MD to do work outside. This observation reveals that the role of the MD essentially is to drive the whole work substance being off equilibrium, or equivalently working with an effective temperature difference. The elaborate studies with this model explicitly reveal the effect of finite size off the classical limit or thermodynamic limit, which contradicts the common sense on Szilard heat engine (SHE). The quantum SHE's efficiency is evaluated in detail to prove the validity of second law of thermodynamics.

id: 1009.2675
title: How many bits does it take to track an open quantum system?
authors: R. I. Karasik, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 020406 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2675
abstract: A $D$-dimensional Markovian open quantum system will undergo quantum jumps between pure states, if we can monitor the bath to which it is coupled with sufficient precision. In general these jumps, plus the between-jump evolution, create a trajectory which passes through infinitely many different pure states. Here we show that, for any ergodic master equation, one can expect to find an {\em adaptive} monitoring scheme on the bath that can confine the system state to jumping between only $K$ states, for some $K \geq (D-1)^2+1$. For $D=2$ we explicitly construct a 2-state ensemble for any ergodic master equation, showing that one bit is always sufficient to track a qubit.

id: 1009.2679
title: From quasi-entropy
authors: Denes Petz
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2679
abstract: The subject is the overview of the use of quasi-entropy in finite dimensional spaces. Matrix monotone functions and relative modular operators are used. The origin is the relative entropy and the f-divergence, monotone metrics, covariance and the chi-square-divergence are the most important particular cases. The extension of the monotone metric to two variables is a new concept.

id: 1009.2683
title: After-gate attack on a quantum cryptosystem
authors: Carlos Wiechers, Lars Lydersen, Christoffer Wittmann, Dominique Elser, Johannes Skaar, Christoph Marquardt, Vadim Makarov, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 013043 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2683
abstract: We present a method to control the detection events in quantum key distribution systems that use gated single-photon detectors. We employ bright pulses as faked states, timed to arrive at the avalanche photodiodes outside the activation time. The attack can remain unnoticed, since the faked states do not increase the error rate per se. This allows for an intercept-resend attack, where an eavesdropper transfers her detection events to the legitimate receiver without causing any errors. As a side effect, afterpulses, originating from accumulated charge carriers in the detectors, increase the error rate. We have experimentally tested detectors of the system id3110 (Clavis2) from ID Quantique. We identify the parameter regime in which the attack is feasible despite the side effect. Furthermore, we outline how simple modifications in the implementation can make the device immune to this attack.

id: 1009.2687
title: Information theory of quantum systems with some hydrogenic applications
authors: J.S. Dehesa, D. Manzano, P.S. S¨¢nchez-Moreno, R.J. Y¨¢?ez
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings 1305 (2011) 175-183
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2687
abstract: The information-theoretic representation of quantum systems, which complements the familiar energy description of the density-functional and wave-function-based theories, is here discussed. According to it, the internal disorder of the quantum-mechanical non-relativistic systems can be quantified by various single (Fisher information, Shannon entropy) and composite (e.g. Cramer-Rao, LMC shape and Fisher-Shannon complexity) functionals of the Schr\"odinger probability density. First, we examine these concepts and its application to quantum systems with central potentials. Then, we calculate these measures for hydrogenic systems, emphasizing their predictive power for various physical phenomena. Finally, some recent open problems are pointed out.

id: 1009.2694
title: What is the boundary condition for radial wave function of the Schr?dinger equation ?
authors: Anzor A. Khelashvili, Teimuraz P. Nadareishvili
comments: 15 pages
journal: Am.J.Phys. 79:668-671,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2694
abstract: There is much discussion in the mathematical physics literature as well as in quantum mechanics textbooks on spherically symmetric potentials. Nevertheless, there is no consensus about the behavior of the radial function at the origin, particularly for singular potentials. A careful derivation of the radial Schr\"odinger equation leads to the appearance of a delta function term when the Laplace operator is written in spherical coordinates. As a result, regardless of the behavior of the potential, an additional constraint is imposed on the radial wave function in the form of a vanishing boundary condition at the origin.

id: 1009.2713
title: An elementary exposition of the Efimov Effect
authors: Rajat K. Bhaduri, Arindam Chatterjee, Brandon P. van Zyl
comments: 4 figures. Version to appear in American Journal of Physics. Minor typos fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2713
abstract: Two particles that are just shy of binding may develop an infinite number of shallow bound states when a third particle is added. This counter intuitive quantum mechanical result was first predicted by V. Efimov for identical bosons interacting with a short-range pair-wise potential. The so-called Efimov effect persists even for non-identical particles, provided at least two of the three bonds are almost bound. The Efimov effect has recently been verified experimentally using ultra-cold atoms. In this article, we explain the origin of this effect using only elementary quantum mechanics, and summarize the experimental evidence for the Efimov effect. A new, simple derivation for the number of Efimov states is given in the Appendix.

id: 1009.2735
title: On the existence of loss-tolerant quantum oblivious transfer protocols
authors: Jamie Sikora
comments: 11 pages. Version 2 has improved presentation. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2735
abstract: Oblivious transfer is the cryptographic primitive where Alice sends one of two bits to Bob but is oblivious to the bit received. Using quantum communication, we can build oblivious transfer protocols with security provably better than any protocol built using classical communication. However, with imperfect apparatus one needs to consider other attacks. In this paper we present an oblivious transfer protocol which is impervious to lost messages.

id: 1009.2744
title: Entanglement of qutrits and ququarts
authors: Mikhail Fedorov, Peter Volkov, Julia Mikhailova, Stanislav Straupe, Sergei Kulik
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2744
abstract: We investigate in a general form entanglement of biphoton qutrits and ququarts, i.e. states formed in the processes of collinear and, correspondingly, degenerate and non-degenerate Spontaneous Parametric Down-Conversion. Indistinguishability of photons and, for ququarts, joint presence of the frequency and and polarization entanglement are fully taken into account. In the case of qutrits the most general 3-parametric families of maximally entangled and non-entangled states are found, and anti-correlation of the degree of entanglement and polarization is shown to occur and to be characterized by a rather simple formula. Biphoton ququarts are shown to be two-qudits with the single-photon Hilbert space dimensionality $d=4$, which differs them significantly from the often used two-qubit model ($d=2$). New expressions for entanglement quantifiers of biphoton ququarts are derived and discussed. Rather simple procedures for a direct measurement of the degree of entanglement are described for both qutrits and ququarts.

id: 1009.2807
title: Radical-ion-pair reactions are the biochemical equivalent of the optical double slit experiment
authors: I. K. Kominis
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 056118 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2807
abstract: Radical-ion-pair reactions were recently shown to represent a rich biophysical laboratory for the application of quantum measurement theory methods and concepts. We here show that radical-ion-pair reactions essentially form a non-linear biochemical double slit interferometer. Quantum coherence effects are visible when "which-path" information is limited, and the incoherent limit is approached when measurement-induced decoherence sets in. Based on this analogy with the optical double slit experiment we derive and elaborate on the fundamental master equation of spin-selective radical-ion-pair reactions that covers the continuous range from complete incoherence to maximum singlet-triplet coherence.

id: 1009.2809
title: Quantum Dynamics of Radical-Ion-Pair Reactions
authors: I. K. Kominis
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2809
abstract: Radical-ion-pair reactions were recently shown to represent a rich biophysical laboratory for the application of quantum measurement theory methods and concepts, casting doubt on the validity of the theoretical treatment of these reactions and the results thereof that has been at the core of spin chemistry for several decades now. The ensued scientific debate, although exciting, is plagued with several misconceptions. We will here provide a comprehensive treatment of the quantum dynamics of radical-ion-pair reactions, generalizing our recent work and elaborating on the analogy with the double-slit experiment having partial "which-path" information. This analogy directly leads to the general treatment of radical-ion pair reactions covering the whole range between the two extremes, that of perfect singlet-triplet coherence and that of complete incoherence.

id: 1009.2828
title: Two-Photon Transport in a Waveguide Coupled to a Cavity with a Two-level System
authors: T. Shi, Shanhui Fan, C. P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2828
abstract: We consider a system where a waveguide is coupled to a cavity embedded with a two-level system (TLS), and study the effects when a two-photon quantum state is injected into the waveguide. The wave function of two outgoing photons is exactly solved using the Lehmann-Symanzik-Zimmermann (LSZ) reduction formalism. Our results explicitly exhibit the photon blockade effects in the strong atom-cavity coupling regime. The quantum statistical characters of the outgoing photons, including the photon bunching and anti-bunching behaviors, are also investigated in both the strong and weak coupling regimes. These results agree with the observations of recent experiments.

id: 1009.2834
title: Fabrication and heating rate study of microscopic surface electrode ion traps
authors: N. Daniilidis, S. Narayanan, S. A. M?ller, R. Clark, T. E. Lee, P. J. Leek, A. Wallraff, St. Schulz, F. Schmidt-Kaler, H. H?ffner
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2834
abstract: We report heating rate measurements in a microfabricated gold-on-sapphire surface electrode ion trap with trapping height of approximately 240 micron. Using the Doppler recooling method, we characterize the trap heating rates over an extended region of the trap. The noise spectral density of the trap falls in the range of noise spectra reported in ion traps at room temperature. We find that during the first months of operation the heating rates increase by approximately one order of magnitude. The increase in heating rates is largest in the ion loading region of the trap, providing a strong hint that surface contamination plays a major role for excessive heating rates. We discuss data found in the literature and possible relation of anomalous heating to sources of noise and dissipation in other systems, namely impurity atoms adsorbed on metal surfaces and amorphous dielectrics.

id: 1009.2840
title: The 2D AKLT state on the honeycomb lattice is a universal resource for quantum computation
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei, Ian Affleck, Robert Raussendorf
comments: 21 pages, 13 figures, long version of Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 070501 (2011) or arXiv:1102.5064
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032328 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2840
abstract: Universal quantum computation can be achieved by simply performing single-qubit measurements on a highly entangled resource state. Resource states can arise from ground states of carefully designed two-body interacting Hamiltonians. This opens up an appealing possibility of creating them by cooling. The family of Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki (AKLT) states are the ground states of particularly simple Hamiltonians with high symmetry, and their potential use in quantum computation gives rise to a new research direction. Expanding on our prior work [T.-C. Wei, I. Affleck, and R. Raussendorf, Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 070501 (2011)], we give detailed analysis to explain why the spin-3/2 AKLT state on a two-dimensional honeycomb lattice is a universal resource for measurement-based quantum computation. Along the way, we also provide an alternative proof that the 1D spin-1 AKLT state can be used to simulate arbitrary one-qubit unitary gates. Moreover, we connect the quantum computational universality of 2D random graph states to their percolation property and show that these states whose graphs are in the supercritical (i.e. percolated) phase are also universal resources for measurement-based quantum computation.

id: 1009.2846
title: Quantum correlations in a cluster-like system
authors: Yi-Xin Chen, Sheng-Wen Li, Zhi Yin
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2846
abstract: We discuss a cluster-like 1D system with triplet interaction. We study the topological properties of this system. We find that the degeneracy depends on the topology of the system, and well protected against external local perturbations. All these facts show that the system is topologically ordered. We also find a string order parameter to characterize the quantum phase transition. Besides, we investigate two-site correlations including entanglement, quantum discord and mutual information. We study the different divergency behaviour of the correlations. The quantum correlation decays exponentially in both topological and magnetic phases, and diverges in reversed power law at the critical point. And we find that in TQPT systems, the global difference of topology induced by dimension can be reflected in local quantum correlations.

id: 1009.2867
title: Experimental generation and characterization of single-photon hybrid ququarts based on polarization-orbital angular momentum encoding
authors: Eleonora Nagali, Linda Sansoni, Lorenzo Marrucci, Enrico Santamato, Fabio Sciarrino
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 81, 052317 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2867
abstract: High-dimensional quantum states, or qudits, represent a promising resource in the quantum information field. Here we present the experimental generation of four-dimensional quantum states, or ququarts, encoded in the polarization and orbital angular momentum of a single photon. Our novel technique, based on the q-plate device, allows to prepare and measure the ququart in all five mutually unbiased bases. We report the reconstruction of the four dimensional density matrix through the tomographic procedure for different ququart states.

id: 1009.2869
title: Experimental optimal cloning of four-dimensional quantum states of photons
authors: Eleonora Nagali, Daniele Giovannini, Lorenzo Marrucci, Sergei Slussarenko, Enrico Santamato, Fabio Sciarrino
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 073602 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2869
abstract: Optimal quantum cloning is the process of making one or more copies of an arbitrary unknown input quantum state with the highest possible fidelity. All reported demonstrations of quantum cloning have so far been limited to copying two-dimensional quantum states, or qubits. We report the experimental realization of the optimal quantum cloning of four-dimensional quantum states, or ququarts, encoded in the polarization and orbital angular momentum degrees of freedom of photons. Our procedure, based on the symmetrization method, is also shown to be generally applicable to quantum states of arbitrarily high dimension -- or qudits -- and to be scalable to an arbitrary number of copies, in all cases remaining optimal. Furthermore, we report the bosonic coalescence of two single-particle entangled states.

id: 1009.2872
title: Strong-field above-threshold photoemission from sharp metal tips
authors: Markus Schenk, Michael Kr¨¹ger, Peter Hommelhoff
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 257601 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2872
abstract: We present energy-resolved measurements of electron emission from sharp metal tips driven with low energy pulses from a few-cycle laser oscillator. We observe above-threshold photoemission with a photon order of up to 9. At a laser intensity of 2*10^11 W/cm^2 suppression of the lowest order peak occurs, indicating the onset of strong-field effects. We also observe peak shifting linearly with intensity with a slope of around -1.8eV / (10^12 W/cm^2). We attribute the magnitude of the laser field effects to field enhancement taking place at the tip's surface.

id: 1009.2901
title: Computing singularities of perturbation series
authors: Simen Kvaal, Elias Jarlebring, Wim Michiels
comments: 11 figures, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2901
abstract: Many properties of current \emph{ab initio} approaches to the quantum many-body problem, both perturbational or otherwise, are related to the singularity structure of Rayleigh--Schr\"odinger perturbation theory. A numerical procedure is presented that in principle computes the complete set of singularities, including the dominant singularity which limits the radius of convergence. The method approximates the singularities as eigenvalues of a certain generalized eigenvalue equation which is solved using iterative techniques. It relies on computation of the action of the perturbed Hamiltonian on a vector, and does not rely on the terms in the perturbation series. Some illustrative model problems are studied, including a Helium-like model with $\delta$-function interactions for which M{\o}ller--Plesset perturbation theory is considered and the radius of convergence found.

id: 1009.2916
title: Fast cavity-enhanced atom detection with low noise and high fidelity
authors: J. Goldwin, M. Trupke, J. Kenner, A. Ratnapala, E. A. Hinds
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, 1 table; extensive changes to format and discussion according to referee comments; published in Nature Communications with open access
journal: Nat. Commun. 2:418
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2916
abstract: Cavity quantum electrodynamics describes the fundamental interactions between light and matter, and how they can be controlled by shaping the local environment. For example, optical microcavities allow high-efficiency detection and manipulation of single atoms. In this regime fluctuations of atom number are on the order of the mean number, which can lead to signal fluctuations in excess of the noise on the incident probe field. Conversely, we demonstrate that nonlinearities and multi-atom statistics can together serve to suppress the effects of atomic fluctuations when making local density measurements on clouds of cold atoms. We measure atom densities below 1 per cavity mode volume near the photon shot-noise limit. This is in direct contrast to previous experiments where fluctuations in atom number contribute significantly to the noise. Atom detection is shown to be fast and efficient, reaching fidelities in excess of 97% after 10 us and 99.9% after 30 us.

id: 1009.2924
title: Finite temperature Cherenkov radiation in the presence of a magnetodielectric medium
authors: Fardin Kheirandish, Ehsan Amooghorban
comments: To be appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042901 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2924
abstract: A canonical approach to Cherenkov radiation in the presence of a magnetodielectric medium is presented in classical, nonrelativistic and relativistic quantum regimes. The equations of motion for the canonical variables are solved explicitly for both positive and negative times. Maxwell and related constitute equations are obtained. In the large-time limit, the vector potential operator is found and expressed in terms of the medium operators. The energy loss of a charged particle, emitted in the form of radiation, in finite temperature is calculated. A Dirac equation concerning the relativistic motion of the particle in presence of the magnetodielectric medium is derived and the relativistic Cherenkov radiation at zero and finite temperature is investigated. Finally, it is shown that the Cherenkov radiation in nonrelativistic and relativistic quantum regimes, unlike its classical counterpart, introduces automatically a cutoff for higher frequencies beyond which the power of radiation emission is zero.

id: 1009.2945
title: Photonic Josephson effect, phase transitions, and chaos in optomechanical systems
authors: Jonas Larson, Mats Horsdal
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 021804(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2945
abstract: A photonic analog of the Josephson effect is analyzed for a system formed by a partly transparent mechanical membrane dividing an optical cavity into two halves. Photons tunneling between the two sub-cavities constitute the coherent Jospehson current. The force acting upon the membrane due to the light pressure induces a nonlinearity which results in a rich dynamical structure. For example, contrary to standard bosonic Josephson systems, we encounter chaos. By means of a mean-field approach we identify the various regimes and corresponding phase diagram. At the short time scale, chaos is demonstrated to prevent regular self-trapping, while for longer times a dissipation induced self-trapping effect is possible.

id: 1009.2956
title: Measuring entanglement in condensed matter systems
authors: M. Cramer, M.B. Plenio, H. Wunderlich
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 020401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2956
abstract: We show how entanglement may be quantified in spin and cold atom many-body systems using standard experimental techniques only. The scheme requires no assumptions on the state in the laboratory and a lower bound to the entanglement can be read off directly from the scattering cross section of Neutrons deflected from solid state samples or the time-of-flight distribution of cold atoms in optical lattices, respectively. This removes a major obstacle which so far has prevented the direct and quantitative experimental study of genuine quantum correlations in many-body systems: The need for a full characterization of the state to quantify the entanglement contained in it. Instead, the scheme presented here relies solely on global measurements that are routinely performed and is versatile enough to accommodate systems and measurements different from the ones we exemplify in this work.

id: 1009.3002
title: Time Series, Stochastic Processes and Completeness of Quantum Theory
authors: Marian Kupczynski
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, to be published in AQT Proceedings Vaxjo 2010, AIP Conference Series
journal: 2010 AIP Conf.Proc. 1327 394
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3002
abstract: Most of physical experiments are usually described as repeated measurements of some random variables. The experimental data registered by on-line computers form time series of outcomes. The frequencies of different outcomes are compared with the probabilities provided by the algorithms of quantum theory (QT). In spite of statistical predictions of QT a claim was made that the theory provided the most complete description of the data and of the underlying physical phenomena. This claim could be easily rejected if some fine structures, averaged out in standard statistical descriptive analysis, were found in the time series of experimental data. To search for these structures one has to use more subtle statistical tools which were developed to study time series produced by various stochastic processes. In this talk we review some of these tools. As an example we show how the standard descriptive statistical analysis of the data is unable to reveal a fine structure in a simulated sample of AR(2) stochastic process. We emphasize once again that the violation of Bell inequalities gives no information on the completeness or the non locality of QT. The appropriate way to test the completeness of quantum theory is to search for fine structures in time series of experimental data by means of the purity tests or by studying the autocorrelation and partial autocorrelation functions.

id: 1009.3051
title: Ground states of unfrustrated spin Hamiltonians satisfy an area law
authors: Niel de Beaudrap, Tobias J. Osborne, Jens Eisert
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, small corrections, added a reference
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 095007 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3051
abstract: We show that ground states of unfrustrated quantum spin-1/2 systems on general lattices satisfy an entanglement area law, provided that the Hamiltonian can be decomposed into nearest-neighbor interaction terms which have entangled excited states. The ground state manifold can be efficiently described as the image of a low-dimensional subspace of low Schmidt measure, under an efficiently contractible tree-tensor network. This structure gives rise to the possibility of efficiently simulating the complete ground space (which is in general degenerate). We briefly discuss "non-generic" cases, including highly degenerate interactions with product eigenbases, using a relationship to percolation theory. We finally assess the possibility of using such tree tensor networks to simulate almost frustration-free spin models.

id: 1009.3075
title: Quantum Dynamics of Nonlinear Cavity Systems
authors: Paul D. Nation
comments: 143 pages, 23 figures, Ph.D thesis, Dartmouth College (2010)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3075
abstract: We investigate the quantum dynamics of three different configurations of nonlinear cavity systems. To begin, we carry out a quantum analysis of a dc superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) mechanical displacement detector comprised of a SQUID with a mechanically compliant loop segment. The SQUID is approximated by a nonlinear current-dependent inductor, inducing a flux tunable nonlinear Duffing term in the cavity equation of motion. Expressions are derived for the detector signal and noise response where it is found that a soft-spring Duffing self-interaction enables a closer approach to the displacement detection standard quantum limit, as well as cooling closer to the ground state. Next, we make use of a superconducting transmission line formed from an array of dc-SQUIDs for investigating analogue Hawking radiation. Biasing the array with a space-time varying flux modifies the propagation velocity of the transmission line, leading to an effective metric with a horizon. This setup allows for quantum effects such as backreaction and analogue space-time fluctuations on the Hawking process. Finally, we look at a quantum parametric amplifier with dynamical pump mode, viewed as a zero-dimensional model of Hawking radiation from an evaporating black hole. The conditions are derived under which the spectrum of particles generated from vacuum fluctuations deviates from the thermal spectrum predicted for the conventional parametric amplifier. We find that significant deviation occurs once the pump mode (black hole) has released nearly half of its initial energy in the signal (Hawking radiation) and idler (in-falling particle) modes. As a model of black hole dynamics, this finding lends support to the view that late-time Hawking radiation contains information about the quantum state of the black hole and is entangled with the black hole's quantum gravitational degrees of freedom.

id: 1009.3081
title: Demonstration of Deutsch's Algorithm on a Stable Linear-Optical Quantum Computer
authors: Pei Zhang, Rui-Feng Liu, Yun-Feng Huang, Hong Gao, Fu-Li Li
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 064302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3081
abstract: We report an experimental demonstration of quantum Deutsch's algorithm by using linear-optical system. By employing photon's polarization and spatial modes, we implement all balanced and constant functions for quantum computer. The experimental system is very stable and the experimental data are excellent in accordance with the theoretical results.

id: 1009.3086
title: Demonstration of local expansion toward large-scale entangled webs
authors: Toshiyuki Tashima, Tsuyoshi Kitano, Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 210503 (2010) [4 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3086
abstract: We demonstrate an optical gate that increases the size of polarization-based W states by accessing only one of the qubits. Using this gate, we have generated three-photon and four-photon W states with fidelities $0.836\pm 0.042 $ and $0.784\pm 0.028$, respectively. We also confirmed existence of pairwise entanglement in every pair of the qubits including the one that was left untouched by the gate. The gate is applicable to any size of W states and hence is a universal tool for expanding entanglement.

id: 1009.3121
title: Test of Purity by LOCC
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3121
abstract: Given n-copies of unknown bipartite (possiblly mixed) state, our task is to test whether the state is a pure state of not. Allowed to use the global operations, optimal one-sided error test is the projection onto the symmetric subspace, obviously. Is it possible to approximate the globally optimal measurement by LOCC when n is large?

id: 1009.3127
title: Purification of noisy quantum measurements
authors: M. Dall'Arno, G. M. D'Ariano, M. F. Sacchi
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures; minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042315 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3127
abstract: We consider the problem of improving noisy quantum measurements by suitable preprocessing strategies making many noisy detectors equivalent to a single ideal detector. For observables pertaining to finite-dimensional systems (e.g. qubits or spins) we consider preprocessing strategies that are reminiscent of quantum error correction procedures and allows one to perfectly measure an observable on a single quantum system for increasing number of inefficient detectors. For measurements of observables with unbounded spectrum (e.g. photon number, homodyne and heterodyne detection), the purification of noisy quantum measurements can be achieved by preamplification as suggested by H. P. Yuen [1].

id: 1009.3135
title: Casimir Friction Force and Energy Dissipation for Moving Harmonic Oscillators. II
authors: Johan S. H?ye, I. Brevik
comments: 12 pages, no figures. Discussion expanded; matches version to appear in European Phys. J. D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3135
abstract: This paper is a second in a series devoted to the study of a two-oscillator system in linear relative motion (the first one published as a letter in Europhys. Lett. 91, 60003 (2010)). The main idea behind considering this kind of system is to use it as a simple model for Casimir friction. In the present paper we extend our previous theory so as to obtain the change in the oscillator energy to second order in the perturbation, even though we employ first order perturbation theory only. The results agree with, and confirm, our earlier results obtained via different routes. The friction force is finite at finite temperatures, whereas in the case of two oscillators moving with constant relative velocity the force becomes zero at zero temperature, due to slowly varying coupling.

id: 1009.3140
title: Engineering two-mode squeezed states of cold atomic clouds with a superconducting stripline resonator
authors: Pengbo Li, Fuli Li
comments: To appear in Optics Communications,8pages,2figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3140
abstract: A scheme is proposed for engineering two-mode squeezed states of two separated cold atomic clouds positioned near the surface of a superconducting stripline resonator. Based on the coherent magnetic coupling between the atomic spins and a stripline resonator mode, the desired two-mode squeezed state can be produced via precisely control on the dynamics of the system. This scheme may be used to realize scalable on-chip quantum networks with cold atoms coupling to stripline resonators.

id: 1009.3228
title: Programmable entanglement oscillations in a non Markovian channel
authors: Simone Cialdi, Davide Brivio, Enrico Tesio, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042308 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3228
abstract: We suggest and demonstrate an all-optical experimental setup to observe and engineer entanglement oscillations of a pair of polarization qubits in a non-Markovian channel. We generate entangled photon pairs by spontaneous parametric downconversion (SPDC), and then insert a programmable spatial light modulator in order to impose a polarization dependent phase-shift on the spatial domain of the SPDC output and to create an effective non-Markovian environment. Modulation of the enviroment spectrum is obtained by inserting a spatial grating on the signal arm. In our experiment, programmable oscillations of entanglement are achieved, with the maximally revived state that violates Bell's inequality by 17 standard deviations.

id: 1009.3288
title: Quantum chaos of a mixed, open system of kicked cold atoms
authors: Yevgeny Krivolapov, Shmuel Fishman, Edward Ott, Thomas M. Antonsen
comments: 19 pages, 21 figures, (accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. E)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3288
abstract: The quantum and classical dynamics of particles kicked by a gaussian attractive potential are studied. Classically, it is an open mixed system (the motion in some parts of the phase space is chaotic, and in some parts it is regular). The fidelity (Lochshmidt echo) is found to exhibit oscillations that can be determined from classical considerations but are sensitive to phase space structures that are smaller than Planck's constant. Families of quasi-energies are determined from classical phase space structures. Substantial differences between the classical and quantum dynamics are found for time dependent scattering. It is argued that the system can be experimentally realized by cold atoms kicked by a gaussian light beam.

id: 1009.3307
title: Quantum process tomography with coherent states
authors: Saleh Rahimi-Keshari, Artur Scherer, Ady Mann, Ali T. Rezakhani, A. I. Lvovsky, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 013006 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3307
abstract: We develop an enhanced technique for characterizing quantum optical processes based on probing unknown quantum processes only with coherent states. Our method substantially improves the original proposal [M. Lobino et al., Science 322, 563 (2008)], which uses a filtered Glauber-Sudarshan decomposition to determine the effect of the process on an arbitrary state. We introduce a new relation between the action of a general quantum process on coherent state inputs and its action on an arbitrary quantum state. This relation eliminates the need to invoke the Glauber-Sudarshan representation for states; hence it dramatically simplifies the task of process identification and removes a potential source of error. The new relation also enables straightforward extensions of the method to multi-mode and non-trace-preserving processes. We illustrate our formalism with several examples, in which we derive analytic representations of several fundamental quantum optical processes in the Fock basis. In particular, we introduce photon-number cutoff as a reasonable physical resource limitation and address resource vs accuracy trade-off in practical applications. We show that the accuracy of process estimation scales inversely with the square root of photon-number cutoff.

id: 1009.3335
title: Correlated two-photon transport in a one-dimensional waveguide side-coupled to a nonlinear cavity
authors: Jie-Qiao Liao, C. K. Law
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 053836 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3335
abstract: We investigate the transport properties of two photons inside a one-dimensional waveguide side-coupled to a single-mode nonlinear cavity. The cavity is filled with a nonlinear Kerr medium. Based on the Laplace transform method, we present analytic solution of quantum states of the transmitted and reflected two photons, which are initially prepared in a Lorentzian wave packet. The solution reveals how quantum correlation between the two photons emerge after the scattering by the nonlinear cavity. In particular, we show that the output wave function of the two photons in position space can be localized in the relative coordinates, which is a feature that may be interpreted as a two-photon bound state in this waveguide-cavity system.

id: 1009.3349
title: Analysis of a continuous-variable quadripartite cluster state from a single optical parametric oscillator
authors: S.L.W. Midgley, A.S. Bradley, O. Pfister, M.K. Olsen
comments: 26 pages, 12 figures
journal: Physical Review A 82,053826 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3349
abstract: We examine the feasibility of generating continuous-variable multipartite entanglement in an intra-cavity quadruply concurrent downconversion scheme that has been proposed for the generation of cluster states by Menicucci \textit{et al.} [Physical Review Letters \textbf{101}, 130501 (2008)]. By calculating optimized versions of the van Loock-Furusawa correlations we demonstrate genuine quadripartite entanglement and investigate the degree of entanglement present. Above the oscillation threshold the basic cluster state geometry under consideration suffers from phase diffusion. We alleviate this problem by incorporating a small injected signal into our analysis. Finally, we investigate squeezed joint operators. While the squeezed joint operators approach zero in the undepleted regime, we find that this is not the case when we consider the full interaction Hamiltonian and the presence of a cavity. In fact, we find that the decay of these operators is minimal in a cavity, and even depletion alone inhibits cluster state formation.

id: 1009.3394
title: Spin systems dynamics and faults detection in threshold networks
authors: Steve Kirkland, Simone Severini
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012310 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3394
abstract: We consider an agent on a fixed but arbitrary node of a known threshold network, with the task of detecting an unknown missing link/node. We obtain analytic formulas for the probability of success, when the agent's tool is the free evolution of a single excitation on an XX spin system paired with the network. We completely characterize the parameters allowing for an advantageous solution. From the results emerges an optimal (deterministic) algorithm for quantum search, therefore gaining a quadratic speed-up with respect to the optimal classical analogue, and in line with well-known results in quantum computation. When attempting to detect a faulty node, the chosen setting appears to be very fragile and the probability of success too small to be of any direct use.

id: 1009.3482
title: Optimal Gaussian Entanglement Swapping
authors: Jason Hoelscher-Obermaier, Peter van Loock
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, minor corrections in version 2 with one reference added (ref.9)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3482
abstract: We consider entanglement swapping with general mixed two-mode Gaussian states and calculate the optimal gains for a broad class of such states including those states most relevant in communication scenarios. We show that for this class of states, entanglement swapping adds no additional mixedness, that is the ensemble average output state has the same purity as the input states. This implies that, by using intermediate entanglement swapping steps, it is, in principle, possible to distribute entangled two-mode Gaussian states of higher purity as compared to direct transmission. We then apply the general results on optimal Gaussian swapping to the problem of quantum communication over a lossy fiber and demonstrate that, contrary to negative conclusions in the literature, swapping-based schemes in fact often perform better than direct transmission for high input squeezing. However, an effective transmission analysis reveals that the hope for improved performance based on optimal Gaussian entanglement swapping is spurious since the swapping does not lead to an enhancement of the effective transmission. This implies that the same or better results can always be obtained using direct transmission in combination with, in general, less squeezing.

id: 1009.3486
title: Ground state blind quantum computation on AKLT state
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae, Vedran Dunjko, Elham Kashefi
comments: 26 pages, 6 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 15, pp0200-0234 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3486
abstract: The blind quantum computing protocols (BQC) enable a classical client with limited quantum technology to delegate a computation to the quantum server(s) in such a way that the privacy of the computation is preserved. Here we present a new scheme for BQC that uses the concept of the measurement based quantum computing with the novel resource state of Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki (AKLT) chains leading to more robust computation. AKLT states are physically motivated resource as they are gapped ground states of a physically natural Hamiltonian in condensed matter physics. Our BQC protocol can enjoy the advantages of AKLT resource states, such as the cooling preparation of the resource state, the energy-gap protection of the quantum computation, and the simple and efficient preparation of the resource state in linear optics with biphotons.

id: 1009.3487
title: The Casimir force on a surface with shallow nanoscale corrugations: Geometry and finite conductivity effects
authors: Y. Bao, R. Gu¨¦rout, J. Lussange, A. Lambrecht, R. A. Cirelli, F. Klemens, W. M. Mansfield, C. S. Pai, H. B. Chan
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:250402,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3487
abstract: We measure the Casimir force between a gold sphere and a silicon plate with nanoscale, rectangular corrugations with depth comparable to the separation between the surfaces. In the proximity force approximation (PFA), both the top and bottom surfaces of the corrugations contribute to the force, leading to a distance dependence that is distinct from a flat surface. The measured Casimir force is found to deviate from the PFA by up to 15%, in good agreement with calculations based on scattering theory that includes both geometry effects and the optical properties of the material.

id: 1009.3489
title: Two-particle Kapitza-Dirac diffraction
authors: Pedro Sancho
comments: Minor changes with the published version
journal: PRA 82, 033814 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3489
abstract: We extend the study of Kapitza-Dirac diffraction to the case of two-particle systems. Due to the exchange effects the shape and visibility of the two-particle detection patterns show important differences for identical and distinguishable particles. We also identify a novel quantum statistics effect present in momentum space for some values of the initial particle momenta, which is associated with different numbers of photon absorptions compatible with the final momenta.

id: 1009.3491
title: Quantum computational capability of a 2D valence bond solid phase
authors: Akimasa Miyake
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures; final published version, submitted to the journal on 23 Sep 2010. The article does not assume familiarity with quantum computation
journal: Ann. Phys. 326, 1656-1671 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3491
abstract: Quantum phases of naturally-occurring systems exhibit distinctive collective phenomena as manifestation of their many-body correlations, in contrast to our persistent technological challenge to engineer at will such strong correlations artificially. Here we show theoretically that quantum correlations exhibited in the two-dimensional valence bond solid phase of a quantum antiferromagnet, modeled by Affleck, Kennedy, Lieb, and Tasaki as a precursor of spin liquids and topological orders, are sufficiently complex yet structured enough to simulate universal quantum computation when every single spin can be measured individually. This unveils that an intrinsic complexity of naturally-occurring 2D quantum systems -- which has been a long-standing challenge for traditional computers -- could be tamed as a computationally valuable resource, even if we are limited not to create newly entanglement during computation. Our constructive protocol leverages a novel way to herald the correlations suitable for deterministic quantum computation through a random sampling, and may be extensible to other ground states of various 2D valence bond phases beyond the AKLT state.

id: 1009.3496
title: Nonlocal Phases of Local Quantum Mechanical Wavefunctions in Static and Time-Dependent Aharonov-Bohm Experiments
authors: Konstantinos Moulopoulos
comments: 49 pages, 1 figure, presented in Conferences "50 years of the Aharonov-Bohm effect and 25 years of the Berry's phase" (Tel Aviv and Bristol), published in Journ. Phys. A. Compared to the published paper, this version has 17 additional lines after eqn.(14) for maximum clarity, and the Abstract has been slightly modified and reduced from the published 2035 characters to the required 1920 characters
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, vol. 43 (2010), 354019 (32pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3496
abstract: We show that the standard Dirac phase factor is not the only solution of the gauge transformation equations. The full form of a general gauge function (that connects systems that move in different sets of scalar and vector potentials), apart from Dirac phases also contains terms of classical fields that act nonlocally (in spacetime) on the local solutions of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation: the phases of wavefunctions in the Schr\"odinger picture are affected nonlocally by spatially and temporally remote magnetic and electric fields, in ways that are fully explored. These contributions go beyond the usual Aharonov-Bohm effects (magnetic or electric). (i) Application to cases of particles passing through static magnetic or electric fields leads to cancellations of Aharonov-Bohm phases at the observation point; these are linked to behaviors at the semiclassical level (to the old Werner & Brill experimental observations, or their "electric analogs" - or to recent reports of Batelaan & Tonomura) but are shown to be far more general (true not only for narrow wavepackets but also for completely delocalized quantum states). By using these cancellations, certain previously unnoticed sign-errors in the literature are corrected. (ii) Application to time-dependent situations provides a remedy for erroneous results in the literature (on improper uses of Dirac phase factors) and leads to phases that contain an Aharonov-Bohm part and a field-nonlocal part: their competition is shown to recover Relativistic Causality in earlier "paradoxes" (such as the van Kampen thought-experiment), while a more general consideration indicates that the temporal nonlocalities found here demonstrate in part a causal propagation of phases of quantum mechanical wavefunctions in the Schr\"odinger picture. This may open a direct way to address time-dependent double-slit experiments and the associated causal issues

id: 1009.3537
title: Casimir force in the presence of a magnetodielectric medium
authors: Fardin Kheirandish, Morteza Soltani, Jalal Sarabadani
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81, 052110 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3537
abstract: In this article we investigate the Casimir effect in the presence of a medium by quantizing the Electromagnetic (EM) field in the presence of a magnetodielectric medium by using the path integral formalism. For a given medium with definite electric and magnetic susceptibilities, explicit expressions for the Casimir force are obtained which are in agree with the original Casimir force between two conducting parallel plates immersed in the quantum electromagnetic vacuum.

id: 1009.3562
title: Independent Attacks in Imperfect Settings; A Case for A Two Way Quantum Key Distribution Scheme
authors: J.S. Shaari, Iskandar Bahari
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 374, Issue 41, 2010, Pages 4205-4211
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3562
abstract: We review the study on a two way quantum key distribution protocol given imperfect settings through a simple analysis of a toy model and show that it can outperform a BB84 setup. We provide the sufficient condition for this as a ratio of optimal intensities for the protocols.

id: 1009.3617
title: Quantum Dynamics Arising from Statistical Axioms
authors: Avi Marchewka, Er'el Granot
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3617
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of pairs of Fermions and Bosons released from a box and find that their populations have unique generic properties ensuing from the axioms of quantum statistics and symmetries. These depend neither on the specific equations of wave function propagation, such as Schr\"odinger, Klein-Gordon, Dirac, nor on the specific potential involved. One surprising finding is that after releasing the pairs, there are always more Boson than Fermion pairs outside the box. Moreover, if the initial wave functions have the same symmetry (odd or even), then there is a higher chance for a Boson than a Fermion pair to escape from the trap in opposite directions, as if they repel each other. We calculate the wave functions exactly, numerically, and asymptotically for short time and demonstrate these generic results in the specific case of particles released from an infinite well.

id: 1009.3639
title: Robust randomized benchmarking of quantum processes
authors: Easwar Magesan, J. M. Gambetta, Joseph Emerson
comments: 4+ pages, 1 figure, and 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 180504 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3639
abstract: We describe a simple randomized benchmarking protocol for quantum information processors and obtain a sequence of models for the observable fidelity decay as a function of a perturbative expansion of the errors. We are able to prove that the protocol provides an efficient and reliable estimate of an average error-rate for a set operations (gates) under a general noise model that allows for both time and gate-dependent errors. We determine the conditions under which this estimate remains valid and illustrate the protocol through numerical examples.

id: 1009.3659
title: Disentanglement and Decoherence without dissipation at non-zero temperatures
authors: G. W. Ford, R. F. O'Connell
comments: 3 pages
journal: Phys.Scr. 82,038112 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3659
abstract: Decoherence is well understood, in contrast to disentanglement. According to common lore, irreversible coupling to a dissipative environment is the mechanism for loss of entanglement. Here, we show that, on the contrary, disentanglement can in fact occur at large enough temperatures $T$ even for vanishingly small dissipation (as we have shown previously for decoherence). However, whereas the effect of $T$ on decoherence increases exponentially with time, the effect of $T$ on disentanglement is constant for all times, reflecting a fundamental difference between the two phenomena. Also, the possibility of disentanglement at a particular $T$ increases with decreasing initial entanglement.

id: 1009.3686
title: Quantum computing with nearest neighbor interactions and error rates over 1%
authors: David S. Wang, Austin G. Fowler, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 4 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 020302(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3686
abstract: Large-scale quantum computation will only be achieved if experimentally implementable quantum error correction procedures are devised that can tolerate experimentally achievable error rates. We describe a quantum error correction procedure that requires only a 2-D square lattice of qubits that can interact with their nearest neighbors, yet can tolerate quantum gate error rates over 1%. The precise maximum tolerable error rate depends on the error model, and we calculate values in the range 1.1--1.4% for various physically reasonable models. Even the lowest value represents the highest threshold error rate calculated to date in a geometrically constrained setting, and a 50% improvement over the previous record.

id: 1009.3782
title: Entanglement criteria and full separability of multi-qubit quantum states
authors: Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 11 pages, no figures, v2: small changes
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375, 406 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3782
abstract: We introduce an entanglement criterion to exclude full separability of quantum states. We present numerical evidence that the criterion is necessary and sufficient for the class of GHZ diagonal three-qubit states and estimate the volume of bound entangled states within this class. Finally, we extend our approach to bound entangled states which are not GHZ diagonal.

id: 1009.3786
title: A universe of processes and some of its guises
authors: Bob Coecke
comments: Invited chapter in: "Deep Beauty: Understanding the Quantum World through Mathematical Innovation", H. Halvorson, ed., Cambridge University Press, forthcoming. (as usual, many pictures)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3786
abstract: Our starting point is a particular `canvas' aimed to `draw' theories of physics, which has symmetric monoidal categories as its mathematical backbone. In this paper we consider the conceptual foundations for this canvas, and how these can then be converted into mathematical structure. With very little structural effort (i.e. in very abstract terms) and in a very short time span the categorical quantum mechanics (CQM) research program has reproduced a surprisingly large fragment of quantum theory. It also provides new insights both in quantum foundations and in quantum information, and has even resulted in automated reasoning software called `quantomatic' which exploits the deductive power of CQM. In this paper we complement the available material by not requiring prior knowledge of category theory, and by pointing at connections to previous and current developments in the foundations of physics. This research program is also in close synergy with developments elsewhere, for example in representation theory, quantum algebra, knot theory, topological quantum field theory and several other areas.

id: 1009.3788
title: A Note on Coriolis Quantum States
authors: G. Dattoli, M. Quattromini
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3788
abstract: We introduce the Coriolis quantum states in analogy to the Landau states. We discuss their physical meaning and their role within the context of gravito-magnetic theory. We also analyse the experimental conditions under which they can be observed and their link with the Aharanov-Carmi effect.

id: 1009.3817
title: Undecidability as solution to the problem of measurement: fundamental criterion for the production of events
authors: Rodolfo Gambini, Luis Pedro Garcia-Pintos, Jorge Pullin
comments: 10 pages, contributed to the Castagnino Festschrift
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.D20:909-918,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3817
abstract: In recent papers we put forth a new interpretation of quantum mechanics, colloquially known as ``the Montevideo interpretation''. This interpretation is based on taking into account fundamental limits that gravity imposes on the measurement process. As a consequence one has that situations develop where a reduction process is undecidable from an evolution operator. When such a situation is achieved, an event has taken place. In this paper we sharpen the definition of when and how events occur, more precisely we give sufficient conditions for the occurrence of events. We probe the new definition in an example. In particular we show that the concept of undecidability used is not ``FAPP'' (for all practical purposes), but fundamental.

id: 1009.3830
title: Passive sources for the Bennett-Brassard 1984 quantum key distribution protocol with practical signals
authors: Marcos Curty, Xiongfeng Ma, Hoi-Kwong Lo, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052325 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3830
abstract: Most experimental realizations of quantum key distribution are based on the Bennett-Brassard 1984 (so-called BB84) protocol. In a typical optical implementation of this scheme, the sender uses an active source to produce the required BB84 signal states. While active state preparation of BB84 signals is a simple and elegant solution in principle, in practice passive state preparation might be desirable in some scenarios, for instance, in those experimental setups operating at high transmission rates. Passive schemes might also be more robust against side-channel attacks than active sources. Typical passive devices involve parametric down-conversion. In this paper, we show that both coherent light and practical single photon sources are also suitable for passive generation of BB84 signal states. Our method does not require any external-driven element, but only linear optical components and photodetectors. In the case of coherent light, the resulting key rate is similar to the one delivered by an active source. When the sender uses practical single photon sources, however, the distance covered by a passive transmitter might be longer than the one of an active configuration.

id: 1009.3876
title: A planar dielectric antenna for directional single-photon emission and near-unity collection efficiency
authors: K. G. Lee, X. W. Chen, H. Eghlidi, P. Kukura, R. Lettow, A. Renn, V. Sandoghdar, S. G?tzinger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3876
abstract: Single emitters have been considered as sources of single photons in various contexts such as cryptography, quantum computation, spectroscopy, and metrology. The success of these applications will crucially rely on the efficient directional emission of photons into well-defined modes. To accomplish a high efficiency, researchers have investigated microcavities at cryogenic temperatures, photonic nanowires, and near-field coupling to metallic nano-antennas. However, despite an impressive progress, the existing realizations substantially fall short of unity collection efficiency. Here we report on a theoretical and experimental study of a dielectric planar antenna, which uses a layered structure for tailoring the angular emission of a single oriented molecule. We demonstrate a collection efficiency of 96% using a microscope objective at room temperature and obtain record detection rates of about 50 MHz. Our scheme is wavelength-insensitive and can be readily extended to other solid-state emitters such as color centers and semiconductor quantum dots.

id: 1009.3914
title: The Everett-Wheeler interpretation and the open future
authors: Anthony Sudbery
comments: 11 pages
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1327, 492-497 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3914
abstract: I discuss the meaning of probability in the Everett-Wheeler interpretation of quantum mechanics, together with the problem of defining histories. To resolve these, I propose an understanding of probability arising from a form of temporal logic: the probability of a future-tense proposition is identified with its truth value in a many-valued and context-dependent logic. In short, probability is degree of truth. These ideas appear to be new (though I expect correction on this), but they are natural and intuitive, and relate to traditional naive ideas of time and chance. Indeed, I argue that Everettian quantum mechanics is the only form of scientific theory that truly incorporates the perception that the future is open.

id: 1009.3942
title: Coherent and incoherent dynamics in excitonic energy transfer: correlated fluctuations and off-resonance effects
authors: Dara P. S. McCutcheon, Ahsan Nazir
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, builds upon PRL 103, 146404 (2009) (arXiv:0906.0592). Comments welcome. V2 - Section IV shortened to improve presentation, references updated, new Imperial College affiliation added for A. Nazir. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 165101 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3942
abstract: We study the nature of the energy transfer process within a pair of coupled two-level systems (donor and acceptor) subject to interactions with the surrounding environment. Going beyond a standard weak-coupling approach, we derive a master equation within the polaron representation that allows for investigation of both weak and strong system-bath couplings, as well as reliable interpolation between these two limits. With this theory, we are then able to explore both coherent and incoherent regimes of energy transfer within the donor-acceptor pair. We elucidate how the degree of correlation in the donor and acceptor fluctuations, the donor-acceptor energy mismatch, and the range of the environment frequency distribution impact upon the energy transfer dynamics. In the resonant case (no energy mismatch) we describe in detail how a crossover from coherent to incoherent transfer dynamics occurs with increasing temperature [A. Nazir, Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 146404 (2009)], and we also explore how fluctuation correlations are able to protect coherence in the energy transfer process. We show that a strict crossover criterion is harder to define when off-resonance, though we find qualitatively similar population dynamics to the resonant case with increasing temperature, while the amplitude of coherent population oscillations also becomes suppressed with growing site energy mismatch.

id: 1009.3981
title: Temperature Dependent Performances of Superconducting Nanowire Single-Photon Detectors in an Ultralow-Temperature Region
authors: Taro Yamashita, Shigehito Miki, Wei Qiu, Mikio Fujiwara, Masahide Sasaki, Zhen Wang
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Applied Physics Express 3 (2010) 102502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3981
abstract: We present the performances of a superconducting nanowire single-photon detector (SNSPD) in an ultralow-temperature region from 16 mK to 4 K. The system detection efficiency of the SNSPD showed saturation in the bias-current and temperature dependences, and reached the considerably high value of 15% for 100 Hz dark count rate below 1.4 K at a wavelength of 1550 nm even without an optical cavity structure. We found that the dark count exists even at 16 mK and black body radiation becomes its dominant origin in the low temperatures for fiber-coupled devices.

id: 1009.4030
title: Operator formalism for the Wigner phase distribution
authors: T. Subeesh, Vivishek Sudhir
comments: 5 pages
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, 58: 9, 761 - 765, 18 April 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4030
abstract: The probability distribution for finding a state of the radiation field in a particular phase is described by a multitude of theoretical formalisms; the phase-sensitivity of the Wigner quasi-probability distribution being one of them. We construct a hermitian phase operator for this Wigner phase. We show that this operator is complete and also elucidate a set of complete but non-orthogonal states that seems to be naturally associated with such an operator. Further we show that our operator satisfies a weak equivalence relation with the Pegg-Barnett operator, thus showing that the essential phase information furnished by both formalisms are the same. It is also shown that this operator gives results which are in correct agreement with the expected uniform phase distribution of a Fock state.

id: 1009.4054
title: Tilted phase space measurements
authors: Pekka Lahti, Jussi Schultz
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052121 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4054
abstract: We show that the phase shift of {\pi}/2 is crucial for the phase space translation covariance of the measured high-amplitude limit observable in eight-port homodyne detection. However, for an arbitrary phase shift {\theta} we construct explicitly a different nonequivalent projective representation of R$^2$ such that the observable is covariant with respect to this representation. As a result we are able to determine the measured observable for an arbitrary parameter field and phase shift. Geometrically the change in the phase shift corresponds to the tilting of one axis in the phase space of the system.

id: 1009.4072
title: What classicality? Decoherence and Bohr's classical concepts
authors: Maximilian Schlosshauer, Kristian Camilleri
comments: 6 pages
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1327, 26-35 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4072
abstract: Niels Bohr famously insisted on the indispensability of what he termed "classical concepts." In the context of the decoherence program, on the other hand, it has become fashionable to talk about the "dynamical emergence of classicality" from the quantum formalism alone. Does this mean that decoherence challenges Bohr's dictum -- for example, that classical concepts do not need to be assumed but can be derived? In this paper, we'll try to shed some light down the murky waters where formalism and philosophy mingle. To begin, we'll clarify the notion of classicality in the decoherence description. We'll then discuss Bohr's and Heisenberg's takes on the quantum-classical problem and reflect on the different meanings of the terms "classicality" and "classical concepts" in the writings of Bohr and his followers. This analysis will allow us to put forward some tentative suggestions for how we may better understand the relation between decoherence-induced classicality and Bohr's classical concepts.

id: 1009.4075
title: Dynamical enhancement of spatial entanglement in massive particles
authors: Michael Lubasch, Florian Mintert, Sandro Wimberger
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 063615 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4075
abstract: We discuss dynamical enhancement of entanglement in a driven Bose-Hubbard model and find an enhancement of two orders of magnitude which is robust against fluctuations in experimental parameters.

id: 1009.4107
title: Vacuum friction in rotating particles
authors: A. Manjavacas, F. J. Garc¨ªa de Abajo
comments: 4 figures, 10 pages, includes paper and supplementary information in the appendix
journal: Physical Review Letters 105, 113601 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4107
abstract: We study the frictional torque acting on particles rotating in empty space. At zero temperature, vacuum friction transforms mechanical energy into light emission and produces particle heating. However, particle cooling relative to the environment occurs at finite temperatures and low rotation velocities. Radiation emission is boosted and its spectrum significantly departed from a hot-body emission profile as the velocity increases. Stopping times ranging from hours to billions of years are predicted for materials, particle sizes, and temperatures accessible to experiment. Implications for the behavior of cosmic dust are discussed.

id: 1009.4147
title: Entanglement of Indistinguishable Particles
authors: Toshihiko Sasaki, Tsubasa Ichikawa, Izumi Tsutsui
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, major revision
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83 (2011) 012113
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4147
abstract: We present a general criterion for entanglement of N indistinguishable particles decomposed into arbitrary s subsystems based on the unambiguous measurability of correlation. Our argument provides a unified viewpoint on the entanglement of indistinguishable particles, which is still unsettled despite various proposals made mainly for the s = 2 case. Even though entanglement is defined only with reference to the measurement setup, we find that the so-called i.i.d. states form a special class of bosonic states which are universally separable.

id: 1009.4171
title: Entangling unstable optically active matter qubits
authors: Yuichiro Matsuzaki, Simon C. Benjamin, Joseph Fitzsimons
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4171
abstract: In distributed quantum computation, small devices composed of a single or a few qubits are networker together to achieve a scalable machine. Typically there is an optically active matter qubit at each node, so that photons are exploited to achieve remote entanglement. However, in many systems the optically active states are unstable or poorly defined. We report a scheme to perform a high-fidelity entanglement operation even given severe instability. The protocol exploits the existence of optically excited states for phase acquisition without actually exciting those states; it functions with or without cavities and does not require number resolving detectors.

id: 1009.4180
title: Entanglement of light-shift compensated atomic spin waves with telecom light
authors: Y. O. Dudin, A. G. Radnaev, R. Zhao, J. Z. Blumoff, T. A. B. Kennedy, A. Kuzmich
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4180
abstract: Entanglement of a 795 nm light polarization qubit and an atomic Rb spin wave qubit for a storage time of 0.1 s is observed by measuring the violation of Bell's inequality (S = 2.65 \pm 0.12). Long qubit storage times are achieved by pinning the spin wave in a 1064 nm wavelength optical lattice, with a magic-valued magnetic field superposed to eliminate lattice-induced dephasing. Four-wave mixing in a cold Rb gas is employed to perform light qubit conversion between near infra red (795 nm) and telecom (1367 nm) wavelengths, and after propagation in a telecom fiber, to invert the conversion process. Observed Bell inequality violation (S = 2.66 \pm 0.09), at 10 ms storage, confirms preservation of memory/light entanglement through the two stages of light qubit frequency conversion.

id: 1009.4207
title: Bound non-locality and activation
authors: Nicolas Brunner, Daniel Cavalcanti, Alejo Salles, Paul Skrzypczyk
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 020402 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4207
abstract: We investigate non-locality distillation using measures of non-locality based on the Elitzur-Popescu-Rohrlich decomposition. For a certain number of copies of a given non-local correlation, we define two quantities of interest: (i) the non-local cost, and (ii) the distillable non-locality. We find that there exist correlations whose distillable non-locality is strictly smaller than their non-local cost. Thus non-locality displays a form of irreversibility which we term bound non-locality. Finally we show that non-local distillability can be activated.

id: 1009.4208
title: Interference and complementarity for two-photon hybrid entangled states
authors: W. A. T. Nogueira, M. Santiba?ez, S. P¨¢dua, A. Delgado, C. Saavedra, L. Neves, G. Lima
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures. Accepted in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4208
abstract: In this work we generate two-photon hybrid entangled states (HES), where the polarization of one photon is entangled with the transverse spatial degree of freedom of the second photon. The photon pair is created by parametric down-conversion in a polarization-entangled state. A birefringent double-slit couples the polarization and spatial degrees of freedom of these photons and finally, suitable spatial and polarization projections generate the HES. We investigate some interesting aspects of the two-photon hybrid interference, and present this study in the context of the complementarity relation that exists between the visibilities of the one- and two-photon interference patterns.

id: 1009.4231
title: Determination of the vacuum optomechanical coupling rate using frequency noise calibration
authors: Michael Gorodetsky, Albert Schliesser, Georg Anetsberger, Samuel Deleglise, Tobias J. Kippenberg
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4231
abstract: The strength of optomechanical interactions in a cavity optomechanical system can be quantified by a vacuum coupling rate $\vcr$ analogous to cavity quantum electrodynamics. This single figure of merit removes the ambiguity in the frequently quoted coupling parameter defining the frequency shift for a given mechanical displacement, and the effective mass of the mechanical mode. Here we demonstrate and verify a straightforward experimental technique to derive the vacuum optomechanical coupling rate. It only requires applying a known frequency modulation of the employed electromagnetic probe field and knowledge of the mechanical oscillator's occupation. The method is experimentally verified for a micromechanical mode in a toroidal whispering-gallery-resonator and a nanomechanical oscillator coupled to a toroidal cavity via its near field.

id: 1009.4250
title: Experimental demonstration of three-color entanglement
authors: A. S. Coelho, F. A. S. Barbosa, K. N. Cassemiro, A. S. Villar, M. Martinelli, P. Nussenzveig
comments: 
journal: Science , v. 326, p. 823-826, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4250
abstract: Entanglement is the essential quantum resource for a potential speed-up of information processing, as well as for sophisticated quantum communication. Quantum information networks will be required to convey information from one place to another, by using entangled light beams. Many physical systems are under consideration as building blocks, with different merits and faults, so that hybrid systems are likely to be developed. Here we present an important tool for connecting systems that share no common resonance frequencies: we demonstrate the first direct generation of entanglement among more than two bright beams of light, all of different wavelengths (532.251 nm, 1062.102 nm, and 1066.915 nm). We also observe, for the first time, disentanglement for finite channel losses, the continuous variable counterpart to entanglement sudden death.

id: 1009.4252
title: High efficiency tomographic reconstruction of quantum states by quantum nondemolition measurements
authors: J. S. Huang, L. F. Wei, C. H. Oh
comments: 9pages,4figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4252
abstract: We propose a high efficiency tomographic scheme to reconstruct an unknown quantum state of the qubits by using a series of quantum nondemolition (QND) measurements. The proposed QND measurements of the qubits are implemented by probing the the stationary transmissions of the dispersively-coupled resonator. It is shown that only one kind of QND measurements is sufficient to determine all the diagonal elements of the density matrix of the detected quantum state. The remaining non-diagonal elements of the density matrix can be determined by other spectral measurements by beforehand transferring them to the diagonal locations using a series of unitary operations. Compared with the pervious tomographic reconstructions based on the usual destructively projective (DP) measurements (wherein one kind of such measurements could only determine one diagonal element of the density matrix), the present approach exhibits significantly high efficiency for N-qubit (N > 1). Specifically, our generic proposal is demonstrated by the experimental circuit-quantumelectrodynamics (circuit-QED) systems with a few Josephson charge qubits.

id: 1009.4253
title: Robustness of bipartite Gaussian entangled beams propagating in lossy channels
authors: F. A. S. Barbosa, A. S. Coelho, A. J. de Faria, K. N. Cassemiro, A. S. Villar, P. Nussenzveig, M. Martinelli
comments: To be published - Nature Photonics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4253
abstract: Subtle quantum properties offer exciting new prospects in optical communications. Quantum entanglement enables the secure exchange of cryptographic keys and the distribution of quantum information by teleportation. Entangled bright beams of light attract increasing interest for such tasks, since they enable the employment of well-established classical communications techniques. However, quantum resources are fragile and undergo decoherence by interaction with the environment. The unavoidable losses in the communication channel can lead to a complete destruction of useful quantum properties -- the so-called "entanglement sudden death". We investigate the precise conditions under which this phenomenon takes place for the simplest case of two light beams and demonstrate how to produce states which are robust against losses. Our study sheds new light on the intriguing properties of quantum entanglement and how they may be tamed for future applications.

id: 1009.4255
title: Disentanglement in Bipartite Continuous-Variable Systems
authors: F. A. S. Barbosa, A. S. Coelho, A. J. de Faria, K. N. Cassemiro, A. S. Villar, P. Nussenzveig, M. Martinelli
comments: Phys. Rev. A (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4255
abstract: Entanglement in bipartite continuous-variable systems is investigated in the presence of partial losses, such as those introduced by a realistic quantum communication channel, e.g. by propagation in an optical fiber. We find that entanglement can vanish completely for partial losses, in a situa- tion reminiscent of so-called entanglement sudden death. Even states with extreme squeezing may become separable after propagation in lossy channels. Having in mind the potential applications of such entangled light beams to optical communications, we investigate the conditions under which entanglement can survive for all partial losses. Different loss scenarios are examined and we derive criteria to test the robustness of entangled states. These criteria are necessary and sufficient for Gaussian states. Our study provides a framework to investigate the robustness of continuous-variable entanglement in more complex multipartite systems.

id: 1009.4295
title: Landau-Zener-St¨¹ckelberg Spectroscopy of a Superconducting Flux Qubit
authors: Shuang Xu, Guozhu Sun, Yang Yu
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4295
abstract: We proposed a new method to measure the energy spectrum of a superconducting flux qubit. Different from the conventional frequency spectroscopy, a short triangle pulse is used to drive the qubit through the anticrossing and generates Landau-Zener-St\"uckelberg interference patterns, from which the information of the energy spectrum can be extracted. Without installing microwave lines one can simplify the experimental setup and reduce the unwanted effects of noise. Moreover, the method can be applied to other quantum systems, opening the possibility of calibrating and manipulating qubits with linear pulses.

id: 1009.4298
title: Low energy states dynamic of entanglement for spin systems
authors: R. Jafari
comments: Accepted by Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 82 052317 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4298
abstract: We have composed the ideas of quantum renormalization group and quantum information by exploring the low energy states dynamic of entanglement resources of a system close to its quantum critical point. We demonstrate the low energy states dynamical quantities of the one dimensional magnetic systems could show the quantum phase transition point and shows the scaling behavior in the vicinity of the transition point. To present our idea, we study the evolution of two spins entanglement in the one-dimensional Ising model in the transverse field. The system is initialized as the so-called thermal ground state of the pure Ising model. We investigate evolvement of the generation of entanglement with increasing the magnetic field. We have obtained that the derivative of the time at which the entanglement reaches its maximums with respect to the transverse field, diverges at the critical point and its scaling behaviors versus the size of the system are as same as the static ground state entanglement of the the system.

id: 1009.4346
title: Adiabatic refocusing of nuclear spins in Tm3+:YAG
authors: R. Lauro, T. Chaneliere, J.-L. Le Gouet
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 035124 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4346
abstract: We show that the optical absorbance detection of nuclear spin echo gives direct access to the spin concentration, unlike most coherent signal detection techniques where the signal intensity/amplitude is difficult to connect experimentally with the spin concentration. This way we measure the spin refocusing efficiency in a crystal of Tm$^{3+}$:YAG. Given the large inhomogeneous broadening of the spin transition in this material, rephasing the spins with the usual hard pulse procedure would require excessively high radiofrequency power. Instead we resort to an adiabatic pulse sequence that perfectly returns the spins to their initial common orientation, at low power cost.

id: 1009.4349
title: Open Quantum System Dynamics from a Measurement Perspective: Applications to Coherent Particle Transport and to Quantum~Brownian Motion
authors: Ingo Kamleitner
comments: PhD thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4349
abstract: We employ the theoretical framework of positive operator valued measures, to study Markovian open quantum systems. In particular, we discuss how a quantum system influences its environment. Using the theory of indirect measurements, we then draw conclusions about the information we could hypothetically obtain about the system by observing the environment. Although the environment is not actually observed, we can use these results to describe the change of the quantum system due to its interaction with the environment. We apply this technique to two different problems. In the first part, we study the coherently driven dynamics of a particle on a rail of quantum dots. This tunnelling between adjacent quantum dots can be controlled externally. We employ an adiabatic scheme similar to stimulated Raman adiabatic passage, to transfer the particle between different quantum dots. We compare two fundamentally different sources of decoherence. In the second part, we study the dynamics of a free quantum particle, which experiences random collisions with gas particles. Previous studies on this topic applied scattering theory to momentum eigenstates. We present a supplementary approach, where we develop a rigorous measurement interpretation of the collision process to derive a master equation. Finally, we study the collisional decoherence process in terms of the Wigner function. We restrict ourselves to one spatial dimension. Nevertheless, we find some interesting new insight, including that the previously celebrated quantum contribution to position diffusion is not real, but a consequence of the Markovian approximation. Further, we discover that the leading decoherence process is due to phase averaging, rather than induced by the information transfer between the colliding particles.

id: 1009.4366
title: A qubit strongly-coupled to a resonant cavity: asymmetry of the spontaneous emission spectrum beyond the rotating wave approximation
authors: Xiufeng Cao, J. Q. You, Hang Zheng, F. Nori
comments: 10pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 073002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4366
abstract: We investigate the spontaneous emission spectrum of a qubit in a lossy resonant cavity. We use neither the rotating-wave approximation nor the Markov approximation. The qubit-cavity coupling strength is varied from weak, to strong, even to lower bound of the ultra-strong. For the weak-coupling case, the spontaneous emission spectrum of the qubit is a single peak, with its location depending on the spectral density of the qubit environment. Increasing the qubit-cavity coupling increases the asymmetry (the positions about the qubit energy spacing and heights of the two peaks) of the two spontaneous emission peaks (which are related to the vacuum Rabi splitting) more. Explicitly, for a qubit in a low-frequency intrinsic bath, the height asymmetry of the splitting peaks becomes larger, when the qubit-cavity coupling strength is increased. However, for a qubit in an Ohmic bath, the height asymmetry of the spectral peaks is inverted from the same case of the low-frequency bath, when the qubit is strongly coupled to the cavity. Increasing the qubit-cavity coupling to the lower bound of the ultra-strong regime, the height asymmetry of the left and right peak heights are inverted, which is consistent with the same case of low-frequency bath, only relatively weak. Therefore, our results explicitly show how the height asymmetry in the spontaneous emission spectrum peaks depends not only on the qubit-cavity coupling, but also on the type of intrinsic noise experienced by the qubit.

id: 1009.4384
title: Tripartite thermal correlations in an inhomogeneous spin-star system
authors: F. Anz¨¤, B. Militello, A. Messina
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43 (2010) 205501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4384
abstract: We exploit the tripartite negativity to study the thermal correlations in a tripartite system, that is the three outer spins interacting with the central one in a spin-star system. We analyze the dependence of such correlations on the homogeneity of the interactions, starting from the case where central-outer spin interactions are identical and then focusing on the case where the three coupling constants are different. We single out some important differences between the negativity and the concurrence.

id: 1009.4385
title: On the symmetry of the seminal Horodecki state
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375, 434 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4385
abstract: It is shown that the seminal Horodecki 2-qutrit state belongs to the class of states displaying symmetry governed by a commutative subgroup of the unitary group U(3). Taking a conjugate subgroup one obtains another classes of symmetric states and one finds equivalent representations of the Horodecki state.

id: 1009.4393
title: Finite Size Scaling for Criticality of the Schr?dinger Equation
authors: Sabre Kais
comments: 3 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4393
abstract: By solving the Schr\"odinger equation one obtains the whole energy spectrum, both the bound and the continuum states. If the Hamiltonian depends on a set of parameters, these could be tuned to a transition from bound to continuum states. The behavior of systems near the threshold, which separates bound-states from continuum states, is important in the study of such phenomenon as: ionization of atoms and molecules, molecule dissociation, scattering collisions and stability of matter. In general, the energy is non-analytic as a function of the Hamiltonian parameters or a bound-state does not exist at the threshold energy. The overall goal of this chapter is to show how one can predict, generate and identify new class of stable quantum systems using large-dimensional models and the finite size scaling approach. Within this approach, the finite size corresponds not to the spatial dimension but to the number of elements in a complete basis set used to expand the exact eigenfunction of a given Hamiltonian. This method is efficient and very accurate for estimating the critical parameters, $\{\lambda_i\}$, for stability of a given Hamiltonian, $H(\lambda_i)$. We present two methods of obtaining critical parameters using finite size scaling for a given quantum Hamiltonian: The finite element method and the basis set expansion method.

id: 1009.4397
title: Improving quantum entanglement through single-qubit operations
authors: X.-B. Wang, Z.-W. Yu, J.-Z. Hu, F. Nori
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4397
abstract: We show that the entanglement of a $2\times 2$ bipartite state can be improved and maximized probabilistically through single-qubit operations only. An experiment is proposed and it is numerically simulated.

id: 1009.4417
title: Stochastic Methods in Atomic Systems and QED
authors: R. F. O'Connell
comments: Contribution to the Festschrift in honor of Professor Walter R. Johnson on the occasion of his retirement after 50 years at the University of Notre Dame
journal: Can.J.Phys.87,1-5 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4417
abstract: We show that treating the blackbody radiation field as a heat bath enables one to utilize powerful techniques from the realm of stochastic physics (such as the fluctuation-dissipation theorem and the related radiation damping) in order to treat problems that could not be treated rigorously by conventional methods. We illustrate our remarks by discussing specifically the effect of temperature on atomic spectral lines, and the solution to the problem of runaway solutions in the equation of motion of a radiating electron. We also present brief discussions relating to anomalous diffusion and wave packet spreading in a radiation field and the influence of quantum effects on the laws of thermodynamics.

id: 1009.4426
title: Scalable Neutral Atom Quantum Computer with Interaction on Demand
authors: Mikio Nakahara, Tetsuo Ohmi, Yasushi Kondo
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, v2 typos corrected, comment on MEMS is added in Section V
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4426
abstract: We propose a scalable neutral atom quantum computer with an on-demand interaction. Artificial lattice of near field optical traps is employed to trap atom qubits. Interactions between atoms can be turned off if the atoms are separated by a high enough potential barrier so that the size of the atomic wave function is much less than the interatomic distance. One-qubit gate operation is implemented by a gate control laser beam which is attached to an individual atom. Two-qubit gate operation between a particular pair of atoms is introduced by leaving these atoms in an optical lattice and making them collide so that a particular two-qubit state acquires a dynamical phase. Our proposal is feasible within existing technology developed in cold atom gas, MEMS, nanolithography, and various areas in optics.

id: 1009.4431
title: The Wigner Distribution
authors: R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: in "Compendium of Quantum Physics", edited by D.Greenberger, K. Hentschel and F.Weinert (Springer 2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4431
abstract: In contrast to classical physics, the language of quantum mechanics involves operators and wave functions (or, more generally, density operators). However, in 1932, Wigner formulated quantum mechanics in terms of a distribution function $W(q,p)$, the marginals of which yield the correct quantum probabilities for $q$ and $p$ separately \cite{wigner}. Its usefulness stems from the fact that it provides a re-expression of quantum mechanics in terms of classical concepts so that quantum mechanical expectation values are now expressed as averages over phase-space distribution functions. In other words, statistical information is transferred from the density operator to a quasi-classical (distribution) function.

id: 1009.4449
title: Quantum Entanglement Initiated Super Raman Scattering
authors: G. S. Agarwal
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 023802 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4449
abstract: It has now been possible to prepare chain of ions in an entangled state and thus question arises --- how the optical properties of a chain of entangled ions differ from say a chain of independent particles. We investigate nonlinear optical processes in such chains. We explicitly demonstrate the possibility of entanglement produced super Raman scattering. Our results in contrast to Dicke's work on superradiance are applicable to stimulated processes and are thus free from the standard complications of multimode quantum electrodynamics. Our results suggest the possibility of similar enhancement factors in other nonlinear processes like four wave mixing.

id: 1009.4464
title: General theory of environment-assisted entanglement distillation
authors: Francesco Buscemi, Nilanjana Datta
comments: 23 pages, one column, final published version
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Th. 59, Issue 3, 1940-1954 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4464
abstract: We evaluate the one-shot entanglement of assistance for an arbitrary bipartite state. This yields another interesting result, namely a characterization of the one-shot distillable entanglement of a bipartite pure state. This result is shown to be stronger than that obtained by specializing the one-shot hashing bound to pure states. Finally, we show how the one-shot result yields the operational interpretation of the asymptotic entanglement of assistance proved in [Smolin et al., Phys. Rev. A 72, 052317 (2005)].

id: 1009.4472
title: Entangled states considered as physical representations of classical algorithms
authors: Saibal Mitra
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4472
abstract: There are good reasons to believe that we are classical algorithms run on (effectively) classical machines. However, the fact that a physical state of a system in a universe described by a classical deterministic model doesn't contain any information about the model's evolution laws, gives rise to deep philosophical paradoxes with this picture of what we are. We explain these paradoxes in detail and show that they can be resolved once we take into account that in the real world, classical behavior arises as a result of decoherence. We then show that this solution naturally leads to a variant of the idea of a mathematical multiverse, originally proposed by Tegmark.

id: 1009.4508
title: Structural anisotropy and orientation-induced Casimir repulsion in fluids
authors: Alexander P. McCauley, F. S. S. Rosa, Alejandro W. Rodriguez, John D. Joannopoulos, D. A. R. Dalvit, Steven G. Johnson
comments: 12 pages, 9, figure. Published version with expanded discussion
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052503 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4508
abstract: In this work we theoretically consider the Casimir force between two periodic arrays of nanowires (both in vacuum, and on a substrate separated by a fluid) at separations comparable to the period. Specifically, we compute the dependence of the exact Casimir force between the arrays under both lateral translations and rotations. Although typically the force between such structures is well-characterized by the Proximity Force Approximation (PFA), we find that in the present case the microstructure modulates the force in a way qualitatively inconsistent with PFA. We find instead that effective-medium theory, in which the slabs are treated as homogeneous, anisotropic dielectrics, gives a surprisingly accurate picture of the force, down to separations of half the period. This includes a situation for identical, fluid-separated slabs in which the exact force changes sign with the orientation of the wire arrays, whereas PFA predicts attraction. We discuss the possibility of detecting these effects in experiments, concluding that this effect is strong enough to make detection possible in the near future.

id: 1009.4614
title: Quantum mechanics, by itself, implies perception of a classical world
authors: Casey Blood
comments: The main argument in version 1 has been redone, the localized baseball argument has been dropped, and a comparison of this simple method with Zurek's redundant environment- decoherence-quantum Darwinism approach is made. 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4614
abstract: Several versions of reality can simultaneously exist in the states of quantum mechanics, but we perceive only one classical version. The question is whether the mathematics of quantum mechanics, by itself, implies we perceive only one classical version. Zurek has used a method involving the environment, redundancy, decoherence and quantum Darwinism to show that quantum mechanics does indeed imply this result, but the argument is quite complex. Here we give a simpler method based on linearity.

id: 1009.4646
title: Dynamical simulation of integrable and non-integrable models in the Heisenberg picture
authors: Dominik Muth, Razmik G. Unanyan, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 077202 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4646
abstract: The numerical simulation of quantum many-body dynamics is typically limited by the linear growth of entanglement with time. Recently numerical studies have shown, however, that for 1D Bethe-integrable models the simulation of local operators in the Heisenberg picture can be efficient as the corresponding operator-space entanglement grows only logarithmically. Using the spin-1/2 XX chain as generic example of an integrabel model that can be mapped to free particles, we here provide a simple explanation for this. We show furthermore that the same reduction of complexity applies to operators that have a high-temperature auto correlation function which decays slower than exponential, i.e., with a power law. This is amongst others the case for models where the Blombergen-De Gennes conjecture of high-temperature diffusive dynamics holds. Thus efficient simulability may already be implied by a single conservation law (like that of total magnetization), as we will illustrate numerically for the spin-1 XXZ model.

id: 1009.4741
title: Tight bounds for classical and quantum coin flipping
authors: Esther H?nggi, J¨¹rg Wullschleger
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures; v2: published version
journal: Proceedings of TCC 2011, p 468-485
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4741
abstract: Coin flipping is a cryptographic primitive for which strictly better protocols exist if the players are not only allowed to exchange classical, but also quantum messages. During the past few years, several results have appeared which give a tight bound on the range of implementable unconditionally secure coin flips, both in the classical as well as in the quantum setting and for both weak as well as strong coin flipping. But the picture is still incomplete: in the quantum setting, all results consider only protocols with perfect correctness, and in the classical setting tight bounds for strong coin flipping are still missing. We give a general definition of coin flipping which unifies the notion of strong and weak coin flipping (it contains both of them as special cases) and allows the honest players to abort with a certain probability. We give tight bounds on the achievable range of parameters both in the classical and in the quantum setting.

id: 1009.4744
title: Continuous Quantum Error Correction Through Local Operations
authors: Eduardo Mascarenhas, Breno Marques, Marcelo Terra Cunha, Marcelo Fran?a Santos
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032327 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4744
abstract: We propose local strategies to protect global quantum information. The protocols, which are quantum error correcting codes for dissipative systems, are based on environment measurements, direct feedback control and simple encoding of the logical qubits into physical qutrits whose decaying transitions are indistinguishable and equally probable. The simple addition of one extra level in the description of the subsystems allows for local actions to fully and deterministically protect global resources, such as entanglement. We present codes for both quantum jump and quantum state diffusion measurement strategies and test them against several sources of inefficiency. The use of qutrits in information protocols suggests further characterization of qutrit-qutrit disentanglement dynamics, which we also give together with simple local environment measurement schemes able to prevent distillability sudden death and even enhance entanglement in situations in which our feedback error correction is not possible.

id: 1009.4796
title: Experimentally Feasible Security Check for n-qubit Quantum Secret Sharing
authors: Stefan Schauer, Marcus Huber, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 5 pages, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062311 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4796
abstract: In this article we present a general security strategy for quantum secret sharing (QSS) protocols based on the HBB scheme presented by Hillery, Bu\v{z}ek and Berthiaume [Phys. Rev A \textbf{59}, 1829 (1999)]. We focus on a generalization of the HBB protocol to $n$ communication parties thus including $n$-partite GHZ states. We show that the multipartite version of the HBB scheme is insecure in certain settings and impractical when going to large $n$. To provide security for such QSS schemes in general we use the framework presented by some of the authors [M. Huber, F. Minert, A. Gabriel, B. C. Hiesmayr, Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{104}, 210501 (2010)] to detect certain genuine $n$ partite entanglement between the communication parties. In particular, we present a simple inequality which tests the security.

id: 1009.4808
title: Gaussification of quantum states of traveling light beams in atomic memory
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures, REVTeX 4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022334 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4808
abstract: We propose and investigate a protocol for Gaussification of quantum states of traveling light beams in an atomic quantum memory that couples to light via quantum non-demolition interaction. The protocol relies on a periodic switching between two different QND couplings and the total coupling strength scales only logarithmically with number of Gaussified light modes. The present scheme can be used to prepare entangled states of two distant atomic ensembles and to purify and Gaussify noisy non-Gaussian entangled states of light while simultaneously storing the purified state in atomic memories.

id: 1009.4854
title: Bell Experiments with Random Destination Sources
authors: F. Sciarrino, G. Vallone, A. Cabello, P. Mataloni
comments: rexTex4, 4 pages, revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032112 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4854
abstract: It is generally assumed that sources sending randomly two particles to one or two different observers, named here random destination sources (RDS), cannot by used for genuine quantum nonlocality tests because of the postselection loophole. We demonstrate that Bell experiments not affected by the postselection loophole may be performed with: (i) RDS and local postselection using perfect detectors, (ii) RDS, local postselection, and fair sampling assumption with any detection efficiency, and (iii) RDS and a threshold detection efficiency required to avoid the detection loophole. These results allow the adoption of RDS setups, which are more simple and efficient, for long-distance free-space Bell tests, and extends the range of physical systems which can be used for loophole-free Bell tests.

id: 1009.4867
title: Reconfigurable quantum metamaterials
authors: James Q. Quach, Chun-Hsu Su, Andrew M. Martin, Andrew D. Greentree, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 19, Issue 12, pp. 11018-11033 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4867
abstract: By coupling controllable quantum systems into larger structures we introduce the concept of a quantum metamaterial. Conventional meta-materials represent one of the most important frontiers in optical design, with applications in diverse fields ranging from medicine to aerospace. Up until now however, metamaterials have themselves been classical structures and interact only with the classical properties of light. Here we describe a class of dynamic metamaterials, based on the quantum properties of coupled atom-cavity arrays, which are intrinsically lossless, reconfigurable, and operate fundamentally at the quantum level. We show how this new class of metamaterial could be used to create a reconfigurable quantum superlens possessing a negative index gradient for single photon imaging. With the inherent features of quantum superposition and entanglement of metamaterial properties, this new class of dynamic quantum metamaterial, opens a new vista for quantum science and technology.

id: 1009.4888
title: Distillation of mixed-state continuous-variable entanglement by photon subtraction
authors: ShengLi Zhang, Peter van Loock
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4888
abstract: We present a detailed theoretical analysis for the distillation of one copy of a mixed two-mode continuous-variable entangled state using beamsplitters and coherent photon-detection techniques, including conventional on-off detectors and photon number resolving detectors. The initial Gaussian mixed-entangled states are generated by transmitting a two-mode squeezed state through a lossy bosonic channel, corresponding to the primary source of errors in current approaches to optical quantum communication. We provide explicit formulas to calculate the entanglement in terms of logarithmic negativity before and after distillation, including losses in the channel and the photon detection, and show that one-copy distillation is still possible even for losses near the typical fiber channel attenuation length. A lower bound for the transmission coefficient of the photon-subtraction beamsplitter is derived, representing the minimal value that still allows to enhance the entanglement.

id: 1009.4957
title: Bang-Bang Control Design for Quantum State Transfer based on Hyperspherical Coordinates and Optimal Time-energy Control
authors: Weiwei Zhou, Sophie Schirmer, Ming Zhang, Hong-Yi Dai
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure, expanded version -- expanded introduction and references, added generalization of the scheme to implement unitary operators and examples, to appear in J Phys A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 105303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4957
abstract: We present a constructive control scheme for solving quantum state engineering problems based on a parametrization of the state vector in terms of complex hyperspherical coordinates. Unlike many control schemes based on factorization of unitary operators the scheme gives explicit expressions for all the Euler angles in terms of the hyperspherical coordinates of the initial and final state. The factorization, when applicable, has added benefits that phase rotations can be combined and performed concurrently. The control procedure can be realized using a simple bang-bang or square-wave-function controls. Optimal time-energy control is considered to find the optimal control amplitudes. The extension of the scheme to implement unitary operators is also discussed.

id: 1009.4968
title: Reflection of a Particle from a Quantum Measurement
authors: Jonathan B. Mackrory, Kurt Jacobs, Daniel A. Steck
comments: 28 pages, 7 figures, uses IOP style files
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 113023 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4968
abstract: We present a generalization of continuous position measurements that accounts for a spatially inhomogeneous measurement strength. This describes many real measurement scenarios, in which the rate at which information is extracted about position has itself a spatial profile, and includes measurements that detect if a particle has crossed from one region into another. We show that such measurements can be described, in their averaged behavior, as stochastically fluctuating potentials of vanishing time average. Reasonable constraints restrict the form of the measurement to have degenerate outcomes, which tend to drive the system to spatial superposition states. We present the results of quantum-trajectory simulations for measurements with a step-function profile (a "which-way" measurement) and a Gaussian profile. We find that the particle can coherently reflect from the measurement region in both cases, despite the stochastic nature of the measurement back-action. In addition, we explore the connection to the quantum Zeno effect, where we find that the reflection probability tends to unity as the measurement strength increases. Finally, we discuss two physical realizations of a spatially varying position measurement using atoms.

id: 1009.4998
title: Four-Photon (In)Distinguishability Transition
authors: Malte C. Tichy, Hyang-Tag Lim, Young-Sik Ra, Florian Mintert, Yoon-Ho Kim, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, text improved
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062111 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4998
abstract: We demonstrate the conspiration of many-particle interferences of different degree to determine the transmission of four photons of tunable indistinguishability through a four-port beam splitter array. The probability of certain output events depends non-monotonically on the degree of distinguishability, due to distinct multi-particle interference contributions to the transmission signal.

id: 1009.5005
title: Canonical quantization of macroscopic electromagnetism
authors: T.G. Philbin
comments: 21 pages, additional references
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 123008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5005
abstract: Application of the standard canonical quantization rules of quantum field theory to macroscopic electromagnetism has encountered obstacles due to material dispersion and absorption. This has led to a phenomenological approach to macroscopic quantum electrodynamics where no canonical formulation is attempted. In this paper macroscopic electromagnetism is canonically quantized. The results apply to any linear, inhomogeneous, magnetodielectric medium with dielectric functions that obey the Kramers-Kronig relations. The prescriptions of the phenomenological approach are derived from the canonical theory.

id: 1009.5006
title: Observation of Young's Double-Slit Interference with the Three-Photon N00N State
authors: Yong-Su Kim, Osung Kwon, Sang Min Lee, Heonoh Kim, Sang-Kyung Choi, Hee Su Park, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5006
abstract: Spatial interference of quantum mechanical particles exhibits a fundamental feature of quantum mechanics. A two-mode entangled state of N particles known as N00N state can give rise to non-classical interference. We report the first experimental observation of a three-photon N00N state exhibiting Young's double-slit type spatial quantum interference. Compared to a single-photon state, the three-photon entangled state generates interference fringes that are three times denser. Moreover, its interference visibility of $0.49 \pm 0.09$ is well above the limit of 0.1 for spatial super-resolution of classical origin. The demonstration of spatial quantum interference by a N00N state composed of more than two photons represents an important step towards applying quantum entanglement to technologies such as lithography and imaging.

id: 1009.5020
title: Ultimate quantum bounds on mass measurements with a nano-mechanical oscillator
authors: Daniel Braun
comments: Corrected a mistake in the formula for coherent states. Fig.1 and some numerical values changed
journal: EPL 94, 68007 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5020
abstract: Nano-mechanical resonators have a large potential as sensors of very small adsorbed masses, down to the atomic level and beyond. Here I establish the fundamental lower bound on the mass that can be measured with a nano-mechanical oscillator in a given quantum state based on the quantum Cram\'er--Rao bound, limited only by the laws of quantum mechanics, and identify the quantum states which will allow the largest sensitivity for a given maximum energy.

id: 1009.5104
title: The Equivalence of Sampling and Searching
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5104
abstract: In a sampling problem, we are given an input x, and asked to sample approximately from a probability distribution D_x. In a search problem, we are given an input x, and asked to find a member of a nonempty set A_x with high probability. (An example is finding a Nash equilibrium.) In this paper, we use tools from Kolmogorov complexity and algorithmic information theory to show that sampling and search problems are essentially equivalent. More precisely, for any sampling problem S, there exists a search problem R_S such that, if C is any "reasonable" complexity class, then R_S is in the search version of C if and only if S is in the sampling version. As one application, we show that SampP=SampBQP if and only if FBPP=FBQP: in other words, classical computers can efficiently sample the output distribution of every quantum circuit, if and only if they can efficiently solve every search problem that quantum computers can solve. A second application is that, assuming a plausible conjecture, there exists a search problem R that can be solved using a simple linear-optics experiment, but that cannot be solved efficiently by a classical computer unless the polynomial hierarchy collapses. That application will be described in a forthcoming paper with Alex Arkhipov on the computational complexity of linear optics.

id: 1009.5128
title: Beating the channel capacity limit for linear photonic superdense coding
authors: Julio T. Barreiro, Tzu-Chieh Wei, Paul G. Kwiat
comments: Letter: 6 pages, 4 figures. Supplementary Information: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Nature Phys. 4, 282 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5128
abstract: Dense coding is arguably the protocol that launched the field of quantum communication. Today, however, more than a decade after its initial experimental realization, the channel capacity remains fundamentally limited as conceived for photons using linear elements. Bob can only send to Alice three of four potential messages owing to the impossibility of carrying out the deterministic discrimination of all four Bell states with linear optics, reducing the attainable channel capacity from 2 to log_2 3 \approx 1.585 bits. However, entanglement in an extra degree of freedom enables the complete and deterministic discrimination of all Bell states. Using pairs of photons simultaneously entangled in spin and orbital angular momentum, we demonstrate the quantum advantage of the ancillary entanglement. In particular, we describe a dense-coding experiment with the largest reported channel capacity and, to our knowledge, the first to break the conventional linear-optics threshold. Our encoding is suited for quantum communication without alignment and satellite communication.

id: 1009.5133
title: Equations of motion in General Relativity and Quantum Mechanics
authors: Paul O'Hara
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5133
abstract: In a previous article a relationship was established between the linearized metrics of General Relativity associated with geodesics and the Dirac Equation of quantum mechanics. In this paper the extension of that result to arbitrary curves is investigated. The Dirac equation is derived and shown to be related to the Lie derivative of the momentum along the curve. In addition,the equations of motion are derived from the Hamilton-Jacobi equation associated with the metric and the wave equation associated with the Hamiltonian is then shown not to commute with the Dirac operator. Finally, the Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution is shown to be a consequence of geodesic motion.

id: 1009.5172
title: Cascaded multiplexed optical link on a telecommunication network for frequency dissemination
authors: Olivier Lopez, Adil Haboucha, Fabien K¨¦f¨¦lian, Haifeng Jiang, Bruno Chanteau, Vincent Roncin, Christian Chardonnet, Anne Amy-Klein, Georgio Santarelli
comments: 
journal: Opt.Express 18:16849,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5172
abstract: We demonstrate a cascaded optical link for ultrastable frequency dissemination comprised of two compensated links of 150 km and a repeater station. Each link includes 114 km of Internet fiber simultaneously carrying data traffic through a dense wavelength division multiplexing technology, and passes through two routing centers of the telecommunication network. The optical reference signal is inserted in and extracted from the communication network using bidirectional optical add-drop multiplexers. The repeater station operates autonomously ensuring noise compensation on the two links and the ultra-stable signal optical regeneration. The compensated link shows a fractional frequency instability of 3 \times 10-15 at one second measurement time and 5 \times 10-20 at 20 hours. This work paves the way to a wide dissemination of ultra-stable optical clock signals between distant laboratories via the Internet network.

id: 1009.5180
title: Necessity of Superposition of Macroscopically Distinct States for Quantum Computational Speedup
authors: Akira Shimizu, Yuichiro Matsuzaki, Akihisa Ukena
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures. Fixed typos throughout the manuscript. This version has been published
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn., Vol.82, No.5, 054801-1--054801-16 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5180
abstract: For quantum computation, we investigate the conjecture that the superposition of macroscopically distinct states is necessary for a large quantum speedup. Although this conjecture was supported for a circuit-based quantum computer performing Shor's factoring algorithm [A. Ukena and A. Shimizu, Phys. Rev. A69 (2004) 022301], it needs to be generalized for it to be applicable to a large class of algorithms and/or other models such as measurement-based quantum computers. To treat such general cases, we first generalize the indices for the superposition of macroscopically distinct states. We then generalize the conjecture, using the generalized indices, in such a way that it is unambiguously applicable to general models if a quantum algorithm achieves exponential speedup. On the basis of this generalized conjecture, we further extend the conjecture to Grover's quantum search algorithm, whose speedup is large but quadratic. It is shown that this extended conjecture is also correct. Since Grover's algorithm is a representative algorithm for unstructured problems, the present result further supports the conjecture.

id: 1009.5181
title: Scattering of Woods-Saxon Potential in Schrodinger Equation
authors: Altug Arda, Oktay Aydogdu, Ramazan Sever
comments: 14 pages
journal: J. Phs. A: Math Theor. 43, 425204(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5181
abstract: The scattering solutions of the one-dimensional Schrodinger equation for the Woods-Saxon potential are obtained within the position-dependent mass formalism. The wave functions, transmission and reflection coefficients are calculated in terms of Heun's function. These results are also studied for the constant mass case in detail.

id: 1009.5212
title: Photon Frequency Bears More At Less
authors: T. Asaba, S. Fukatsu
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5212
abstract: Construction of an optical quantum computer (OQC) is finished by implementing all necessary ingredients with light (photon). There is, however, one more hurdle to clear. It is scalability, which is easily lost when accommodating many qubits by densely nesting quantum circuits. Any of the reported OQC schemes is not neces-sarily best placed in this regard. Here we demonstrate the power of "frequency" de-gree of freedom of light, which outperforms others with its potentially infinite basis states: as multiple qubits share the same "one-photon" superposition state all along, a realistic OQC design in frequency basis adopts only one port each for input and out-put. As such quantum logic gates are configurable in a cascade of compact in-line modules, which ensures scalable computing. Finally, our implementation of Deutsch-Jozsa's algorithm using standard laboratory laser demonstrates that fre-quency-basis OQC is ideally suited for such tasks even without help of nonclassicality of light.

id: 1009.5213
title: Non-adaptive Measurement-based Quantum Computation and Multi-party Bell Inequalities
authors: Matty J. Hoban, Earl T. Campbell, Klearchos Loukopoulos, Dan E. Browne
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures, final version accepted for publication
journal: New J. Phys. 13 023014 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5213
abstract: Quantum correlations exhibit behaviour that cannot be resolved with a local hidden variable picture of the world. In quantum information, they are also used as resources for information processing tasks, such as Measurement-based Quantum Computation (MQC). In MQC, universal quantum computation can be achieved via adaptive measurements on a suitable entangled resource state. In this paper, we look at a version of MQC in which we remove the adaptivity of measurements and aim to understand what computational abilities still remain in the resource. We show that there are explicit connections between this model of computation and the question of non-classicality in quantum correlations. We demonstrate this by focussing on deterministic computation of Boolean functions, in which natural generalisations of the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) paradox emerge; we then explore probabilistic computation, via which multipartite Bell Inequalities can be defined. We use this correspondence to define families of multi-party Bell inequalities, which we show to have a number of interesting contrasting properties.

id: 1009.5216
title: Tripartite connection condition for quantum graph vertex
authors: Taksu Cheon, Pavel Exner, Ondrej Turek
comments: LaTeX Elsevier format, 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 375 (2010) 113-118
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5216
abstract: We discuss formulations of boundary conditions in a quantum graph vertex and demonstrate that the so-called $ST$-form can be further reduced up to a form more effective in certain applications: In particular, in identifying the number of independent parameters for given ranks of two connection matrices, or in calculating the scattering matrix when both matrices are singular. The new form of boundary conditions, called the $PQRS$-form, also gives a natural scheme to design generalized low and high pass quantum filters.

id: 1009.5219
title: Classical and Quantum Fisher Information in the Geometrical Formulation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Paolo Facchi, Ravi Kulkarni, V. I. Man'ko, Giuseppe Marmo, E. C. G. Sudarshan, Franco Ventriglia
comments: 8 pages
journal: Physics Letters A 374 (2010) 4801
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5219
abstract: The tomographic picture of quantum mechanics has brought the description of quantum states closer to that of classical probability and statistics. On the other hand, the geometrical formulation of quantum mechanics introduces a metric tensor and a symplectic tensor (Hermitian tensor) on the space of pure states. By putting these two aspects together, we show that the Fisher information metric, both classical and quantum, can be described by means of the Hermitian tensor on the manifold of pure states.

id: 1009.5241
title: Counting Statistics of Many-Particle Quantum Walks
authors: Klaus Mayer, Malte C. Tichy, Florian Mintert, Thomas Konrad, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062307 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5241
abstract: We study quantum walks of many non-interacting particles on a beam splitter array, as a paradigmatic testing ground for the competition of single- and many-particle interference in a multi-mode system. We derive a general expression for multi-mode particle-number correlation functions, valid for bosons and fermions, and infer pronounced signatures of many-particle interferences in the counting statistics.

id: 1009.5267
title: On the classical limit of quantum mechanics, fundamental graininess and chaos: compatibility of chaos with the correspondence principle
authors: Ignacio Gomez, Mario Castagnino
comments: 27 pages, 6 figures
journal: Chaos, Solitons & Fractals, 68, 98-113 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5267
abstract: The aim of this paper is to review the classical limit of Quantum Mechanics and to precise the well known threat of chaos (and fundamental graininess)to the correspondence principle. We will introduce a formalism for this classical limit that allows us to find the surfaces defined by the constants of the motion in phase space. Then in the integrable case we will find the classical trajectories, and in the non-integrable one the fact that regular initial cells become "amoeboid-like". This deformations and their consequences can be considered as a threat to the correspondence principle unless we take into account the characteristic timescales of quantum chaos. Essentially we present an analysis of the problem similar to the one of Omn\`{e}s [10,11], but with a simpler mathematical structure.

id: 1009.5293
title: Supersymmetric Extension of Non-Hermitian su(2) Hamiltonian and Supercoherent States
authors: Omar Cherbal, Mahrez Drir, Mustapha Maamache, Dimitar A. Trifonov
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 6 (2010), 096, 11 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5293
abstract: A new class of non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with real spectrum, which are written as a real linear combination of su(2) generators in the form $ H=\omega J_{3}+\alpha J_{-}+\beta J_{+}$, $\alpha \neq \beta$, is analyzed. The metrics which allows the transition to the equivalent Hermitian Hamiltonian is established. A pseudo-Hermitian supersymmetic extension of such Hamiltonians is performed. They correspond to the pseudo-Hermitian supersymmetric systems of the boson-phermion oscillators. We extend the supercoherent states formalism to such supersymmetic systems via the pseudo-unitary supersymmetric displacement operator method. The constructed family of these supercoherent states consists of two dual subfamilies that form a bi-overcomplete and bi-normal system in the boson-phermion Fock space. The states of each subfamily are eigenvectors of the boson annihilation operator and of one of the two phermion lowering operators.

id: 1009.5301
title: Non-Markovian Relaxation of a Three-Level System: Quantum Trajectory Approach
authors: Jun Jing, Ting Yu
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 105, 240403 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5301
abstract: The non-Markovian dynamics of a three-level quantum system coupled to a bosonic environment is a difficult problem due to the lack of an exact dynamic equation such as a master equation. We present for the first time an exact quantum trajectory approach to a dissipative three-level model. We have established a convolutionless stochastic Schr\"{o}dinger equation called time-local quantum state diffusion (QSD) equation without any approximations, in particular, without Markov approximation. Our exact time-local QSD equation opens a new avenue for exploring quantum dynamics for a higher dimensional quantum system coupled to a non-Markovian environment.

id: 1009.5325
title: Waveguide QED: Many-Body Bound State Effects on Coherent and Fock State Scattering from a Two-Level System
authors: Huaixiu Zheng, Daniel J. Gauthier, Harold U. Baranger
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 063816 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5325
abstract: Strong coupling between a two-level system (TLS) and bosonic modes produces dramatic quantum optics effects. We consider a one-dimensional continuum of bosons coupled to a single localized TLS, a system which may be realized in a variety of plasmonic, photonic, or electronic contexts. We present the exact many-body scattering eigenstate obtained by imposing open boundary conditions. Multi-photon bound states appear in the scattering of two or more photons due to the coupling between the photons and the TLS. Such bound states are shown to have a large effect on scattering of both Fock and coherent state wavepackets, especially in the intermediate coupling strength regime. We compare the statistics of the transmitted light with a coherent state having the same mean photon number: as the interaction strength increases, the one-photon probability is suppressed rapidly, and the two- and three-photon probabilities are greatly enhanced due to the many-body bound states. This results in non-Poissonian light.

id: 1009.5345
title: Reply to "Comment on `Quantum linear Boltzmann equation with finite intercollision time' ''
authors: L. Diosi
comments: 2pp
journal: Phys. Rev. A82 (2010) 036102-(2)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5345
abstract: Hornberger and Vacchini [Phys. Rev. A82, 036101 (2010); arxiv:0907.3018] claim that the specific collisional momentum decoherence, pointed out in my recent work [Phys. Rev. A80, 064104 (2009); arXiv:0905.3908], is already described by their theory. However, I have performed a calculation whereby I disprove the authors' claim and refute their conclusion that my recent work had no advantage over theirs.

id: 1009.5412
title: Remote Preparation of Single-Photon "Hybrid" Entangled and Vector-Polarization States
authors: Julio T. Barreiro, Tzu-Chieh Wei, Paul G. Kwiat
comments: Letter: 4 pages, 1 figure. Supplementary material: 1 page
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 030407 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5412
abstract: Quantum teleportation faces increasingly demanding requirements for transmitting large or even entangled systems. However, knowledge of the state to be transmitted eases its reconstruction, resulting in a protocol known as remote state preparation. A number of experimental demonstrations to date have been restricted to single-qubit systems. We report the remote preparation of two-qubit "hybrid" entangled states, including a family of vector-polarization beams. Our single-photon states are encoded in the photon spin and orbital angular momentum. We reconstruct the states by spin-orbit state tomography and transverse polarization tomography. The high fidelities achieved for the vector-polarization states opens the door to optimal coupling of down-converted photons to other physical systems, such as an atom, as required for scalable quantum networks, or plasmons in photonic nanostructures.

id: 1009.5463
title: Coherent optical writing and reading of the exciton spin state in single quantum dots
authors: Y. Benny, S. Khatsevich, Y. Kodriano, E. Poem, R. Presman, D. Galushko, P. M. Petroff, D. Gershoni
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures accepted for publication in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5463
abstract: We demonstrate a one to one correspondence between the polarization state of a light pulse tuned to neutral exciton resonances of single semiconductor quantum dots and the spin state of the exciton that it photogenerates. This is accomplished using two variably polarized and independently tuned picosecond laser pulses. The first "writes" the spin state of the resonantly excited exciton. The second is tuned to biexcitonic resonances, and its absorption is used to "read" the exciton spin state. The absorption of the second pulse depends on its polarization relative to the exciton spin direction. Changes in the exciton spin result in corresponding changes in the intensity of the photoluminescence from the biexciton lines which we monitor, obtaining thus a one to one mapping between any point on the Poincare sphere of the light polarization to a point on the Bloch sphere of the exciton spin.

id: 1009.5497
title: Optimization of the transmission of observable expectation values and observable statistics in Continuous Variable Teleportation
authors: L.Albano Farias, J.Stephany
comments: 25 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5497
abstract: We analyze the statistics of observables in continuous variable quantum teleportation in the formalism of the characteristic function. We derive expressions for average values of output state observables in particular cumulants which are additive in terms of the input state and the resource of teleportation. Working with Squeezed Bell-like states, which may be optimized in a free parameter for better teleportation performance we discuss the relation between resources optimal for fidelity and for different observable averages. We obtain the values of the free parameter which optimize the central momenta and cumulants up to fourth order. For the cumulants the distortion between in and out states due to teleportation depends only on the resource. We obtain optimal parameters for the second and fourth order cumulants which do not depend on the squeezing of the resource. The second order central momenta which is equal to the second order cumulants and the photon number average are optimized by the same resource. We show that the optimal fidelity resource, found in reference (Phys. Rev. A {\bf 76}, 022301 (2007)) to depend also on the characteristics of input, tends for high squeezing to the resource which optimizes the second order momenta. A similar behavior is obtained for the resource which optimizes the photon statistics which is treated here using the sum of the squared differences in photon probabilities of input and output states as the distortion measure. This is interpreted to mean that the distortions associated to second order momenta dominates the behavior of the output state for large squeezing of the resource. Optimal fidelity and optimal photon statistics resources are compared and is shown that for mixtures of Fock states they are equivalent.

id: 1009.5582
title: Transient energy excitation in shortcuts to adiabaticity for the time dependent harmonic oscillator
authors: Xi Chen, J. G. Muga
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 053403 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5582
abstract: There is recently a surge of interest to cut down the time it takes to change the state of a quantum system adiabatically. We study for the time-dependent harmonic oscillator the transient energy excitation in speed-up processes designed to reproduce the initial populations at some predetermined final frequency and time, providing lower bounds and examples. Implications for the limits imposed to the process times and for the principle of unattainability of the absolute zero, in a single expansion or in quantum refrigerator cycles, are drawn.

id: 1009.5593
title: Integrals of motion and Robertson-Schr?dinger correlated states of electromagnetic field in time-dependent linear media
authors: A.K. Angelow, D.A. Trifonov
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5593
abstract: Integrals of motion and statistical properties of quantized electromagnetic field (e.-m. field) in time-dependent linear dielectric and conductive media are considered, using Choi-Yeon quantization, based on Caldirola-Kanai type Hamiltonian. Eigenstates of quadratic and linear invariants are constructed, the solutions being expressed in terms of a complex parametric function that obeys classical oscillator equation with time-varying frequency. The time evolutions of initial Glauber coherent states and Fock states are considered. The medium conductivity and the time-dependent electric permeability are shown to generate squeezing and non-vanishing covariances. In the time-evolved coherent and squeezed states all the second statistical moments of the electric and magnetic field components are calculated and shown to mminimize the Robertson-Schr\"odinger uncertainty relation.

id: 1009.5622
title: Nonlinear Constants of Quantum Information in Reversible and Irreversible Amplitude Flows
authors: Xiao-Feng Qian, J.H. Eberly
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5622
abstract: We report an approach to quantum open system dynamics that leads to novel nonlinear constant relations governing information flow among the participants. Our treatment is for mixed state systems entangled in a pure state fashion with an unspecified party that was involved in preparing the system for an experimental test, but no longer interacts after $t=0$. Evolution due to subsequent interaction with another party is treated as an amplitude flow channel and uses Schmidt-type bipartite decomposition of the evolving state. We illustrate this with three examples, including both reversible and irreversible information flows, and give formulas for the new nonlinear constraints in each case.

id: 1009.5625
title: Decomposition of Unitary Matrices for Finding Quantum Circuits: Application to Molecular Hamiltonians
authors: Anmer Daskin, Sabre Kais
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 134, 144112 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5625
abstract: Constructing appropriate unitary matrix operators for new quantum algorithms and finding the minimum cost gate sequences for the implementation of these unitary operators is of fundamental importance in the field of quantum information and quantum computation. Evolution of quantum circuits faces two major challenges: complex and huge search space and the high costs of simulating quantum circuits on classical computers. Here, we use the group leaders optimization algorithm to decompose a given unitary matrix into a proper-minimum cost quantum gate sequence. We test the method on the known decompositions of Toffoli gate, the amplification step of the Grover search algorithm, the quantum Fourier transform, and the sender part of the quantum teleportation. Using this procedure, we present the circuit designs for the simulation of the unitary propagators of the Hamiltonians for the hydrogen and the water molecules. The approach is general and can be applied to generate the sequence of quantum gates for larger molecular systems.

id: 1009.5645
title: Collective photon emission from symmetric states created with Rydberg atoms on a ring lattice
authors: B. Olmos, I. Lesanovsky
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 063404 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5645
abstract: We discuss the creation of non-classical light from collective atomic states that are prepared in a ring-shaped lattice. These states are realized by exploiting the strong interaction between atoms in high lying energy levels - so-called Rydberg states - and yield a resource for creating excitations of the electromagnetic field that carry few photons. We characterize the properties of these photonic states showing that they are determined by the interplay between the ring geometry, the structure of the atomic resource states and the collectivity in the photon emission which is controlled by the lattice spacing. The system permits the creation of single photons with well-defined orbital angular momentum and two-photon states that are entangled in orbital angular momentum.

id: 1009.5710
title: Revival of quantum correlations without system-environment back-action
authors: Rosario Lo Franco, Bruno Bellomo, Erika Andersson, Giuseppe Compagno
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures; this version to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032318 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5710
abstract: Revivals of quantum correlations have often been explained in terms of back-action on quantum systems by their quantum environment(s). Here we consider a system of two independently evolving qubits, each locally interacting with a classical random external field. The environments of the qubits are also independent, and there is no back-action on the qubits. Nevertheless, entanglement, quantum discord and classical correlations between the two qubits may revive in this model. We explain the revivals in terms of correlations in a classical-quantum state of the environments and the qubits. Although classical states cannot store entanglement on their own, they can play a role in storing and reviving entanglement. It is important to know how the absence of back-action, or modelling an environment as classical, affects the kind of system time evolutions one is able to describe. We find a class of global time evolutions where back-action is absent and for which there is no loss of generality in modelling the environment as classical. Finally, we show that the revivals can be connected with the increase of a parameter used to quantify non-Markovianity of the single-qubit dynamics.

id: 1009.5771
title: Solid state multi-ensemble quantum computer in waveguide circuit model
authors: Sergey A. Moiseev, Sergey N. Andrianov, Firdus F. Gubaidullin
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures; presented on the conference "Computer Science in Russia" (CSR 2010) 13-24 June 2010, Kazan, Russia
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5771
abstract: The first realization of solid state quantum computer was demonstrated recently by using artificial atoms -- transmons in superconducting resonator. Here, we propose a novel architecture of flexible and scalable quantum computer based on a waveguide circuit coupling many quantum nodes of controlled atomic ensembles. For the first time, we found the optimal practically attainable parameters of the atoms and circuit for 100{%} efficiency of quantum memory for multi qubit photon fields and confirmed experimentally the predicted perfect storage. Then we revealed self modes for reversible transfer of qubits between the quantum memory node and arbitrary other nodes. We found a realization of iSWAP gate via direct coupling of two arbitrary nodes with a processing rate accelerated proportionally to number of atoms in the node. A large number of the two-qubit gates can be simultaneously realized in the circuit for implementation of parallel quantum processing. Dynamic coherent elimination procedure of excess quantum state and collective blockade mechanism are proposed for realization of $iSWAP$ and $\sqrt {iSWAP} $ quantum gates.

id: 1009.5776
title: Ultrafast Molecular Imaging by Laser Induced Electron Diffraction
authors: Michel Peters, Tung Nguyen-Dang, Christian Cornaggia, S¨¦bastien Saugout, Eric Charron, Arne Keller, Osman Atabek
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5776
abstract: We address the feasibility of imaging geometric and orbital structure of a polyatomic molecule on an attosecond time-scale using the laser induced electron diffraction (LIED) technique. We present numerical results for the highest molecular orbitals of the CO2 molecule excited by a near infrared few-cycle laser pulse. The molecular geometry (bond-lengths) is determined within 3% of accuracy from a diffraction pattern which also reflects the nodal properties of the initial molecular orbital. Robustness of the structure determination is discussed with respect to vibrational and rotational motions with a complete interpretation of the laser-induced mechanisms.

id: 1009.5780
title: Time behaviour near to spectral singularities
authors: WD Heiss
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures to appear in EPJ D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5780
abstract: Spectral singularities such as exceptional points invoke specific physical effects. The present paper focuses upon the time dependent solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation. In a simple model it is demonstrated that - depending on initial conditions - within close proximity of exceptional points the time behaviour of the wave function displays characteristic features such as very fast decay or the opposite, i.e. very long life time. At the exceptional point the wave function typically has a linear term in time besides the usual exponential behaviour.

id: 1009.5808
title: Topological Quantum Gate Construction by Iterative Pseudogroup Hashing
authors: Michele Burrello, Giuseppe Mussardo, Xin Wan
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5808
abstract: We describe the hashing technique to obtain a fast approximation of a target quantum gate in the unitary group SU(2) represented by a product of the elements of a universal basis. The hashing exploits the structure of the icosahedral group [or other finite subgroups of SU(2)] and its pseudogroup approximations to reduce the search within a small number of elements. One of the main advantages of the pseudogroup hashing is the possibility to iterate to obtain more accurate representations of the targets in the spirit of the renormalization group approach. We describe the iterative pseudogroup hashing algorithm using the universal basis given by the braidings of Fibonacci anyons. The analysis of the efficiency of the iterations based on the random matrix theory indicates that the runtime and the braid length scale poly-logarithmically with the final error, comparing favorably to the Solovay-Kitaev algorithm.

id: 1009.5820
title: Comment on the uncertainty relation with periodic boundary conditions
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: 17 pages, to appear in Prog. Theor. Phys. (kyoto)
journal: Prog.Theor.Phys.124:747-759,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5820
abstract: The Kennard-type uncertainty relation $\Delta x\Delta p >\frac{\hbar}{2}$ is formulated for a free particle with given momentum < \hat{p}>$ inside a box with periodic boundary conditions in the large box limit. Our construction of a free particle state is analogous to that of the Bloch wave in a periodic potential. A simple Robertson-type relation, which minimizes the effect of the box boundary and may be useful in some practical applications, is also presented.

id: 1009.5892
title: Kicked-rotor quantum resonances in position space: Application to situations of experimental interest
authors: M. Lepers, V. Zehnl¨¦, J.-C. Garreau
comments: accepted in Eur. Phys. J. D
journal: European Physical Journal D 63, 449 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5892
abstract: In this work we apply the formalism developed in [M. Lepers \emph{et al}., Phys. Rev. A \textbf{77}, 043628 (2008)] to different initial conditions corresponding to systems usually met in real-life experiments, and calculate the observable quantities that can be used to characterize the dynamics of the system. The position space point of view allows highly intuitive pictures of the physics at play.

id: 1009.5936
title: On the environmental stability of quantum chaotic ratchets
authors: Gabriel G. Carlo, Leonardo Ermann, F. Borondo, R. M. Benito
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 011103 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5936
abstract: The transitory and stationary behavior of a quantum chaotic ratchet consisting of a biharmonic potential under the effect of different drivings in contact with a thermal environment is studied. For weak forcing and finite $\hbar$, we identify a strong dependence of the current on the structure of the chaotic region. Moreover, we have determined the robustness of the current against thermal fluctuations in the very weak coupling regime. In the case of strong forcing, the current is determined by the shape of a chaotic attractor. In both cases the temperature quickly stabilizes the ratchet, but in the latter it also destroys the asymmetry responsible for the current generation. Finally, applications to isomerization reactions are discussed.

id: 1009.5964
title: Adiabatically steered open quantum systems: Master equation and optimal phase
authors: J. Salmilehto, P. Solinas, J. Ankerhold, M. M?tt?nen
comments: 8 pages, no figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev A 82, 062112 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5964
abstract: We introduce an alternative way to derive the generalized form of the master equation recently presented by J. P. Pekola et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 030401 (2010)] for an adiabatically steered two-level quantum system interacting with a Markovian environment. The original derivation employed the effective Hamiltonian in the adiabatic basis with the standard interaction picture approach but without the usual secular approximation. Our approach is based on utilizing a master equation for a non-steered system in the first super-adiabatic basis. It is potentially efficient in obtaining higher-order equations. Furthermore, we show how to select the phases of the adiabatic eigenstates to minimize the local adiabatic parameter and how this selection leads to states which are invariant under a local gauge change. We also discuss the effects of the adiabatic noncyclic geometric phase on the master equation.

id: 1009.5968
title: Time-optimal CNOT between indirectly coupled qubits in a linear Ising chain
authors: A. Carlini, A. Hosoya, T. Koike, Y. Okudaira
comments: 9 pages; minor modifications
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011), 145302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5968
abstract: We give analytical solutions for the time-optimal synthesis of entangling gates between indirectly coupled qubits 1 and 3 in a linear spin chain of three qubits subject to an Ising Hamiltonian interaction with equal coupling $J$ plus a local magnetic field acting on the intermediate qubit. The energy available is fixed, but we relax the standard assumption of instantaneous unitary operations acting on single qubits. The time required for performing an entangling gate which is equivalent, modulo local unitary operations, to the $\mathrm{CNOT}(1, 3)$ between the indirectly coupled qubits 1 and 3 is $T=\sqrt{3/2} J^{-1}$, i.e. faster than a previous estimate based on a similar Hamiltonian and the assumption of local unitaries with zero time cost. Furthermore, performing a simple Walsh-Hadamard rotation in the Hlibert space of qubit 3 shows that the time-optimal synthesis of the $\mathrm{CNOT}^{\pm}(1, 3)$ (which acts as the identity when the control qubit 1 is in the state $\ket{0}$, while if the control qubit is in the state $\ket{1}$ the target qubit 3 is flipped as $\ket{\pm}\rightarrow \ket{\mp}$) also requires the same time $T$.

id: 1009.5982
title: Possibility of measuring the thermal Casimir interaction between a plate and a cylinder attached to a micromachined oscillator
authors: R. S. Decca, E. Fischbach, G. L. Klimchitskaya, D. E. Krause, D. Lopez, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 29 pages, 4 figures, 1 table; minor additions are made in accordance to the version accepted for publication; to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:052515,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5982
abstract: We investigate the possibility of measuring the thermal Casimir force and its gradient in the configuration of a plate and a microfabricated cylinder attached to a micromachined oscillator. The Lifshitz-type formulas in this configuration are derived using the proximity force approximation. The accuracy for the obtained expressions is determined from a comparison with exact results available in ideal metal case. Computations of the thermal correction to both the Casimir force and its gradient are performed in the framework of different theoretical approaches proposed in the literature. The correction to the Casimir force and its gradient due to lack of parallelism of the plate and cylinder is determined using the nonmultiplicative approach. The error introduced in the theory due to the finite length of the cylinder is estimated. We propose that both static and dynamic experiments measuring the thermal Casimir interaction between a cylinder and a plate using a micromachined oscillator can shed additional light on the thermal Casimir force problem. Specifically, it is shown that the static experiment is better adapted for the measurement of thermal effects.

id: 1009.6024
title: New Quantum Theory of Laser Cooling Mechanisms
authors: Xiang-Yao Wu, Bai-Jun Zhang, Jing-Hai Yang Xiao-Jing Liu, Yi-Heng Wu, Qing-Cai Wang, Yan Wang, Nuo Ba, Guang-Huai Wang
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:physics/0601097, arXiv:0710.5078, arXiv:0707.2280 by other authors without attribution
journal: J Low Temp Phys, 164, 245-263, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.6024
abstract: In this paper, we study the laser cooling mechanisms with a new quantum theory approach by applying a new Schrodinger equation, which can describe a particle in conservative and non-conservative force field. With the new theory, we prove the atom in laser field can be cooled, and give the atom cooling temperature, which is accordance with experiment result. Otherwise, we give new prediction that the atom cooling temperature is directly proportional to the atom vibration frequency. By calculation, we find they are: $T=0.4334\omega$.

id: 1009.6058
title: Analytical investigation of revival phenomena in periodically driven system
authors: Muhammad A. Shahzad
comments: (3 pages)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.6058
abstract: We present theoretical study of revival phenomena for a wave packet initially well localized in a one-dimensional potential in the presence of an external periodic modulating field. The classical motion, revival, and super-revival time scale are derived exactly for wave packet excited in the one dimension box potential.

id: 1009.6104
title: Entanglement and nonclassicality for multi-mode radiation field states
authors: J. Solomon Ivan, S. Chaturvedi, E. Ercolessi, G. Marmo, G. Morandi, N. Mukunda, R. Simon
comments: Latex, 46 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.6104
abstract: Nonclassicality in the sense of quantum optics is a prerequisite for entanglement in multi-mode radiation states. In this work we bring out the possibilities of passing from the former to the latter, via action of classicality preserving systems like beamsplitters, in a transparent manner. For single mode states, a complete description of nonclassicality is available via the classical theory of moments, as a set of necessary and sufficient conditions on the photon number distribution. We show that when the mode is coupled to an ancilla in any coherent state, and the system is then acted upon by a beamsplitter, these conditions turn exactly into signatures of NPT entanglement of the output state. Since the classical moment problem does not generalize to two or more modes, we turn in these cases to other familiar sufficient but not necessary conditions for nonclassicality, namely the Mandel parameter criterion and its extensions. We generalize the Mandel matrix from one-mode states to the two-mode situation, leading to a natural classification of states with varying levels of nonclassicality. For two--mode states we present a single test that can, if successful, simultaneously show nonclassicality as well as NPT entanglement. We also develop a test for NPT entanglement after beamsplitter action on a nonclassical state, tracing carefully the way in which it goes beyond the Mandel nonclassicality test. The result of three--mode beamsplitter action after coupling to an ancilla in the ground state is treated in the same spirit. The concept of genuine tripartite entanglement, and scalar measures of nonclassicality at the Mandel level for two-mode systems, are discussed. Numerous examples illustrating all these concepts are presented.

id: 1009.6126
title: 14-qubit entanglement: creation and coherence
authors: Thomas Monz, Philipp Schindler, Julio T. Barreiro, Michael Chwalla, Daniel Nigg, William A. Coish, Maximilian Harlander, Wolfgang Haensel, Markus Hennrich, Rainer Blatt
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 130506 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.6126
abstract: We report the creation of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states with up to 14 qubits. By investigating the coherence of up to 8 ions over time, we observe a decay proportional to the square of the number of qubits. The observed decay agrees with a theoretical model which assumes a system affected by correlated, Gaussian phase noise. This model holds for the majority of current experimental systems developed towards quantum computation and quantum metrology.

id: 1009.6130
title: Avoiding the Detector Blinding Attack on Quantum Cryptography
authors: Z L Yuan, J F Dynes, A J Shields
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 4, 800-801 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.6130
abstract: We show the detector blinding attack by Lydersen et al [1] will be ineffective on most single photon avalanche photodiodes (APDs) and certainly ineffective on any detectors that are operated correctly. The attack is only successful if a redundant resistor is included in series with the APD, or if the detector discrimination levels are set inappropriately.

id: 1009.6155
title: Teleportation of squeezing: Optimization using non-Gaussian resources
authors: F. Dell'Anno, S. De Siena, G. Adesso, F. Illuminati
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062329 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.6155
abstract: We study the continuous-variable quantum teleportation of states, statistical moments of observables, and scale parameters such as squeezing. We investigate the problem both in ideal and imperfect Vaidman-Braunstein-Kimble protocol setups. We show how the teleportation fidelity is maximized and the difference between output and input variances is minimized by using suitably optimized entangled resources. Specifically, we consider the teleportation of coherent squeezed states, exploiting squeezed Bell states as entangled resources. This class of non-Gaussian states includes photon-added and photon-subtracted squeezed states as special cases. At variance with the case of entangled Gaussian resources, the use of entangled non-Gaussian squeezed Bell resources allows for different optimization procedures that lead to inequivalent results. Performing two independent optimization procedures one can either maximize the state teleportation fidelity, or minimize the difference between input and output quadrature variances. The two different procedures are compared depending on the degrees of displacement and squeezing of the input states and on the working conditions in ideal and non-ideal setups.

id: 1009.6159
title: Deterministic creation of stationary entangled states by dissipation
authors: A. F. Alharbi, Z. Ficek
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 054103 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.6159
abstract: We propose a practical physical system for creation of a stationary entanglement by dissipation without employing the environment engineering techniques. The system proposed is composed of two perfectly distinguishable atoms, through their significantly different transition frequencies, with only one atom addressed by an external laser field. We show that the arrangement would easily be realized in practice by trapping the atoms at the distance equal to the quarter-wavelength of a standing-wave laser field and locating one of the atoms at a node and the other at the successive antinode of the wave. The undesirable dipole-dipole interaction between the atoms, that could be large at this small distance, is adjusted to zero by a specific initial preparation of the atoms or by a specific polarization of the atomic dipole moments. Following this arrangement, we show that the dissipative relaxation can create a stationary entanglement on demand by tuning the Rabi frequency of the laser field to the difference between the atomic transition frequencies. The laser field dresses the atom and we identify that the entangled state occurs when the frequency of one of the Rabi sidebands of the driven atom tunes to frequency of the undriven atom. It is also found that this system behaves as a cascade open system where the fluorescence from the dressed atom drives the other atom with no feedback.

id: 1009.6161
title: A complementary relation between classical bits and randomness in local part in simulating singlet state
authors: Guruprasad Kar, MD. Rajjak Gazi, Manik Banik, Subhadipa Das, Ashutosh Rai, Samir Kunkri
comments: v3: Typos corrected, few changed notations, some extensions to earlier write-up
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 152002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.6161
abstract: Recently Leggett's proposal of non-local model generates new interest in simulating the statistics of singlet state. Singlet state statistics can be simulated by 1 bit of classical communication without using any further nonlocal correlation. But, interestingly, singlet state statistics can also be simulated with no classical cost if a non-local box is used. In the first case, the output is completely unbiased whereas in second case outputs are completely random. We suggest a new (possibly) signaling correlation resource which successfully simulates singlet statistics and this result suggests a new complementary relation between required classical bits and randomness in local output when the classical communication is limited by 1 cbit. This result reproduces the above two models of simulation as extreme cases. This also explains why Leggett's non-local model and the model presented by Branciard et.al. should fail to reproduce the statistics of a singlet.

id: 1009.6189
title: Keeping a Single Qubit Alive by Experimental Dynamic Decoupling
authors: David J. Szwer, Simon C. Webster, Andrew M. Steane, David M. Lucas
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 025501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.6189
abstract: We demonstrate the use of dynamic decoupling techniques to extend the coherence time of a single memory qubit by nearly two orders of magnitude. By extending the Hahn spin-echo technique to correct for unknown, arbitrary polynomial variations in the qubit precession frequency, we show analytically that the required sequence of pi-pulses is identical to the Uhrig dynamic decoupling (UDD) sequence. We compare UDD and CPMG sequences applied to a single Ca-43 trapped-ion qubit and find that they afford comparable protection in our ambient noise environment.

id: 1009.6229
title: The Universe and The Quantum Computer
authors: Stan Gudder
comments: 15 pages, IQSA 2010 proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.6229
abstract: It is first pointed out that there is a common mathematical model for the universe and the quantum computer. The former is called the histories approach to quantum mechanics and the latter is called measurement based quantum computation. Although a rigorous concrete model for the universe has not been completed, a quantum measure and integration theory has been developed which may be useful for future progress. In this work we show that the quantum integral is the unique functional satisfying certain basic physical and mathematical principles. Since the set of paths (or trajectories) for a quantum computer is finite, this theory is easier to treat and more developed. We observe that the sum of the quantum measures of the paths is unity and the total interference vanishes. Thus, constructive interference is always balanced by an equal amount of destructive interference. As an example we consider a simplified two-slit experiment

id: 1009.0047
title: On the relationship between parametric two-electron reduced-density-matrix methods and the coupled electron pair approximation
authors: A. Eugene DePrince III, David A. Mazziotti
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0047
abstract: Parametric two-electron reduced-density-matrix (p-2RDM) methods have enjoyed much success in recent years; the methods have been shown to exhibit accuracies greater than coupled cluster with single and double substitutions (CCSD) for both closed- and open-shell ground-state energies, properties, geometric parameters, and harmonic frequencies. The class of methods is herein discussed within the context of the coupled electron pair approximation (CEPA), and several CEPA-like topological factors are presented for use within the p-2RDM framework. The resulting p-2RDM/n methods can be viewed as a density-based generalization of CEPA/n family that are numerically very similar to traditional CEPA methodologies. We cite the important distinction that the obtained energies represent stationary points, facilitating the efficient evaluation of properties and geometric derivatives. The p-2RDM/n formalism is generalized for an equal treatment of exclusion-principle-violating (EPV) diagrams that occur in the occupied and virtual spaces. One of these general topological factors is shown to be identical to that proposed by Kollmar [C. Kollmar, J. Chem. Phys. 125, 084108 (2006)], derived in an effort to approximately enforce the D, Q, and G conditions for N-representability in his size-extensive density matrix functional.

id: 1009.0089
title: Temperature driven structural phase transition for trapped ions and its experimental detection
authors: Zhe-Xuan Gong, G.-D. Lin, L.-M. Duan
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 265703 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0089
abstract: A Wigner crystal formed with trapped ion can undergo structural phase transition, which is determined only by the mechanical conditions on a classical level. Instead of this classical result, we show that through consideration of quantum and thermal fluctuation, a structural phase transition can be solely driven by change of the system's temperature. We determine a finite-temperature phase diagram for trapped ions using the renormalization group method and the path integral formalism, and propose an experimental scheme to observe the predicted temperature-driven structural phase transition, which is well within the reach of the current ion trap technology.

id: 1009.0150
title: Phase Space Quantum Mechanics
authors: Maciej Blaszak, Ziemowit Domanski
comments: to appear in Annals of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0150
abstract: The paper develop the alternative formulation of quantum mechanics known as the phase space quantum mechanics or deformation quantization. It is shown that the quantization naturally arises as an appropriate deformation of the classical Hamiltonian mechanics. More precisely, the deformation of the point-wise product of observables to an appropriate noncommutative $\star$-product and the deformation of the Poisson bracket to an appropriate Lie bracket is the key element in introducing the quantization of classical Hamiltonian systems. The considered class of deformations and the corresponding $\star$-products contains as a special cases all deformations which can be found in the literature devoted to the subject of the phase space quantum mechanics. Fundamental properties of $\star$-products of observables, associated with the considered deformations are presented as well. Moreover, a space of states containing all admissible states is introduced, where the admissible states are appropriate pseudo-probability distributions defined on the phase space. It is proved that the space of states is endowed with a structure of a Hilbert algebra with respect to the $\star$-multiplication. The most important result of the paper shows that developed formalism is more fundamental then the axiomatic ordinary quantum mechanics which appears in the presented approach as the intrinsic element of the general formalism. The equivalence of two formulations of quantum mechanics is proved by observing that the Wigner-Moyal transform has all properties of the tensor product. This observation allows writing many previous results found in the literature in a transparent way, from which the equivalence of the two formulations of quantum mechanics follows naturally.

id: 1009.0194
title: Non-equilibrium dynamics of bosonic atoms in optical lattices: Decoherence of many-body states due to spontaneous emission
authors: H. Pichler, A. J. Daley, P. Zoller
comments: 17 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 063605 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0194
abstract: We analyze in detail the heating of bosonic atoms in an optical lattice due to incoherent scattering of light from the lasers forming the lattice. Because atoms scattered into higher bands do not thermalize on the timescale of typical experiments, this process cannot be described by the total energy increase in the system alone (which is determined by single-particle effects). The heating instead involves an important interplay between the atomic physics of the heating process and the many-body physics of the state. We characterize the effects on many-body states for various system parameters, where we observe important differences in the heating for strongly and weakly interacting regimes, as well as a strong dependence on the sign of the laser detuning from the excited atomic state. We compute heating rates and changes to characteristic correlation functions based both on perturbation theory calculations, and a time-dependent calculation of the dissipative many-body dynamics. The latter is made possible for 1D systems by combining time-dependent density matrix renormalization group (t-DMRG) methods with quantum trajectory techniques.

id: 1009.0244
title: Solution of the Bosonic and Algebraic Hamiltonians by using AIM
authors: Ramazan Koc, Hayriye Tutunculer, Eser Olgar
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 395208 (9pp)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0244
abstract: We apply the notion of asymptotic iteration method (AIM) to determine eigenvalues of the bosonic Hamiltonians that include a wide class of quantum optical models. We consider solutions of the Hamiltonians, which are even polynomials of the fourth order with the respect to Boson operators. We also demonstrate applicability of the method for obtaining eigenvalues of the simple Lie algebraic structures. Eigenvalues of the multi-boson Hamiltonians have been obtained by transforming in the form of the single boson Hamiltonian in the framework of AIM.

id: 1009.0302
title: Improved phase gate reliability in systems with neutral Ising anyons
authors: David J. Clarke, Kirill Shtengel
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 180519(R) (2010), Editors' Suggestion
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0302
abstract: Recent proposals using heterostructures of superconducting and either topologically insulating or semiconducting layers have been put forth as possible platforms for topological quantum computation. These systems are predicted to contain Ising anyons and share the feature of having only neutral edge excitations. In this note, we show that these proposals can be combined with the recently proposed "sack geometry" for implementation of a phase gate in order to conduct robust universal quantum computation. In addition, we propose a general method for adjusting edge tunneling rates in such systems, which is necessary for the control of interferometric devices. The error rate for the phase gate in neutral Ising systems is parametrically smaller than for a similar geometry in which the edge modes carry charge: it goes as $T^3$ rather than $T$ at low temperatures. At zero temperature, the phase variance becomes constant at long times rather than carrying a logarithmic divergence.

id: 1009.0316
title: Magnetometry of random AC magnetic fields using a single Nitrogen-Vacancy center
authors: Abdelghani Laraoui, Jonathan S. Hodges, Carlos A. Meriles
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0316
abstract: We report on the use of a single NV center to probe fluctuating AC magnetic fields. Using engineered currents to induce random changes in the field amplitude and phase, we show that stochastic fluctuations reduce the NV center sensitivity and, in general, make the NV response field-dependent. We also introduce two modalities to determine the field spectral composition, unknown a priori in a practical application. One strategy capitalizes on the generation of AC-field-induced coherence 'revivals', while the other approach uses the time-tagged fluorescence intensity record from successive NV observations to reconstruct the AC field spectral density. These studies are relevant for magnetic sensing in scenarios where the field of interest has a non-trivial, stochastic behavior, such as sensing unpolarized nuclear spin ensembles at low static magnetic fields.

id: 1009.0418
title: Direct regular-to-chaotic tunneling rates using the fictitious integrable system approach
authors: Arnd B?cker, Roland Ketzmerick, Steffen L?ck
comments: 26 pages, 24 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 82, 056208 (2010)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0418
abstract: We review the fictitious integrable system approach which predicts dynamical tunneling rates from regular states to the chaotic region in systems with a mixed phase space. It is based on the introduction of a fictitious integrable system that resembles the regular dynamics within the regular island. We focus on the direct regular-to-chaotic tunneling process which dominates, if nonlinear resonances within the regular island are not relevant. For quantum maps, billiard systems, and optical microcavities we find excellent agreement with numerical rates for all regular states.

id: 1009.0444
title: Quantization and Semiclassics
authors: Max Lein
comments: lecture notes from course held at Technische Universit\"at M\"unchen in winter 2009/2010, 139 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0444
abstract: This course is aimed at graduate students in physics in mathematics and designed to give a comprehensive introduction to Weyl quantization and semiclassics via Egorov's theorem. Chapter 2 gives a quick overview of classical and quantum mechanics on R^d. Some mathematical preliminaries concerning Hilbert space theory, operator theory and tempered distributions are detailed in Chapters 3-5. Weyl quantization and semiclassics are the content of Chapters 6 and 7. Finally, an application of Weyl calculus to Born-Oppenheimer systems is discussed in Chapter 8.

id: 1009.0464
title: Physical applications of second-order linear differential equations that admit polynomial solutions
authors: Hakan Ciftci, Richard L. Hall, Nasser Saad, Ebubekir Dogu
comments: 13 pages, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A:Math. Theor. 43, 415206 (2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0464
abstract: Conditions are given for the second-order linear differential equation P3 y" + P2 y'- P1 y = 0 to have polynomial solutions, where Pn is a polynomial of degree n. Several application of these results to Schroedinger's equation are discussed. Conditions under which the confluent, biconfluent, and the general Heun equation yield polynomial solutions are explicitly given. Some new classes of exactly solvable differential equation are also discussed. The results of this work are expressed in such way as to allow direct use, without preliminary analysis.

id: 1009.0503
title: Influence of asymmetry and nodal planes on high-harmonic generation in heteronuclear molecules
authors: B.B. Augstein, C. Figueira de Morisson Faria
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures. Figs. 3, 5 and 6 have been simplified in order to comply with the arXiv size requirements
journal: J. Phys. B 44, 055601 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0503
abstract: The relation between high-harmonic spectra and the geometry of the molecular orbitals in position and momentum space is investigated. In particular we choose two isoelectronic pairs of homonuclear and heteronuclear molecules, such that the highest occupied molecular orbital of the former exhibit at least one nodal plane. The imprint of such planes is a strong suppression in the harmonic spectra, for particular alignment angles. We are able to identify two distinct types of nodal planes. If the nodal planes are determined by the atomic wavefunctions only, the angle for which the yield is suppressed will remain the same for both types of molecules. In contrast, if they are determined by the linear combination of atomic orbitals at different centers in the molecule, there will be a shift in the angle at which the suppression occurs for the heteronuclear molecules, with regard to their homonuclear counterpart. This shows that, in principle, molecular imaging, which uses the homonuclear molecule as a reference and enables one to observe the wavefunction distortions in its heteronuclear counterpart, is possible.

id: 1009.0541
title: Exactly solvable Schr?dinger operators
authors: Jan Derezi¨½ski, Micha? Wrochna
comments: 20 pages, v2
journal: Annales Henri Poincar{'e}, vol. 12, no. 2, 397-418, 2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0541
abstract: We systematically describe and classify 1-dimensional Schr\"odinger equations that can be solved in terms of hypergeometric type functions. Beside the well-known families, we explicitly describe 2 new classes of exactly solvable Schr\"odinger equations that can be reduced to the Hermite equation.

id: 1009.0555
title: Anderson localization in Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Giovanni Modugno
comments: 15 pages review, to appear in Reports on Progress in Physics
journal: Rep. Prog. Phys. 73, 102401 (2010)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0555
abstract: The understanding of disordered quantum systems is still far from being complete, despite many decades of research on a variety of physical systems. In this review we discuss how Bose-Einstein condensates of ultracold atoms in disordered potentials have opened a new window for studying fundamental phenomena related to disorder. In particular, we point our attention to recent experimental studies on Anderson localization and on the interplay of disorder and weak interactions. These realize a very promising starting point for a deeper understanding of the complex behaviour of interacting, disordered systems.

id: 1009.0563
title: Repulsive Casimir forces with finite-thickness slabs
authors: R. Zhao, Th. Koschny, E. N. Economou, C. M. Soukoulis
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, submitted to PRB; this http URL
journal: Physical Review B 83, 075108 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0563
abstract: We use the extended Lifshitz theory to study the behaviors of the Casimir forces between finite-thickness effective medium slabs. We first study the interaction between a semi-infinite Drude metal and a finite-thickness magnetic slab with or without substrate. For no substrate, the large distance $d$ dependence of the force is repulsive and goes as $1/d^5$; for the Drude metal substrate, a stable equilibrium point appears at an intermediate distance which can be tuned by the thickness of the slab. We then study the interaction between two identical chiral metamaterial slabs with and without substrate. For no substrate, the finite thickness of the slabs $D$ does not influence significantly the repulsive character of the force at short distances, while the attractive character at large distances becomes weaker and behaves as $1/d^6$; for the Drude metal substrate, the finite thickness of the slabs $D$ does not influence the repulsive force too much at short distances until $D=0.05\lambda_0$.

id: 1009.0602
title: Atom gravimeters and gravitational redshift
authors: Peter Wolf, Luc Blanchet, Christian J. Borde, Serge Reynaud, Christophe Salomon, Claude Cohen-Tannoudji
comments: 2 pages, Brief Communication appeared in Nature (2 September 2010)
journal: Nature 467:E1,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0602
abstract: In a recent paper, H. Mueller, A. Peters and S. Chu [A precision measurement of the gravitational redshift by the interference of matter waves, Nature 463, 926-929 (2010)] argued that atom interferometry experiments published a decade ago did in fact measure the gravitational redshift on the quantum clock operating at the very high Compton frequency associated with the rest mass of the Caesium atom. In the present Communication we show that this interpretation is incorrect.

id: 1009.0665
title: Single Crystal Sapphire at milli-Kelvin Temperatures: Observation of Electromagnetically Induced Thermal Bistability in High Q-factor Whispering Gallery Modes
authors: Daniel L. Creedon, Michael E. Tobar, Jean-Michel Le Floch, Yarema Reshitnyk, Timothy Duty
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0665
abstract: Resonance modes in single crystal sapphire ($\alpha$-Al$_2$O$_3$) exhibit extremely high electrical and mechanical Q-factors ($\approx 10^9$ at 4K), which are important characteristics for electromechanical experiments at the quantum limit. We report the first cooldown of a bulk sapphire sample below superfluid liquid helium temperature (1.6K) to as low as 25mK. The electromagnetic properties were characterised at microwave frequencies, and we report the first observation of electromagnetically induced thermal bistability in whispering gallery modes due to the material $T^3$ dependence on thermal conductivity and the ultra-low dielectric loss tangent. We identify "magic temperatures" between 80 to 2100 mK, the lowest ever measured, at which the onset of bistability is suppressed and the frequency-temperature dependence is annulled. These phenomena at low temperatures make sapphire suitable for quantum metrology and ultra-stable clock applications, including the possible realization of the first quantum limited sapphire clock.

id: 1009.0725
title: Loschmidt echo in quantum maps: the elusive nature of the Lyapunov regime
authors: Ignacio Garcia-Mata, Diego A. Wisniacki
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures. IOP format. Substantial changes with respect to v1. Accepted in J. Phys. A: Math. Theo
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 315101 (2011)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0725
abstract: The Loschmidt echo is a measure of the stability and reversibility of quantum evolution under perturbations of the Hamiltonian. One of the expected and most relevant characteristics of this quantity for chaotic systems is an exponential decay with a perturbation independent decay rate given by the classical Lyapunov exponent. However, a non-uniform decay -- instead of the Lyapunov regime -- has been reported in several systems. In this work we find an analytical semiclassical expression for the averaged fidelity amplitude that can be related directly to the anomalous -- unexpected-- behaviour of the LE.

id: 1009.0745
title: PT Symmetry and the Sign Problem
authors: Peter N. Meisinger, Michael C. Ogilvie, Timothy D. Wiser
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0745
abstract: Generalized PT symmetry provides crucial insight into the sign problem for two classes of models. In the case of quantum statistical models at non-zero chemical potential, the free energy density is directly related to the ground state energy of a non-Hermitian, but generalized PT-symmetric Hamiltonian. There is a corresponding class of PT-symmetric classical statistical mechanics models with non-Hermitian transfer matrices. For both quantum and classical models, the class of models with generalized PT symmetry is precisely the class where the complex weight problem can be reduced to real weights, i.e., a sign problem. The spatial two-point functions of such models can exhibit three different behaviors: exponential decay, oscillatory decay, and periodic behavior. The latter two regions are associated with PT symmetry breaking, where a Hamiltonian or transfer matrix has complex conjugate pairs of eigenvalues. The transition to a spatially modulated phase is associated with PT symmetry breaking of the ground state, and is generically a first-order transition. In the region where PT symmetry is unbroken, the sign problem can always be solved in principle. Moreover, there are models with PT symmetry which can be simulated for all parameter values, including cases where PT symmetry is broken.

id: 1009.0759
title: Momentum-space engineering of gaseous Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Mark Edwards, Brandon Benton, Jeffrey Heward, Charles W. Clark
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 063613 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0759
abstract: We show how the momentum distribution of gaseous Bose--Einstein condensates can be shaped by applying a sequence of standing-wave laser pulses. We present a theory, whose validity for was demonstrated in an earlier experiment [L.\ Deng, et al., \prl {\bf 83}, 5407 (1999)], of the effect of a two-pulse sequence on the condensate wavefunction in momentum space. We generalize the previous result to the case of $N$ pulses of arbitrary intensity separated by arbitrary intervals and show how these parameters can be engineered to produce a desired final momentum distribution. We find that several momentum distributions, important in atom-interferometry applications, can be engineered with high fidelity with two or three pulses.

id: 1009.0873
title: On a class of $J$-self-adjoint operators with empty resolvent set
authors: Sergii Kuzhel, Carsten Trunk
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Anal. Appl. 379 (2011), no. 1, 272-289
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0873
abstract: In the present paper we investigate the set $\Sigma_J$ of all $J$-self-adjoint extensions of a symmetric operator $S$ with deficiency indices $<2,2>$ which commutes with a non-trivial fundamental symmetry $J$ of a Krein space $(\mathfrak{H}, [\cdot,\cdot])$, SJ=JS. Our aim is to describe different types of $J$-self-adjoint extensions of $S$. One of our main results is the equivalence between the presence of $J$-self-adjoint extensions of $S$ with empty resolvent set and the commutation of $S$ with a Clifford algebra ${\mathcal C}l_2(J,R)$, where $R$ is an additional fundamental symmetry with $JR=-RJ$. This enables one to construct the collection of operators $C_{\chi,\omega}$ realizing the property of stable $C$-symmetry for extensions $A\in\Sigma_J$ directly in terms of ${\mathcal C}l_2(J,R)$ and to parameterize the corresponding subset of extensions with stable $C$-symmetry. Such a situation occurs naturally in many applications, here we discuss the case of an indefinite Sturm-Liouville operator on the real line and a one dimensional Dirac operator with point interaction.

id: 1009.0883
title: Precision measurement of the 5 2S1/2 - 4 2D5/2 quadrupole transition isotope shift between 88Sr+ and 86Sr+
authors: Warren E. Lybarger Jr, Julian C. Berengut, John Chiaverini
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052509 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0883
abstract: We have measured the isotope shift of the narrow quadrupole-allowed 5 2S1/2 - 4 2D5/2 transition in 86Sr+ relative to the most abundant isotope 88Sr+. This was accomplished using high-resolution laser spectroscopy of individual trapped ions, and the measured shift is Delta-nu_meas^(88,86) = 570.281(4) MHz. We have also tested a recently developed and successful method for ab-initio calculation of isotope shifts in alkali-like atomic systems against this measurement, and our initial result of Delta-nu_calc^(88,86) = 457(28) MHz is also presented. To our knowledge, this is the first high precision measurement and calculation of that isotope shift. While the measurement and the calculation are in broad agreement, there is a clear discrepancy between them, and we believe that the specific mass shift was underestimated in our calculation. Our measurement provides a stringent test for further refinements of theoretical isotope shift calculation methods for atomic systems with a single valence electron.

id: 1009.0889
title: On the classical theory of molecular optical activity
authors: Alexei M. Frolov, David M. Wardlaw
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0889
abstract: The basic principles of classical and semi-classical theories of molecular optical activity are discussed. These theories are valid for dilute solutions of optically active organic molecules. It is shown that all phenomena known in the classical theory of molecular optical activity can be described with the use of one pseudo-scalar which is a uniform function of the incident light frequency $\omega$. The relation between optical rotation and circular dichroism is derived from the basic Kramers-Kronig relations. In our discussion of the general theory of molecular optical activity we introduce the tensor of molecular optical activity. It is shown that to evaluate the optical rotation and circular dichroism at arbitrary frequencies one needs to know only nine (3 + 6) molecular tensors. The quantum (or semi-classical) theory of molecular optical activity is also briefly discussed. We also raise the possibility of measuring the optical rotation and circular dichroism at wavelengths which correspond to the vacuum ultraviolet region, i.e. for $\lambda \le 150$ $nm$.

id: 1009.0911
title: Vibronic Lineshapes of PTCDA Oligomers in Helium Nanodroplets
authors: Jan Roden, Alexander Eisfeld, Matthieu Dvorak, Oliver Buenermann, Frank Stienkemeier
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 134, 054907 (2011)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0911
abstract: Oligomers of the organic semiconductor PTCDA are studied by means of helium nanodroplet isolation (HENDI) spectroscopy. In contrast to the monomer absorption spectrum, which exhibits clearly separated, very sharp absorption lines, it is found that the oligomer spectrum consists of three main peaks having an apparent width orders of magnitude larger than the width of the monomer lines. Using a simple theoretical model for the oligomer, in which a Frenkel exciton couples to internal vibrational modes of the monomers, these experimental findings are nicely reproduced. The three peaks present in the oligomer spectrum can already be obtained taking only one effective vibrational mode of the PTCDA molecule into account. The inclusion of more vibrational modes leads to quasi continuous spectra, resembling the broad oligomer spectra.

id: 1009.1073
title: Truncated Wigner method for Bose gases
authors: J. Ruostekoski, A. D. Martin
comments: Unedited version of chapter to appear in Quantum Gases: Finite Temperature and Non-Equilibrium Dynamics (Vol. 1 Cold Atoms Series). N.P. Proukakis, S.A. Gardiner, M.J. Davis and M.H. Szymanska, eds. Imperial College Press, London (in press). See this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1073
abstract: We discuss stochastic phase-space methods within the truncated Wigner approximation and show explicitly that they can be used to solve non-equilibrium dynamics of bosonic atoms in one-dimensional traps. We consider systems both with and without an optical lattice, and address different approximations in the stochastic synthesization of quantum statistical correlations of the initial atomic field. We also present a numerically efficient projection method for analyzing correlation functions of the simulation results, and demonstrate physical examples of non-equilibrium quantum dynamics of solitons and atom number squeezing in optical lattices.

id: 1009.1102
title: Excitons in Molecular Aggregates with L¨¦vy Disorder: Anomalous Localization and Exchange Broadening of Optical Spectra
authors: A. Eisfeld, S. M. Vlaming, V. A. Malyshev, J. Knoester
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 137402 (2010)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1102
abstract: We predict the existence of exchange broadening of optical lineshapes in disordered molecular aggregates and a nonuniversal disorder scaling of the localization characteristics of the collective electronic excitations (excitons). These phenomena occur for heavy-tailed L\'evy disorder distributions with divergent second moments - distributions that play a role in many branches of physics. Our results sharply contrast with aggregate models commonly analyzed, where the second moment is finite. They bear a relevance for other types of collective excitations as well.

id: 1009.1155
title: Quantum dot Rabi rotations beyond the weak exciton-phonon coupling regime
authors: Dara P. S. McCutcheon, Ahsan Nazir
comments: 24 pages, 4 figures, comments welcome. Published version, changes to formatting and minor alterations to text, reference added
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 113042 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1155
abstract: We study the excitonic dynamics of a driven quantum dot under the influence of a phonon environment, going beyond the weak exciton-phonon coupling approximation. By combining the polaron transform and time-local projection operator techniques we develop a master equation that can be valid over a much larger range of exciton-phonon coupling strengths and temperatures than the standard weak-coupling approach. For the experimentally relevant parameters considered here, we find that the weak-coupling and polaron theories give very similar predictions for low temperatures (below 30 K), while at higher temperatures we begin to see discrepancies between the two. This is due to the fact that, unlike the polaron approach, the weak-coupling theory is incapable of capturing multiphonon effects, while it also does not properly account for phonon-induced renormalisation of the driving frequency. In particular, we find that the weak-coupling theory often overestimates the damping rate when compared to that predicted by the polaron theory. Finally, we extend our theory to include non-Markovian effects and find that, for the parameters considered here, they have little bearing on the excitonic Rabi rotations when plotted as a function of pulse area.

id: 1009.1282
title: A general and solvable random matrix model for spin decoherence
authors: Francois David
comments: pdfLaTeX, 64 pages, 59 figures, external links towards 4 .mp4 videos Some misprints corrected, several clarifications in the text, references added, the discussion of the bibliography is significantly extended
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2011) P01001
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1282
abstract: We propose and solve a simple but very general quantum model of an SU(2) spin interacting with a large external system with N states. The coupling is described by a random hamiltonian in a new general gaussian SU(2)xU(N) random matrix ensemble, that we introduce in this paper. We solve the model in the large N limit, for any value of the spin j and for any choice of the coupling matrix element distributions in the different possible angular momentum channels l (and provided that the internal dynamics of the spin is slow). Besides its mathematical interest as a non-trivial random matrix model, it allows to study and illustrate in a simple framework various phenomena: the decoherence dynamics, the conditions of emergence of the classical phase space for the spin, the properties quantum diffusion in phase space. The large time evolution for the spin is shown to be non-Markovian in general, the Markov property emerging in some specific case for the dynamics and the initial conditions.

id: 1009.1358
title: Combined quantum state preparation and laser cooling of a continuous beam of cold atoms
authors: Gianni Di Domenico, Laurent Devenoges, Claire Dumas, Pierre Thomann
comments: Minor changes according to the recommendations of the referee: - Corrected Fig.1. - Split the graph of Fig.6 for clarity. - Added one reference. - Added two remarks in the conclusion. - Results unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1358
abstract: We use two-laser optical pumping on a continuous atomic fountain in order to prepare cold cesium atoms in the same quantum ground state. A first laser excites the F=4 ground state to pump the atoms toward F=3 while a second pi-polarized laser excites the F=3 -> F'=3 transition of the D2 line to produce Zeeman pumping toward m=0. To avoid trap states, we implement the first laser in a 2D optical lattice geometry, thereby creating polarization gradients. This configuration has the advantage of simultaneously producing Sisyphus cooling when the optical lattice laser is tuned between the F=4 -> F'=4 and F=4 -> F'=5 transitions of the D2 line, which is important to remove the heat produced by optical pumping. Detuning the frequency of the second pi-polarized laser reveals the action of a new mechanism improving both laser cooling and state preparation efficiency. A physical interpretation of this mechanism is discussed.

id: 1009.1366
title: Mapping between Hamiltonians with attractive and repulsive potentials on a lattice
authors: Yogesh N. Joglekar
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 044101 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1366
abstract: Through a simple and exact analytical derivation, we show that for a particle on a lattice, there is a one-to-one correspondence between the spectra in the presence of an attractive potential $\hat{V}$ and its repulsive counterpart $-\hat{V}$. For a Hermitian potential, this result implies that the number of localized states is the same in both, attractive and repulsive, cases although these states occur above (below) the band-continnum for the repulsive (attractive) case. For a $\mP\mT$-symmetric potential that is odd under parity, our result implies that in the $\mP\mT$-unbroken phase, the energy eigenvalues are symmetric around zero, and that the corresponding eigenfunctions are closely related to each other.

id: 1009.1390
title: Landau Level Physics in a Quantum Well: new singular features in Magnetization and violations of de Haas - van Alphen periodicities
authors: Georgios Konstantinou, Konstantinos Moulopoulos
comments: 5 pages, 9 figures, brief report submitted for the Proceedings of the ICMM-2010 Conference (Kolkata, October 2010)
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1390
abstract: Analytical calculations based on a Landau Level (LL) picture are reported for an interface (with a finite-width Quantum Well (QW)) and for a fully three-dimensional charged quantum electronic system in an external magnetic field. They lead to a sequence of previously unnoticed singular features in global magnetization and magnetic susceptibility that lead to nontrivial corrections to the standard de Haas - van Alphen periods. Additional features due to Zeeman splitting are also reported (such as new energy minima that originate from the interplay of QW, Zeeman and LL Physics) that are possibly useful for the design of quantum devices. A corresponding calculation in a Composite Fermion picture leads to new predictions on magnetic response properties of a fully-interacting electron liquid in a finite-width interface.

id: 1009.1428
title: Derivation of quantum master equation with counting fields by monitoring a probe
authors: Takaaki Monnai
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1428
abstract: We show a microscopic derivation of a quantum master equation with counting terms which describes the electron statistics. A localized spin behaves as a probe whose precession angle monitors the net electron current by the magnetic-moment interaction. The probe Hamiltonian is proportional to the current, and is determined self-consistently for a model of a quantum dot. Then it turns out that the quantum master equation for the spin-precession contains the counting terms. As an application, we show the fluctuation theorem for the electron current.

id: 1009.1517
title: Largest Schmidt eigenvalue of entangled random pure states and conductance distribution in chaotic cavities
authors: Pierpaolo Vivo
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures, 1 table. References updated
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2011) P01022
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1517
abstract: A strategy to evaluate the distribution of the largest Schmidt eigenvalue for entangled random pure states of bipartite systems is proposed. We point out that the multiple integral defining the sought quantity for a bipartition of sizes N, M is formally identical (upon simple algebraic manipulations) to the one providing the probability density of Landauer conductance in open chaotic cavities supporting N and M electronic channels in the two leads. Known results about the latter can then be straightforwardly employed in the former problem for both systems with broken ({\beta} = 2) and preserved ({\beta} = 1) time reversal symmetry. The analytical results, yielding a continuous but not everywhere analytic distribution, are in excellent agreement with numerical simulations.

id: 1009.1534
title: Franck-Condon Physics in A Single Trapped Ion
authors: Y. M. Hu, W. L. Yang, Y. Y. Xu, F. Zhou, L. Chen, Kelin Gao, Mang Feng, Chaohong Lee
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 13 (2011) 053037
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1534
abstract: We propose how to explore the Franck-Condon (FC) physics via a single ion confined in a spin-dependent potential, formed by the combination of a Paul trap and a magnetic field gradient. The correlation between electronic and vibrational degrees of freedom, called as electron-vibron coupling, is induced by a nonzero gradient. For a sufficiently strong electron-vibron coupling, the FC blockade of low-lying vibronic transitions takes place. We analyze the feasibility of observing the FC physics in a single trapped ion, and demonstrate various potential applications of the ionic FC physics in quantum state engineering and quantum information processing.

id: 1009.1538
title: dc-switchable and single-nanocrystal-addressable coherent population transfer
authors: Deniz Gunceler, Ceyhun Bulutay
comments: Published version, 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 97, 241909 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1538
abstract: Achieving coherent population transfer in the solid-state is challenging compared to atomic systems due to closely spaced electronic states and fast decoherence. Here, within an atomistic pseudopotential theory, we offer recipes for the stimulated Raman adiabatic passage in embedded silicon and germanium nanocrystals. The transfer efficiency spectra displays characteristic Fano resonances. By exploiting the Stark effect, we predict that transfer can be switched off with a dc voltage. As the population transfer is highly sensitive to structural variations, with a choice of a sufficiently small two-photon detuning bandwidth, it can be harnessed for addressing individual nanocrystals within an ensemble.

id: 1009.1550
title: Non-linear dynamics of double-cavity optical bistability of three-level ladder system
authors: H. Aswath Babu, Harshawardhan Wanare
comments: 7 Pages, 9 figures. Feedback is welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 033819 (2011)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1550
abstract: We present non-linear dynamical features of two-photon double-cavity optical bistability exhibited by a three level ladder system in the mean field limit. The system exhibits a hump like feature in the lower branch of the bistable response, wherein a new region of instability develops. The system displays a range of dynamical features varying from normal stable switching, periodic self-pulsing to a period-doubling route to chaos. The inclusion of two competing cooperative atom-field couplings leads to such rich nonlinear dynamical behavior. We provide a domain map that clearly delineates the various regions of stability that will aid the realization of any desired dynamics. We also present bifurcation diagram and the associated supporting evidence that clearly identifies the period-doubling route to chaos, which occurs at low input light levels.

id: 1009.1552
title: Simulation of gauge transformations on systems of ultracold atoms
authors: O. Boada, A. Celi, J.I. Latorre, V Pic¨®
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J.Phys.12:113055,2010
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1552
abstract: We show that gauge transformations can be simulated on systems of ultracold atoms. We discuss observables that are invariant under these gauge transformations and compute them using a tensor network ansatz that escapes the phase problem. We determine that the Mott-insulator-to-superfluid critical point is monotonically shifted as the induced magnetic flux increases. This result is stable against the inclusion of a small amount of entanglement in the variational ansatz.

id: 1009.1599
title: Persistent currents in Bose gases confined in annular traps
authors: S. Bargi, F. Malet, G. M. Kavoulakis, S. M. Reimann
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82 (2010) 043631
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1599
abstract: We examine the problem of stability of persistent currents in a mixture of two Bose gases trapped in an annular potential. We evaluate the critical coupling for metastability in the transition from quasi-one to two-dimensional motion. We also evaluate the critical coupling for metastability in a mixture of two species as function of the population imbalance. The stability of the currents is shown to be sensitive to the deviation from one-dimensional motion.

id: 1009.1614
title: Entanglement spectrum of random-singlet quantum critical points
authors: Maurizio Fagotti, Pasquale Calabrese, Joel E. Moore
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B83:045110,2011
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1614
abstract: The entanglement spectrum, i.e., the full distribution of Schmidt eigenvalues of the reduced density matrix, contains more information than the conventional entanglement entropy and has been studied recently in several many-particle systems. We compute the disorder-averaged entanglement spectrum, in the form of the disorder-averaged moments of the reduced density matrix, for a contiguous block of many spins at the random-singlet quantum critical point in one dimension. The result compares well in the scaling limit with numerical studies on the random XX model and is also expected to describe the (interacting) random Heisenberg model. Our numerical studies on the XX case reveal that the dependence of the entanglement entropy and spectrum on the geometry of the Hilbert space partition is quite different than for conformally invariant critical points.

id: 1009.1635
title: Statistical mechanics of classical and quantum computational complexity
authors: C. R. Laumann, R. Moessner, A. Scardicchio, S. L. Sondhi
comments: 25 pages, 8 figures. Lecture notes for lectures given by R. Moessner at the Les Houches School on "Modern theories of correlated electron systems", May 11-29, 2009
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1635
abstract: The quest for quantum computers is motivated by their potential for solving problems that defy existing, classical, computers. The theory of computational complexity, one of the crown jewels of computer science, provides a rigorous framework for classifying the hardness of problems according to the computational resources, most notably time, needed to solve them. Its extension to quantum computers allows the relative power of quantum computers to be analyzed. This framework identifies families of problems which are likely hard for classical computers (``NP-complete'') and those which are likely hard for quantum computers (``QMA-complete'') by indirect methods. That is, they identify problems of comparable worst-case difficulty without directly determining the individual hardness of any given instance. Statistical mechanical methods can be used to complement this classification by directly extracting information about particular families of instances---typically those that involve optimization---by studying random ensembles of them. These pose unusual and interesting (quantum) statistical mechanical questions and the results shed light on the difficulty of problems for large classes of algorithms as well as providing a window on the contrast between typical and worst case complexity. In these lecture notes we present an introduction to this set of ideas with older work on classical satisfiability and recent work on quantum satisfiability as primary examples. We also touch on the connection of computational hardness with the physical notion of glassiness.

id: 1009.1674
title: Numerical Feynman integrals for density operator dynamics using master equation interpolants: faster convergence and significant reduction of computational cost
authors: Nikesh S. Dattani
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. v2: no change in results, no change in figures, fixed formatting on page 3, some word changes, version of abstract appearing in paper has been shortened
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1674
abstract: The Feynman integral is one of the most accurate methods for calculating density operator dynamics in open quantum systems. However, the number of time steps that can realistically be used is always limited, therefore one often obtains an approximation of the density operator at a sparse grid of points in time. Instead of relying only on \textit{ad hoc} interpolation methods such as splines to estimate the system density operator in between these points, I propose a method that uses physical information to assist with this interpolation. This method is tested on a physically significant system, on which its use allows important qualitative features of the density operator dynamics to be captured with as little as 2 time steps in the Feynman integral. This method allows for an enormous reduction in the amount of memory and CPU time required for approximating density operator dynamics within a desired accuracy. Since this method does not change the way the Feynman integral itself is calculated, the value of the density operator approximation at the points in time used to discretize the Feynamn integral will be the same whether or not this method is used, but its approximation in between these points in time is considerably improved by this method.

id: 1009.1795
title: Unveiling quantum Hall transport by Efros-Shklovskii to Mott variable range hopping transition with Graphene
authors: Keyan Bennaceur, Patrice Jacques, Fabien Portier, P. Roche, D.C. Glattli
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 085433 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1795
abstract: The quantum localization in the quantum Hall regime is revisited using Graphene monolayers with accurate measurements of the longitudinal resistivity as a function of temperature and current. We experimentally show for the first time a cross-over from Efros-Shklovskii Variable Range Hopping (VRH) conduction regime with Coulomb interactions to a Mott VRH regime without interaction. This occurs at Hall plateau transitions for localization lengths larger than the interaction screening length set by the nearby gate. Measurements of the scaling exponents of the conductance peak widths with both temperature and current give the first validation of the Polyakov-Shklovskii scenario that VRH alone is sufficient to describe conductance in the Quantum Hall regime and that the usual assumption of a metallic conduction regime on conductance peaks is unnecessary.

id: 1009.1814
title: Quantum Kinetic Evolution of Marginal Observables
authors: V.I. Gerasimenko
comments: 18 pages
journal: Kinet. Relat. Models 4 (1) (2011) 385-399
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1814
abstract: We develop a rigorous formalism for the description of the evolution of observables of quantum systems of particles in the mean-field scaling limit. The corresponding asymptotics of a solution of the initial-value problem of the dual quantum BBGKY hierarchy is constructed. Moreover, links of the evolution of marginal observables and the evolution of quantum states described in terms of a one-particle marginal density operator are established. Such approach gives the alternative description of the kinetic evolution of quantum many-particle systems to generally accepted approach on basis of kinetic equations.

id: 1009.1838
title: Reply to: Atom gravimeters and the gravitational redshift
authors: Holger Mueller, Achim Peters, Steven Chu
comments: Reply to P. Wolf et al., arXiv:1009.0602
journal: Nature 467:E2,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1838
abstract: We stand by our result [H. Mueller et al., Nature 463, 926-929 (2010)]. The comment [P. Wolf et al., Nature 467, E1 (2010)] revisits an interesting issue that has been known for decades, the relationship between test of the universality of free fall and redshift experiments. However, it arrives at its conclusions by applying the laws of physics that are questioned by redshift experiments; this precludes the existence of measurable signals. Since this issue applies to all classical redshift tests as well as atom interferometry redshift tests, these experiments are equivalent in all aspects in question.

id: 1009.1944
title: Exceptional orthogonal polynomials, QHJ formalism and SWKB quantization condition
authors: S. Sree Ranjani, P. K. Panigrahi, A. Khare, A. K. Kapoor, A. Gangopadhyaya
comments: 10 pages with 1 table,i figure. Errors rectified, manuscript rewritten, new references added
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1944
abstract: We study the quantum Hamilton-Jacobi (QHJ) equation of the recently obtained exactly solvable models, related to the newly discovered exceptional polynomials and show that the QHJ formalism reproduces the exact eigenvalues and the eigenfunctions. The fact that the eigenfunctions have zeros and poles in complex locations leads to an unconventional singularity structure of the quantum momentum function $p(x)$, the logarithmic derivative of the wave function, which forms the crux of the QHJ approach to quantization. A comparison of the singularity structure for these systems with the known exactly solvable and quasi-exactly solvable models reveals interesting differences. We find that the singularities of the momentum function for these new potentials lie between the above two distinct models, sharing similarities with both of them. This prompted us to examine the exactness of the supersymmetric WKB (SWKB) quantization condition. The interesting singularity structure of $p(x)$ and of the superpotential for these models has important consequences for the SWKB rule and in our proof of its exactness for these quantal systems.

id: 1009.1956
title: Decoherence of orbital angular momentum entanglement in a turbulent atmosphere
authors: Filippus S. Roux
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, a few minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1956
abstract: The evolution of an entangled photon state propagating through a turbulent atmosphere is formulated in terms of a set of coupled first order differential equations, by using an infinitesimal propagation approach. The orbital angular momentum (OAM) basis is used to described the density matrix of the state. Although the analysis is done in the paraxial limit for a monochromatic optical field, the formalism is comprehensive in the sense that it does not require any assumptions about the strength of the turbulence and it can incorporate any spectral model for the turbulence. As a comparative example the case of entangled qubit OAM biphoton states is considered.

id: 1009.1987
title: Can Equivalence Principle be consistent with the Bohr-Somerfeld-Hansson Theory of the Newtonian Gravity
authors: Vladan Pankovic, Darko V. Kapor
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1987
abstract: In this work we consider some consequences of the Bohr-Sommerfeld-Hansson (Old or quasi-classical) quantum theory of the Newtonian gravity, i.e. of the "gravitational atom". We prove that in this case (for gravitational central force and quantized angular momentum) centrifugal acceleration becomes formally-theoretically dependent (proportional to fourth degree) of the mass of "gravitational electron" rotating around "gravitational nucleus" for any quantum number (state). It seemingly leads toward a paradoxical breaking of the relativistic equivalence principle which contradicts to real experimental data. We demonstrate that this equivalence principle breaking does not really appear in the (quasi classical) quantum theory, but that it necessary appears only in a hypothetical extension of the quantum theory that needs a classical like interpretation of the Bohr-Sommerfeld angular momentum quantization postulate. It is, in some sense, similar to Bell-Aspect analysis that points out that a hypothetical deterministic extension of the quantum mechanics, in distinction to usual quantum mechanics, can reproduce experimental data if and only if it is non-local (superluminal) in contradiction with relativistic locality (luminality) principle.

id: 1009.2017
title: Tackling the blackbody shift in a strontium optical lattice clock
authors: Thomas Middelmann, Christian Lisdat, Stephan Falke, Joseph S.R. Vellore Winfred, Fritz Riehle, Uwe Sterr
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2017
abstract: A major obstacle for optical clocks is the frequency shift due to black body radiation. We discuss how one can tackle this problem in an optical lattice clock; in our case 87-Sr: firstly, by a measurement of the dc Stark shift of the clock transition and, secondly, by interrogating the atoms in a cryogenic environment. Both approaches rely on transporting ultracold atoms over several cm within a probe cycle. We evaluate this approach of mechanically moving the optical lattice and conclude that it is feasible to transport the atoms over 50 mm within 300 ms. With this transport a dc Stark shift measurement will allow to reduce the contribution of the blackbody radiation to the fractional uncertainty below 2 * 10^-17 at room temperature by improving the shift coefficient known only from atomic structure calculations up to now. We propose a cryogenic environment at 77 K that will reduce this contribution to few parts in 10^-18.

id: 1009.2036
title: Statistically induced Phase Transitions and Anyons in 1D Optical Lattices
authors: Tassilo Keilmann, Simon Lanzmich, Ian McCulloch, Marco Roncaglia
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature Commun. 2:361,2011
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2036
abstract: Anyons - particles carrying fractional statistics that interpolate between bosons and fermions - have been conjectured to exist in low dimensional systems. In the context of the fractional quantum Hall effect (FQHE), quasi-particles made of electrons take the role of anyons whose statistical exchange phase is fixed by the filling factor. Here we propose an experimental setup to create anyons in one-dimensional lattices with fully tuneable exchange statistics. In our setup, anyons are created by bosons with occupation-dependent hopping amplitudes, which can be realized by assisted Raman tunneling. The statistical angle can thus be controlled in situ by modifying the relative phase of external driving fields. This opens the fascinating possibility of smoothly transmuting bosons via anyons into fermions and of inducing a phase transition by the mere control of the particle statistics as a free parameter. In particular, we demonstrate how to induce a quantum phase transition from a superfluid into an exotic Mott-like state where the particle distribution exhibits plateaus at fractional densities.

id: 1009.2192
title: The non-relativistic limit of (central-extended) Poincare group and some consequences for quantum actualization
authors: Juan Sebasti¨¢n Ardenghi, Mario Castagnino, Rutwig Campoamor-Sturberg
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 50, 103526 (2009)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2192
abstract: The nonrelativistic limit of the centrally extended Poincar\'e group is considered and their consequences in the modal Hamiltonian interpretation of quantum mechanics are discussed [ O. Lombardi and M. Castagnino, Stud. Hist. Philos. Mod. Phys 39, 380 (2008) ; J. Phys, Conf. Ser. 128, 012014 (2008) ]. Through the assumption that in quantum field theory the Casimir operators of the Poincar\'e group actualize, the nonrelativistic limit of the latter group yields to the actualization of the Casimir operators of the Galilei group, which is in agreement with the actualization rule of previous versions of modal Hamiltonian interpretation [ Ardenghi et al., Found. Phys. (submitted) ]

id: 1009.2360
title: Unexpected systematic degeneracy in a system of two coupled Gaudin models with homogeneous couplings
authors: Bjoern Erbe, John Schliemann
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. (Fast Track Communication) 43, 492002 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2360
abstract: We report an unexpected systematic degeneracy between different multiplets in an inversion symmetric system of two coupled Gaudin models with homogeneous couplings, as occurring for example in the context of solid state quantum information processing. We construct the full degenerate subspace (being of macroscopic dimension), which turns out to lie in the kernel of the commutator between the two Gaudin models and the coupling term. Finally we investigate to what extend the degeneracy is related to the inversion symmetry of the system and find that indeed there is a large class of systems showing the same type of degeneracy.

id: 1009.2401
title: Semiclassical theory of energy diffusive escape in a Duffing oscillator
authors: Alvise Verso, Joachim Ankerhold
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2401
abstract: Motivated by recent experimental progress to read out quantum bits implemented in superconducting circuits via the phenomenon of dynamical bifurcation, transitions between steady orbits in a driven anharmonic oscillator, the Duffing oscillator, are analyzed. In the regime of weak dissipation a consistent master equation in the semiclassical limit is derived to capture the intimate relation between finite tunneling and reflection and bath induced quantum fluctuations. From the corresponding steady state distributions analytical expressions for the switching probabilities are obtained. It is shown that a reduction of the transition rate due to finite reflection at the phase-space barrier is overcompensated by an increase due to environmental quantum fluctuations that are specific for diffusion processes over dynamical barriers. Moreover, it is revealed that close to the bifurcation threshold the escape dynamics enters an overdamped domain such that the quantum mechanical energy scale associated with friction even exceeds the thermal energy scale.

id: 1009.2423
title: Quantum theory as inductive inference
authors: Ryszard Pawe? Kostecki
comments: 
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1305 (2011), 24-35
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2423
abstract: We present the elements of a new approach to the foundations of quantum theory and probability theory which is based on the algebraic approach to integration, information geometry, and maximum relative entropy methods. It enables us to deal with conceptual and mathematical problems of quantum theory without any appeal to frameworks of Hilbert spaces and measure spaces.

id: 1009.2445
title: Gravity quantized
authors: Marcin Domagala, Kristina Giesel, Wojciech Kaminski, Jerzy Lewandowski
comments: 18 pages; 1. We have extended section IIIC showing that the family of quantum Dirac observables constructed in the paper is in fact complete. 2. We have modified and extended section IIID by clarifying the classical meaning of the observables. 3. We have modified and extended section IIIE explaining the nature of the dynamics
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:104038,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2445
abstract: ..."but we do not have quantum gravity." This phrase is often used when analysis of a physical problem enters the regime in which quantum gravity effects should be taken into account. In fact, there are several models of the gravitational field coupled to (scalar) fields for which the quantization procedure can be completed using loop quantum gravity techniques. The model we present in this paper consist of the gravitational field coupled to a scalar field. The result has similar structure to the loop quantum cosmology models, except for that it involves all the local degrees of freedom because no symmetry reduction has been performed at the classical level.

id: 1009.2485
title: Gravitational Redshift, Equivalence Principle, and Matter Waves
authors: Michael A. Hohensee, Brian Estey, Francisco Monsalve, Geena Kim, Pei-Chen Kuan, Shau-Yu Lan, Nan Yu, Achim Peters, Steven Chu, Holger Mueller
comments: Work in progress. 11 pages
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.264:012009,2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2485
abstract: We review matter wave and clock comparison tests of the gravitational redshift. To elucidate their relationship to tests of the universality of free fall (UFF), we define scenarios wherein redshift violations are coupled to violations of UFF ("type II"), or independent of UFF violations ("type III"), respectively. Clock comparisons and atom interferometers are sensitive to similar effects in type II and precisely the same effects in type III scenarios, although type III violations remain poorly constrained. Finally, we describe the "Geodesic Explorer," a conceptual spaceborne atom interferometer that will test the gravitational redshift with an accuracy 5 orders of magnitude better than current terrestrial redshift experiments for type II scenarios and 12 orders of magnitude better for type III.

id: 1009.2641
title: Hidden possibilities in controlling optical soliton in fiber guided doped resonant medium
authors: Anjan Kundu
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, latex
journal: AIP-Advances 1 (2011) 022137
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2641
abstract: Fiber guided optical signal propagating in a Erbium doped nonlinear resonant medium is known to produce cleaner solitonic pulse, described by the self induced transparency (SIT) coupled to nonlinear Schroedinger equation. We discover two new possibilities hidden in its integrable structure, for amplification and control of the optical pulse. Using the variable soliton width permitted by the integrability of this model, the broadening pulse can be regulated by adjusting the initial population inversion of the opant atoms. The effect can be enhanced by another innovative application of its constrained integrable hierarchy, proposing a system of multiple SIT media. These theoretical predictions are workable analytically in details, correcting the limitation of a well known result.

id: 1009.2811
title: Semiclassical Mechanics of the Wigner 6j-Symbol
authors: Vincenzo Aquilanti, Hal M. Haggard, Austin Hedeman, Nadir Jeevanjee, Robert G. Littlejohn, Liang Yu
comments: 64 pages, 50 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 065209 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2811
abstract: The semiclassical mechanics of the Wigner 6j-symbol is examined from the standpoint of WKB theory for multidimensional, integrable systems, to explore the geometrical issues surrounding the Ponzano-Regge formula. The relations among the methods of Roberts and others for deriving the Ponzano-Regge formula are discussed, and a new approach, based on the recoupling of four angular momenta, is presented. A generalization of the Yutsis-type of spin network is developed for this purpose. Special attention is devoted to symplectic reduction, the reduced phase space of the 6j-symbol (the 2-sphere of Kapovich and Millson), and the reduction of Poisson bracket expressions for semiclassical amplitudes. General principles for the semiclassical study of arbitrary spin networks are laid down; some of these were used in our recent derivation of the asymptotic formula for the Wigner 9j-symbol.

id: 1009.2888
title: Using Superconducting Qubit Circuits to Engineer Exotic Lattice Systems
authors: Dimitris I. Tsomokos, Sahel Ashhab, Franco Nori
comments: 7 pages (two-column), 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052311 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2888
abstract: We propose an architecture based on superconducting qubits and resonators for the implementation of a variety of exotic lattice systems, such as spin and Hubbard models in higher or fractal dimensions and higher-genus topologies. Spin systems are realized naturally using qubits, while superconducting resonators can be used for the realization of Bose-Hubbard models. Fundamental requirements for these designs, such as controllable interactions between arbitrary qubit pairs, have recently been implemented in the laboratory, rendering our proposals feasible with current technology.

id: 1009.2934
title: Electromagnetic Klein-Gordon and Dirac equations in scale relativity
authors: Marie-No?lle C¨¦l¨¦rier, Laurent Nottale
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A25:4239-4253,2010
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2934
abstract: We present a new step in the foundation of quantum field theory with the tools of scale relativity. Previously, quantum motion equations (Schr\"odinger, Klein-Gordon, Dirac, Pauli) have been derived as geodesic equations written with a quantum-covariant derivative operator. Then, the nature of gauge transformations, of gauge fields and of conserved charges have been given a geometric meaning in terms of a scale-covariant derivative tool. Finally, the electromagnetic Klein-Gordon equation has been recovered with a covariant derivative constructed by combining the quantum-covariant velocity operator and the scale-covariant derivative. We show here that if one tries to derive the electromagnetic Dirac equation from the Klein-Gordon one as for the free particle motion, i.e. as a square root of the time part of the Klein-Gordon operator, one obtains an additional term which is the relativistic analog of the spin-magnetic field coupling term of the Pauli equation. However, if one first applies the quantum covariance, then implements the scale covariance through the scale-covariant derivative, one obtains the electromagnetic Dirac equation in its usual form. This method can also be applied successfully to the derivation of the electromagnetic Klein-Gordon equation. This suggests it rests on more profound roots of the theory, since it encompasses naturally the spin-charge coupling.

id: 1009.2962
title: Spectroscopy of a narrow-line laser cooling transition in atomic dysprosium
authors: Mingwu Lu, Seo Ho Youn, Benjamin L. Lev
comments: 6+ pages, 5 figures, 5 tables
journal: PRA 83, 012510 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2962
abstract: The laser cooling and trapping of ultracold neutral dysprosium has been recently demonstrated using the broad, open 421-nm cycling transition. Narrow-line magneto-optical trapping of Dy on longer wavelength transitions would enable the preparation of ultracold Dy samples suitable for loading optical dipole traps and subsequent evaporative cooling. We have identified the closed 741-nm cycling transition as a candidate for the narrow-line cooling of Dy. We present experimental data on the isotope shifts, the hyperfine constants A and B, and the decay rate of the 741-nm transition. In addition, we report a measurement of the 421-nm transition's linewidth, which agrees with previous measurements. We summarize the laser cooling characteristics of these transitions as well as other narrow cycling transitions that may prove useful for cooling Dy.

id: 1009.2969
title: Observation of quantum jumps in a superconducting artificial atom
authors: R. Vijay, D. H. Slichter, I. Siddiqi
comments: Updated draft including supplementary information. 8 pages, 6 figures. Supplementary videos are available on our website at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 110502 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2969
abstract: A continuously monitored quantum system prepared in an excited state will decay to its ground state with an abrupt jump. The jump occurs stochastically on a characteristic time scale T1, the lifetime of the excited state. These quantum jumps, originally envisioned by Bohr, have been observed in trapped atoms and ions, single molecules, photons, and single electrons in cyclotrons. Here we report the first observation of quantum jumps in a macroscopic quantum system, in our case a superconducting "artificial atom" or quantum bit (qubit) coupled to a superconducting microwave cavity. We use a fast, ultralow-noise parametric amplifier to amplify the microwave photons used to probe the qubit state, enabling continuous high-fidelity monitoring of the qubit. This technique represents a major step forward for solid state quantum information processing, potentially enabling quantum error correction and feedback, which are essential for building a quantum computer. Our technology can also be readily integrated into hybrid circuits involving molecular magnets, nitrogen vacancies in diamond, or semiconductor quantum dots.

id: 1009.3016
title: Entanglement entropy between two coupled Tomonaga-Luttinger liquids
authors: Shunsuke Furukawa, Yong Baek Kim
comments: 21 pages, 16 figures. v2: Some changes in the discussion of the analyticity of Renyi entropy. v3: The von Neumann limit (n\to 1) of gamma_n has been obtained. A note is added on this (Appendix C). v4: The added note has been published as Erratum: Phys. Rev. B 87, 119901(E) (2013)
journal: Phys.Rev.B83:085112,2011
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3016
abstract: We consider a system of two coupled Tomonaga-Luttinger liquids (TLL) on parallel chains and study the Renyi entanglement entropy $S_n$ between the two chains. Here the entanglement cut is introduced between the chains, not along the perpendicular direction as used in previous studies of one-dimensional systems. The limit $n\to1$ corresponds to the von Neumann entanglement entropy. The system is effectively described by two-component bosonic field theory with different TLL parameters in the symmetric/antisymmetric channels as far as the coupled system remains in a gapless phase. We argue that in this system, $S_n$ is a linear function of the length of the chains (boundary law) followed by a universal subleading constant $\gamma_n$ determined by the ratio of the two TLL parameters. The formulae of $\gamma_n$ for integer $n\ge 2$ are derived using (a) ground-state wave functionals of TLLs and (b) boundary conformal field theory, which lead to the same result. These predictions are checked in a numerical diagonalization analysis of a hard-core bosonic model on a ladder. Although the analytic continuation of $\gamma_n$ to $n\to 1$ turns out to be a difficult problem, our numerical result suggests that the subleading constant in the von Neumann entropy is also universal. Our results may provide useful characterization of inherently anisotropic quantum phases such as the sliding Luttinger liquid phase via qualitatively different behaviors of the entanglement entropy with the entanglement partitions along different directions.

id: 1009.3114
title: Lattice Heat Capacity of Mesoscopic Nanostructures
authors: B. Gharekhanlou, S. Khorasani, A. Vafai
comments: 
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 248 (2010) 012057
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3114
abstract: We present a rigorous full quantum mechanical model for the lattice heat capacity of mesoscopic nanostructures in various dimensions. Model can be applied to arbitrary nanostructures with known vibrational spectrum in zero, one, two, or three dimensions. The limiting case of infinitely sized multi-dimensional materials are also found, which are in agreement with well-known results. As examples, we obtain the heat capacity of fullerenes.

id: 1009.3118
title: Optical cooling and trapping of tripod-type atoms with rectified radiation forces
authors: I. V. Krasnov
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3118
abstract: A new scheme of three-dimensional (3D) all-optical (nonmagnetic) cooling and trapping of resonant atoms, based on using of so-called rectified radiation forces in non-monochromatic light fields is presented. It can be applied to the atoms with a tripod-type configuration of levels: atoms (ions) with the quantum transition F=1 \to F=0. The scheme proposed provides a long-term trapping of such atoms in deep light-induced potential wells. Moreover, the atom temperature can continuously be changed by varying field parameters in quite a large range (from super-Doppler to sub-Doppler values) without violating the localization stability.

id: 1009.3236
title: Extending PT symmetry from Heisenberg algebra to E2 algebra
authors: Carl M. Bender, R. J. Kalveks
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.50:955-962,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3236
abstract: The E2 algebra has three elements, J, u, and v, which satisfy the commutation relations [u,J]=iv, [v,J]=-iu, [u,v]=0. We can construct the Hamiltonian H=J^2+gu, where g is a real parameter, from these elements. This Hamiltonian is Hermitian and consequently it has real eigenvalues. However, we can also construct the PT-symmetric and non-Hermitian Hamiltonian H=J^2+igu, where again g is real. As in the case of PT-symmetric Hamiltonians constructed from the elements x and p of the Heisenberg algebra, there are two regions in parameter space for this PT-symmetric Hamiltonian, a region of unbroken PT symmetry in which all the eigenvalues are real and a region of broken PT symmetry in which some of the eigenvalues are complex. The two regions are separated by a critical value of g.

id: 1009.3267
title: Hausdorff dimension of a particle path in a quantum manifold
authors: Piero Nicolini, Benjamin Niedner
comments: 7 pages, 4 figure, updated version which matches that published on Physical Review D
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:024017,2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3267
abstract: After recalling the concept of the Hausdorff dimension, we study the fractal properties of a quantum particle path. As a novelty we consider the possibility for the space where the particle propagates to be endowed with a quantum-gravity-induced minimal length. We show that the Hausdorff dimension accounts for both the quantum mechanics uncertainty and manifold fluctuations. In addition the presence of a minimal length breaks the self-similarity property of the erratic path of the quantum particle. Finally we establish a universal property of the Hausdorff dimension as well as the spectral dimension: They both depend on the amount of resolution loss which affects both the path and the manifold when quantum gravity fluctuations occur.

id: 1009.3425
title: Trapped electron coupled to superconducting devices
authors: P. Bushev, D. Bothner, J. Nagel, M. Kemmler, K. B. Konovalenko, A. Loerincz, K. Ilin, M. Siegel, D. Koelle, R. Kleiner, F. Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 63, 9-16 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3425
abstract: We propose to couple a trapped single electron to superconducting structures located at a variable distance from the electron. The electron is captured in a cryogenic Penning trap using electric fields and a static magnetic field in the Tesla range. Measurements on the electron will allow investigating the properties of the superconductor such as vortex structure, damping and decoherence. We propose to couple a superconducting microwave resonator to the electron in order to realize a circuit QED-like experiment, as well as to couple superconducting Josephson junctions or superconducting quantum interferometers (SQUIDs) to the electron. The electron may also be coupled to a vortex which is situated in a double well potential, realized by nearby pinning centers in the superconductor, acting as a quantum mechanical two level system that can be controlled by a transport current tilting the double well potential. When the vortex is trapped in the interferometer arms of a SQUID, this would allow its detection both by the SQUID and by the electron.

id: 1009.3539
title: Is A Quantum Stabilizer Code Degenerate or Nondegenerate for Pauli Channel?
authors: Fangying Xiao, Hanwu Chen
comments: 7 pages,1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3539
abstract: Mapping an error syndrome to the error operator is the core of quantum decoding network and is also the key step of recovery. The definitions of the bit-flip error syndrome matrix and the phase-flip error syndrome matrix were presented, and then the error syndromes of quantum errors were expressed in terms of the columns of the bit-flip error syndrome matrix and the phase-flip error syndrome matrix. It also showed that the error syndrome matrices of a stabilizer code are determined by its check matrix, which is similar to the classical case. So, the error-detection and recovery techniques of classical linear codes can be applied to quantum stabilizer codes after some modifications. Some necessary and/or sufficient conditions for the stabilizer code over GF(2) is degenerate or nondegenerate for Pauli channel based on the relationship between the error syndrome matrices and the check matrix was presented. A new way to find the minimum distance of the quantum stabilizer codes based on their check matrices was presented, and followed from which we proved that the performance of degenerate quantum code outperform (at least have the same performance) nondegenerate quantum code for Pauli channel.

id: 1009.3612
title: Delta function singularity in the Reduction of Radial Schrodinger Equation
authors: A.Khelashvili, T.Nadareishvili
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3612
abstract: We obtain the extra delta-like singularity while reduction of the Laplace operator in spherical coordinates, elimination of which restricts the radial wave functions at the origin. This restriction has the form of boundary condition for the radial wave function.

id: 1009.3623
title: Dynamical fluctuations in classical adiabatic processes: General description and their implications
authors: Qi Zhang, Jiangbin Gong, C.H. Oh
comments: 19 pages, no figures, discussion significantly expanded, published version
journal: Annals of Physics 327, 1202-1213 (2012)
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3623
abstract: Dynamical fluctuations in classical adiabatic processes are not considered by the conventional classical adiabatic theorem. In this work a general result is derived to describe the intrinsic dynamical fluctuations in classical adiabatic processes. Interesting implications of our general result are discussed via two subtopics, namely, an intriguing adiabatic geometric phase in a dynamical model with an adiabatically moving fixed-point solution, and the possible "pollution" to Hannay's angle or to other adiabatic phase objects for adiabatic processes involving non-fixed-point solutions.

id: 1009.3640
title: Quantum One-Way Communication is Exponentially Stronger Than Classical Communication
authors: Bo'az Klartag, Oded Regev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Metric Geometry (math.MG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3640
abstract: In STOC 1999, Raz presented a (partial) function for which there is a quantum protocol communicating only $O(\log n)$ qubits, but for which any classical (randomized, bounded-error) protocol requires $\poly(n)$ bits of communication. That quantum protocol requires two rounds of communication. Ever since Raz's paper it was open whether the same exponential separation can be achieved with a quantum protocol that uses only one round of communication. Here we settle this question in the affirmative.

id: 1009.3666
title: Time-dependent self-trapping of Bose-Einstein Condensates in a double-well potential
authors: B. Cui, L. C. Wang, X. X. Yi
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062105 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3666
abstract: Based on the mean-field approximation and the phase space analysis, we discuss the dynamics of Bose-Einstein condensates in a double-well potential. By applying a periodic modulation to the coupling between the condensates, we find the condensates can be trapped in the time-dependent eigenstates of the effective Hamiltonian, we refer to this effect as time-dependent self-trapping of BECs. A comparison of this self-trapping with the adiabatic evolution is made, finding that the adiabatic evolution beyond the traditional(linear) adiabatic condition can be achieved in BECs by manipulating the nonlinearity and the ratio of the level bias to the coupling constant. The fixed points for the system are calculated and discussed.

id: 1009.3744
title: Truncation errors in self-similar continuous unitary transformations
authors: Nils A. Drescher, Tim Fischer, G?tz S. Uhrig
comments: 17 pages, 8 figures
journal: European Physical Journal B 79(2), 225-240 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3744
abstract: Effects of truncation in self-similar continuous unitary transformations (S-CUT) are estimated rigorously. We find a formal description via an inhomogeneous flow equation. In this way, we are able to quantify truncation errors within the framework of the S-CUT and obtain rigorous error bounds for the ground state energy and the highest excited level. These bounds can be lowered exploiting symmetries of the Hamiltonian. We illustrate our approach with results for a toy model of two interacting hard-core bosons and the dimerized S=1/2 Heisenberg chain.

id: 1009.3756
title: Time-resolved detection of relative intensity squeezed nanosecond pulses in a 87Rb vapor
authors: Imad H. Agha, Christina Giarmatzi, Gaetan Messin, Philippe Grangier
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors. Major changes to theoretical section and authorship order change. Will be resubmitted after required changes are implemented to the manuscript
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3756
abstract: We present experimental studies on the generation and detection of pulsed, relative-intensity squeezed light in a warm rubidium vapor. The noise correlations between a pulsed probe beam and its conjugate -generated through nearly-degenerate four-wave mixing in a double-lambda system- are studied via time-resolved balanced detection. We observe -0.96 dB of time-resolved relative intensity squeezing with 50 nanosecond pulses at 1 MHz repetition rate. (-1.34 dB corrected for loss).

id: 1009.3858
title: Pauli graphs when the Hilbert space dimension contains a square: why the Dedekind psi function ?
authors: Michel Planat
comments: 18 pages, version submiited to J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 045301
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR); Number Theory (math.NT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3858
abstract: We study the commutation relations within the Pauli groups built on all decompositions of a given Hilbert space dimension $q$, containing a square, into its factors. Illustrative low dimensional examples are the quartit ($q=4$) and two-qubit ($q=2^2$) systems, the octit ($q=8$), qubit/quartit ($q=2\times 4$) and three-qubit ($q=2^3$) systems, and so on. In the single qudit case, e.g. $q=4,8,12,...$, one defines a bijection between the $\sigma (q)$ maximal commuting sets [with $\sigma[q)$ the sum of divisors of $q$] of Pauli observables and the maximal submodules of the modular ring $\mathbb{Z}_q^2$, that arrange into the projective line $P_1(\mathbb{Z}_q)$ and a independent set of size $\sigma (q)-\psi(q)$ [with $\psi(q)$ the Dedekind psi function]. In the multiple qudit case, e.g. $q=2^2, 2^3, 3^2,...$, the Pauli graphs rely on symplectic polar spaces such as the generalized quadrangles GQ(2,2) (if $q=2^2$) and GQ(3,3) (if $q=3^2$). More precisely, in dimension $p^n$ ($p$ a prime) of the Hilbert space, the observables of the Pauli group (modulo the center) are seen as the elements of the $2n$-dimensional vector space over the field $\mathbb{F}_p$. In this space, one makes use of the commutator to define a symplectic polar space $W_{2n-1}(p)$ of cardinality $\sigma(p^{2n-1})$, that encodes the maximal commuting sets of the Pauli group by its totally isotropic subspaces. Building blocks of $W_{2n-1}(p)$ are punctured polar spaces (i.e. a observable and all maximum cliques passing to it are removed) of size given by the Dedekind psi function $\psi(p^{2n-1})$. For multiple qudit mixtures (e.g. qubit/quartit, qubit/octit and so on), one finds multiple copies of polar spaces, ponctured polar spaces, hypercube geometries and other intricate structures. Such structures play a role in the science of quantum information.

id: 1009.3974
title: Non-equilibrium Landauer Transport Model for Hawking radiation from a Black Hole
authors: P. D. Nation, M. P. Blencowe, Franco Nori
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 033013 (2012)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3974
abstract: We propose that the Hawking radiation energy and entropy flow rates from a black hole can be viewed as a one-dimensional (1D), non-equilibrium Landauer transport process. Support for this viewpoint comes from previous calculations invoking conformal symmetry in the near-horizon region, which give radiation rates that are identical to those of a single 1D quantum channel connected to a thermal reservoir at the Hawking temperature. The Landauer approach shows in a direct way the particle statistics independence of the energy and entropy fluxes of a black hole radiating into vacuum, as well as one near thermal equilibrium with its environment. As an application of the Landauer approach, we show that Hawking radiation gives a net entropy production that is 50% larger than that obtained assuming standard three-dimensional emission into vacuum.

id: 1009.4041
title: Functional renormalization group for quantized anharmonic oscillator
authors: S. Nagy, K. Sailer
comments: 30 pages, 11 figures
journal: Annals Phys.326:1839-1876,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4041
abstract: Functional renormalization group methods formulated in the real-time formalism are applied to the $O(N)$ symmetric quantum anharmonic oscillator, considered as a $0+1$ dimensional quantum field-theoric model, in the next-to-leading order of the gradient expansion of the one- and two-particle irreducible effective action. The infrared scaling laws and the sensitivity-matrix analysis show the existence of only a single, symmetric phase. The field-independent term of the wavefunction renormalization turned out to be negligible, but its field-dependent piece is noticeable. It is shown that the infrared limits of the running couplings depend on the renormalization group scheme used, when the perturbation expansion in the bare quartic coupling is truncated keeping the terms up to the second order.

id: 1009.4138
title: Realtime magnetic field sensing and imaging using a single spin in diamond
authors: Rolf Simon Schoenfeld, Wolfgang Harneit
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:030802,2011
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4138
abstract: The Zeeman splitting of a localized single spin can be used to construct a magnetometer allowing high precision measurements of magnetic fields with almost atomic spatial resolution. While sub-{\mu}T sensitivity can in principle be obtained using pulsed techniques and long measurement times, a fast and easy-to-use method without laborious data post-processing is desirable for a scanning-probe approach with high spatial resolution. In order to measure the resonance frequency in realtime, we applied a field-frequency lock to the continuous wave ODMR signal of a single electron spin in a nanodiamond. In our experiment, we achieved a sampling rate of up to 100 readings per second with a sensitivity of 6 {\mu}T/$\sqrt{Hz}$. Using this method we have imaged the microscopic field distribution around a magnetic wire. Images with \sim 30 {\mu}T resolution and 4096 sub-micron sized pixels were acquired in 10 minutes. By measuring the field response of multiple spins on the same object we were able to partly reconstruct the orientation of the field.

id: 1009.4204
title: Collective modes of monolayer, bilayer, and multilayer fermionic dipolar liquid
authors: Qiuzi Li, E. H. Hwang, S. Das Sarma
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 235126 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4204
abstract: Motivated by recent experimental advances in creating polar molecular gases in the laboratory, we theoretically investigate the many body effects of two-dimensional dipolar systems with the anisotropic and $1/r^3$ dipole-dipole interactions. We calculate collective modes of 2D dipolar systems, and also consider spatially separated bilayer and multilayer superlattice dipolar systems. We obtain the characteristic features of collective modes in quantum dipolar gases. We quantitatively compare the modes of these dipolar systems with the modes of the extensively studied usual two-dimensional electron systems, where the inter-particle interaction is Coulombic.

id: 1009.4223
title: Interference of parametrically driven one-dimensional ultracold gases
authors: Susanne Pielawa
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 013628 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4223
abstract: We theoretically analyze interference patterns of parametrically driven one dimensional ultracold atomic gases. By modulating the interaction strength periodically in time, we propose to excite collective modes in a pair of independent one dimensional gases at energies corresponding to the drive frequency. The excited collective modes lead to spatial oscillations in the correlations of the interference pattern, which can be analyzed to obtain the sound velocity of the collective modes. We discuss both bosonic and fermionic systems, and how such experiments could be used to probe spin charge separation.

id: 1009.4224
title: Single Color Centers Implanted in Diamond Nanostructures
authors: Birgit J. M. Hausmann, Thomas M. Babinec, Jennifer T. Choy, Jonathan S. Hodges, Sungkun Hong, Irfan Bulu, A. Yacoby, M. D. Lukin, Marko Lon?ar
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4224
abstract: The development of materials processing techniques for optical diamond nanostructures containing a single color center is an important problem in quantum science and technology. In this work, we present the combination of ion implantation and top-down diamond nanofabrication in two scenarios: diamond nanopillars and diamond nanowires. The first device consists of a 'shallow' implant (~20nm) to generate Nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color centers near the top surface of the diamond crystal. Individual NV centers are then isolated mechanically by dry etching a regular array of nanopillars in the diamond surface. Photon anti-bunching measurements indicate that a high yield (>10%) of the devices contain a single NV center. The second device demonstrates 'deep' (~1\mu m) implantation of individual NV centers into pre-fabricated diamond nanowire. The high single photon flux of the nanowire geometry, combined with the low background fluorescence of the ultrapure diamond, allows us to sustain strong photon anti-bunching even at high pump powers.

id: 1009.4228
title: Retrieving qubit information despite decoherence
authors: A. Aharony, S. Gurvitz, O. Entin-Wohlman, S. Dattagupta
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B82, 245417 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4228
abstract: The time evolution of a qubit, consisting of two single-level quantum dots, is studied in the presence of telegraph noise. The dots are connected by two tunneling paths, with an Aharonov-Bohm flux enclosed between them. Under special symmetry conditions, which can be achieved by tuning gate voltages, there develops partial decoherence: at long times, the off-diagonal element of the reduced density matrix (in the basis of the two dot states) approaches a non-zero value, generating a circulating current around the loop. The flux dependence of this current contains full information on the initial quantum state of the qubit, even at infinite time. Small deviations from this symmetry yield a very slow exponential decay towards the fully-decoherent limit. However, the amplitudes of this decay also contain the full information on the initial qubit state, measurable either via the current or via the occupations of the qubit dots.

id: 1009.4240
title: Phosphorus Spin Coherence Times in Silicon at Very Low Temperatures
authors: L.K. Alexander, N. Suwuntanasarn, W.D. Hutchison
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4240
abstract: Phosphorus donor spin coherence in isotopically pure 28 silicon is measured at very low temperatures using pulsed electron spin resonance. The isolated spin T2 varies unexpectedly with phosphorus concentration

id: 1009.4382
title: Effective thermodynamics of strongly coupled qubits
authors: Nathan S. Williams, Karyn Le Hur, Andrew N. Jordan
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 385003
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4382
abstract: Interactions between a quantum system and its environment at low temperatures can lead to violations of thermal laws for the system. The source of these violations is the entanglement between system and environment, which prevents the system from entering into a thermal state. On the other hand, for two-state systems, we show that one can define an effective temperature, placing the system into a `pseudo-thermal' state where effective thermal laws are upheld. We then numerically explore these assertions for an n-state system inspired by the spin-boson environment.

id: 1009.4401
title: Rotation and Spin in Physics
authors: R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: in "General Relativity and John Archibald Wheeler", edited by Ignazio Ciufolini and Richard A.Matzner (Springer 2010)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4401
abstract: We delineate the role of rotation and spin in physics, discussing in order Newtonian classical physics, special relativity, quantum mechanics, quantum electrodynamics and general relativity. In the latter case, we discuss the generalization of the Kepler formula to post-Newtonian order $(c^{-2}$) including spin effects and two-body effects. Experiments which verify the theoretical results for general relativistic spin-orbit effects are discussed as well as efforts being made to verify the spin-spin effects.

id: 1009.4433
title: Subalgebras of orthomodular lattices
authors: John Harding, Mirko Navara
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4433
abstract: Sachs showed that a Boolean algebra is determined by its lattice of subalgebras. We establish the corresponding result for orthomodular lattices. We show that an orthomodular lattice L is determined by its lattice of subalgebras Sub(L), as well as by its poset of Boolean subalgebras BSub(L). The domain BSub(L) has recently found use in an approach to the foundations of quantum mechanics initiated by Butterfield and Isham, at least in the case where L is the orthomodular lattice of projections of a Hilbert space, or von Neumann algebra. The results here may add some additional perspective to this line of work.

id: 1009.4470
title: A superconducting qubit with Purcell protection and tunable coupling
authors: J. M. Gambetta, A. A. Houck, Alexandre Blais
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 030502 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4470
abstract: We present a superconducting qubit for the circuit quantum electrodynamics architecture that has a tunable coupling strength g. We show that this coupling strength can be tuned from zero to values that are comparable with other superconducting qubits. At g = 0 the qubit is in a decoherence free subspace with respect to spontaneous emission induced by the Purcell effect. Furthermore we show that in the decoherence free subspace the state of the qubit can still be measured by either a dispersive shift on the resonance frequency of the resonator or by a cycling-type measurement.

id: 1009.4491
title: Ruelle-Lanford functions for quantum spin systems
authors: Yoshiko Ogata, Luc Rey-Bellet
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4491
abstract: We prove a large deviation principle for the expectation of macroscopic observables in quantum (and classical) Gibbs states. Our proof is based on Ruelle-Lanford functions and direct subadditivity arguments, as in the classical case, instead of relying on G\"artner-Ellis theorem, and cluster expansion or transfer operators as done in the quantum case. In this approach we recover, expand, and unify quantum (and classical) large deviation results for lattice Gibbs states. In the companion paper \cite{OR} we discuss the characterization of rate functions in terms of relative entropies.

id: 1009.4634
title: Hawking radiation from ultrashort laser pulse filaments
authors: F. Belgiorno, S.L. Cacciatori, M. Clerici, V. Gorini, G. Ortenzi, L. Rizzi, E. Rubino, V.G. Sala, D. Faccio
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, Phys. Rev. Lett. (accepted)
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4634
abstract: Event horizons of astrophysical black holes and gravitational analogues have been predicted to excite the quantum vacuum and give rise to the emission of quanta, known as Hawking radiation. We experimentally create such a gravitational analogue using ultrashort laser pulse filaments and our measurements demonstrate a spontaneous emission of photons that confirms theoretical predictions.

id: 1009.4651
title: Imaging of microwave fields using ultracold atoms
authors: Pascal Boehi, Max F. Riedel, Theodor W. Haensch, Philipp Treutlein
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl.Phys.Lett.97:051101,2010
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4651
abstract: We report a technique that uses clouds of ultracold atoms as sensitive, tunable, and non-invasive probes for microwave field imaging with micrometer spatial resolution. The microwave magnetic field components drive Rabi oscillations on atomic hyperfine transitions whose frequency can be tuned with a static magnetic field. Readout is accomplished using state-selective absorption imaging. Quantitative data extraction is simple and it is possible to reconstruct the distribution of microwave magnetic field amplitudes and phases. While we demonstrate 2d imaging, an extension to 3d imaging is straightforward. We use the method to determine the microwave near-field distribution around a coplanar waveguide integrated on an atom chip.

id: 1009.4698
title: Eternal inflation predicts that time will end
authors: Raphael Bousso, Ben Freivogel, Stefan Leichenauer, Vladimir Rosenhaus
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:023525,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4698
abstract: Present treatments of eternal inflation regulate infinities by imposing a geometric cutoff. We point out that some matter systems reach the cutoff in finite time. This implies a nonzero probability for a novel type of catastrophe. According to the most successful measure proposals, our galaxy is likely to encounter the cutoff within the next 5 billion years.

id: 1009.4712
title: Crystalline phase for one-dimensional ultra-cold atomic bosons
authors: Hans Peter B¨¹chler
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4712
abstract: We study cold atomic gases with a contact interaction and confined into one-dimension. Crossing the confinement induced resonance the correlation between the bosons increases, and introduces an effective range for the interaction potential. Using the mapping onto the sine-Gordon model and a Hubbard model in the strongly interacting regime allows us to derive the phase diagram in the presence of an optical lattice. We demonstrate the appearance of a phase transition from a Luttinger liquid with algebraic correlations into a crystalline phase with a particle on every second lattice site.

id: 1009.4738
title: Charge sensing amplification via weak values measurement
authors: Oded Zilberberg, Alessandro Romito, Yuval Gefen
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 080405 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4738
abstract: A protocol employing weak values (WVs) to obtain ultra sensitive amplification of weak signals in the context of a solid state setup is proposed. We consider an Aharonov-Bohm interferometer where both the orbital and the spin degrees of freedom are weakly affected by the presence of an external charge to be detected. The interplay between the spin and the orbital WVs leads to a significant amplification even in the presence of finite temperature, voltage, and external noise.

id: 1009.4747
title: Broadband magnetometry by infrared-absorption detection of nitrogen-vacancy ensembles in diamond
authors: V. M. Acosta, E. Bauch, A. Jarmola, L. J. Zipp, M. P. Ledbetter, D. Budker
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl.Phys.Lett.97:174104,2010
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4747
abstract: We demonstrate magnetometry by detection of the spin state of high-density nitrogen-vacancy ensembles in diamond using optical absorption at 1042 nm. With this technique, measurement contrast, and collection efficiency can approach unity, leading to an increase in magnetic sensitivity compared to the more common method of collecting red fluorescence. Working at 75 K with a sensor with effective volume $50 \times 50 \times 300$ microns^3, we project photon shot-noise limited sensitivity of 5 pT in one second of acquisition and bandwidth from dc to a few megahertz. Operation in a gradiometer configuration yields a noise floor of 7 nTrms at ~110 Hz in one second of acquisition.

id: 1009.4764
title: Supersymmetrical Separation of Variables in Two-Dimensional Quantum Mechanics
authors: Mikhail V. Ioffe
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 6:075,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4764
abstract: Two different approaches are formulated to analyze two-dimensional quantum models which are not amenable to standard separation of variables. Both methods are essentially based on supersymmetrical second order intertwining relations and shape invariance - two main ingredients of the supersymmetrical quantum mechanics. The first method explores the opportunity to separate variables in the supercharge, and it allows to find a part of spectrum of the Schr\"odinger Hamiltonian. The second method works when the standard separation of variables procedure can be applied for one of the partner Hamiltonians. Then the spectrum and wave functions of the second partner can be found. Both methods are illustrated by the example of two-dimensional generalization of Morse potential for different values of parameters.

id: 1009.4836
title: Wave packet revivals in a graphene quantum dot in a perpendicular magnetic field
authors: J.J. Torres, E. Romera
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, corrected typo, To appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4836
abstract: We study the time-evolution of localized wavepackets in graphene quantum dots under a perpendicular magnetic field, focusing on the quasiclassical and revival periodicities, for different values of the magnetic field intensities in a theoretical framework. We have considered contributions of the two inequivalent points in the Brillouin zone. The revival time has been found as an observable that shows the break valley degeneracy.

id: 1009.4843
title: A quantum model for the stock market
authors: Chao Zhang, Lu Huang
comments: Final accepted version by Physica A. 13 pages and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Finance (q-fin.ST); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4843
abstract: Beginning with several basic hypotheses of quantum mechanics, we give a new quantum model in econophysics. In this model, we define wave functions and operators of the stock market to establish the Schr\"odinger equation for the stock price. Based on this theoretical framework, an example of a driven infinite quantum well is considered, in which we use a cosine distribution to simulate the state of stock price in equilibrium. After adding an external field into the Hamiltonian to analytically calculate the wave function, the distribution and the average value of the rate of return are shown.

id: 1009.4868
title: Exotic magnetic orders for high spin ultracold fermions
authors: E. Szirmai, M. Lewenstein
comments: final version, 6 pages, 4 figures, epl format
journal: Europhysics Letters 93, 66005 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4868
abstract: We study Hubbard models for ultracold bosonic or fermionic atoms loaded into an optical lattice. The atoms carry a high spin $F>1/2$, and interact on site via strong repulsive Van der Waals forces. Making convenient rearrangements of the interaction terms, and exploiting their symmetry properties, we derive low energy effective models with nearest-neighbor interactions, and their properties. We apply our method to $F=3/2$, and 5/2 fermions on two-dimensional square lattice at quarter, and 1/6 fillings, respectively, and investigate mean-field equations for repulsive couplings. We find for $F=3/2$ fermions that the plaquette state appearing in the highly symmetric SU(4) case does not require fine tuning, and is stable in an extended region of the phase diagram. This phase competes with an SU(2) flux state, that is always suppressed for repulsive interactions in absence of external magnetic field. The SU(2) flux state has, however, lower energy than the plaquette phase, and stabilizes in the presence of weak applied magnetic field. For $F=5/2$ fermions a similar SU(2) plaquette phase is found to be the ground state without external magnetic field.

id: 1009.4872
title: The Flux-Flux Correlation Function for Anharmonic Barriers
authors: Arseni Goussev, Roman Schubert, Holger Waalkens, Stephen Wiggins
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 133, 244113 (2010)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4872
abstract: The flux-flux correlation function formalism is a standard and widely used approach for the computation of reaction rates. In this paper we introduce a method to compute the classical and quantum flux-flux correlation functions for anharmonic barriers essentially analytically through the use of the classical and quantum normal forms. In the quantum case we show that the quantum normal form reduces the computation of the flux-flux correlation function to that of an effective one dimensional anharmonic barrier. The example of the computation of the quantum flux-flux correlation function for a fourth order anharmonic barrier is worked out in detail, and we present an analytical expression for the quantum mechanical microcanonical flux-flux correlation function. We then give a discussion of the short-time and harmonic limits.

id: 1009.4903
title: Self-adjoint extensions and spectral analysis in the generalized Kratzer problem
authors: M.C. Baldiotti, D.M. Gitman, I.V. Tyutin, B.L. Voronov
comments: 31 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Scr., 83 065007 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4903
abstract: We present a mathematically rigorous quantum-mechanical treatment of a one-dimensional nonrelativistic motion of a particle in the potential field $V(x)=g_{1}x^{-1}+g_{2}x^{-2}$. For $g_{2}>0$ and $g_{1}<0$, the potential is known as the Kratzer potential and is usually used to describe molecular energy and structure, interactions between different molecules, and interactions between non-bonded atoms. We construct all self-adjoint Schrodinger operators with the potential $V(x)$ and represent rigorous solutions of the corresponding spectral problems. Solving the first part of the problem, we use a method of specifying s.a. extensions by (asymptotic) s.a. boundary conditions. Solving spectral problems, we follow the Krein's method of guiding functionals. This work is a continuation of our previous works devoted to Coulomb, Calogero, and Aharonov-Bohm potentials.

id: 1009.4941
title: Directed current in the Holstein system
authors: D. Hennig, A.D. Burbanks, A.H. Osbaldestin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4941
abstract: We propose a mechanism to rectify charge transport in the semiclassical Holstein model. It is shown that localised initial conditions, associated with a polaron solution, in conjunction with a nonreversion symmetric static electron on-site potential constitute minimal prerequisites for the emergence of a directed current in the underlying periodic lattice system. In particular, we demonstrate that for unbiased spatially localised initial conditions, violation of parity prevents the existence of pairs of counter-propagating trajectories, thus allowing for a directed current despite the time-reversibility of the equations of motion. Occurrence of long-range coherent charge transport is demonstrated.

id: 1009.4945
title: Abelian subalgebras and the Jordan structure of a von Neumann algebra
authors: Andreas Doering, John Harding
comments: 11 pages, no figures; v2: minor correction, improved presentation, added proof of converse of main result
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4945
abstract: For von Neumann algebras M, N not isomorphic to C^2 and without type I_2 summands, we show that for an order-isomorphism f:AbSub(M)->AbSub(N) between the posets of abelian von Neumann subalgebras of M and N, there is a unique Jordan *-isomorphism g:M->N with the image g[S] equal to f(S) for each abelian von Neumann subalgebra S of M. The converse also holds. This shows the Jordan structure of a von Neumann algebra not isomorphic to C^2 and without type I_2 summands is determined by the poset of its abelian subalgebras, and has implications in recent approaches to foundational issues in quantum mechanics.

id: 1009.5083
title: Any l-state solutions of the Woods-Saxon potential in arbitrary dimensions within the new improved quantization rule
authors: Sameer M/ Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 15 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A 25, 3941(2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5083
abstract: The approximated energy eigenvalues and the corresponding eigenfunctions of the spherical Woods-Saxon effective potential in $D$ dimensions are obtained within the new improved quantization rule for all $l$-states. The Pekeris approximation is used to deal with the centrifugal term in the effective Woods-Saxon potential. The inter-dimensional degeneracies for various orbital quantum number $l$ and dimensional space $D$ are studied. The solutions for the Hulth\'{e}n potential, the three-dimensional (D=3), the $% s$-wave ($l=0$) and the cases are briefly discussed.

id: 1009.5102
title: Internal Space-time Symmetries of Particles derivable from Periodic Systems in Optics
authors: Y.S.Kim
comments: Latex 15 pages, 5 eps figures. Invited paper presented at the 10th Int'l Conference on Quantum Optics and Quantum Information (Kiev, Ukraine, May 2010), to be published in the proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5102
abstract: While modern optics is largely a physics of harmonic oscillators and two-by-two matrices, it is possible to learn about some hidden properties of the two-by-two matrix from optical systems. Since two-by-two matrices can be divided into three conjugate classes depending on their traces, optical systems force us to establish continuity from one class to another. It is noted that those three classes are equivalent to three different branches of Wigner's little groups dictating the internal space-time symmetries massive, massless, and imaginary-mass particles. It is shown that the periodic systems in optics can also be described by have the same class-based matrix algebra. The optical system allow us to make continuous, but not analytic, transitions from massiv to massless, and massless to imaginary-mass cases.

id: 1009.5195
title: Hybridization and spin decoherence in heavy-hole quantum dots
authors: Jan Fischer, Daniel Loss
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 266603 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5195
abstract: We theoretically investigate the spin dynamics of a heavy hole confined to an unstrained III-V semiconductor quantum dot and interacting with a narrowed nuclear-spin bath. We show that band hybridization leads to an exponential decay of hole-spin superpositions due to hyperfine-mediated nuclear pair flips, and that the accordant single-hole-spin decoherence time T2 can be tuned over many orders of magnitude by changing external parameters. In particular, we show that, under experimentally accessible conditions, it is possible to suppress hyperfine-mediated nuclear-pair-flip processes so strongly that hole-spin quantum dots may be operated beyond the `ultimate limitation' set by the hyperfine interaction which is present in other spin-qubit candidate systems.

id: 1009.5252
title: Dynamics of an electron confined to a "hybrid plane" and interacting with a magnetic field
authors: Raffaele Carlone, Pavel Exner
comments: 16 pages, 2 pdf figures; a changed title and minor improvements, to appear in Rep. Math. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5252
abstract: We discuss spectral and resonance properties of a Hamiltonian describing motion of an electron moving on a "hybrid surface" consisting on a halfline attached by its endpoints to a plane under influence of a constant magnetic field which interacts with its spin through a Rashba-type term.

id: 1009.5300
title: Novel time-saving first-principles calculation method for electron-transport properties
authors: Yoshiyuki Egami, Kikuji Hirose, Tomoya Ono
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5300
abstract: We present a time-saving simulator within the framework of the density functional theory to calculate the transport properties of electrons through nanostructures suspended between semi-infinite electrodes. By introducing the Fourier transform and preconditioning conjugate-gradient algorithms into the simulator, a highly efficient performance can be achieved in determining scattering wave functions and electron-transport properties of nanostructures suspended between semi-infinite jellium electrodes. To demonstrate the performance of the present algorithms, we study the conductance of metallic nanowires and the origin of the oscillatory behavior in the conductance of an Ir nanowire. It is confirmed that the $s$-$d_{z^2}$ channel of the Ir nanowire exhibits the transmission oscillation with a period of two-atom length, which is also dominant in the experimentally obtained conductance trace.

id: 1009.5343
title: Universal quantum control of two-electron spin quantum bits using dynamic nuclear polarization
authors: Sandra Foletti, Hendrik Bluhm, Diana Mahalu, Vladimir Umansky, Amir Yacoby
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures. Supplementary Material included as ancillary file
journal: Nature Physics 5, 903-908 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5343
abstract: One fundamental requirement for quantum computation is to perform universal manipulations of quantum bits at rates much faster than the qubit's rate of decoherence. Recently, fast gate operations have been demonstrated in logical spin qubits composed of two electron spins where the rapid exchange of the two electrons permits electrically controllable rotations around one axis of the qubit. However, universal control of the qubit requires arbitrary rotations around at least two axes. Here we show that by subjecting each electron spin to a magnetic field of different magnitude we achieve full quantum control of the two-electron logical spin qubit with nanosecond operation times. Using a single device, a magnetic field gradient of several hundred milliTesla is generated and sustained using dynamic nuclear polarization of the underlying Ga and As nuclei. Universal control of the two-electron qubit is then demonstrated using quantum state tomography. The presented technique provides the basis for single and potentially multiple qubit operations with gate times that approach the threshold required for quantum error correction.

id: 1009.5436
title: Timeless path integral for relativistic quantum mechanics
authors: Dah-Wei Chiou
comments: 41 pages; more references and comments added; version to appear in CQG
journal: Class. Quant. Grav. 30, 125004 (2013)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5436
abstract: Starting from the canonical formalism of relativistic (timeless) quantum mechanics, the formulation of timeless path integral is rigorously derived. The transition amplitude is reformulated as the sum, or functional integral, over all possible paths in the constraint surface specified by the (relativistic) Hamiltonian constraint, and each path contributes with a phase identical to the classical action divided by $\hbar$. The timeless path integral manifests the timeless feature as it is completely independent of the parametrization for paths. For the special case that the Hamiltonian constraint is a quadratic polynomial in momenta, the transition amplitude admits the timeless Feynman's path integral over the (relativistic) configuration space. Meanwhile, the difference between relativistic quantum mechanics and conventional nonrelativistic (with time) quantum mechanics is elaborated on in light of timeless path integral.

id: 1009.5438
title: Exact Yrast Spectra of Cold Atoms on a Ring
authors: Eriko Kaminishi, Rina Kanamoto, Jun Sato, Tetsuo Deguchi
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 031601(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5438
abstract: We propose a methodology to construct excited states with a fixed angular momentum, namely, "yrast excited states" of finite-size one-dimensional bosonic systems with periodic boundary conditions. The excitation energies such as the first yrast excited energy are calculated through the system-size asymptotic expansion and expressed analytically by dressed energy. Interestingly, they are grouped into sets of almost degenerate energy levels. The low-lying excitation spectrum near the yrast state is consistent with the $ U(1)$ conformal field theories if the total angular momentum is given by an integral multiple of particle number; i.e., if the system is supercurrent.

id: 1009.5451
title: Theory of quantum transport in Josephson junctions with a ferromagnetic insulator
authors: Shiro Kawabata, Yasuhiro Asano
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, an invited paper in Low. Temp. Phys., special topics issue on "Quantum coherent effects in superconductors and normal metals"
journal: Low Temp. Phys. 36 (2010) 915
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5451
abstract: We investigate the Josephson transport through ferromagnetic insulators (FIs) by taking into account the band structure of FIs explicitly. Using the recursive Green's function method, we found the formation of a pi-junction in such systems. Moreover the atomic-scale 0-pi oscillation is induced by increasing the thickness of FI and its oscillation period is universal, i.e., just single atomic layer. Based on these results, we show that stable pi-state can be realized in junctions based on high-Tc superconductors with La$_2$BaCuO$_5$ barrier. Such FI-based Josephson junctions may become an element in the architecture of future quantum computers.

id: 1009.5533
title: Principles of Fractional Quantum Mechanics
authors: Nick Laskin
comments: 31 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5533
abstract: A review of fundamentals and physical applications of fractional quantum mechanics has been presented. Fundamentals cover fractional Schr\"odinger equation, quantum Riesz fractional derivative, path integral approach to fractional quantum mechanics, hermiticity of the Hamilton operator, parity conservation law and the current density. Applications of fractional quantum mechanics cover dynamics of a free particle, new representation for a free particle quantum mechanical kernel, infinite potential well, bound state in {\delta}-potential well, linear potential, fractional Bohr atom and fractional oscillator. We also review fundamentals of the L\'evy path integral approach to fractional statistical mechanics.

id: 1009.5546
title: The direct evaluation of attosecond chirp from a streaking measurement
authors: Justin Gagnon, Vladislav S. Yakovlev
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5546
abstract: We derive an analytical expression, from classical electron trajectories in a laser field, that relates the breadth of a streaked photoelectron spectrum to the group-delay dispersion of an isolated attosecond pulse. Based on this analytical expression, we introduce a simple, efficient and robust procedure to instantly extract the attosecond pulse's chirp from the streaking measurement.

id: 1009.5591
title: Trace formula for dielectric cavities II: Regular, pseudo-integrable, and chaotic examples
authors: E. Bogomolny, N. Djellali, R. Dubertrand, I. Gozhyk, M. Lebental, C. Schmit, C. Ulysse, J. Zyss
comments: 18 pages, 32 figures
journal: Physical Review E, vol. 83, 036208 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5591
abstract: Dielectric resonators are open systems particularly interesting due to their wide range of applications in optics and photonics. In a recent paper [PRE, vol. 78, 056202 (2008)] the trace formula for both the smooth and the oscillating parts of the resonance density was proposed and checked for the circular cavity. The present paper deals with numerous shapes which would be integrable (square, rectangle, and ellipse), pseudo-integrable (pentagon) and chaotic (stadium), if the cavities were closed (billiard case). A good agreement is found between the theoretical predictions, the numerical simulations, and experiments based on organic micro-lasers.

id: 1009.5630
title: Antiferromagnetism in a bosonic mixture of rubidium ($^{87}$Rb) and potassium ($^{41}$K)
authors: Uttam Shrestha
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, accepted for PRA rapid communication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5630
abstract: We simulate the experimental possibility of observing the antiferromagnetic (AF) order in the bosonic mixtures of rubidium ($^{87}$Rb) and potassium ($^{41}$K) in a two-dimensional optical lattice in the presence of harmonic confinement. By tuning the interspecies interactions and the lattice heights we have found the ground states, within the mean-field approximation, that interpolate from the phase separation to the AF order. For a moderate lattice height the coexistence of the Mott and AF phase is possible for the Rb atoms while the K atoms remain in the AF-superfluid phase. This observation may provide an experimental feasibility to hitherto unobserved AF order for $^{87}$Rb - $^{41}$K mixture.

id: 1009.5784
title: Use of Equivalent Hermitian Hamiltonian for $PT$-Symmetric Sinusoidal Optical Lattices
authors: H. F. Jones
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5784
abstract: We show how the band structure and beam dynamics of non-Hermitian $PT$-symmetric sinusoidal optical lattices can be approached from the point of view of the equivalent Hermitian problem, obtained by an analytic continuation in the transverse spatial variable $x$. In this latter problem the eigenvalue equation reduces to the Mathieu equation, whose eigenfunctions and properties have been well studied. That being the case, the beam propagation, which parallels the time-development of the wave-function in quantum mechanics, can be calculated using the equivalent of the method of stationary states. We also discuss a model potential that interpolates between a sinusoidal and periodic square well potential, showing that some of the striking properties of the sinusoidal potential, in particular birefringence, become much less prominent as one goes away from the sinusoidal case.

id: 1009.5809
title: A completely positive map associated with a positive map
authors: Erling St?rmer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5809
abstract: We show that each positive map from B(K) to B(H) with K and H finite dimensional Hilbert spaces is a scalar multiple of a map of the form $Tr - \psi$ with $\psi$ completely positive. This is used to give necessary and sufficient conditions for maps to be C-positive for a large class of mapping cones; in particular we apply the results to k-positive maps.

id: 1009.5844
title: Engineering chromium related single photon emitters in single crystal diamond
authors: I Aharonovich, S Castelletto, B C Johnson, J C McCallum, S Prawer
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5844
abstract: Color centers in diamond as single photon emitters, are leading candidates for future quantum devices due to their room temperature operation and photostability. The recently discovered chromium related centers are particularly attractive since they possess narrow bandwidth emission and a very short lifetime. In this paper we investigate the fabrication methodologies to engineer these centers in monolithic diamond. We show that the emitters can be successfully fabricated by ion implantation of chromium in conjunction with oxygen or sulfur. Furthermore, our results indicate that the background nitrogen concentration is an important parameter, which governs the probability of success to generate these centers.

id: 1009.5879
title: A Superconducting 180¡ã Hybrid Ring Coupler for circuit Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: E. Hoffmann, F. Deppe, T. Niemczyk, T. Wirth, E. P. Menzel, G. Wild, H. Huebl, M. Mariantoni, T. Wei?l, A. Lukashenko, A. P. Zhuravel, A. V. Ustinov, A. Marx, R. Gross
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 97, 222508 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5879
abstract: Superconducting circuit quantum electrodynamics experiments with propagating microwaves require devices acting as beam splitters. Using niobium thin films on silicon and sapphire substrates, we fabricated superconducting 180{\deg} microstrip hybrid ring couplers, acting as beam splitters with center frequencies of about 6GHz. For the magnitude of the coupling and isolation we find -3.5+/-0.5dB and at least -15dB, respectively, in a bandwidth of 2GHz. We also investigate the effect of reflections at the superconductor-normal conductor contact by means of low temperature laser scanning microscopy. Our measurements show that our hybrid rings are well suited for on-chip applications in circuit quantum electrodynamics experiments.

id: 1009.5978
title: Condensate-free superfluidity induced by frustrated proximity effect
authors: Nicolas Laflorencie, Frederic Mila
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures + supplementary file including experimental discussions (cold atoms + Han purple)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 037203 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5978
abstract: Since the discovery of superfluidity in He4 and Landau's phenomenological theory, the relationship between Bose condensation and superfluidity has been intensely debated. He4 is known by now to be both superfluid and condensed at low temperature, and more generally, in dimension D\geq2, all superfluid bosonic models realized in experiments are condensed in their ground-state, the most recent example being provided by ultracold bosonic atoms trapped in an optical lattice. In this paper, it is shown that a 2D gas of bosons which is not condensed at T=0 can be achieved by populating a layer through a frustrated proximity effect from a superfluid reservoir. This condensate-free bosonic fluid is further shown to be a superfluid with incommensurate correlations.

id: 1009.6003
title: Optically detected NMR of optically hyperpolarized 31P neutral donors in 28Si
authors: M. Steger, T. Sekiguchi, A. Yang, K. Saeedi, M. E. Hayden, M. L. W. Thewalt, K. M. Itoh, H. Riemann, N. V. Abrosimov, P. Becker, H.-J. Pohl
comments: Invited Presentation at ICPS-30 (2010), Seoul, Korea
journal: J. Appl. Phys. 109, 102411 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.6003
abstract: The electron and nuclear spins of the shallow donor 31P are promising qubit candidates invoked in many proposed Si-based quantum computing schemes. We have recently shown that the near-elimination of inhomogeneous broadening in highly isotopically enriched 28Si enables an optical readout of both the donor electron and nuclear spins by resolving the donor hyperfine splitting in the near-gap donor bound exciton transitions. We have also shown that pumping these same transitions can very quickly produce large electron and nuclear hyperpolarizations at low magnetic fields, where the equilibrium electron and nuclear polarizations are very small. Here we show preliminary results of the measurement of 31P neutral donor NMR parameters using this optical nuclear hyperpolarization mechanism for preparation of the 31P nuclear spin system, followed by optical readout of the resulting nuclear spin population after manipulation with NMR pulse sequences. This allows for the observation of single-shot NMR signals with very high signal to noise ratio under conditions where conventional NMR is not possible, due to the low concentration of 31P and the small equilibrium polarization.

id: 1009.6016
title: Optical activity tensor for radiating atomic and molecular systems
authors: Alexei M. Frolov, David M. Wardlaw
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.6016
abstract: The optical activity tensor (OAT) is explicitly derived. It is shown that to evaluate a large number of effects related to optical activity of some atomic/molecular system at arbitrary frequency $\omega$ of the incident light, one needs to know only four optical activity tensors which have twelve irreducible (tensor) components. An additional amplification factor contains one $3 \times 3$ tensor of light scattering with three irreducible components. The explicit dependence of all irreducible components of OAT upon $\omega$ and some molecular parameters is derived and discussed. We apply OAT to explain the dispersion of optical rotation in dilute solutions of organic molecules. This study opens a new avenue in application of methods of modern Quantum Electrodynamics to the optical activity.

id: 1009.6025
title: Neuromorphic, Digital and Quantum Computation with Memory Circuit Elements
authors: Yuriy V. Pershin, Massimiliano Di Ventra
comments: 
journal: Proceedings of the IEEE 100(6), 2071-2080 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.6025
abstract: Memory effects are ubiquitous in nature and the class of memory circuit elements - which includes memristors, memcapacitors and meminductors - shows great potential to understand and simulate the associated fundamental physical processes. Here, we show that such elements can also be used in electronic schemes mimicking biologically-inspired computer architectures, performing digital logic and arithmetic operations, and can expand the capabilities of certain quantum computation schemes. In particular, we will discuss few examples where the concept of memory elements is relevant to the realization of associative memory in neuronal circuits, spike-timing-dependent plasticity of synapses, digital and field-programmable quantum computing.

id: 1009.6051
title: Two interacting electrons in a magnetic field: comparison of semiclassical, quantum, and variational solutions
authors: Tobias Kramer
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. vol 1323, pp. 178-190 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.6051
abstract: The quantum mechanical many-body problem is rarely analytically solvable. One notable exception is the case of two electrons interacting via a Coulomb potential in a uniform magnetic field. The motion is confined to a two-dimensional plane, which is commonly the case in nanodevices. We compare the exact solution with the semiclassical energy spectrum and study the time-dependent dynamics of the system using the time-dependent variational principle.

id: 1009.6083
title: Phase Structure of Anisotropic Antiferromagnetic Heisenberg Model on Layered Triangular Lattice: Spiral State and Deconfined Spin Liquid
authors: Kazuya Nakane, Takeshi Kamij, Ikuo Ichinose
comments: 21pages, 20figures
journal: Phys.Rev.B83:054414,2011
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.6083
abstract: In the present paper, we study spin-${1 \over 2}$ antiferromagnetic (AF) Heisenberg model on layered anisotropic triangular lattice and obtain its phase structure. We use the Schwinger bosons for representing spin operators and also coherent-state path integral for calculating physical quantities. Finite-temperature properties of the system are investigated by means of the numerical Monte-Carlo simulations. Detailed phase diagram of the system is obtained by calculating internal energy, specific heat, spin correlation functions, etc. There are AF N\'eel, paramagnetic and spiral states. Turning on plaquette term (i.e., the Maxwell term on a lattice) of an emergent U(1) gauge field that flips a pair of parallel spin-singlet bonds, we found that there appears a phase that is regarded as a deconfined spin-liquid state, though "transition" to this phase from the paramagnetic phase is not of second order but a crossover. In that phase, the emergent gauge boson is a physical gapless excitation coupled with spinons. These results support our previous study on AF Heisenberg model on a triangular lattice at vanishing temperature.

id: 1009.6101
title: Nuclear Excitation by a Zeptosecond Multi--MeV Laser Pulse
authors: Hans A. Weidenmueller
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:122502,2011
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.6101
abstract: A zeptosecond multi--MeV laser pulse may either excite a "plasma" of strongly interacting nucleons or a collective mode. We derive the conditions on laser energy and photon number such that either of these scenarios is realized. We use the nuclear Giant Dipole Resonance as a representative example, and a random--matrix description of the fine--structure states and perturbation theory as tools.

id: 1009.6216
title: Effects of iron doping on the topological insulator surfaces
authors: L. A. Wray, Y. Xia, S.-Y. Xu, Y.S. Hor, R. J. Cava, A. Bansil, H. Lin, M. Z. Hasan
comments: 4 Figures, 15 pages, For an expanded version of this paper see arXiv:1103.3411
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.6216
abstract: Topological insulators embody a newly discovered state of matter characterized by conducting spin-momentum locked surface states that span the bulk band gap. So far, most of the study on topological insulator surfaces has been limited to understanding their properties without strong Coulomb perturbation or breaking of time reversal symmetry. We have used deposited iron, with a large positive ionization state and significant magnetic moment as a strong probe to modify the surface electronic structure of the Bi2Se3 surface at the gap energy scale. We observe that such perturbation leads to the creation of multiple Dirac fermions consistent with Z2 or Mod(2) symmetry. Taken collectively, these results are a helpful guide in manipulating topological surfaces for probing fundamental physics or developing device applications.

id: 1009.6230
title: Approximate Representations and Approximate Homomorphisms
authors: Cristopher Moore, Alexander Russell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Representation Theory (math.RT); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Group Theory (math.GR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.6230
abstract: Approximate algebraic structures play a defining role in arithmetic combinatorics and have found remarkable applications to basic questions in number theory and pseudorandomness. Here we study approximate representations of finite groups: functions f:G -> U_d such that Pr[f(xy) = f(x) f(y)] is large, or more generally Exp_{x,y} ||f(xy) - f(x)f(y)||^2$ is small, where x and y are uniformly random elements of the group G and U_d denotes the unitary group of degree d. We bound these quantities in terms of the ratio d / d_min where d_min is the dimension of the smallest nontrivial representation of G. As an application, we bound the extent to which a function f : G -> H can be an approximate homomorphism where H is another finite group. We show that if H's representations are significantly smaller than G's, no such f can be much more homomorphic than a random function. We interpret these results as showing that if G is quasirandom, that is, if d_min is large, then G cannot be embedded in a small number of dimensions, or in a less-quasirandom group, without significant distortion of G's multiplicative structure. We also prove that our bounds are tight by showing that minors of genuine representations and their polar decompositions are essentially optimal approximate representations.

id: 1009.1597
title: On Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau particles with a mixed minimal-nonminimal vector coupling and the nondegenerate bound states for the one-dimensional inversely linear background
authors: A.S. de Castro
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.1597
abstract: The problem of spin-0 and spin-1 bosons in the background of a general mixing of minimal and nonminimal vector inversely linear potentials is explored in a unified way in the context of the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau theory. It is shown that spin-0 and spin-1 bosons behave effectively in the same way. An orthogonality criterion is set up and it is used to determine uniquely the set of solutions as well as to show that even-parity solutions do not exist.

id: 1009.5942
title: Thermal noise engines
authors: Laszlo B. Kish
comments: In press, at Chaos, Solitons and Fractals (accepted for publication on December 23, 2010)
journal: Chaos, Solitons & Fractals 44 (2011) 114-121
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5942
abstract: Electrical heat engines driven by the Johnson-Nyquist noise of resistors are introduced. They utilize Coulomb's law and the fluctuation-dissipation theorem of statistical physics that is the reverse phenomenon of heat dissipation in a resistor. No steams, gases, liquids, photons, combustion, phase transition, or exhaust/pollution are present here. In these engines, instead of heat reservoirs, cylinders, pistons and valves, resistors, capacitors and switches are the building elements. For the best performance, a large number of parallel engines must be integrated to run in a synchronized fashion and the characteristic size of the elementary engine must be at the 10 nanometers scale. At room temperature, in the most idealistic case, a two-dimensional ensemble of engines of 25 nanometer characteristic size integrated on a 2.5x2.5 cm silicon wafer with 12 Celsius temperature difference between the warm-source and the cold-sink would produce a specific power of about 0.4 Watt. Regular and coherent (correlated-cylinder states) versions are shown and both of them can work in either four-stroke or two-stroke modes. The coherent engines have properties that correspond to coherent quantum heat engines without the presence of quantum coherence. In the idealistic case, all these engines have Carnot efficiency, which is the highest possible efficiency of any heat engine, without violating the second law of thermodynamics.

id: 1009.0289
title: Direct spreading measures of Laguerre polynomials
authors: P. S¨¢nchez-Moreno, D. Manzano, J.S. Dehesa
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures, accepted in Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics
journal: Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics, 235 (2011) 1129
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0289
abstract: The direct spreading measures of the Laguerre polynomials, which quantify the distribution of its Rakhmanov probability density along the positive real line in various complementary and qualitatively different ways, are investigated. These measures include the familiar root-mean-square or standard deviation and the information-theoretic lengths of Fisher, Renyi and Shannon types. The Fisher length is explicitly given. The Renyi length of order q (such that 2q is a natural number) is also found in terms of the polynomials parameters by means of two error-free computing approaches; one makes use of the Lauricella functions, which is based on the Srivastava-Niukkanen linearization relation of Laguerre polynomials, and another one which utilizes the multivariate Bell polynomials of Combinatorics. The Shannon length cannot be exactly calculated because of its logarithmic-functional form, but its asymptotics is provided and sharp bounds are obtained by use of an information-theoretic optimization procedure. Finally, all these spreading measures are mutually compared and computationally analyzed; in particular, it is found that the apparent quasi-linear relation between the Shannon length and the standard deviation becomes rigorously linear only asymptotically (i.e. for n>>1).

id: 1009.0990
title: Localized whistlers in magnetized spin quantum plasmas
authors: A. P. Misra, G. Brodin, M. Marklund, P. K. Shukla
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures; To appear in Physical Review E (2010)
journal: Physical Review E 82, 056406 (2010)
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0990
abstract: The nonlinear propagation of electromagnetic (EM) electron-cyclotron waves (whistlers) along an external magnetic field, and their modulation by electrostatic small but finite amplitude ion-acoustic density perturbations are investigated in a uniform quantum plasma with intrinsic spin of electrons. The effects of the quantum force associated with the Bohm potential and the combined effects of the classical as well as the spin-induced ponderomotive forces (CPF and SPF respectively) are taken into consideration. The latter modify the local plasma density in a self-consistent manner. The coupled modes of wave propagation is shown to be governed by a modified set of nonlinear Schr\"{o}dinger-Boussinesq-like equations which admit exact solutions in form of stationary localized envelopes. Numerical simulation reveals the existence of large-scale density fluctuations that are self-consistently created by the localized whistlers in a strongly magnetized high density plasma. The conditions for the modulational instability (MI) and the value of its growth rate are obtained. Possible applications of our results, e.g., in strongly magnetized dense plasmas and in the next generation laser-solid density plasma interaction experiments are discussed.

id: 1009.2191
title: Interplay between Superconductivity and Antiferromagnetism in a Multi-layered System
authors: H. T. Quan, Jian-Xin Zhu
comments: 4+ pages, 5 figures, Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. B
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.2191
abstract: Based on a microscopic model, we study the interplay between superconductivity and antiferromagnetism in a multi-layered system, where two superconductors are separated by an antiferromagnetic region. Within a self-consistent mean-field theory, this system is solved numerically. We find that the antiferromagnetism in the middle layers profoundly affects the supercurrent flowing across the junction, while the phase difference across the junction influences the development of antiferromagnetism in the middle layers. This study may not only shed new light on the mechanism for high-$T_{c}$ superconductors, but also bring important insights to building Josephson-junction-based quantum devices, such as SQUID and superconducting qubit.

id: 1009.3691
title: Pressure induced Superconductivity in Topological Compound Bi2Te3
authors: J. L. Zhang, S. J. Zhang, H. M. Weng, W. Zhang, L. X. Yang, Q. Q. Liu, S. M. Feng, X. C. Wang, R. C. Yu, L. Z. Cao, L. Wang, W. G. Yang, H. Z. Liu, W. Y. Zhao, S. C. Zhang, X. Dai, Z. Fang, C. Q. Jin
comments: Published ahead of print December 20, 2010, doi:10.1073/pnas.1014085108
journal: Proceedings Nat Aca Sci USA (PNAS) 108(1), 24 ~28(2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.3691
abstract: Bi2Te3 compound has been theoretically predicted (1) to be a topological insulator, and its topologically non-trivial surface state with a single Dirac cone has been observed in photoemission experiments (2). Here we report that superconductivity (Tc^~3K) can be induced in Bi2Te3 as-grown single crystal (with hole-carriers) via pressure. The first-principles calculations show that the electronic structure under pressure remains to be topologically nontrivial, and the Dirac-type surface states can be well distinguished from bulk states at corresponding Fermi level. The proximity effect between superconducting bulk states and Dirac-type surface state could generate Majorana fermions on the surface. We also discuss the possibility that the bulk state could be a topological superconductor.

id: 1009.4667
title: Non-adiabaticity and improved back-reaction
authors: Curtis T. Asplund, David Berenstein
comments: 30 pages, revtex4-1, 7 figures. v2: Small corrections in the fermion section and other typos
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4667
abstract: We treat quantum back-reaction in time dependent processes for quantum field theory in various simplified models. The first example is a harmonic oscillator whose frequency depends on a second quantum variable $x$. Beginning with a classical analysis, we show how using a particular canonical transformation the system can be described by an improved adiabatic expansion with a velocity dependent force for $x$. We find an instability at a critical velocity that prevents integrating out the oscillator degree of freedom in the new variables. We extend this calculation to the quantum system and to field theory and describe how to study fermions with similar techniques. Finally, we set up a model with an abrupt change in the oscillator whose quantum mechanics can be solved exactly so that one can study the effects of back-reaction of a fully non-adiabatic change in a controlled setting. We comment on applications of these general results to the physics of D-branes, inflation, and black holes in AdS/CFT.

id: 1009.0130
title: Quantized Black Hole and Heun function
authors: D. Momeni, Koblandy Yerzhanov, Ratbay Myrzakulov
comments: 9 pages,Title Changed, 3 figures, Refrences added
journal: Can. J. Phys. 90: 877-881 (2012)
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0130
abstract: Following the simple proposal by He and Ma for quantization of a black hole(BH) by Bohr's idea about the atoms, we discussed the solvability of the wave equation for such a BH. We superficial solved the associated Schrodinger equation. The eigenfunction problem reduces to HeunB $H$ differential equation which is a natural generalization of the hypergeometric differential equation. In other words, the spectrum can be determined by solving the Heun's differential equation.

id: 1009.4466
title: Dephasing of electron spin qubits due to their interaction with nuclei in quantum dots
authors: ?ukasz Cywi¨½ski
comments: An invited review, Proceedings of 39th "Jaszowiec" International School and Conference on the Physics of Semiconductors, Krynica 2010, Poland. Journal version available online at this http URL
journal: Acta Phys. Pol. A 119, 576 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.4466
abstract: Coherence of spins of electrons confined in III-V quantum dots is strongly affected by their hyperfine interaction with the nuclei. In this paper an introduction to this subject will be given. Some theoretical approaches to the problem will be outlined. Most attention will be given to the Quasi-Static Bath Approximation, to the cluster expansion theories of dephasing due to the nuclear dynamics induced by the dipolar interactions (spectral diffusion), and to the effective Hamiltonian based theory of dephasing due to hyperfine-mediated interactions. The connections between the theoretical results and various experiments will be emphasized.

id: 1009.0637
title: Solvable Models Of Infrared Gupta-Bleuler Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Simone Zerella
comments: 18 pages, no figures, revised version with an extended treatment of issues connected with an indefinite metric
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0637
abstract: Hamiltonian models based on two different infrared approximations are studied in order to obtain an explicit comparison with the standard analysis of the infrared contributions, occurring in the relativistically covariant perturbative formulation of Quantum Electrodynamics. Moller operators, preserving respectively the Hilbert scalar product, for the Coulomb-gauge models, and an indefinite metric, for the models formulated in Feynman's gauge, are obtained in the presence of an infrared cutoff, after the removal of an adiabatic switching and with the aid of a suitable mass renormalization. In the presence of a dipole approximation, spurious contributions to the infrared factors are shown to necessarily arise in Feynman's gauge, with respect both to the Coulomb-gauge model and to the amplitudes of Quantum Electrodynamics, and the connection of this result with a recent work on the Gupta-Bleuler formulation of non-relativistic models is discussed. It is finally proven that by dropping the dipole approximation and adopting an expansion around a fixed charged particle four-momentum, first introduced and employed in the study of the infrared problem by Bloch and Nordsieck, the infrared diagrammatic is fully reproduced and spurious low-energy effects are avoided.

id: 1009.0594
title: The Vavilov-Cherenkov radiation by relict photon gas
authors: S.G. Chefranov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.0594
abstract: Based on the new quantum Vavilov-Cherenkov,s radiation(VCR) theory (PRL,2004),it is stated the possibility of threshold realization in the modern epoch of the novel VCR effect by the relict photon gas, when it is traversed by relativistic particles of the cosmic rays with \gamma \geq \gamma_th \cong 2 \cdot 10^10, where \gamma^2 = 1 - \frac{V^2}{C^2}, v is the speed of particles, and c is the speed of the light in vacuum.

