id: 1010.0741
title: On limiting distributions of quantum Markov chains
authors: Chaobin Liu, Nelson Petulante
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Mathematics and Mathematical Sciences, Volume 2011 (2011), Article ID 740816
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0741
abstract: In a quantum Markov chain, the temporal succession of states is modeled by the repeated action of a "bistochastic quantum operation" on the density matrix of a quantum system. Based on this conceptual framework, we derive some new results concerning the evolution of a quantum system, including its long-term behavior. Among our findings is the fact that the Ces$\grave{a}$ro limit of any quantum Markov chain always exists and equals the orthogonal projection of the initial state upon the eigenspace of the unit eigenvalue of the bistochastic quantum operation. Moreover, if the unit eigenvalue is the only eigenvalue on the unit circle, then the quantum Markov chain converges in the conventional sense to the said orthogonal projection. As a corollary, we offer a new derivation of the classic result describing limiting distributions of unitary quantum walks on finite graphs \cite{AAKV01}.

id: 1010.0764
title: Quantum walk-based search and centrality
authors: Scott D. Berry, Jingbo B. Wang
comments: 29 pages, 17 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042333 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0764
abstract: We study the discrete-time quantum walk-based search for a marked vertex on a graph. By considering various structures in which not all vertices are equivalent, we investigate the relationship between the successful search probability and the position of the marked vertex, in particular its centrality. We find that the maximum value of the search probability does not necessarily increase as the marked vertex becomes more central and we investigate an interesting relationship between the frequency of the successful search probability and the centrality of the marked vertex.

id: 1010.2470
title: Mimicking the probability distribution of a two-dimensional Grover walk with a single-qubit coin
authors: C. Di Franco, M. McGettrick, Th. Busch
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 080502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2470
abstract: Multi-dimensional quantum walks usually require large coin spaces. Here we show that the non-localized case of the spatial density probability of the two-dimensional Grover walk can be obtained using only a two-dimensional coin space and a quantum walk in alternate directions. We present a formal proof of this correspondence and analyze the behavior of the coin-position entanglement as well as the x-y spatial entanglement in our scheme with respect to the Grover one. We show that our experimentally simpler scheme allows to entangle the two orthogonal directions of the walk more efficiently.

id: 1010.2514
title: Quantum walks and quantum simulations with Bloch oscillating spinor atoms
authors: D. Witthaut
comments: published version, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 033602 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2514
abstract: We propose a scheme for the realization of a quantum walker and a quantum simulator for the Dirac equation with ultracold spinor atoms in driven optical lattices. A precise control of the dynamics of the atomic matter wave can be realized using time-dependent external forces. If the force depends on the spin state of the atoms, the dynamics will entangle the inner and outer degrees of freedom which offers unique opportunities for quantum information and quantum simulation. Here, we introduce a method to realize a quantum walker based on the state-dependent transport of spinor atoms and a coherent driving of the internal state. In the limit of weak driving the dynamics is equivalent to that of a Dirac particle in 1+1 dimensions. Thus it becomes possible to simulate relativistic effects such as Zitterbewegung and Klein tunneling.

id: 1010.2804
title: Macroscopic quantum tunneling in multigap superconducting Josephson junctions: Escape rate enhancement via quantum fluctuations of Josephson-Leggett mode
authors: Yukihiro Ota, Masahiko Machida, Tomio Koyama
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 060503(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2804
abstract: We theoretically study the macroscopic quantum tunneling (MQT) in a hetero Josephson junction formed by a conventional single-gap superconductor and a multi-gap one such as ${MgB}_{2}$ and iron-based superconductors. In such a Josephson junction more than one phase differences are defined. We clarify the quantum dynamics of the phase differences and construct a theory for the MQT in the multi-gap Josephson junctions. The dynamics of the phase differences are strongly affected by the Josephson-Leggett mode, which is the out-of-phase oscillation mode of the phase differences. The escape rate is calculated in terms of the effective action renormalized by the Josephson-Leggett mode. It is shown that the escape rate is drastically enhanced when the frequency of the Josephson-Leggett mode is less than the Josephson-plasma frequency.

id: 1010.3481
title: Limit distribution with a combination of density functions for a 2-state quantum walk
authors: Takuya Machida
comments: Journal of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience, Vol. 10, pp.1571-1578 (2013)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3481
abstract: We consider 2-state quantum walks (QWs) on the line, which are defined by two matrices. One of the matrices operates the walk in certain intervals. In the usual QWs starting from the origin, localization does not occur at all. However, our walk can be localized around the origin. In this paper, we present some limit distributions for the walk.

id: 1010.3784
title: Integrated photonic 3D waveguide arrays for quantum random walks on a circle
authors: Trond Linjordet
comments: 78 pages including title page, abstract, and references. 41 figures. Honours thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3784
abstract: Quantum random walks (QRWs) can be used to perform both quantum simulations and quantum algorithms. In order to exploit this potential, quantum walks on different types of graphs must be physically implemented. To this end we design, model and experimentally fabricate, using the femtosecond laser direct-write technique, a 3D tubular waveguide array within glass to implement a photonic quantum walk on a circle. The boundary conditions of a QRW on a circle naturally suggests a 3D waveguide implementation - allowing much simpler device design than what could be achieved using a 2D waveguide architecture. We show that, in some cases, three-dimensional photonic circuits can be more suited to the simulation of complex quantum phenomena.

id: 1010.4458
title: Variable time amplitude amplification and a faster quantum algorithm for solving systems of linear equations
authors: Andris Ambainis
comments: 17 pages, no figures, v2: various small corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4458
abstract: We present two new quantum algorithms. Our first algorithm is a generalization of amplitude amplification to the case when parts of the quantum algorithm that is being amplified stop at different times. Our second algorithm uses the first algorithm to improve the running time of Harrow et al. algorithm for solving systems of linear equations from O(kappa^2 log N) to O(kappa log^3 kappa log N) where \kappa is the condition number of the system of equations.

id: 1010.4608
title: Are quantum walks the saviour of optical quantum computing?
authors: Peter P. Rohde
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4608
abstract: Quantum walks have emerged as an interesting candidate for the implementation of quantum information processing protocols. Optical implementations of quantum walks have been demonstrated by various groups and some have received high-profile coverage. It is often claimed that quantum walks provide an avenue towards universal quantum computation. In this comment I wish to dispel some misconceptions surrounding the prospects of quantum walks as a route towards universal optical quantum computation.

id: 1010.4705
title: Spatial search using the discrete time quantum walk
authors: Neil B. Lovett, Matthew Everitt, Matthew Trevers, Daniel Mosby, Dan Stockton, Viv Kendon
comments: 23 pages, 19 figures. Proceedings of Physics and Computation 2009, Ponta Delgada, Azores, 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4705
abstract: We study the quantum walk search algorithm of Shenvi, Kempe and Whaley [PRA 67 052307 (2003)] on data structures of one to two spatial dimensions, on which the algorithm is thought to be less efficient than in three or more spatial dimensions. Our aim is to understand why the quantum algorithm is dimension dependent whereas the best classical algorithm is not, and to show in more detail how the efficiency of the quantum algorithm varies with spatial dimension or accessibility of the data. Our numerical results agree with the expected scaling in 2D of $O(\sqrt{N \log N})$, and show how the prefactors display significant dependence on both the degree and symmetry of the graph. Specifically, we see, as expected, the prefactor of the time complexity dropping as the degree (connectivity) of the structure is increased.

id: 1010.5295
title: Quantum Random Walks of Waves
authors: Tian-Li Feng, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Ming Zhao, Sheng Liu, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5295
abstract: The extremely fascinating behaviors of the quantum walks of particles, which differ much from the classical counterparts, have attracted many physicists. Here we investigate another interesting part of the quantum walks, that is the quantum walks of waves. Firstly, we show the behaviors of the quantum walks of plane wave, which are largely different from the counterparts of either the classical or the quantum walks of particles. Two situations - with and without intermediate time measurements of the walks are considered. At last, it is shown that the quantum walks of plane wave can be used to calculate the evolution of the general wave packets, e.g., Gaussian wave packet.

id: 1010.5301
title: Deterministic polarization-entanglement purification using spatial entanglement
authors: Xi-Han Li
comments: 4pages,1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 82, 044304 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5301
abstract: We present an efficient entanglement purification protocol with hyperentanglement in which additional spatial entanglement is utilized to purify the two-particle polarization-entangled state. The bit-flip error and phase-flip error can be corrected and eliminated in one step. Two remote parties can obtainmaximally entangled polarization states deterministically and only passive linear optics are employed. We also discuss the protocol with practical quantum source and noisy channel.

id: 1010.5762
title: One-dimensional quantum walks with one defect
authors: M.J. Cantero, F.A. Grunbaum, L. Moral, L. Velazquez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5762
abstract: The CGMV method allows for the general discussion of localization properties for the states of a one-dimensional quantum walk, both in the case of the integers and in the case of the non negative integers. Using this method we classify, according to such localization properties, all the quantum walks with one defect at the origin, providing explicit expressions for the asymptotic return probabilities at the origin.

