id: 1010.0009
title: Unstructured Randomness, Small Gaps and Localization
authors: Edward Farhi, Jeffrey Goldstone, David Gosset, Sam Gutmann, Peter Shor
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, Volume 11 number 9&10, 2011, pages 840-854
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0009
abstract: We study the Hamiltonian associated with the quantum adiabatic algorithm with a random cost function. Because the cost function lacks structure we can prove results about the ground state. We find the ground state energy as the number of bits goes to infinity, show that the minimum gap goes to zero exponentially quickly, and we see a localization transition. We prove that there are no levels approaching the ground state near the end of the evolution. We do not know which features of this model are shared by a quantum adiabatic algorithm applied to random instances of satisfiability since despite being random they do have bit structure.

id: 1010.0016
title: Nonlinear Landau-Zener tunneling in quantum phase space
authors: F. Trimborn, D. Witthaut, V. Kegel, H. J. Korsch
comments: 26 pages, 12 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12, 053010 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0016
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of the Landau-Zener problem for an interacting Bose-Einstein condensate in a time-varying double-well trap, especially focussing on the relation between the full many-particle problem and the mean-field approximation. Due to the nonlinear self-interaction a dynamical instability occurs, which leads to a breakdown of adiabaticity condition and thus fundamentally alters the dynamics. It is shown that essentially all features of the Landau-Zener problem including the depletion of the condensate mode can be already understood within a semiclassical phase space picture. In particular, this treatment resolves the formerly imputed incommutability of the adiabatic and semiclassical limits. The possibility to exploit Landau-Zener sweeps to generate squeezed states for spectroscopic tasks is analysed in detail. Moreover, we study the influence of phase noise and propose a Landau-Zener sweep as a sensitive, yet readily implementable probe for decoherence, since this has a significant effect on the transition rate for slow parameter variations.

id: 1010.0033
title: The Amplified Quantum Fourier Transform: solving the local period problem
authors: David J. Cornwell
comments: Updated, includes new introductory sections at the beginning. 25 pages. Accepted in Quantum Information Processing Journal, this http URL, August 2nd 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0033
abstract: This paper creates and analyses a new quantum algorithm called the Amplified Quantum Fourier Transform (Amplified-QFT) for solving the following problem: The Local Period Problem: Let L = {0,1...N-1} be a set of N labels and let A be a subset of M labels of period P, i.e. a subset of the form A = {j : j = s + rP; r = 0,1...M-1} where P < sqrt(N) and M << N, and where M is assumed known. Given an oracle f : L->{0,1} which is 1 on A and 0 elsewhere, find the local period P. A separate algorithm finds the offset s. The first part of the paper defines the Amplified-QFT algorithm. The second part of the paper summarizes the main results and compares the Amplified-QFT algorithm against the Quantum Fourier Transform (QFT) and Quantum Hidden Subgroup (QHS) algorithms when solving the local period problem. It is shown that the Amplified-QFT is, on average, quadratically faster than both the QFT and QHS algorithms. The third part of the paper provides the detailed proofs of the main results, describes the method of recovering P from an observation y and describes the method for recovering the offset s.

id: 1010.0037
title: Photon-photon gates in Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Arnaud Rispe, Bing He, Christoph Simon
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 043601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0037
abstract: It has recently been shown that light can be stored in Bose-Einstein condensates for over a second. Here we propose a method for realizing a controlled phase gate between two stored photons. The photons are both stored in the ground state of the effective trapping potential inside the condensate. The collision-induced interaction is enhanced by adiabatically increasing the trapping frequency and by using a Feshbach resonance. A controlled phase shift of $\pi$ can be achieved in one second.

id: 1010.0084
title: Prefect Transfer of Quantum States on Spin Chain with Dzyaloshinskii- Moriya interaction in inhomogeneous Magnetic field
authors: S. Salimi, B. Ghavami, Arash Sorouri
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0084
abstract: In this work, we use the Hamiltonian of a modified Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya model and investigate the perfect transfer of the quantum state on the spin networks. In this paper, we calculate fidelity in which fidelity depends on magnetic field and another parameters. Then, by using the numerical analysis we show that the fidelity of the transferred state is determined by magnetic field $B$, exchange coupling $J$ and the Dzyaloshinskii- Moriya interaction $D$. We also found that the perfect transfer of the quantum state is possible with condition $B \gg \Gamma^2\omega^{N/2}$ where $\Gamma =((J+iD)/2)$ and $\omega=\Gamma^*/ \Gamma$.

id: 1010.0093
title: Fluorescence interferometry
authors: G. S. Paraoanu
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 82, 023802 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0093
abstract: We describe an interferometer based on fluorescent emission of radiation of two qubits in quasi-one-dimensional modes. Such a system can be readily realized with dipole emitters near conducting surface-plasmonic nanowires or with superconducting qubits coupled to coplanar waveguide transmission lines.

id: 1010.0101
title: Efficient Guiding of Cold Atoms though a Photonic Band Gap Fiber
authors: S. Vorrath, S. A. M?ller, P. Windpassinger, K. Bongs, K. Sengstock
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 123015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0101
abstract: We demonstrate the first guiding of cold atoms through a 88 mm long piece of photonic band gap fiber. The guiding potential is created by a far-off resonance dipole trap propagating inside the fiber with a hollow core of 12 mu m. We load the fiber from a dark spot 85-Rb magneto optical trap and observe a peak flux of more than 10^5 atoms/s at a velocity of 1.5 m/s. With an additional reservoir optical dipole trap, a constant atomic flux of 1.5 10^4 atoms/s is sustained for more than 150\,ms. These results open up interesting possibilities to study nonlinear light-matter interaction in a nearly one-dimensional geometry and pave the way for guided matter wave interferometry.

id: 1010.0104
title: Catalysis and activation of magic states in fault tolerant architectures
authors: Earl T. Campbell
comments: A feature talk at QIP 2011, video available at this http URL V2:The no-go proof for the transformation without the aid of a catalyst is presented in a much more general way that can be used to demonstrate many other no-go results. These changes are mostly in appendix A and B. Some additional changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032317 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0104
abstract: In many architectures for fault tolerant quantum computing universality is achieved by a combination of Clifford group unitary operators and preparation of suitable nonstabilizer states, the so-called magic states. Universality is possible even for some fairly noisy nonstabilizer states, as distillation can convert many noisy copies into fewer purer magic states. Here we propose novel protocols that exploit multiple species of magic states in surprising ways. These protocols provide examples of previously unobserved phenomena that are analogous to catalysis and activation well known in entanglement theory.

id: 1010.0106
title: Rate analysis for a hybrid quantum repeater
authors: Nadja K. Bernardes, Ludmi?a Praxmeyer, Peter van Loock
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012323 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0106
abstract: We present a detailed rate analysis for a hybrid quantum repeater assuming perfect memories and using optimal probabilistic entanglement generation and deterministic swapping routines. The hybrid quantum repeater protocol is based on atomic qubit-entanglement distribution through optical coherent-state communication. An exact, analytical formula for the rates of entanglement generation in quantum repeaters is derived, including a study on the impacts of entanglement purification and multiplexing strategies. More specifically, we consider scenarios with as little purification as possible and we show that for sufficiently low local losses, such purifications are still more powerful than multiplexing. In a possible experimental scenario, our hybrid system can create near-maximally entangled (F = 0.98) pairs over a distance of 1280 km at rates of the order of 100 Hz.

id: 1010.0107
title: Entanglement in a Solid State Spin Ensemble
authors: Stephanie Simmons, Richard M. Brown, Helge Riemann, Nikolai V. Abrosimov, Peter Becker, Hans-Joachim Pohl, Mike L. W. Thewalt, Kohei M. Itoh, John J. L. Morton
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures plus supporting information of 4 pages, 1 figure v2: Updated references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0107
abstract: Entanglement is the quintessential quantum phenomenon and a necessary ingredient in most emerging quantum technologies, including quantum repeaters, quantum information processing (QIP) and the strongest forms of quantum cryptography. Spin ensembles, such as those in liquid state nuclear magnetic resonance, have been powerful in the development of quantum control methods, however, these demonstrations contained no entanglement and ultimately constitute classical simulations of quantum algorithms. Here we report the on-demand generation of entanglement between an ensemble of electron and nuclear spins in isotopically engineered phosphorus-doped silicon. We combined high field/low temperature electron spin resonance (3.4 T, 2.9 K) with hyperpolarisation of the 31P nuclear spin to obtain an initial state of sufficient purity to create a non-classical, inseparable state. The state was verified using density matrix tomography based on geometric phase gates, and had a fidelity of 98% compared with the ideal state at this field and temperature. The entanglement operation was performed simultaneously, with high fidelity, to 10^10 spin pairs, and represents an essential requirement of a silicon-based quantum information processor.

id: 1010.0109
title: Spin Squeezing, Negative Correlations, and Concurrence in the Quantum Kicked Top Model
authors: Xiaoqian Wang, Jian Ma, Lijun Song, Xihe Zhang, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 82, 056205 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0109
abstract: We study spin squeezing, negative correlations, and concurrence in the quantum kicked top model. We prove that the spin squeezing and negative correlations are equivalent for spin systems with only symmetric Dicke states populated. We numerically analyze spin squeezing parameters and concurrence in this model, and find that the maximal spin squeezing direction, which refers to the minimal pairwise correlation direction, is strongly influenced by quantum chaos. Entanglement (spin squeezing) sudden death and sudden birth occur alternatively for the periodic and quasi-periodic cases, while only entanglement (spin squeezing) sudden death is found for the chaotic case.

id: 1010.0128
title: Physical consequences of P$\neq$NP and the DMRG-annealing conjecture
authors: Javier Rodriguez-Laguna, Silvia N. Santalla
comments: Accepted for publication in JSTAT
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0128
abstract: Computational complexity theory contains a corpus of theorems and conjectures regarding the time a Turing machine will need to solve certain types of problems as a function of the input size. Nature {\em need not} be a Turing machine and, thus, these theorems do not apply directly to it. But {\em classical simulations} of physical processes are programs running on Turing machines and, as such, are subject to them. In this work, computational complexity theory is applied to classical simulations of systems performing an adiabatic quantum computation (AQC), based on an annealed extension of the density matrix renormalization group (DMRG). We conjecture that the computational time required for those classical simulations is controlled solely by the {\em maximal entanglement} found during the process. Thus, lower bounds on the growth of entanglement with the system size can be provided. In some cases, quantum phase transitions can be predicted to take place in certain inhomogeneous systems. Concretely, physical conclusions are drawn from the assumption that the complexity classes {\bf P} and {\bf NP} differ. As a by-product, an alternative measure of entanglement is proposed which, via Chebyshev's inequality, allows to establish strict bounds on the required computational time.

id: 1010.0132
title: Effective spin model for interband transport in a Wannier-Stark lattice system
authors: Patrick Pl?tz, Peter Schlagheck, Sandro Wimberger
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0132
abstract: We show that the interband dynamics in a tilted two-band Bose-Hubbard model can be reduced to an analytically accessible spin model in the case of resonant interband oscillations. This allows us to predict the revival time of these oscillations which decay and revive due to inter-particle interactions. The presented mapping onto the spin model and the so achieved reduction of complexity has interesting perspectives for future studies of many-body systems.

id: 1010.0147
title: Comparison of the hydrodynamic and Dirac models of the dispersion interaction between graphene and H, He${}^{\ast}$, or Na atoms
authors: Yu. V. Churkin, A. B. Fedortsov, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. A. Yurova
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B, v.82, 165433 (7 pages) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0147
abstract: The van der Waals and Casimir-Polder interaction of different atoms with graphene is investigated using the Dirac model which assumes that the energy of quasiparticles is linear with respect to the momentum. The obtained results for the van der Waals coefficients of hydrogen atoms and molecules and atoms of metastable He${}^{\ast}$ and Na as a function of separation are compared with respective results found using the hydrodynamic model of graphene. It is shown that, regardless of the value of the gap parameter, the Dirac model leads to much smaller values of the van der Waals coefficients than the hydrodynamic model. The experiment on quantum reflection of metastable He${}^{\ast}$ and Na atoms on graphene is proposed which is capable to discriminate between the two models of the electronic structure of graphene. In this respect the parameters of the phenomenological potential for both these atoms interacting with graphene described by different models are determined.

id: 1010.0170
title: Casimir-Polder interaction between an atom and a dielectric grating
authors: Ana M. Contreras-Reyes, Romain Gu¨¦rout, Paulo A. Maia Neto, Diego A. R. Dalvit, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:052517,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0170
abstract: We develop the scattering approach to calculate the exact dispersive Casimir-Polder potential between a ground-state atom and a rectangular grating. Our formalism allows, in principle, for arbitrary values of the grating amplitude and period, and of the atom-grating distance. We compute numerically the potential for a Rb atom on top of a Si grating and compare the results with the potential for a flat surface taken at the local atom-surface distance (proximity force approximation). Except for very short separation distances, the potential is nearly sinusoidal along the direction transverse to the grooves.

id: 1010.0256
title: An online attack against Wiesner's quantum money
authors: Andrew Lutomirski
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0256
abstract: Wiesner's quantum money [5] is a simple, information-theoretically secure quantum cryptographic protocol. In his protocol, a mint issues quantum bills and anyone can query the mint to authenticate a bill. If the mint returns bogus bills when it is asked to authenticate them, then the protocol can be broken in linear time.

id: 1010.0326
title: How to decompose arbitrary continuous-variable quantum operations
authors: Seckin Sefi, Peter van Loock
comments: Ver. 3: published version with supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 170501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0326
abstract: We present a general, systematic, and efficient method for decomposing any given exponential operator of bosonic mode operators, describing an arbitrary multi-mode Hamiltonian evolution, into a set of universal unitary gates. Although our approach is mainly oriented towards continuous-variable quantum computation, it may be used more generally whenever quantum states are to be transformed deterministically, e.g. in quantum control, discrete-variable quantum computation, or Hamiltonian simulation. We illustrate our scheme by presenting decompositions for various nonlinear Hamiltonians including quartic Kerr interactions. Finally, we conclude with two potential experiments utilizing offline-prepared optical cubic states and homodyne detections, in which quantum information is processed optically or in an atomic memory using quadratic light-atom interactions.

id: 1010.0375
title: Fractional Hadamard transform with continuous variables in the context of quantum optics
authors: Li-yun Hu, Xue-xiang Xu, Shan-jun Ma
comments: 7 pages, no figure, accepted by IJQI (2010/1)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0375
abstract: We introduce the quantum fractional Hadamard transform with continuous variables. It is found that the corresponding quantum fractional Hadamard operator can be decomposed into a single-mode fractional operator and two single-mode squeezing operators. This is extended to the entangled case by using the bipartite entangled state representation. The new transformation presents more flexibility to represent signals in the fractional Hadamard domain with extra freedom provided by an angle and two-squeezing parameters.

id: 1010.0377
title: Quantum Optical Version of Classical Optical Transformations and Beyond
authors: Hong-yi Fan, Li-yun Hu
comments: 101 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0377
abstract: By the newly developed technique of integration within an ordered product (IWOP) of operators, we explore quantum optical version of classical optical transformations such as optical Fresnel transform, Hankel transform, fractional Fourier transform, Wigner transform, wavelet transform and Fresnel-Hadmard combinatorial transform etc. In this way one may gain benefit for developing classical optics theory from the research in quantum optics, or vice-versa. We can not only find some new quantum mechanical unitary operators which correspond to the known optical transformations, deriving a new theorem for calculating quantum tomogram of density operators, but also can reveal some new classical optical transformations. We derive GFO's normal product form and its canonical coherent state representation and find that GFO is the loyal representation of symplectic group multiplication rule. We show that GFT is just the transformation matrix element of GFO in the coordinate representation such that two successive GFTs is still a GFT. The ABCD rule of the Gaussian beam propagation is directly demonstrated in the context of quantum optics. Especially, the introduction of quantum mechanical entangled state representations opens up a new area to finding new classical optical transformations. The complex wavelet transform and the condition of mother wavelet are studied in the context of quantum optics too. Throughout our discussions, the coherent state, the entangled state representation of the two-mode squeezing operators and the IWOP technique are fully used. All these confirms Dirac's assertion: " ... for a quantum dynamic system that has a classical analogue, unitary transformation in the quantum theory is the analogue of contact transformation in the classical theory".

id: 1010.0387
title: Entanglement Transfer via XXZ Heisenberg chain with DM Interaction
authors: Morteza Rafiee, Morteza Soltani, Hamidreza Mohammadi, Hossein Mokhtari
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0387
abstract: The role of spin-orbit interaction, arises from the Dzyaloshinski-Moriya anisotropic antisymmetric interaction, on the entanglement transfer via an antiferromagnetic XXZ Heisenberg chain is investigated. From symmetrical point of view, the XXZ Hamiltonian with Dzyaloshinski-Moriya interaction can be replaced by a modified XXZ Hamiltonian which is defined by a new exchange coupling constant and rotated Pauli operators. The modified coupling constant and the angle of rotations are depend on the strength of Dzyaloshinski-Moriya interaction. In this paper we study the dynamical behavior of the entanglement propagation through a system which is consist of a pair of maximally entangled spins coupled to one end of the chain. The calculations are performed for the ground state and the thermal state of the chain, separately. In both cases the presence of this anisotropic interaction make our channel more efficient, such that the speed of transmission and the amount of the entanglement are improved as this interaction is switched on. We show that for large values of the strength of this interaction a large family of XXZ chains becomes efficient quantum channels, for whole values of an isotropy parameter in the region $-2 \leq \Delta \leq 2$.

id: 1010.0392
title: Schr?dinger uncertainty relation, Wigner-Yanase-Dyson skew information and metric adjusted correlation measure
authors: Shigeru Furuichi, Kenjiro Yanagi
comments: Section 3 was revised
journal: Journal of Mathematical Analysis and Applications, Vol.388(2012), pp.1147--1156
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0392
abstract: In this paper, we give a Schr\"odinger-type uncertainty relation using the Wigner-Yanase-Dyson skew information. In addition, we give Schr\"odinger-type uncertainty relation by use of a two-parameter extended correlation measure. Moreover, we give the further generalization for Schr\"odinger-type uncertainty relation by metric adjusted correlation measure. These results generalize our previous result in [Phys. Rev. A, Vol.82(2010), 034101].

id: 1010.0395
title: Reexamination of determinant-based separability test for two qubits
authors: Maciej Demianowicz
comments: improved v3, journal ref. added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 034301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0395
abstract: It was shown in [Augusiak et al.,\;Phys. Rev. A \textbf{77}, 030301(R) (2008)] that discrimination between entanglement and separability in a two qubit state can be achieved by a measurement of a single observable on four copies of it. Moreover, a pseudo entanglement monotone $\pi$ was proposed to quantify entanglement in such states. The main goal of the present paper is to show that close relationship between $\pi$ and concurrence reported there is a result of sharing the same underlying construction of a spin flipped matrix. We also show that monogamy of entanglement can be rephrased in terms of $\pi$ and prove the factorization law for $\pi$.

id: 1010.0418
title: Quantum capacity under adversarial quantum noise: arbitrarily varying quantum channels
authors: Rudolf Ahlswede, Igor Bjelakovic, Holger Boche, Janis Noetzel
comments: 49 pages, no figures, final version of our papers arXiv:1010.0418v2 and arXiv:1010.0418. Published "Online First" in Communications in Mathematical Physics, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0418
abstract: We investigate entanglement transmission over an unknown channel in the presence of a third party (called the adversary), which is enabled to choose the channel from a given set of memoryless but non-stationary channels without informing the legitimate sender and receiver about the particular choice that he made. This channel model is called arbitrarily varying quantum channel (AVQC). We derive a quantum version of Ahlswede's dichotomy for classical arbitrarily varying channels. This includes a regularized formula for the common randomness-assisted capacity for entanglement transmission of an AVQC. Quite surprisingly and in contrast to the classical analog of the problem involving the maximal and average error probability, we find that the capacity for entanglement transmission of an AVQC always equals its strong subspace transmission capacity. These results are accompanied by different notions of symmetrizability (zero-capacity conditions) as well as by conditions for an AVQC to have a capacity described by a single-letter formula. In he final part of the paper the capacity of the erasure-AVQC is computed and some light shed on the connection between AVQCs and zero-error capacities. Additionally, we show by entirely elementary and operational arguments motivated by the theory of AVQCs that the quantum, classical, and entanglement-assisted zero-error capacities of quantum channels are generically zero and are discontinuous at every positivity point.

id: 1010.0442
title: Measurement of damping and temperature: Precision bounds in Gaussian dissipative channels
authors: A. Monras, F. Illuminati
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012315 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0442
abstract: We present a comprehensive analysis of the performance of different classes of Gaussian states in the estimation of Gaussian phase-insensitive dissipative channels. In particular, we investigate the optimal estimation of the damping constant and reservoir temperature. We show that, for two-mode squeezed vacuum probe states, the quantum-limited accuracy of both parameters can be achieved simultaneously. Moreover, we show that for both parameters two-mode squeezed vacuum states are more efficient than either coherent, thermal or single-mode squeezed states. This suggests that at high energy regimes two-mode squeezed vacuum states are optimal within the Gaussian setup. This optimality result indicates a stronger form of compatibility for the estimation of the two parameters. Indeed, not only the minimum variance can be achieved at fixed probe states, but also the optimal state is common to both parameters. Additionally, we explore numerically the performance of non-Gaussian states for particular parameter values to find that maximally entangled states within D-dimensional cutoff subspaces perform better than any randomly sampled states with similar energy. However, we also find that states with very similar performance and energy exist with much less entanglement than the maximally entangled ones.

id: 1010.0472
title: Efficient tomography of quantum processes
authors: Xiang-Bin Wang, J.-Z. Hu, Z.-W. Yu, Franco Nori
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0472
abstract: We show with explicit formulas that one can completely identify an unknown quantum process with only one weakly entangled state; and identify a quantum optical Gaussian process with either one two-mode squeezed state or a few different coherent states. In tomography of a multi-mode process, our method reduces the number of different test states exponentially compared with existing methods.

id: 1010.0498
title: Faithful entanglement sharing for quantum communication against collective noise
authors: Hui-Chong Niu, Bao-Cang Ren, Tie-Jun Wang, Ming Hua, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Int J Theor Phys 51, 2346-2352 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0498
abstract: We present an economical setup for faithful entanglement sharing against collective noise. It is composed of polarizing beam splitters, half wave plates, polarization independent wavelength division multiplexers, and frequency shifters. An arbitrary qubit error on the polarization state of each photon in a multi-photon system caused by the noisy channel can be rejected, without resorting to additional qubits, fast polarization modulators, and nondestructive quantum nondemolition detectors. Its success probability is in principle 100%, which is independent of the noise parameters, and it can be applied directly in any one-way quantum communication protocol based on entanglement.

id: 1010.0521
title: QKD: a million signal task
authors: Valerio Scarani
comments: Proceedings of the NATO Advanced Research Workshop on Quantum Cryptography and Computing, Gdansk, 9-12 September 2009
journal: R. Horodecki, S.Ya. Kilin, J. Kowalik (eds), Quantum Cryptography and Computing, IOS Press, 2010; pages 76-82
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0521
abstract: I review the ideas and main results in the derivation of security bounds in quantum key distribution for keys of finite length. In particular, all the detailed studies on specific protocols and implementations indicate that no secret key can be extracted if the number of processed signals per run is smaller than 10^5-10^6. I show how these numbers can be recovered from very basic estimates.

id: 1010.0564
title: Quantum metrology to probe atomic parity nonconservation
authors: P. Mandal, M. Mukherjee
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:050101,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0564
abstract: An entangled state prepared in a decoherence free sub-space together with a Ramsey type measurement can probe parity violation in heavy alkali ions like Ba+ or Ra+. Here we propose an experiment with Ba+ as an example to measure the small parity violating effect in this system. It has been shown that a measurement on a maximally correlated system will reduce the uncertainty as compared to that on a single ion measurement. In addition it also provides a feasible solution to measure the nuclear spin dependent part of the total parity violating light shift in an ionic system which has so far not been addressed.

id: 1010.0584
title: Wigner function evolution in self-Kerr Medium derived by Entangled state representation
authors: Li-yun Hu, Zheng-lu Duan, Xue-xiang Xu, Zi-sheng Wang
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0584
abstract: By introducing the thermo entangled state representation, we convert the calculation of Wigner function (WF) of density operator to an overlap between "two pure" states in a two-mode enlarged Fock space. Furthermore, we derive a new WF evolution formula of any initial state in self-Kerr Medium with photon loss and find that the photon number distribution for any initial state is independent of the coupling factor with Kerr Medium, where the number state is not affected by the Kerr nonlinearity and evolves into a density operator of binomial distribution.

id: 1010.0669
title: Does Adiabatic Quantum Optimization Truly Fail for NP-complete problems?
authors: Neil G. Dickson, M.H.S. Amin
comments: 4 pages, version to appear in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0669
abstract: It has been recently argued that adiabatic quantum optimization would fail in solving NP-complete problems because of the occurrence of exponentially small gaps due to crossing of local minima of the final Hamiltonian with its global minimum near the end of the adiabatic evolution. Using perturbation expansion, we analytically show that for the NP-hard problem of maximum independent set there always exist adiabatic paths along which no such crossings occur. Therefore, in order to prove that adiabatic quantum optimization fails for any NP-complete problem, one must prove that it is impossible to find any such path in polynomial time.

id: 1010.0684
title: All Optical Switch of Vacuum Rabi Oscillations: The Ultrafast Quantum Eraser
authors: Alessandro Ridolfo, Rocco Vilardi, Omar Di Stefano, Stefano Portolan, Salvatore Savasta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0684
abstract: We study the all-optical time-control of the strong coupling between a single cascade three-level quantum emitter and a microcavity. We find that only specific arrival-times of the control pulses succeed in switching-off the Rabi oscillations. Depending on the arrival times of control pulses, a variety of exotic non-adiabatic cavity quantum electrodynamics effects can be observed. We show that only control pulses with specific arrival times are able to suddenly switch-off and -on first-order coherence of cavity photons, without affecting their strong coupling population dynamics. Such behavior may be understood as a manifestation of quantum complementarity.

id: 1010.0702
title: A Weak Quantum Oblivious Transfer
authors: K.Y. Cheong, Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Takeshi Koshiba
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. Comments are welcomed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0702
abstract: Due to the commonly known impossibility results, information theoretic security is considered impossible for oblivious transfer (OT) in both the classical and the quantum world. In this paper, we proposed a weak version of the all-or-nothing OT. In our protocol the honest parties do not need long term quantum memory, entanglements, or sophisticated quantum computations. We observe some difference between the classical and quantum OT impossibilities.

id: 1010.0741
title: On limiting distributions of quantum Markov chains
authors: Chaobin Liu, Nelson Petulante
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Mathematics and Mathematical Sciences, Volume 2011 (2011), Article ID 740816
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0741
abstract: In a quantum Markov chain, the temporal succession of states is modeled by the repeated action of a "bistochastic quantum operation" on the density matrix of a quantum system. Based on this conceptual framework, we derive some new results concerning the evolution of a quantum system, including its long-term behavior. Among our findings is the fact that the Ces$\grave{a}$ro limit of any quantum Markov chain always exists and equals the orthogonal projection of the initial state upon the eigenspace of the unit eigenvalue of the bistochastic quantum operation. Moreover, if the unit eigenvalue is the only eigenvalue on the unit circle, then the quantum Markov chain converges in the conventional sense to the said orthogonal projection. As a corollary, we offer a new derivation of the classic result describing limiting distributions of unitary quantum walks on finite graphs \cite{AAKV01}.

id: 1010.0757
title: Electromagnetically Induced Transparency from Two Phonon Processes in Quadratically Coupled Membranes
authors: Sumei Huang, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 5 pages,4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 023823 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0757
abstract: We describe how electromagnetically induced transparency can arise in quadratically coupled optomechanical systems. Due to quadratic coupling the underlying optical process involves a two phonon process in optomechanical system and this two phonon process makes the mean amplitude, which plays the role of atomic coherence in traditional EIT, zero. We show how the fluctuation in displacement can play a role similar to atomic coherence and can lead to EIT-like effects in quadratically coupled optomechanical systems. We show how such effects can be studied using the existing optomechanical systems.

id: 1010.0764
title: Quantum walk-based search and centrality
authors: Scott D. Berry, Jingbo B. Wang
comments: 29 pages, 17 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042333 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0764
abstract: We study the discrete-time quantum walk-based search for a marked vertex on a graph. By considering various structures in which not all vertices are equivalent, we investigate the relationship between the successful search probability and the position of the marked vertex, in particular its centrality. We find that the maximum value of the search probability does not necessarily increase as the marked vertex becomes more central and we investigate an interesting relationship between the frequency of the successful search probability and the centrality of the marked vertex.

id: 1010.0802
title: Temporal coherence length of light in semiclassical field theory models
authors: Borys Jagielski, Johanne Lein, Arnt Inge Vistnes
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. The following article has been submitted to AIP Conference Proceedings: Advances in Quantum Theory, Vaxjo 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0802
abstract: The following work is motivated by the conceptual problems associated with the wave-particle duality and the notion of the photon. Two simple classical models for radiation from individual emitters are compared, one based on sines with random phasejumps, another based on pulse trains. The sum signal is calculated for a varying number of emitters. The focus lies on the final signal's statistical features quantified by means of the temporal coherence function and the temporal coherence length. We show how these features might be used to experimentally differentiate between the models. We also point to ambiguities in the definition of the temporal coherence length.

id: 1010.0813
title: Rigorous and General Definition of Thermodynamic Entropy
authors: Gian Paolo Beretta, Enzo Zanchini
comments: 19 pages, RevTex4
journal: in Thermodynamics, Edited by Mizutani Tadashi (Publisher: InTech, January 2011, ISBN 978-953-307-544-0), 23-50 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0813
abstract: The physical foundations of a variety of emerging technologies --- ranging from the applications of quantum entanglement in quantum information to the applications of nonequilibrium bulk and interface phenomena in microfluidics, biology, materials science, energy engineering, etc. --- require understanding thermodynamic entropy beyond the equilibrium realm of its traditional definition. This paper presents a rigorous logical scheme that provides a generalized definition of entropy free of the usual unnecessary assumptions which constrain the theory to the equilibrium domain. The scheme is based on carefully worded operative definitions for all the fundamental concepts employed, including those of system, property, state, isolated system, environment, process, separable system, system uncorrelated from its environment, and parameters of a system. The treatment considers also systems with movable internal walls and/or semipermeable walls, with chemical reactions and/or external force fields, and with small numbers of particles. The definition of reversible process is revised by introducing the new concept of scenario. The definition of entropy involves neither the concept of heat nor that of quasistatic process; it applies to both equilibrium and nonequilibrium states. The role of correlations on the domain of definition and on the additivity of energy and entropy is discussed: it is proved that energy is defined and additive for all separable systems, while entropy is defined and additive only for separable systems uncorrelated from their environment; decorrelation entropy is defined. The definitions of energy and entropy are extended rigorously to open systems. Finally, to complete the discussion, the existence of the fundamental relation for stable equilibrium states is proved, in our context, for both closed and open systems.

id: 1010.0900
title: Quantum networks reveal quantum nonlocality
authors: D. Cavalcanti, M. L. Almeida, V. Scarani, A. Acin
comments: 4 + 3 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Communications 2, 184 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0900
abstract: The results of local measurements on some composite quantum systems cannot be reproduced classically. This impossibility, known as quantum nonlocality, represents a milestone in the foundations of quantum theory. Quantum nonlocality is also a valuable resource for information processing tasks, e.g. quantum communication, quantum key distribution, quantum state estimation, or randomness extraction. Still, deciding if a quantum state is nonlocal remains a challenging problem. Here we introduce a novel approach to this question: we study the nonlocal properties of quantum states when distributed and measured in networks. Using our framework, we show how any one-way entanglement distillable state leads to nonlocal correlations. Then, we prove that nonlocality is a non-additive resource, which can be activated. There exist states, local at the single-copy level, that become nonlocal when taking several copies of it. Our results imply that the nonlocality of quantum states strongly depends on the measurement context.

id: 1010.0946
title: Comment on "Temperature dependence of the Casimir force for lossy bulk media"
authors: G. Bimonte, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 3 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A84:036501,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0946
abstract: Recently Yampol'skii et al. [Phys. Rev. A v.82, 032511 (2010)] advocated that Lifshitz theory is not applicable when the characteristic wavelength of the fluctuating electromagnetic field, responsible for the thermal correction to the Casimir force, is larger than the size of the metal test bodies. It was claimed that this is the case in experiments which exclude Lifshitz theory combined with the Drude model. We calculate the wavelengths of the evanescent waves giving the dominant contribution to the thermal correction and we find that they are much smaller than the sizes of the test bodies. The opposite conclusion obtained by the authors arose from a confusion between propagating and evanescent waves.

id: 1010.0965
title: Necessity of integral formalism
authors: Yong Tao
comments: 13Page; Schrodinger differential equation shall lead to vanishing Berry phase
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 56 (2011) 648-654
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0965
abstract: To describe the physical reality, there are two ways of constructing the dynamical equation of field, differential formalism and integral formalism. The importance of this fact is firstly emphasized by Yang in case of gauge field [Phys. Rev. Lett. 33 (1974) 445], where the fact has given rise to a deeper understanding for Aharonov-Bohm phase and magnetic monopole [Phys. Rev. D. 12 (1975) 3845]. In this paper we shall point out that such a fact also holds in general wave function of matter, it may give rise to a deeper understanding for Berry phase. Most importantly, we shall prove a point that, for general wave function of matter, in the adiabatic limit, there is an intrinsic difference between its integral formalism and differential formalism. It is neglect of this difference that leads to an inconsistency of quantum adiabatic theorem pointed out by Marzlin and Sanders [Phys. Rev. Lett. 93 (2004) 160408]. It has been widely accepted that there is no physical difference of using differential operator or integral operator to construct the dynamical equation of field. Nevertheless, our study shows that the Schrodinger differential equation (i.e., differential formalism for wave function) shall lead to vanishing Berry phase and that the Schrodinger integral equation (i.e., integral formalism for wave function), in the adiabatic limit, can satisfactorily give the Berry phase. Therefore, we reach a conclusion: There are two ways of describing physical reality, differential formalism and integral formalism; but the integral formalism is a unique way of complete description.

id: 1010.1018
title: Deciding Unitary Equivalence Between Matrix Polynomials and Sets of Bipartite Quantum States
authors: Eric Chitambar, Carl A. Miller, Yaoyun Shi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1018
abstract: In this brief report, we consider the equivalence between two sets of $m+1$ bipartite quantum states under local unitary transformations. For pure states, this problem corresponds to the matrix algebra question of whether two degree $m$ matrix polynomials are unitarily equivalent; i.e. $UA_iV^\dagger=B_i$ for $0\leq i\leq m$ where $U$ and $V$ are unitary and $(A_i, B_i)$ are arbitrary pairs of rectangular matrices. We present a randomized polynomial-time algorithm that solves this problem with an arbitrarily high success probability and outputs transforming matrices $U$ and $V$.

id: 1010.1030
title: Reverse Test and Characterization of Quantum Relative Entropy
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1030
abstract: The aim of the present paper is to give axiomatic characterization of quantum relative entropy utilizing resource conversion scenario. We consider two sets of axioms: non-asymptotic and asymptotic. In the former setting, we prove that the upperbound and the lowerbund of $\mathrm{D}^{Q}(\rho||\sigma) $ is $\mathrm{D}^{R}(\rho||\sigma) :=\mathrm{tr}% \,\rho\ln\sqrt{\rho}\sigma^{-1}\sqrt{\rho}$ and $\mathrm{D}(\rho||\sigma) :=$ $\mathrm{tr}\,\rho(\ln\rho-\ln\sigma) $, respectively. In the latter setting, we prove uniqueness of quantum relative entropy, that is, $\mathrm{D}^{Q}(\rho||\sigma) $ should equal a constant multiple of $\mathrm{D}(\rho||\sigma) $. In the analysis, we define and use reverse test and asymptotic reverse test, which are natural inverse of hypothesis test.

id: 1010.1048
title: Quantum fidelity in the thermodynamic limit
authors: Marek M. Rams, Bogdan Damski
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, rearranged a bit to improve presentation
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 055701 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1048
abstract: We study quantum fidelity, the overlap between two ground states of a many-body system, focusing on the thermodynamic regime. We show how drop of fidelity near a critical point encodes universal information about a quantum phase transition. Our general scaling results are illustrated in the quantum Ising chain for which a remarkably simple expression for fidelity is found.

id: 1010.1067
title: Entanglement created by spontaneously generated coherence
authors: Zhao-hong Tang, Gao-xiang Li, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev A 82, 063837 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1067
abstract: We propose a scheme able to generate on demand a steady-state entanglement between two non-degenerate cavity modes. The scheme relies on the interaction of the cavity modes with driven two or three-level atoms which act as a coupler to build entanglement between the modes. We show that in the limit of a strong driving, crucial for the generation of entanglement between the modes is to imbalance populations of the dressed states of the driven atomic transition. In the case of a three-level V-type atom, we find that a stationary entanglement can be created on demand by tuning the Rabi frequency of the driving field to the difference between the atomic transition frequencies. The resulting degeneracy of the energy levels together with the spontaneously generated coherence generates a steady-state entanglement between the cavity modes. It is shown that the condition for the maximal entanglement coincides with the collapse of the atomic system into a pure trapping state. We also show that the creation of entanglement depends strongly on the mutual polarization of the transition atomic dipole moments.

id: 1010.1087
title: Single Cs Atoms as Collisional Probes in a large Rb Magneto-Optical Trap
authors: Claudia Weber, Shincy John, Nicolas Spethmann, Dieter Meschede, Artur Widera
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042722 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1087
abstract: We study cold inter-species collisions of Caesium and Rubidium in a strongly imbalanced system with single and few Cs atoms. Observation of the single atom fuorescence dynamics yields insight into light-induced loss mechanisms, while both subsystems can remain in steady-state. This significantly simplifies the analysis of the dynamics, as Cs-Cs collisions are effectively absent and the majority component remains unaffected, allowing us to extract a precise value of the Rb-Cs collision parameter. Extending our results to ground state collisions would allow to use single neutral atoms as coherent probes for larger quantum systems.

id: 1010.1131
title: Extremal Quantum Correlations and Cryptographic Security
authors: T. Franz, F. Furrer, R.F. Werner
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, revised version, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 250502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1131
abstract: We investigate a fundamental property of device independent security in quantum cryptography by characterizing probability distributions which are necessarily independent of the measurement results of any eavesdropper. We show that probability distributions that are secure in this sense are exactly the extremal quantum probability distributions. This allows us to give a characterization of security in algebraic terms. We apply the method to common examples for two-party as well as multi-party setups and present a scheme for verifying security of probability distributions with two parties, two measurement settings, and two outcomes.

id: 1010.1142
title: Quantum-like representation algorithm for trichotomous observables
authors: Peter Nyman, Irina Basieva
comments: One of the authors, Irina Basieva, is supported by Swedish Institute, post-doc fellowship
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1142
abstract: We study the problem of representation of statistical data (of any origin) by a complex probability amplitude. This paper is devoted to representation of data collected from measurements of two trichotomous observables. The complexity of the problem eventually increased comparing to with the case of dichotomous observables. We see that only special statistical data (satisfying s number of nonlinear constraints) have the quantum--like representation.

id: 1010.1155
title: Weak Measurements Beyond the Aharonov-Albert-Vaidman Formalism
authors: Shengjun Wu, Yang Li
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052106 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1155
abstract: We extend the idea of weak measurements to the general case, provide a complete treatment and obtain results for both the regime when the pre-selected and post-selected states (PPS) are almost orthogonal and the regime when they are exactly orthogonal. We surprisingly find that for a fixed interaction strength, there may exist a maximum signal amplification and a corresponding optimum overlap of PPS to achieve it. For weak measurements in the orthogonal regime, we find interesting quantities that play the same role that weak values play in the non-orthogonal regime.

id: 1010.1178
title: Detection Loophole in Bell experiments: How post-selected local correlations can look non-local
authors: Cyril Branciard
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032123 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1178
abstract: A common problem in Bell type experiments is the well-known detection loophole: if the detection efficiencies are not perfect and if one simply post-selects the conclusive events, one might observe a violation of a Bell inequality, even though a local model could have explained the experimental results. In this paper, we analyze the set of all post-selected correlations that can be explained by a local model, and show that it forms a polytope, larger than the Bell local polytope. We characterize the facets of this post-selected local polytope in the CHSH scenario, where two parties have binary inputs and outcomes. Our approach gives new insights on the detection loophole problem.

id: 1010.1181
title: Analyzing Correlations for spin-1/2 particles and Singlet pairs
authors: Charles Tresser
comments: 4 pages, 0 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1181
abstract: We review the computation of correlations of successive projections of the spin onto axes for spin-1/2 particles and EPRB pairs (in the Singlet state). We assume forms of Realism (at least as general as the Predictive Hidden Variables in the classical Bell's Theory), to review one particle correlations before we further assume Locality and analyze EPRB pairs. To our surprise, we find that the Abstract Bell Inequalities with three or four axes cannot have physical meaning i.e., two spin projections cannot belong to one particle or some correlations that one would need cannot be evaluated. A recent version of Bell's Theory without Locality turns out to be unaffected by our results that refocus the open issues on "realism" rather than "local realism", inviting us to leave locality alone so to speak.

id: 1010.1190
title: Bell's Theory with no Locality assumption
authors: Charles Tresser
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 58, 385-396 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1190
abstract: We prove versions of the Bell and the GHZ Theorems that do not assume Locality but only the Effect After Cause Principle (EACP) according to which for any Lorentz observer the value of an observable cannot change because of an event that happens after the observable is measured. We show that the EACP is strictly weaker than Locality. As a consequence of our results, Locality cannot be considered as the common cause of the contradictions obtained in all versions of Bell's Theory. All versions of Bell's Theorem assume Weak Realism according to which the value of an observable is well defined whenever the measurement could be made and some measurement is made. As a consequence of our results, Weak Realism becomes the only hypothesis common to the contradictions obtained in all versions of Bell's Theory. Usually, one avoids these contradictions by assuming Non-Locality; this would not help in our case since we do not assume Locality. This work indicates that it is Weak Realism, not Locality, that needs to be negated to avoid contradictions in microscopic physics, at least if one refuses as false the de Broglie-Bohm Hidden Variable theory because of its essential violation of Lorentz invariance.

id: 1010.1192
title: Spin dynamics in the optical cycle of single nitrogen-vacancy centres in diamond
authors: Lucio Robledo, Hannes Bernien, Toeno van der Sar, Ronald Hanson
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 025013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1192
abstract: We investigate spin-dependent decay and intersystem crossing in the optical cycle of single negatively-charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centres in diamond. We use spin control and pulsed optical excitation to extract both the spin-resolved lifetimes of the excited states and the degree of optically-induced spin polarization. By optically exciting the centre with a series of picosecond pulses, we determine the spin-flip probabilities per optical cycle, as well as the spin-dependent probability for intersystem crossing. This information, together with the indepedently measured decay rate of singlet population provides a full description of spin dynamics in the optical cycle of NV centres. The temperature dependence of the singlet population decay rate provides information on the number of singlet states involved in the optical cycle.

id: 1010.1196
title: Bell's Theory with no Locality assumption: putting Free Will at work
authors: Charles Tresser
comments: 13 pages, 0 figures: Conference in honor of Pierre Coullet's 60th Birthday; Vina del Mar, Chile, December 2009. This paper completes the original Bell Theorem part of Charles Tresser:"Bell's theory with no locality assumption", Eur.Phys.J. D 58, 385-396 (2010); (DOI: 10.1140/ep jd/e2010-00122-8)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1196
abstract: We prove a version of the Bell's Theorem that does not assume Locality but only the Effect After Cause Principle (EACP) according to which for any Lorentz observer the value of an observable cannot change because of an event that happens after the observable is measured. Since the EACP is compatible both with Locality and with Non-Locality, Locality cannot be considered as the common cause of the contradictions obtained in all versions of Bell's Theory. By definition, all versions of Bell's Theorem assume Weak Realism according to which the value of an observable needed in the discussion of Bell's Theorem is well defined whenever the measurement could be made and some measurement is made. As a consequence of our results, Weak Realism becomes the only hypothesis common to the contradictions obtained in all versions of Bell's Theory. This work indicates that it is Weak Realism, not Locality, that needs to be negated to avoid the contradictions in microscopic Physics associated to Bell's Theory, at least if one refuses as false the de Broglie-Bohm Hidden Variable theory because of its essential violation of Lorentz invariance. This paper completes with much more details the genuine Bell Theorem part of a previous paper. That paper also offered a treatment of the GHZ entanglement, a treatment which did not suffer from the lack of clarity of the definition of the EACP.

id: 1010.1208
title: Probing the negative Wigner function of a pulsed single photon point by point
authors: Kaisa Laiho, Katiuscia N. Cassemiro, David Gross, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 253603 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1208
abstract: We investigate quantum properties of pulsed light fields point by point in phase space. We probe the negative region of the Wigner function of a single photon generated by the means of waveguided parametric down-conversion. This capability is achieved by employing loss-tolerant photon-number resolving detection, allowing us to directly observe the oscillations of the photon statistics in dependence of applied displacements in phase space. Our scheme is highly mode sensitive and can reveal the single-mode character of the signal state.

id: 1010.1217
title: On the Casimir entropy for a ball in front of a plane
authors: M. Bordag, I.G. Pirozhenko
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures, references added, submitted to Phys.Rev.D
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:125016,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1217
abstract: The violation of the third law of thermodynamics for metals described by the Drude model and for dielectrics with finite \DC conductivity is one of the most interesting problems in the field of the Casimir effect. It manifests itself as a non-vanishing of the entropy for vanishing temperature. We review the relevant calculations for plane surfaces and calculate the corresponding contributions for a ball in front of a plane. In this geometry, these appear in much the same way as for parallel planes. We conclude that the violation of the 3rd law is not related to the infinite size of the planes.

id: 1010.1220
title: Avoid First Order Quantum Phase Transition by Changing Problem Hamiltonians
authors: Vicky Choi
comments: This is part of the article arXiv:quant-ph/1004.2226
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1220
abstract: In Amin and Choi \cite{AC09}, we show that an adiabatic quantum algorithm for the NP-hard maximum independent set (MIS) problem on a set of special family of graphs in which there are exponentially many local maxima would have the exponentially small minimum spectral gap and thus would require the exponential time, due to the first order quantum phase transition (FQPT). The problem Hamiltonian of the adiabatic quantum algorithm for MIS is based on the reduction to the Ising problem and has flexible parameters. In this paper, we show numerically on the 15-vertex graph that by choosing the parameters appropriately in the problem Hamiltonian (without changing the problem to be solved) for MIS, we can prevent the FQPT and drastically increase the minimum spectral gap. The result is further supported by visualization from the Decomposed State Evolution Visualization (\desev) --- a visualization tool we introduced. Furthermore, our result also serves to concretely clarify that it is not sufficient to consider one specific problem Hamiltonian for proving the failure of adiabatic quantum optimization for a problem. We also raise the basic question about what the appropriate formulation of adiabatic running time should be.

id: 1010.1221
title: Different Adiabatic Quantum Optimization Algorithms for the NP-Complete Exact Cover and 3SAT Problems
authors: Vicky Choi
comments: This is the second part of article arXiv:quant-ph/1004.2226. References added
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 11, No. 7&8 (2011) 0638-0648
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1221
abstract: One of the most important questions in studying quantum computation is: whether a quantum computer can solve NP-complete problems more efficiently than a classical computer? In 2000, Farhi, et al. (Science, 292(5516):472--476, 2001) proposed the adiabatic quantum optimization (AQO), a paradigm that directly attacks NP-hard optimization problems. How powerful is AQO? Early on, van Dam and Vazirani claimed that AQO failed (i.e. would take exponential time) for a family of 3SAT instances they constructed. More recently, Altshuler, et al. (Proc Natl Acad Sci USA, 107(28): 12446--12450, 2010) claimed that AQO failed also for random instances of the NP-complete Exact Cover problem. In this paper, we make clear that all these negative results are only for a specific AQO algorithm. We do so by demonstrating different AQO algorithms for the same problem for which their arguments no longer hold. Whether AQO fails or succeeds for solving the NP-complete problems (either the worst case or the average case) requires further investigation. Our AQO algorithms for Exact Cover and 3SAT are based on the polynomial reductions to the NP-complete Maximum-weight Independent Set (MIS) problem.

id: 1010.1228
title: Stimulated Raman adiabatic passage into continuum
authors: A. A. Rangelov, N. V. Vitanov, E. Arimondo
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 76, 043414 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1228
abstract: We propose a technique which produces nearly complete ionization of the population of a discrete state coupled to a continuum by a two-photon transition via a lossy intermediate state whose lifetime is much shorter than the interaction duration. We show that using counterintuitively ordered pulses, as in stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP), wherein the pulse coupling the intermediate state to the continuum precedes and partly overlaps the pulse coupling the initial and intermediate states, greatly increases the ionization signal and strongly reduces the population loss due to spontaneous emission through the lossy state. For strong spontaneous emission from that state, however, the ionization is never complete because the dark state required for STIRAP does not exist. We demonstrate that this drawback can be eliminated almost completely by creating a laser-induced continuum structure (LICS) by embedding a third discrete state into the continuum with a third control laser. This LICS introduces some coherence into the continuum, which enables a STIRAP-like population transfer into the continuum. A highly accurate analytic description is developed and numerical results are presented for Gaussian pulse shapes.

id: 1010.1235
title: Extension of the Morris-Shore transformation to multilevel ladders
authors: A. A. Rangelov, N. V. Vitanov, B. W. Shore
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 74, 053402 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1235
abstract: We describe situations in which chains of N degenerate quantum energy levels, coupled by time-dependent external fields, can be replaced by independent sets of chains of length N, N-1,...,2 and sets of uncoupled single states. The transformation is a generalization of the two-level Morris-Shore transformation [J.R. Morris and B.W. Shore, Phys. Rev. A 27, 906 (1983)]. We illustrate the procedure with examples of three-level chains.

id: 1010.1236
title: Spatial correlations in parametric down-conversion
authors: S. P. Walborn, C. H. Monken, S. P¨¢dua, P. H. Souto Ribeiro
comments: 116 pages, 35 figures. To appear in Physics Reports
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1236
abstract: The transverse spatial effects observed in photon pairs produced by parametric down-conversion provide a robust and fertile testing ground for studies of quantum mechanics, non-classical states of light, correlated imaging and quantum information. Over the last 20 years there has been much progress in this area, ranging from technical advances and applications such as quantum imaging to investigations of fundamental aspects of quantum physics such as complementarity relations, Bell's inequality violation and entanglement. The field has grown immensely: a quick search shows that there are hundreds of papers published in this field. The objective of this article is to review the building blocks and major theoretical and experimental advances in the field, along with some possible technical applications and connections to other research areas.

id: 1010.1256
title: Entanglement-assisted quantum turbo codes
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Zunaira Babar
comments: 31 pages, software for simulating EA turbo codes is available at this http URL and a presentation is available at this http URL ; v2, revisions based on feedback from journal; v3, modification of the quantum turbo decoding algorithm that leads to improved performance over results in v2 and the results of Poulin et al. in arXiv:0712.2888
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory vol. 60, no. 2, pages 1203-1222 (February 2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1256
abstract: An unexpected breakdown in the existing theory of quantum serial turbo coding is that a quantum convolutional encoder cannot simultaneously be recursive and non-catastrophic. These properties are essential for quantum turbo code families to have a minimum distance growing with blocklength and for their iterative decoding algorithm to converge, respectively. Here, we show that the entanglement-assisted paradigm simplifies the theory of quantum turbo codes, in the sense that an entanglement-assisted quantum (EAQ) convolutional encoder can possess both of the aforementioned desirable properties. We give several examples of EAQ convolutional encoders that are both recursive and non-catastrophic and detail their relevant parameters. We then modify the quantum turbo decoding algorithm of Poulin et al., in order to have the constituent decoders pass along only "extrinsic information" to each other rather than a posteriori probabilities as in the decoder of Poulin et al., and this leads to a significant improvement in the performance of unassisted quantum turbo codes. Other simulation results indicate that entanglement-assisted turbo codes can operate reliably in a noise regime 4.73 dB beyond that of standard quantum turbo codes, when used on a memoryless depolarizing channel. Furthermore, several of our quantum turbo codes are within 1 dB or less of their hashing limits, so that the performance of quantum turbo codes is now on par with that of classical turbo codes. Finally, we prove that entanglement is the resource that enables a convolutional encoder to be both non-catastrophic and recursive because an encoder acting on only information qubits, classical bits, gauge qubits, and ancilla qubits cannot simultaneously satisfy them.

id: 1010.1273
title: Specker's Parable of the Over-protective Seer: A Road to Contextuality, Nonlocality and Complementarity
authors: Yeong-Cherng Liang, Robert W. Spekkens, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 34 pages, 14 figures, published version formatted in revtex with two columns
journal: Physics Reports, vol 506, issues 1-2, pp 1-39 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1273
abstract: In 1960, the mathematician Ernst Specker described a simple example of nonclassical correlations which he dramatized using a parable about a seer who sets an impossible prediction task to his daughter's suitors. We revisit this example here, using it as an entree to three central concepts in quantum foundations: contextuality, Bell-nonlocality, and complementarity. Specifically, we show that Specker's parable offers a narrative thread that weaves together a large number of results, including: the impossibility of measurement-noncontextual and outcome-deterministic ontological models of quantum theory (the Kochen-Specker theorem), in particular the proof of Klyachko; the impossibility of Bell-local models of quantum theory (Bell's theorem), especially the proofs by Mermin and Hardy; the impossibility of a preparation-noncontextual ontological model of quantum theory; and the existence of triples of positive operator valued measures (POVMs) that can be measured jointly pairwise but not triplewise. Along the way, several novel results are presented, including: a generalization of a theorem by Fine connecting the existence of a joint distribution over outcomes of counterfactual measurements to the existence of a noncontextual model; a generalization of Klyachko's proof of the Kochen-Specker theorem; a proof of the Kochen-Specker theorem in the style of Hardy's proof of Bell's theorem; a categorization of contextual and Bell-nonlocal correlations in terms of frustrated networks; a new inequality testing preparation noncontextuality; and lastly, some results on the joint measurability of POVMs and the question of whether these can be modeled noncontextually. Finally, we emphasize that Specker's parable provides a novel type of foil to quantum theory, challenging us to explain why the particular sort of contextuality and complementarity embodied therein does not arise in a quantum world.

id: 1010.1280
title: Counterintuitive transitions between crossing energy levels
authors: A. A. Rangelov, J. Piilo, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 72, 053404 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1280
abstract: We calculate analytically the probabilities for intuitive and counterintuitive transitions in a three-state system, in which two parallel energies are crossed by a third, tilted energy. The state with the tilted energy is coupled to the other two states in a chainwise linkage pattern with constant couplings of finite duration. The probability for a counterintuitive transition is found to increase with the square of the coupling and decrease with the squares of the interaction duration, the energy splitting between the parallel energies, and the tilt (chirp) rate. Physical examples of this model can be found in coherent atomic excitation and optical shielding in cold atomic collisions.

id: 1010.1321
title: Review of inconsistency of quantum adiabatic theorem
authors: Yong Tao
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1321
abstract: In this paper, we note that there are two different types of inconsistencies of quantum adiabatic theorem in work of K. P. Marzlin and B. C. Sanders [Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 160408, 2004], MS inconsistency and MS counterexample. Nevertheless, these two types are often confused as one by many authors. We shall point out that the inconsistencies of quantum adiabatic theorem raised by the relevant references just can be classified as these two types.

id: 1010.1326
title: Sufficient condition for validity of quantum adiabatic theorem
authors: Yong Tao
comments: 10 pages
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 57 (2012) 343--347
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1326
abstract: In this paper, we attempt to give a sufficient condition of guaranteeing the validity of the proof of the quantum adiabatic theorem. The new sufficient condition can clearly remove the inconsistency and the counterexample of the quantum adiabatic theorem pointed out by Marzlin and Sanders [Phys. Rev. Lett. 93, 160408, (2004)].

id: 1010.1338
title: Properties of nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond: group theoretic approach
authors: Jeronimo Maze, Adam Gali, Emre Togan, Yiwen Chu, Alexei Trifonov, Efthimios Kaxiras, Mikhail Lukin
comments: 30 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1338
abstract: We present a procedure that makes use of group theory to analyze and predict the main properties of the negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond. We focus on the relatively low temperatures limit where both the spin-spin and spin-orbit effects are important to consider. We demonstrate that group theory may be used to clarify several aspects of the NV structure, such as ordering of the singlets in the ($e^2$) electronic configuration, the spin-spin and the spin-orbit interactions in the ($ae$) electronic configuration. We also discuss how the optical selection rules and the response of the center to electric field can be used for spin-photon entanglement schemes. Our general formalism is applicable to a broad class of local defects in solids. The present results have important implications for applications in quantum information science and nanomagnetometry.

id: 1010.1467
title: Non-relativistic Gravity in Entropic Quantum Dynamics
authors: David T. Johnson, Ariel Caticha
comments: Presented at MaxEnt 2010, the 30th International Workshop on Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods in Science and Engineering (July 4-9, 2010, Chamonix, France)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1467
abstract: Symmetries and transformations are explored in the framework of entropic quantum dynamics. Two conditions arise that are required for any transformation to qualify as a symmetry. The heart of this work lies in the application of these conditions to the extended Galilean transformation, which admits features of both special and general relativity. The effective gravitational potential that arises in a non-inertial frame through the strong equivalence principle arises naturally through an equivalence of information.

id: 1010.1485
title: How often is a random quantum state k-entangled?
authors: Stanislaw J. Szarek, Elisabeth Werner, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 19 pages in latex, 1 figure included
journal: J. Phys. A 44, 045303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1485
abstract: The set of trace preserving, positive maps acting on density matrices of size d forms a convex body. We investigate its nested subsets consisting of k-positive maps, where k=2,...,d. Working with the measure induced by the Hilbert-Schmidt distance we derive asymptotically tight bounds for the volumes of these sets. Our results strongly suggest that the inner set of (k+1)-positive maps forms a small fraction of the outer set of k-positive maps. These results are related to analogous bounds for the relative volume of the sets of k-entangled states describing a bipartite d X d system.

id: 1010.1494
title: Geometry and Statistics of Ehrenfest dynamics
authors: J. L. Alonso, A. Castro, J. Clemente-Gallardo, J. C. Cuch¨ª, P. Echenique, F. Falceto
comments: LaTeX(RevTeX 4.1), 14 pages, 1 figure. Submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1494
abstract: Quantum dynamics (e.g., the Schr\"odinger equation) and classical dynamics (e.g., Hamilton equations) can both be formulated in equal geometric terms: a Poisson bracket defined on a manifold. The difference between both worlds is due to the presence of extra structure in the quantum case, that leads to the appearance of the probabilistic nature of the measurements and the indetermination and superposition principles. In this paper we first show that the quantum-classical dynamics prescribed by the Ehrenfest equations can also be formulated within this general framework, what has been used in the literature to construct propagation schemes for Ehrenfest dynamics. Then, the existence of a well defined Poisson bracket allows to arrive to a Liouville equation for a statistical ensemble of Ehrenfest systems. The study of a generic toy model shows that the evolution produced by Ehrenfest dynamics is ergodic and therefore the only constants of motion are functions of the Hamiltonian. The emergence of the canonical ensemble characterized by the Boltzmann's distribution follows after an appropriate application of the principle of equal a priori probabilities to this case. This work provides the basis for extending stochastic methods to Ehrenfest dynamics.

id: 1010.1495
title: Comment on "Quantum Control and Entanglement in a Chemical Compass"
authors: I. K. Kominis
comments: 1 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1495
abstract: In this comment we show that the avian compass entanglement considerations of J. Cai, G. G. Guerreschi and H. J. Briegel (Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 220502 (2010)) result in unphysical predictions on the magnetic sensitivity of this biochemical sensor. As well known from a series of papers on precision measurements and detailed derivations of standard quantum limits, not taking into account decoherence results in an overestimate of the entanglement lifetime, and this is the case at hand. The entanglement lifetime is wrongly assumed by the authors to be independent of the reaction time (the inverse of the recombination rate) and hence it is grossly overestimated. This is so because the spin coherence lifetime is limited by the reaction time, and the entanglement lifetime cannot be any longer.

id: 1010.1520
title: Differential Light Shift Cancellation in a Magnetic-Field-Insensitive Transition of $^{87}$Rb
authors: R. Chicireanu, K. D. Nelson, S. Olmschenk, N. Lundblad, A. Derevianko, J. V. Porto
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1520
abstract: We demonstrate near-complete cancellation of the differential light shift of a two-photon magnetic-field-insensitive microwave hyperfine (clock) transition in $^{87}$Rb atoms trapped in an optical lattice. Up to $95(2)%$ of the differential light shift is canceled while maintaining magnetic-field insensitivity. This technique should have applications in quantum information and frequency metrology.

id: 1010.1622
title: Manipulating quantum information on the controllable systems or subspaces
authors: Ming Zhang, Zairong Xi, Jia-Hua Wei
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1622
abstract: In this paper, we explore how to constructively manipulate qubits by rotating Bloch spheres. It is revealed that three-rotation and one-rotation Hamiltonian controls can be constructed to steer qubits when two tunable Hamiltonian controls are available. It is demonstrated in this research that local-wave function controls such as Bang-Bang, triangle-function and quadratic function controls can be utilized to manipulate quantum states on the Bloch sphere. A new kind of time-energy performance index is proposed to trade-off time and energy resource cost, in which control magnitudes are optimized in terms of this kind of performance. It is further exemplified that this idea can be generalized to manipulate encoded qubits on the controllable subspace.

id: 1010.1624
title: Quantum Generic Attacks on Feistel Schemes
authors: Hong Wang, Zhi Ma
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1624
abstract: The Feistel scheme is an important structure in the block ciphers. The security of the Feistel scheme is related to distinguishability with a random permutation. In this paper, efficient quantum algorithms for distinguishing classical 3,4-round and unbalanced Feistel scheme with contracting functions from random permutation are proposed. Our algorithms realize an exponential speed-up over classical algorithms for these problems. Furthermore, the method presented in this paper can also be used to consider unbalanced Feistel schemes with expanding functions.

id: 1010.1657
title: Quantum interference in a four-level system of a $^{87}\mathrm{Rb}$ atom: Effects of spontaneously generated coherence
authors: Dongsheng Wang, Yujun Zheng
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 013810 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1657
abstract: In this work, the effects of quantum interference and spontaneously generated coherence (SGC) are theoretically analyzed in a four level system of a $^{87}\mathrm{Rb}$ atom. For the effects of SGC, we find that a new kind of EIT channel can be induced due to destructive interference, and the nonlinear Kerr absorption can be coherently narrowed or eliminated under different strengths of the coupling and switching fields.

id: 1010.1684
title: Genuine Tripartite Entanglement in a Spin-Star Network at Thermal Equilibrium
authors: B. Militello, A. Messina
comments: 8 pages, 13 figures
journal: Physical Review A 83, 042305 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1684
abstract: In a recent paper [M. Huber {\it et al}, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 104}, 210501 (2010)] new criteria to find out the presence of multipartite entanglement have been given. We exploit these tools in order to study thermal entanglement in a spin-star network made of three peripheral spins interacting with a central one. Genuine tripartite entanglement is found in a wide range of the relevant parameters. A comparison between predictions based on the new criteria and on the tripartite negativity is also given.

id: 1010.1713
title: Generation of time-bin entangled photon pairs using a quantum-dot cavity system
authors: P. K. Pathak, S. Hughes
comments: 5 pages 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1713
abstract: We present a scheme to realize a deterministic solid state source of time-bin entangled photon pairs using cavity-assisted stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) in a single quantum dot. The quantum dot is embedded inside a semiconductor cavity, and the interaction of a coherent superposition of two temporally separated input pulses and the cavity mode leads to a two-photon Raman transition, which produces a time-bin entangled photon pair through the biexciton-exciton cascade. We show that the entanglement of the generated state can be measured using triple coincidence detection, and the degree of entanglement is quantified as the visibility of the interference. We also discuss the effect of pure dephasing on entanglement of the generated photon pair. Pronounced interference visibility values of greater than $1/\sqrt{2}$ are demonstrated in triple coincidence measurement using experimentally achievable parameters, thus demonstrating that the generated photons are suitable for applications with Bell's inequality violation and quantum cryptography.

id: 1010.1730
title: Simulating quantum-optical phenomena with cold atoms in optical lattices
authors: Carlos Navarrete-Benlloch, In¨¦s de Vega, Diego Porras, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics 13 (2011) 023024
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1730
abstract: We propose a scheme involving cold atoms trapped in optical lattices to observe different phenomena traditionally linked to quantum-optical systems. The basic idea consists of connecting the trapped atomic state to a non-trapped state through a Raman scheme. The coupling between these two types of atoms (trapped and free) turns out to be similar to that describing light-matter interaction within the rotating-wave approximation, the role of matter and photons being played by the trapped and free atoms, respectively. We explain in particular how to observe phenomena arising from the collective spontaneous emission of atomic and harmonic oscillator samples such as superradiance and directional emission. We also show how the same setup can simulate Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonians with extended hopping as well as Ising models with long-range interactions. We believe that this system can be realized with state of the art technology.

id: 1010.1750
title: Faithful Squashed Entanglement
authors: Fernando G. S. L. Brandao, Matthias Christandl, Jon Yard
comments: 24 pages, 1 figure, 1 table. Due to an error in the published version, claims have been weakened from the LOCC norm to the one-way LOCC norm
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 306, 805 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1750
abstract: Squashed entanglement is a measure for the entanglement of bipartite quantum states. In this paper we present a lower bound for squashed entanglement in terms of a distance to the set of separable states. This implies that squashed entanglement is faithful, that is, strictly positive if and only if the state is entangled. We derive the bound on squashed entanglement from a bound on quantum conditional mutual information, which is used to define squashed entanglement and corresponds to the amount by which strong subadditivity of von Neumann entropy fails to be saturated. Our result therefore sheds light on the structure of states that almost satisfy strong subadditivity with equality. The proof is based on two recent results from quantum information theory: the operational interpretation of the quantum mutual information as the optimal rate for state redistribution and the interpretation of the regularised relative entropy of entanglement as an error exponent in hypothesis testing. The distance to the set of separable states is measured by the one-way LOCC norm, an operationally-motivated norm giving the optimal probability of distinguishing two bipartite quantum states, each shared by two parties, using any protocol formed by local quantum operations and one-directional classical communication between the parties. A similar result for the Frobenius or Euclidean norm follows immediately. The result has two applications in complexity theory. The first is a quasipolynomial-time algorithm solving the weak membership problem for the set of separable states in one-way LOCC or Euclidean norm. The second concerns quantum Merlin-Arthur games. Here we show that multiple provers are not more powerful than a single prover when the verifier is restricted to one-way LOCC operations thereby providing a new characterisation of the complexity class QMA.

id: 1010.1779
title: Fully quantum mechanical dynamic analysis of single-photon transport in a single-mode waveguide coupled to a traveling-wave resonator
authors: Edwin E. Hach III, Ali W. Elshaari, Stefan F. Preble
comments: 24 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1779
abstract: We analyze the dynamics of single photon transport in a single-mode waveguide coupled to a micro-optical resonator using a fully quantum mechanical model. We examine the propagation of a single-photon Gaussian packet through the system under various coupling conditions. We review the theory of single photon transport phenomena as applied to the system and we develop a discussion on the numerical technique we used to solve for dynamical behavior of the quantized field. To demonstrate our method and to establish robust single photon results, we study the process of adiabatically lowering or raising the energy of a single photon trapped in an optical resonator under active tuning of the resonator. We show that our fully quantum mechanical approach reproduces the semi-classical result in the appropriate limit and that the adiabatic invariant has the same form in each case. Finally, we explore the trapping of a single photon in a system of dynamically tuned, coupled optical cavities.

id: 1010.1805
title: Zeno-anti-Zeno crossover via external fields in a one-dimensional coupled-cavity waveguide
authors: Lan Zhou, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042113 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1805
abstract: We have studied a hybrid system of a one-dimensional coupled-cavity waveguide with a two-level system inside, which subject to a external periodical field. Using the extended Hilbert space formalism, the time-dependent Hamiltonian is reduced into an equivalent time-independent one. Via computing the Floquet-Green's function, the Zeno-anti-Zeno crossover is controlled by the driven intensity and frequency, and the detuning between the cavity and the two-level system.

id: 1010.1811
title: Fano type quantum inequalities in terms of $q$-entropies
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 10 pages, no figures. A partly incorrect statement of Section III is replaced with the valid one. Detected typos are corrected. The bibliography is extended and updated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1811
abstract: Generalizations of the quantum Fano inequality are considered. The notion of $q$-entropy exchange is introduced. This quantity is concave in each of its two arguments. For $q\geq0$, the inequality of Fano type with $q$-entropic functionals is established. The notion of coherent information and the perfect reversibility of a quantum operation are discussed in the context of $q$-entropies. By the monotonicity property, the lower bound of Pinsker type in terms of the trace norm distance is obtained for the Tsallis relative $q$-entropy of order $q=1/2$. For $0\leq{q}\leq2$, Fano type quantum inequalities with freely variable parameters are obtained.

id: 1010.1813
title: Key Distribution based on Three Player Quantum Games
authors: Norihito Toyota
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure. 1 Table. This article is the replacement of our previous submission, arXiv:1010.1813; Hokkaido Information university bulletin, 23-2 (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1813
abstract: We study a new QKD that is different from the scheme proposed by \cite{Ramz2}, though it essentially takes our ground on three-player quantum games and Greenberg-Horne-Zeilinger triplet entangled state (GHZ state) \cite{Gree} is used. In the scheme proposed in this paper, players in the game, Bob and Charlie (and Alice also) can get some common key or information (applied strategies and their payoffs in the game), when Alice informs Bob and Charlie about some results of the measurement made by her. Even if somebody else knows the public information, he/she can not get any key information. There is not any arbiter in our scheme, since existence of an arbiter increases the risk of wiretapping. Lastly we discuss robustness of the proposed QKD method for eavesdrop. We show that though maximally entangled case and non-entangled case essentially provide an equivalent way as QKD, the latter is not available in the case where there are some eavesdroppers. At the same time, we point put that the entanglement of the initial state is crucial when a partially entangled state is used.

id: 1010.1817
title: Continuous variables approach to entanglement creation and processing
authors: Li-hui Sun, Gao-xiang Li, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: A review of our recent work on continuous variables approach to entanglement
journal: Appl. Math. Inf. Sci. 4(3) (2010), 315-339
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1817
abstract: We apply the continuous variable approach to study entangled dynamics of coupled harmonic oscillators interacting with a thermal reservoir and to a deterministic creation of entanglement in an atomic ensemble located inside a high-Q ring cavity. In the case of harmonic oscillators, we show that a suitable unitary transformation of the position and momentum operators transforms the system to a set of independent harmonic oscillators with only one of them coupled to the reservoir. Working in the Wigner representation of the density operator, we find that the covariance matrix has a block diagonal form of smaller size matrices. This simple property allows to treat the problem to some extend analytically. We analyze the time evolution of an initial entanglement and find that the entanglement can persists for long times due to presence of constants of motion for the covariance matrix elements. In the case of an atomic ensemble located inside the cavity, the attention is focused on creation of one and two-mode continuous variable entangled states from the vacuum by applying laser pulses of a suitably adjusted amplitudes and phases. The pulses together with the cavity dissipation prepare the collective modes of the atomic ensemble in a desired entangled state.

id: 1010.1844
title: Singular Short Range Potentials in the J-Matrix Approach
authors: M. S. Abdelmonem, I. Nasser, H. Bahlouli, U. Al-Khawaja, A. D. Alhaidari
comments: 14 pages, 5 tables, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Lett.A373:2408-2412,2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1844
abstract: We use the tools of the J-matrix method to evaluate the S-matrix and then deduce the bound and resonance states energies for singular screened Coulomb potentials, both analytic and piecewise differentiable. The J-matrix approach allows us to absorb the 1/r singularity of the potential in the reference Hamiltonian, which is then handled analytically. The calculation is performed using an infinite square integrable basis that supports a tridiagonal matrix representation for the reference Hamiltonian. The remaining part of the potential, which is bound and regular everywhere, is treated by an efficient numerical scheme in a suitable basis using Gauss quadrature approximation. To exhibit the power of our approach we have considered the most delicate region close to the bound-unbound transition and compared our results favorably with available numerical data.

id: 1010.1875
title: On quantum estimation, quantum cloning and finite quantum de Finetti theorems
authors: Giulio Chiribella
comments: 19 pages, no figures, a new result added, published version to appear in Proceedings of TQC 2010
journal: Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication, and Cryptography, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 2011, Volume 6519/2011, 9-25
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1875
abstract: This paper presents a series of results on the interplay between quantum estimation, cloning and finite de Finetti theorems. First, we consider the measure-and-prepare channel that uses optimal estimation to convert M copies into k approximate copies of an unknown pure state and we show that this channel is equal to a random loss of all but s particles followed by cloning from s to k copies. When the number k of output copies is large with respect to the number M of input copies the measure-and-prepare channel converges in diamond norm to the optimal universal cloning. In the opposite case, when M is large compared to k, the estimation becomes almost perfect and the measure-and-prepare channel converges in diamond norm to the partial trace over all but k systems. This result is then used to derive de Finetti-type results for quantum states and for symmetric broadcast channels, that is, channels that distribute quantum information to many receivers in a permutationally invariant fashion. Applications of the finite de Finetti theorem for symmetric broadcast channels include the derivation of diamond-norm bounds on the asymptotic convergence of quantum cloning to state estimation and the derivation of bounds on the amount of quantum information that can be jointly decoded by a group of k receivers at the output of a symmetric broadcast channel.

id: 1010.1903
title: Interaction of an atom with layered dielectrics
authors: Claudia Eberlein, Robert Zietal
comments: 20 pages, 16 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 82, 062506 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1903
abstract: We determine the energy-level shift experienced by a neutral atom due the quantum electromagnetic interaction with a layered dielectric body. We use the technique of normal-mode expansion to quantize the electromagnetic field in the presence of a layered, non-dispersive and non-absorptive dielectric. We explicitly calculate the equal-time commutation relations between the electric field and vector potential operators. We show that the commutator can be expressed in terms of a generalized transverse delta-function and that this is a consequence of using the generalized Coulomb gauge to quantize the electromagnetic field. These mathematical tools turn out to be very helpful in the calculation of the energy-level shift of the atom, which can be in its ground state or excited. The results for the shift are then analysed asymptotically in various regions of the system's parameter space -- with a view to providing quick estimates of the influence of a single dielectric layer on the Casimir-Polder interaction between an atom and a dielectric half-space. We also investigate the impact of resonances between the wavelength of the atomic transition and the thickness of the top layer.

id: 1010.1909
title: Comment on "Comment on 'Supersymmetry, PT-symmetry and spectral bifurcation'"
authors: Kumar Abhinav, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 2 pages
journal: Annals Phys.326:538-539,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1909
abstract: In "Comment on Supersymmetry, PT-symmetry and spectral bifurcation" \cite{BQ1}, Bagchi and Quesne correctly show the presence of a class of states for the complex Scarf-II potential in the unbroken PT-symmetry regime, which were absent in \cite{AP}. However, in the spontaneously broken PT-symmetry case, their argument is incorrect since it fails to implement the condition for the potential to be PT-symmetric: $C^{PT}[2(A-B)+\alpha]=0$. It needs to be emphasized that in the models considered in \cite{AP}, PT is spontaneously broken, implying that the potential is PT- symmetric, whereas the ground state is not. Furthermore, our supersymmetry (SUSY)-based 'spectral bifurcation' holds \textit{independent} of the $sl(2)$ symmetry consideration for a large class of PT-symmetric potentials.

id: 1010.1920
title: Tight lower bound to the geometric measure of quantum discord
authors: Ali Saif M. Hassan, Behzad Lari, Pramod S. Joag
comments: 10 pages,2 figures. In the previous versions, a constraint was ignored while optimizing the second term in Eq.(5), in which case, only a lower bound on the geometric discord can be obtained. The title is also consequently changed. Accepted in Phys.Rev.A
journal: Physical Review A 85, 024302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1920
abstract: Dakic, Vedral and Brukner [Physical Review Letters \tf{105},190502 (2010)] gave a geometric measure of quantum discord in a bipartite quantum state as the distance of the state from the closest classical quantum (or zero discord) state and derived an explicit formula for a two qubit state. Further, S.Luo and S.Fu [Physical Review A \tf{82}, 034302 (2010)] obtained a generic form of this geometric measure for a general bipartite state and established a lower bound. In this brief report we obtain a rigorous lower bound to the geometric measure of quantum discord in a general bipartite state which dominates that obtained by S.Luo and S.Fu.

id: 1010.1983
title: Measurement-induced quantum entanglement recovery
authors: Xiao-Ye Xu, Jin-Shi Xu, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: This is a new version. Some typos in the Physics Review A version have been corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A,82(2010)022324
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1983
abstract: By using photon pairs created in parametric down conversion, we report on an experiment, which demonstrates that measurement can recover the quantum entanglement of two qubit system in a pure dephasing environment. The concurrence of the final state with and without measurement are compared and analyzed. Furthermore, we verify that recovered states can still violate Bell's inequality, that is, to say, such recovered states exhibit nonlocality. In the context of quantum entanglement, sudden death and rebirth provide clear evidence, which verifies that entanglement dynamics of the system is sensitive not only to its environment, but also on its initial state.

id: 1010.1989
title: Self-testing graph states
authors: Matthew McKague
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1989
abstract: We give a construction for a self-test for any connected graph state. In other words, for each connected graph state we give a set of non-local correlations that can only be achieved (quantumly) by that particular graph state and certain local measurements. The number of correlations considered is small, being linear in the number of vertices in the graph. We also prove robustness for the test.

id: 1010.2009
title: Active switching in metamaterials using polarization control of light
authors: Hua Xu, Byoung Seung Ham
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2009
abstract: We demonstrate on-demand control of localized surface plasmons in metamaterials by means of incident light polarization. An asymmetric mode, selectively excited by s-polarized light, interfere destructively with a bright element, thereby allowing the incident light to propagate at a fairly low loss, corresponding to electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in an atomic system. In contrast, a symmetric mode, excited by p-polarized light, directly couples with the incident light, which is analogous to the switch-off of EIT. The light polarization-dependent excitation of asymmetric and symmetric plasmon modes holds potential for active switching applications of plasmon hybridization.

id: 1010.2012
title: Correlation complementarity yields Bell monogamy relations
authors: P. Kurzynski, T. Paterek, R. Ramanathan, W. Laskowski, D. Kaszlikowski
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 180402 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2012
abstract: We present a method to derive Bell monogamy relations by connecting the complementarity principle with quantum non-locality. The resulting monogamy relations are stronger than those obtained from the no-signaling principle alone. In many cases, they yield tight quantum bounds on violation of single and multiple qubit correlation Bell inequalities. In contrast with the two-qubit case, a rich structure of possible violation patterns is shown to exist in the multipartite scenario.

id: 1010.2015
title: Time-dependent coupled oscillator model for charged particle motion in the presence of a time varyingmagnetic field
authors: Salah Menouar, Mustapha Maamache, Jeong Ryeol Choi
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2015
abstract: The dynamics of time-dependent coupled oscillator model for the charged particle motion subjected to a time-dependent external magnetic field is investigated. We used canonical transformation approach for the classical treatment of the system, whereas unitary transformation approach is used when managing the system in the framework of quantum mechanics. For both approaches, the original system is transformed to a much more simple system that is the sum of two independent harmonic oscillators which have time-dependent frequencies. We therefore easily identified the wave functions in the transformed system with the help of invariant operator of the system. The full wave functions in the original system is derived from the inverse unitary transformation of the wave functions associated to the transformed system.

id: 1010.2016
title: Local Realism of Macroscopic Correlations
authors: Ravishankar Ramanathan, Tomasz Paterek, Alastair Kay, Pawel Kurzy¨½ski, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 9 pages incl. one Appendix, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 060405 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2016
abstract: We show that for macroscopic measurements which cannot reveal full information about microscopic states of the system, the monogamy of Bell inequality violations present in quantum mechanics implies that practically all correlations between macroscopic measurements can be described by local realistic models. Our results hold for sharp measurement and arbitrary closed quantum systems.

id: 1010.2019
title: An alternative approach to exact wave functions for time-dependent coupled oscillator model of charged particle in variable magnetic field
authors: Salah Menouar, Mustapha Maamache, Jeong Ryeol Choi
comments: 19 pages
journal: Ann. Phys. 325, 1708(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2019
abstract: A general treatment of the quantal time-dependent coupled oscillators in presence of the variable magnetic field is presented. The treatment is based on the use of an alternative canonical transformations, time-dependent unitary transformations and the invariant methods. Exact wave functions for Schr\"{o}dinger equations of this system are constructed.We applied our theory to a particular case and, co,sequently, showed that our results recovers to the perviously known one.

id: 1010.2041
title: The U(1) Lattice Gauge Theory Universally Connects All Classical Models with Continuous Variables, Including Background Gravity
authors: Ying Xu, Gemma De las Cuevas, Wolfgang D¨¹r, Hans J. Briegel, Miguel Angel Martin-Delgado
comments: Published version, 31 pages, 12 figures; references updated
journal: J.Stat.Mech.1102:P02013,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2041
abstract: We show that the partition function of many classical models with continuous degrees of freedom, e.g. abelian lattice gauge theories and statistical mechanical models, can be written as the partition function of an (enlarged) four-dimensional lattice gauge theory (LGT) with gauge group U(1). This result is very general that it includes models in different dimensions with different symmetries. In particular, we show that a U(1) LGT defined in a curved spacetime can be mapped to a U(1) LGT with a flat background metric. The result is achieved by expressing the U(1) LGT partition function as an inner product between two quantum states.

id: 1010.2078
title: Detecting entanglement of states by entries of their density matrices
authors: Xiaofei Qi, Jinchuan Hou
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2078
abstract: For any bipartite systems, a universal entanglement witness of rank-4 for pure states is obtained and a class of finite rank entanglement witnesses is constructed. In addition, a method of detecting entanglement of a state only by entries of its density matrix with respect to some product basis is obtained.

id: 1010.2082
title: Relativistic almost local hidden-variable theory
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2082
abstract: A simple relativistic quantum hidden-variable theory of particle trajectories, similar to the Bohm theory but without nonlocal forces between the particles, is proposed. To provide compatibility with statistical predictions of quantum mechanics one needs to assume the initial probability density |psi|^2 of particle positions in spacetime, which is the only source of nonlocality in the theory. This demonstrates that the usual Bohm hidden-variable theory contains much more nonlocality than required by the Bell theorem.

id: 1010.2088
title: Effects of uncertainties and errors on Lyapunov control
authors: X. X. Yi, B. Cui, Chunfeng Wu, C. H. Oh
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 165503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2088
abstract: Lyapunov control (open-loop) is often confronted with uncertainties and errors in practical applications. In this paper, we analyze the robustness of Lyapunov control against the uncertainties and errors in quantum control systems. The analysis is carried out through examinations of uncertainties and errors, calculations of the control fidelity under influences of the certainties and errors, as well as discussions on the caused effects. Two examples, a closed control system and an open control system, are presented to illustrate the general formulism.

id: 1010.2092
title: Inelastic chaotic scattering on a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Stefan Hunn, Moritz Hiller, Andreas Buchleitner, Doron Cohen, Tsampikos Kottos
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2092
abstract: We devise a microscopic scattering approach to probe the excitation spectrum of a Bose-Einstein condensate. We show that the experimentally accessible scattering cross section exhibits universal Ericson fluctuations, with characteristic properties rooted in the underlying classical field equations.

id: 1010.2094
title: Fractional topological phase for entangled qudits
authors: L. E. Oxman, A. Z. Khoury
comments: REVTex, 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 106, 240503 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2094
abstract: We investigate the topological structure of entangled qudits under unitary local operations. Different sectors are identified in the evolution, and their geometrical and topological aspects are analyzed. The geometric phase is explicitly calculated in terms of the concurrence. As a main result, we predict a fractional topological phase for cyclic evolutions in the multiply connected space of maximally entangled states.

id: 1010.2104
title: Quantum optical waveform conversion
authors: D Kielpinski, JF Corney, HM Wiseman
comments: submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 130501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2104
abstract: Currently proposed architectures for long-distance quantum communication rely on networks of quantum processors connected by optical communications channels [1,2]. The key resource for such networks is the entanglement of matter-based quantum systems with quantum optical fields for information transmission. The optical interaction bandwidth of these material systems is a tiny fraction of that available for optical communication, and the temporal shape of the quantum optical output pulse is often poorly suited for long-distance transmission. Here we demonstrate that nonlinear mixing of a quantum light pulse with a spectrally tailored classical field can compress the quantum pulse by more than a factor of 100 and flexibly reshape its temporal waveform, while preserving all quantum properties, including entanglement. Waveform conversion can be used with heralded arrays of quantum light emitters to enable quantum communication at the full data rate of optical telecommunications.

id: 1010.2115
title: Lyapunov Decoherence Rate in Classically Chaotic Systems
authors: Marcus V. S. Bonan?a
comments: 6 pages, substantial changes, new references added
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 046214 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2115
abstract: We provide a path integral treatment of the decoherence process induced by a heat bath on a single particle whose dynamics is classically chaotic and show that the decoherence rate is given by the Lyapunov exponent. The loss of coherence is charaterized by the purity, which is calculated semiclassically within diagonal approximation, when the particle initial state is a single gaussian wave packet. The calculation is performed for weak dissipation and in the high temperature limit. This situation allows us to simplify the heat bath description to a single random potential. Although the dissipative term is neglected in such approach, the fluctuating one can be treated phenomenologically to fit with the above regime. Our results are therefore valid for times shorter than the inverse of the dissipation rate.

id: 1010.2163
title: (Non-)Contextuality of Physical Theories as an Axiom
authors: Adan Cabello, Simone Severini, Andreas Winter
comments: REVTeX4-1, 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2163
abstract: We show that the noncontextual inequality proposed by Klyachko et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 020403 (2008)] belongs to a broader family of inequalities, one associated to each compatibility structure of a set of events (a graph), and its independence number. These have the surprising property that the maximum quantum violation is given by the Lovasz theta-function of the graph, which was originally proposed as an upper bound on its Shannon capacity. Furthermore, probabilistic theories beyond quantum mechanics may have an even larger violation, which is given by the so-called fractional packing number. We discuss in detail, and compare, the sets of probability distributions attainable by noncontextual, quantum, and generalized models; the latter two are shown to have semidefinite and linear characterizations, respectively. The implications for Bell inequalities, which are examples of noncontextual inequalities, are discussed. In particular, we show that every Bell inequality can be recast as a noncontextual inequality a la Klyachko et al.

id: 1010.2216
title: What is credible and what is incredible in the measurements of the Casimir force
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures, minor changes are made in accordance with the published version
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A, v.26, N22, pp.3944-3957 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2216
abstract: We comment on progress in measurements of the Casimir force and discuss what is the actual reliability of different experiments. In this connection a more rigorous approach to the usage of such concepts as accuracy, precision, and measure of agreement between experiment and theory, is presented. We demonstrate that all measurements of the Casimir force employing spherical lenses with centimeter-size curvature radii are fundamentally flawed due to the presence of bubbles and pits on their surfaces. The commonly used formulation of the proximity force approximation is shown to be inapplicable for centimeter-size lenses. New expressions for the Casimir force are derived taking into account surface imperfections. Uncontrollable deviations of the Casimir force from the values predicted using the assumption of perfect sphericity vary by a few tens of percent within the separation region from 1 to $3\,\mu$m. This makes impractical further use of centimeter-size lenses in experiments on measuring the Casimir force.

id: 1010.2221
title: Comment on "Semiquantum-key distribution using less than four quantum states"
authors: Michel Boyer, Tal Mor
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2221
abstract: Comment on Phys. Rev. A 79, 052312 (2009), this http URL

id: 1010.2274
title: Affine Maps of the Polarization Vector for Quantum Systems of Arbitrary Dimension
authors: Mark S. Byrd, C. Allen Bishop, Yong-Cheng Ou
comments: 19 pages, LaTeX2e, TOC included
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2274
abstract: The operator-sum decomposition (OS) of a mapping from one density matrix to another has many applications in quantum information science. To this mapping there corresponds an affine map which provides a geometric description of the density matrix in terms of the polarization vector representation. This has been thoroughly explored for qubits since the components of the polarization vector are measurable quantities (corresponding to expectation values of Hermitian operators) and also because it enables the description of map domains geometrically. Here we extend the OS-affine map correspondence to qudits, briefly discuss general properties of the map, the form for particular important cases, and provide several explicit results for qutrit maps. We use the affine map and a singular-value-like decomposition, to find positivity constraints that provide a symmetry for small polarization vector magnitudes (states which are closer to the maximally mixed state) which is broken as the polarization vector increases in magnitude (a state becomes more pure). The dependence of this symmetry on the magnitude of the polarization vector implies the polar decomposition of the map can not be used as it can for the qubit case. However, it still leads us to a connection between positivity and purity for general d-state systems.

id: 1010.2298
title: Optimal Perfect Distinguishability between Unitaries and Quantum Operations
authors: Cheng Lu, Jianxin Chen, Runyao Duan
comments: 11 pages, 0 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2298
abstract: We study optimal perfect distinguishability between a unitary and a general quantum operation. In 2-dimensional case we provide a simple sufficient and necessary condition for sequential perfect distinguishability and an analytical formula of optimal query time. We extend the sequential condition to general d-dimensional case. Meanwhile, we provide an upper bound and a lower bound for optimal sequential query time. In the process a new iterative method is given, the most notable innovation of which is its independence to auxiliary systems or entanglement. Following the idea, we further obtain an upper bound and a lower bound of (entanglement-assisted) q-maximal fidelities between a unitary and a quantum operation. Thus by the recursion in [1] an upper bound and a lower bound for optimal general perfect discrimination are achieved. Finally our lower bound result can be extended to the case of arbitrary two quantum operations.

id: 1010.2335
title: Partitioned quantum cellular automata are intrinsically universal
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Jonathan Grattage
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures. 2009 Physics and Computation workshop, special issue. Journal version: arXiv:0907.3827
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2335
abstract: There have been several non-axiomatic approaches taken to define Quantum Cellular Automata (QCA). Partitioned QCA (PQCA) are the most canonical of these non-axiomatic definitions. In this work we show that any QCA can be put into the form of a PQCA. Our construction reconciles all the non-axiomatic definitions of QCA, showing that they can all simulate one another, and hence that they are all equivalent to the axiomatic definition. This is achieved by defining generalised n-dimensional intrinsic simulation, which brings the computer science based concepts of simulation and universality closer to theoretical physics. The result is not only an important simplification of the QCA model, it also plays a key role in the identification of a minimal n-dimensional intrinsically universal QCA.

id: 1010.2359
title: Effective-mass Klein-Gordon Equation for non-PT/non-Hermitian Generalized Morse Potential
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever
comments: 14 pages
journal: Phys. Scr. 82, 065007(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2359
abstract: The one-dimensional effective-mass Klein-Gordon equation for the real, and non-\textrm{PT}-symmetric/non-Hermitian generalized Morse potential is solved by taking a series expansion for the wave function. The energy eigenvalues, and the corresponding eigenfunctions are obtained. They are also calculated for the constant mass case.

id: 1010.2361
title: Connections of geometric measure of entanglement of pure symmetric states to quantum state estimation
authors: Lin Chen, Huangjun Zhu, Tzu-Chieh Wei
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Phys.Rev.A 83, 012305 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2361
abstract: We study the geometric measure of entanglement (GM) of pure symmetric states related to rank-one positive-operator-valued measures (POVMs) and establish a general connection with quantum state estimation theory, especially the maximum likelihood principle. Based on this connection, we provide a method for computing the GM of these states and demonstrate its additivity property under certain conditions. In particular, we prove the additivity of the GM of pure symmetric multiqubit states whose Majorana points under Majorana representation are distributed within a half sphere, including all pure symmetric three-qubit states. We then introduce a family of symmetric states that are generated from mutually unbiased bases (MUBs), and derive an analytical formula for their GM. These states include Dicke states as special cases, which have already been realized in experiments. We also derive the GM of symmetric states generated from symmetric informationally complete POVMs (SIC~POVMs) and use it to characterize all inequivalent SIC~POVMs in three-dimensional Hilbert space that are covariant with respect to the Heisenberg--Weyl group. Finally, we describe an experimental scheme for creating the symmetric multiqubit states studied in this article and a possible scheme for measuring the permanent of the related Gram matrix.

id: 1010.2367
title: Entanglement preparation using symmetric multiports
authors: Thomas Brougham, Vojtech Kost'ak, Igor Jex, Erika Andersson, Tamas Kiss
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication in European Journal of Physics D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2367
abstract: We investigate the entanglement produced by a multi-path interferometer that is composed of two symmetric multiports, with phase shifts applied to the output of the first multiport. Particular attention is paid to the case when we have a single photon entering the interferometer. For this situation we derive a simple condition that characterize the types of entanglement that one can generate. We then show how one can use the results from the single photon case to determine what kinds of multi-photon entangled states one can prepare using the interferometer.

id: 1010.2435
title: Exact Pointer Properties for Quantum System Projector Measurements with Application to Weak Measurements and Their Accuracy
authors: A. D. Parks, J. E. Gray
comments: 14 pages, no figures. Submitted to J. Phys. A for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2435
abstract: Exact pointer states are obtained for projection operator measurements performed upon pre-selected (PS) and upon pre- and post-selected (PPS) quantum systems. These states are used to provide simple exact expressions for both the pointer spatial probability distribution profiles and the mean values of arbitrary pointer observables associated with PS and PPS projection operator measurements that are valid for any strength of the interaction which couples a measurement pointer to the quantum system. These profiles and mean values are compared in order to identify the effects of post-selection upon projector measurement pointers. As a special case, these mean value results are applied to the weak measurement regime - yielding PS and PPS mean value expressions which are valid for any operator (projector or non-projector). Measurement sensitivities which are useful for estimating weak measurement accuracies for PS and PPS systems are also obtained and discussed.

id: 1010.2445
title: On Urn Models, Non-commutativity and Operator Normal Forms
authors: Pawel Blasiak
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 374, 4808-4813 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2445
abstract: Non-commutativity is ubiquitous in mathematical modeling of reality and in many cases same algebraic structures are implemented in different situations. Here we consider the canonical commutation relation of quantum theory and discuss a simple urn model of the latter. It is shown that enumeration of urn histories provides a faithful realization of the Heisenberg-Weyl algebra. Drawing on this analogy we demonstrate how the operator normal forms facilitate counting of histories via generating functions, which in turn yields an intuitive combinatorial picture of the ordering procedure itself.

id: 1010.2470
title: Mimicking the probability distribution of a two-dimensional Grover walk with a single-qubit coin
authors: C. Di Franco, M. McGettrick, Th. Busch
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 080502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2470
abstract: Multi-dimensional quantum walks usually require large coin spaces. Here we show that the non-localized case of the spatial density probability of the two-dimensional Grover walk can be obtained using only a two-dimensional coin space and a quantum walk in alternate directions. We present a formal proof of this correspondence and analyze the behavior of the coin-position entanglement as well as the x-y spatial entanglement in our scheme with respect to the Grover one. We show that our experimentally simpler scheme allows to entangle the two orthogonal directions of the walk more efficiently.

id: 1010.2480
title: Complete Characterization of the Ground Space Structure of Two-Body Frustration-Free Hamiltonians for Qubits
authors: Zhengfeng Ji, Zhaohui Wei, Bei Zeng
comments: 5pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2480
abstract: The problem of finding the ground state of a frustration-free Hamiltonian carrying only two-body interactions between qubits is known to be solvable in polynomial time. It is also shown recently that, for any such Hamiltonian, there is always a ground state that is a product of single- or two-qubit states. However, it remains unclear whether the whole ground space is of any succinct structure. Here, we give a complete characterization of the ground space of any two-body frustration-free Hamiltonian of qubits. Namely, it is a span of tree tensor network states of the same tree structure. This characterization allows us to show that the problem of determining the ground state degeneracy is as hard as, but no harder than, its classical analog.

id: 1010.2514
title: Quantum walks and quantum simulations with Bloch oscillating spinor atoms
authors: D. Witthaut
comments: published version, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 033602 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2514
abstract: We propose a scheme for the realization of a quantum walker and a quantum simulator for the Dirac equation with ultracold spinor atoms in driven optical lattices. A precise control of the dynamics of the atomic matter wave can be realized using time-dependent external forces. If the force depends on the spin state of the atoms, the dynamics will entangle the inner and outer degrees of freedom which offers unique opportunities for quantum information and quantum simulation. Here, we introduce a method to realize a quantum walker based on the state-dependent transport of spinor atoms and a coherent driving of the internal state. In the limit of weak driving the dynamics is equivalent to that of a Dirac particle in 1+1 dimensions. Thus it becomes possible to simulate relativistic effects such as Zitterbewegung and Klein tunneling.

id: 1010.2566
title: Entanglement-Enhanced Classical Communication over a Noisy Classical Channel
authors: R. Prevedel, Y. Lu, W. Matthews, R. Kaltenbaek, K. J. Resch
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 110505 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2566
abstract: We present and experimentally demonstrate a communication protocol that employs shared entanglement to reduce errors when sending a bit over a particular noisy classical channel. Specifically, it is shown that, given a single use of this channel, one can transmit a bit with higher success probability when sender and receiver share entanglement compared to the best possible strategy when they do not. The experiment is realized using polarization-entangled photon pairs, whose quantum correlations play a critical role in both the encoding and decoding of the classical message. Experimentally, we find that a bit can be successfully transmitted with probability 0.891 \pm 0.002, which is close to the theoretical maximum of (2 + 2^-1/2)/3 \simeq 0.902 and is significantly above the optimal classical strategy, which yields 5/6 \simeq 0.833.

id: 1010.2588
title: Gaussian flexibility with Fourier accuracy: the periodic von Neumann basis set
authors: Asaf Shimshovitz, David J.Tannor
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2588
abstract: We propose a new method for solving quantum mechanical problems, which combines the flexibility of Gaussian basis set methods with the numerical accuracy of the Fourier method. The method is based on the incorporation of periodic boundary conditions into the von Neumann basis of phase space Gaussians [F. Dimler et al., New J. Phys. 11, 105052 (2009)]. In this paper we focus on the Time-independent Schr\"odinger Equation and show results for the harmonic, Morse and Coulomb potentials that demonstrate that the periodic von Neumann method or pvN is significantly more accurate than the usual vN method. Formally, we are able to show an exact equivalence between the pvN and the Fourier Grid Hamiltonian (FGH) methods. Moreover, due to the locality of the pvN functions we are able to remove Gaussian basis functions without loss of accuracy, and obtain significantly better efficiency than that of the FGH. We show that in the classical limit the method has the remarkable efficiency of 1 basis function per 1 eigenstate.

id: 1010.2622
title: Zeno Paradox for Bohmian Trajectories: The Unfolding of the Metatron
authors: Maurice de Gosson, Basil Hiley
comments: Revised, corrected and augmented version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2622
abstract: We analyse the track of an {\alpha}-particle passing through a cloud chamber using the Bohm theory and show that the resulting classical track has its origins in the quantum Zeno effect. By assuming the ionised gas molecules reveal the positions of the {\alpha}-particle on its trajectory and using these positions in a short time propagator technique developed by de Gosson, we show it is the failure of the quantum potential to develop quickly enough that leads to the appearance of the classical trajectory. Bohm and Hiley have already argued that it is this failure of the quantum potential to develop appropriately that prevents an Auger electron from undergoing a transition if continuously watched. This allows us to conclude that, in general, it is the suppression of the quantum potential that accounts for the quantum Zeno effect.

id: 1010.2640
title: The Quantum Wave Packet and the Feynman de Broglie Bohm Propagator of the Linearized Schuch Chung Hartmann Equation along a Classical Trajetory
authors: J. M. F. Bassalo, P. T. S. Alencar, D. G. da Silva, A. B. Nassar, M. Cattani
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2640
abstract: In this paper we study the quantum wave packet and the Feynman-de Broglie-Bohm propagator of the linearized Schuch-Chung-Hartmann equation along a classical trajetory.

id: 1010.2645
title: Directed excitation transfer in vibrating chains by external fields
authors: Oliver Muelken, Maximilian Bauer
comments: 7 pages, 10 figures (some of the figures are in png-format, high-quality pdf-files available upon request)
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 061123 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2645
abstract: We study the coherent dynamics of excitations on vibrating chains. By applying an external field and matching the field strength with the oscillation frequency of the chain it is possible to obtain an (average) transport of an initial Gaussian wave packet. We distinguish between a uniform oscillation of all nodes of the chain and the chain being in its lowest eigenmode. Both cases can lead to directed transport.

id: 1010.2646
title: Approach to equilbrium in nano-scale systems at finite temperatur
authors: Fengping Jin, Hans De Raedt, Shengjun Yuan, Mikhail I. Katsnelson, Seiji Miyashita, Kristel Michielsen
comments: Accepted for publication in J. Phys. Soc. Jpn
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 79, 124005 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2646
abstract: We study the time evolution of the reduced density matrix of a system of spin-1/2 particles interacting with an environment of spin-1/2 particles. The initial state of the composite system is taken to be a product state of a pure state of the system and a pure state of the environment. The latter pure state is prepared such that it represents the environment at a given finite temperature in the canonical ensemble. The state of the composite system evolves according to the time-dependent Schr{\"{o}}dinger equation, the interaction creating entanglement between the system and the environment. It is shown that independent of the strength of the interaction and the initial temperature of the environment, all the eigenvalues of the reduced density matrix converge to their stationary values, implying that also the entropy of the system relaxes to a stationary value. We demonstrate that the difference between the canonical density matrix and the reduced density matrix in the stationary state increases as the initial temperature of the environment decreases. As our numerical simulations are necessarily restricted to a modest number of spin-1/2 particles ($<36$), but do not rely on time-averaging of observables nor on the assumption that the coupling between system and environment is weak, they suggest that the stationary state of the system directly follows from the time evolution of a pure state of the composite system, even if the size of the latter cannot be regarded as being close to the thermodynamic limit.

id: 1010.2649
title: Scattering and bound states by localized potentials
authors: A.S. de Castro
comments: In Portuguese. To appear in RBEF
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2649
abstract: A simple formalism for exploring quantum scattering and possible bound states in an arbitrary symmetric and localized potential in a unified way is presented. The symmetric square barrier and well potentials are used for illustrating the method.

id: 1010.2664
title: Any $2\otimes n$ subspace is locally distinguishable
authors: Nengkun Yu, Runyao Duan, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 3 pages (Revtex 4).Comments are welcomed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012304 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2664
abstract: A subspace of a multipartite Hilbert space is called \textit{locally indistinguishable} if any orthogonal basis of this subspace cannot be perfectly distinguished by local operations and classical communication. Previously it was shown that any $m\otimes n$ bipartite system such that $m>2$ and $n>2$ has a locally indistinguishable subspace. However, it has been an open problem since 2005 whether there is a locally indistinguishable bipartite subspace with a qubit subsystem. We settle this problem by showing that any $2\otimes n$ bipartite subspace is locally distinguishable in the sense it contains a basis perfectly distinguishable by LOCC. As an interesting application, we show that any quantum channel with two Kraus operations has optimal environment-assisted classical capacity.

id: 1010.2700
title: Boundary conditions for many-electron systems
authors: P¨¦ter V. T¨®th
comments: 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2700
abstract: It is shown that natural boundary conditions for non-relativistic wave functions are of periodic or of homogeneous Robin type. Using asymptotic central symmetry of Hamiltonian and theory of singular differential equations the many-electron wave function is expanded in series both in the vicinity of Coulomb singularities and at infinity. Hydrogenic angular dependence of three leading terms of expansion about Coulomb singularities is found. Exact first- and second-order cusp conditions are obtained demonstrating redundancy of spherical average in Kato's cusp condition. Our first-order cusp condition exhibits CP symmetry. Homogeneous Robin boundary conditions are obtained for aperiodic many-electron systems from the expansions. Use of our explicit boundary conditions improves both speed and accuracy of numerical calculations. A confluent hypergeometric series defining arbitrarily high order cusp conditions for the spherically averaged Hamiltonian is presented.

id: 1010.2701
title: Quasi-probability representations of quantum theory with applications to quantum information science
authors: Christopher Ferrie
comments: v3: typos fixed, references added
journal: Rep. Prog. Phys. 74 (2011) 116001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2701
abstract: This article comprises a review of both the quasi-probability representations of infinite-dimensional quantum theory (including the Wigner function) and the more recently defined quasi-probability representations of finite-dimensional quantum theory. We focus on both the characteristics and applications of these representations with an emphasis toward quantum information theory. We discuss the recently proposed unification of the set of possible quasi-probability representations via frame theory and then discuss the practical relevance of negativity in such representations as a criteria for quantumness.

id: 1010.2717
title: Quantum codes give counterexamples to the unique pre-image conjecture of the N-representability problem
authors: Samuel A. Ocko, Xie Chen, Bei Zeng, Beni Yoshida, Zhengfeng Ji, Mary Beth Ruskai, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 110501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2717
abstract: It is well known that the ground state energy of many-particle Hamiltonians involving only 2-body interactions can be obtained using constrained optimizations over density matrices which arise from reducing an N-particle state. While determining which 2-particle density matrices are "N- representable" is a computationally hard problem, all known extreme N-representable 2-particle reduced density matrices arise from a unique N-particle pre-image, satisfying a conjecture established in 1972. We present explicit counterexamples to this conjecture through giving Hamiltonians with 2-body interactions which have degenerate ground states that cannot be distinguished by any 2-body operator. We relate the existence of such counterexamples to quantum error correction codes and topologically ordered spin systems.

id: 1010.2739
title: Principle of Maximum Entropy and Ground Spaces of Local Hamiltonians
authors: Jianxin Chen, Zhengfeng Ji, Mary Beth Ruskai, Bei Zeng, Duanlu Zhou
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a crucial error in proof of "only if" part. We explain this problem in detail in arXiv:1205.3682
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2739
abstract: The structure of the ground spaces of quantum systems consisting of local interactions is of fundamental importance to different areas of physics. In this Letter, we present a necessary and sufficient condition for a subspace to be the ground space of a k-local Hamiltonian. Our analysis are motivated by the concept of irreducible correlations studied by [Linden et al., PRL 89, 277906] and [Zhou, PRL 101, 180505], which is in turn based on the principle of maximum entropy. It establishes a better understanding of the ground spaces of local Hamiltonians and builds an intimate link of ground spaces to the correlations of quantum states.

id: 1010.2745
title: High-order quantum algorithm for solving linear differential equations
authors: Dominic W. Berry
comments: 14 pages, improved efficiency
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47, 105301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Numerical Analysis (cs.NA); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2745
abstract: Linear differential equations are ubiquitous in science and engineering. Quantum computers can simulate quantum systems, which are described by a restricted type of linear differential equations. Here we extend quantum simulation algorithms to general inhomogeneous sparse linear differential equations, which describe many classical physical systems. We examine the use of high-order methods to improve the efficiency. These provide scaling close to $\Delta t^2$ in the evolution time $\Delta t$. As with other algorithms of this type, the solution is encoded in amplitudes of the quantum state, and it is possible to extract global features of the solution.

id: 1010.2793
title: Quantum Commitments from Complexity Assumptions
authors: Andr¨¦ Chailloux, Iordanis Kerenidis, Bill Rosgen
comments: v2 30p
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2793
abstract: Bit commitment schemes are at the basis of modern cryptography. Since information-theoretic security is impossible both in the classical and the quantum regime, we need to look at computationally secure commitment schemes. In this paper, we study worst-case complexity assumptions that imply quantum bit-commitment schemes. First, we show that QSZK not included in QMA implies a computationally hiding and statistically binding auxiliary-input quantum commitment scheme. Additionally, we give auxiliary-input commitment schemes using quantum advice that depend on the much weaker assumption that QIP is not included in QMA (which is weaker than PSPACE not included in PP). Finally, we find a quantum oracle relative to which honest-verifier QSZK is not contained in QCMA, the class of languages that can be verified using a classical proof in quantum polynomial time.

id: 1010.2804
title: Macroscopic quantum tunneling in multigap superconducting Josephson junctions: Escape rate enhancement via quantum fluctuations of Josephson-Leggett mode
authors: Yukihiro Ota, Masahiko Machida, Tomio Koyama
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 060503(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2804
abstract: We theoretically study the macroscopic quantum tunneling (MQT) in a hetero Josephson junction formed by a conventional single-gap superconductor and a multi-gap one such as ${MgB}_{2}$ and iron-based superconductors. In such a Josephson junction more than one phase differences are defined. We clarify the quantum dynamics of the phase differences and construct a theory for the MQT in the multi-gap Josephson junctions. The dynamics of the phase differences are strongly affected by the Josephson-Leggett mode, which is the out-of-phase oscillation mode of the phase differences. The escape rate is calculated in terms of the effective action renormalized by the Josephson-Leggett mode. It is shown that the escape rate is drastically enhanced when the frequency of the Josephson-Leggett mode is less than the Josephson-plasma frequency.

id: 1010.2805
title: Trajectory-constrained optimal local time-continuous waveform controls for state transitions in $N$-level quantum systems
authors: Ming Zhang, Jia-Hua Wei, Weiwei Zhou, Hong-Yi Dai, Zairong Xi, S. G. Schirmer
comments: 4 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2805
abstract: Based on a parametrization of pure quantum states we explicitly construct a sequence of (at most) $4N-5$ local time-continuous waveform controls to achieve a specified state transition for $N$-level quantum systems when sufficient controls of the Hamiltonian are available. The control magnitudes are further optimized in terms of a time-energy performance, which is a generalization of the time performance index. Trajectory-constrained optimal local time-continuous waveform controls, including both local sine-waveforms and $n^{\rm th}$-order-polynomial waveform controls are obtained in terms of time-energy performance. It is demonstrated that constrained optimal local $n^{\rm th}$-order-polynomial waveform controls approach constrained optimal bang-bang controls when $n\rightarrow\infty$.

id: 1010.2813
title: Engineering Biphoton Wave Packets with an Electromagnetically Induced Grating
authors: Jianming Wen, Yanhua Zhai, Shengwang Du, Min Xiao
comments: Published in Physical Review A 82, 043814 (2010)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2813
abstract: We propose to shape biphoton wave packets with an electromagnetically induced grating in a four-level double-$\Lambda$ cold atomic system. We show that the induced hybrid grating plays an essential role in directing the new fields into different angular positions, especially to the zeroth-order diffraction. A number of interesting features appear in the shaped two-photon waveforms. For example, broadening or narrowing the spectrum would be possible in the proposed scheme even without the use of a cavity.

id: 1010.2848
title: Completely mixed state is a critical point for three-qubit entanglement
authors: Sayatnova Tamaryan
comments: two references are added, reshaped, few points are clarified
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375, 2224-2229 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2848
abstract: Pure three-qubit states have five algebraically independent and one algebraically dependent polynomial invariants under local unitary transformations and an arbitrary entanglement measure is a function of these six invariants. It is shown that if the reduced density operator of a some qubit is a multiple of the unit operator, than the geometric entanglement measure of the pure three-qubit state is absolutely independent of the polynomial invariants and is a constant for such tripartite states. Hence a one-particle completely mixed state is a critical point for the geometric measure of entanglement.

id: 1010.2878
title: Approximate joint measurement of qubit observables through an Arthur-Kelly type model
authors: Rajarshi Pal, Sibasish Ghosh
comments: 22 pages; Latex
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 485303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2878
abstract: We consider joint measurement of two and three unsharp qubit observables through an Arthur-Kelly type joint measurement model for qubits. We investigate the effect of initial state of the detectors on the unsharpness of the measurement as well as the post-measurement state of the system. Particular emphasis is given on a physical understanding of the POVM to PVM transition in the model and entanglement between system and detectors.Two approaches for characterizing the unsharpness of the measurement and the resulting measurement uncertainty relations are considered.The corresponding measures of unsharpness are connected for the case where both the measurements are equally unsharp. The connection between the POVM elements and symmetries of the underlying Hamiltonian of the measurement interaction is made explicit and used to perform joint measurement in arbitrary directions. Finally in the case of three observables we derive a necessary condition for the approximate joint measurement and use it show the relative freedom available when the observables are non-orthogonal.

id: 1010.2901
title: Quantum memories based on engineered dissipation
authors: Fernando Pastawski, Lucas Clemente, Juan Ignacio Cirac
comments: 6 +8 pages, 4 figures, Includes minor corrections updated references and aknowledgements
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012304 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2901
abstract: Storing quantum information for long times without disruptions is a major requirement for most quantum information technologies. A very appealing approach is to use self-correcting Hamiltonians, i.e. tailoring local interactions among the qubits such that when the system is weakly coupled to a cold bath the thermalization process takes a long time. Here we propose an alternative but more powerful approach in which the coupling to a bath is engineered, so that dissipation protects the encoded qubit against more general kinds of errors. We show that the method can be implemented locally in four dimensional lattice geometries by means of a toric code, and propose a simple 2D set-up for proof of principle experiments.

id: 1010.2929
title: Modal quantum theory
authors: Benjamin Schumacher, Michael D. Westmoreland
comments: Presented at the 7th Workshop on Quantum Physics and Logic, Oxford University (29-30 May 2010). Revised 1 Aug 2011 in response to referee comments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2929
abstract: We present a discrete model theory similar in structure to ordinary quantum mechanics, but based on a finite field instead of complex amplitudes. The interpretation of this theory involves only the "modal" concepts of possibility and necessity rather than quantitative probability measures. Despite its simplicity, our model theory includes entangled states and has versions of both Bell's theorem and the no cloning theorem.

id: 1010.2937
title: Optimal unambiguous comparison of two unknown squeezed vacua
authors: Stefano Olivares, Michal Sedlak, Peter Rapcan, Matteo G. A. Paris, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures (revised version)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012313 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2937
abstract: We propose a scheme for unambiguous state comparison (USC) of two unknown squeezed vacuum states of an electromagnetic field. Our setup is based on linear optical elements and photon-number detectors, and achieves optimal USC in an ideal case of unit quantum efficiency. In realistic conditions, i.e., for non-unit quantum efficiency of photodetectors, we evaluate the probability of getting an ambiguous result as well as the reliability of the scheme, thus showing its robustness in comparison to previous proposals.

id: 1010.2969
title: Emission spectra and intrinsic optical bistability in a two-level medium
authors: M.G. Gladush, D.V. Kuznetsov, A.A. Panteleev, Vl.K. Roerich
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2969
abstract: Scattering of resonant radiation in a dense two-level medium is studied theoretically with account for local field effects and renormalization of the resonance frequency. Intrinsic optical bistability is viewed as switching between different spectral patterns of fluorescent light controlled by the incident field strength. Response spectra are calculated analytically for the entire hysteresis loop of atomic excitation. The equations to describe the non-linear interaction of an atomic ensemble with light are derived from the Bogolubov-Born-Green-Kirkwood-Yvon hierarchy for reduced single particle density matrices of atoms and quantized field modes and their correlation operators. The spectral power of scattered light with separated coherent and incoherent constituents is obtained straightforwardly within the hierarchy. The formula obtained for emission spectra can be used to distinguish between possible mechanisms suggested to produce intrinsic bistability.

id: 1010.3007
title: From Low-Distortion Norm Embeddings to Explicit Uncertainty Relations and Efficient Information Locking
authors: Omar Fawzi, Patrick Hayden, Pranab Sen
comments: 60 pages, 5 figures. v4: published version
journal: Journal of the ACM, Vol. 60, No. 6, Article 44, November 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Metric Geometry (math.MG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3007
abstract: The existence of quantum uncertainty relations is the essential reason that some classically impossible cryptographic primitives become possible when quantum communication is allowed. One direct operational manifestation of these uncertainty relations is a purely quantum effect referred to as information locking. A locking scheme can be viewed as a cryptographic protocol in which a uniformly random n-bit message is encoded in a quantum system using a classical key of size much smaller than n. Without the key, no measurement of this quantum state can extract more than a negligible amount of information about the message, in which case the message is said to be "locked". Furthermore, knowing the key, it is possible to recover, that is "unlock", the message. In this paper, we make the following contributions by exploiting a connection between uncertainty relations and low-distortion embeddings of L2 into L1. We introduce the notion of metric uncertainty relations and connect it to low-distortion embeddings of L2 into L1. A metric uncertainty relation also implies an entropic uncertainty relation. We prove that random bases satisfy uncertainty relations with a stronger definition and better parameters than previously known. Our proof is also considerably simpler than earlier proofs. We apply this result to show the existence of locking schemes with key size independent of the message length. We give efficient constructions of metric uncertainty relations. The bases defining these metric uncertainty relations are computable by quantum circuits of almost linear size. This leads to the first explicit construction of a strong information locking scheme. Moreover, we present a locking scheme that is close to being implementable with current technology. We apply our metric uncertainty relations to exhibit communication protocols that perform quantum equality testing.

id: 1010.3046
title: Fluctuation-induced forces between atoms and surfaces: the Casimir-Polder interaction
authors: F. Intravaia, C. Henkel, M. Antezza
comments: 44 pages, 14 figure. Invited review paper to appear in Lecture Notes in Physics for a volume on "Casimir physics" edited by D. Dalvit, P. Milonni, D. Roberts, and F. da Rosa. Publisher Springer-Verlag (2010)
journal: Lecture Notes in Physics, 2011, Vol. 834, p.345-391
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3046
abstract: Electromagnetic fluctuation-induced forces between atoms and surfaces are generally known as Casimir-Polder interactions. The exact knowledge of these forces is rapidly becoming important in modern experimental set-ups and for technological applications. Recent theoretical and experimental investigations have shown that such an interaction is tunable in strength and sign, opening new perspectives to investigate aspects of quantum field theory and condensed-matter physics. In this Chapter we review the theory of fluctuation-induced interactions between atoms and a surface, paying particular attention to the physical characterization of the system. We also survey some recent developments concerning the role of temperature, situations out of thermal equilibrium, and measurements involving ultra-cold atoms.

id: 1010.3060
title: Computational Difficulty of Computing the Density of States
authors: Brielin Brown, Steven T. Flammia, Norbert Schuch
comments: v2: Accepted version. 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 040501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3060
abstract: We study the computational difficulty of computing the ground state degeneracy and the density of states for local Hamiltonians. We show that the difficulty of both problems is exactly captured by a class which we call #BQP, which is the counting version of the quantum complexity class QMA. We show that #BQP is not harder than its classical counting counterpart #P, which in turn implies that computing the ground state degeneracy or the density of states for classical Hamiltonians is just as hard as it is for quantum Hamiltonians.

id: 1010.3064
title: Probabilistic Inequalities and Upper Probabilities in Quantum Mechanical Entanglement
authors: Jose Acacio de Barros, Patrick Suppes
comments: 
journal: Manuscrito -- Rev. Int. Fil., Campinas, v. 33, n. 1, pp. 55-71, jan.-jun. 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3064
abstract: In this paper we analyze the existence of joint probabilities for the Bell-type and GHZ entangled states. We then propose the usage of nonmonotonic upper probabilities as a tool to derive consistent joint upper probabilities for the contextual hidden variables. Finally, we show that for the extreme example of no error, the GHZ state allows for the definition of a joint upper probability that is consistent with the strong correlations.

id: 1010.3094
title: Quantum Equilibration under Constraints and Transport Balance
authors: Gernot Schaller
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, leaner presentation, to appear in PRE
journal: Physical Review E 83, 31111 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3094
abstract: For open quantum systems coupled to a thermal bath at inverse temperature $\beta$, it is well known that under the Born-, Markov-, and secular approximations the system density matrix will approach the thermal Gibbs state with the bath inverse temperature $\beta$. We generalize this to systems where there exists a conserved quantity (e.g., the total particle number), where for a bath characterized by inverse temperature $\beta$ and chemical potential $\mu$ we find equilibration of both temperature and chemical potential. For couplings to multiple baths held at different temperatures and different chemical potentials, we identify a class of systems that equilibrates according to a single hypothetical average but in general non-thermal bath, which may be exploited to generate desired non-thermal states. Under special circumstances the stationary state may be again be described by a unique Boltzmann factor. These results are illustrated by several examples.

id: 1010.3109
title: Optically Levitating Dielectrics in the Quantum Regime: Theory and Protocols
authors: Oriol Romero-Isart, Anika C. Pflanzer, Mathieu L. Juan, Romain Quidant, Nikolai Kiesel, Markus Aspelmeyer, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 27 pages, revtex 2 columns, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 013803 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3109
abstract: We provide a general quantum theory to describe the coupling of light with the motion of a dielectric object inside a high finesse optical cavity. In particular, we derive the total Hamiltonian of the system as well as a master equation describing the state of the center of mass mode of the dielectric and the cavity field mode. In addition, a quantum theory of elasticity is used in order to study the coupling of the center of mass motion with internal vibrational excitations of the dielectric. This general theory is applied to the recent proposal of using an optically levitating nanodielectric as a cavity optomechanical system [Romero-Isart et al. NJP 12, 033015 (2010), Chang et al. PNAS 107, 1005 (2010)]. On this basis, we also design a light-mechanics interface to prepare non-Gaussian states of the mechanical motion, such as quantum superpositions of Fock states. Finally, we introduce a direct mechanical tomography scheme to probe these genuine quantum states by time of flight experiments.

id: 1010.3120
title: A Quantum Game of Life
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Jonathan Grattage
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures. Final version, accepted by Journ\'ees Automates Cellulaires (JAC 2010). Companion website with animated examples: this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3120
abstract: This research describes a three dimensional quantum cellular automaton (QCA) which can simulate all other 3D QCA. This intrinsically universal QCA belongs to the simplest subclass of QCA: Partitioned QCA (PQCA). PQCA are QCA of a particular form, where incoming information is scattered by a fixed unitary U before being redistributed and rescattered. Our construction is minimal amongst PQCA, having block size 2 x 2 x 2 and cell dimension 2. Signals, wires and gates emerge in an elegant fashion.

id: 1010.3125
title: A Quasi-separation Principle and Newton-like Scheme for Coherent Quantum LQG Control
authors: Igor G. Vladimirov, Ian R. Petersen
comments: 24 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication, 18th IFAC World Congress, Milan, Italy, 28 August - 2 September, 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3125
abstract: This paper is concerned with constructing an optimal controller in the coherent quantum Linear Quadratic Gaussian problem. A coherent quantum controller is itself a quantum system and is required to be physically realizable. The use of coherent control avoids the need for classical measurements, which inherently entail the loss of quantum information. Physical realizability corresponds to the equivalence of the controller to an open quantum harmonic oscillator and relates its state-space matrices to the Hamiltonian, coupling and scattering operators of the oscillator. The Hamiltonian parameterization of the controller is combined with Frechet differentiation of the LQG cost with respect to the state-space matrices to obtain equations for the optimal controller. A quasi-separation principle for the gain matrices of the quantum controller is established, and a Newton-like iterative scheme for numerical solution of the equations is outlined.

id: 1010.3165
title: Would one rather store squeezing or entanglement in continuous variable quantum memories?
authors: Hulya Yadsan-Appleby, Alessio Serafini
comments: 6 pages,8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3165
abstract: Given two quantum memories for continuous variables (e.g., the collective pseudo-spin of two atomic ensembles) and the possibility to perform passive optical operations (typically beam-splitters) on the optical modes before or after the storage, two possible scenarios arise resulting in generally different degrees of final entanglement. Namely, one could either store an entangled state and retrieve it directly from the memory, or rather store two separate single-mode squeezed states and then combine them with a beam-splitter to generate the final entangled state. In this paper, we address the question of which of these two options yields the higher entanglement. By adopting a well established descrip- tion of QND feedback memories, and a simple but realistic noise model, we analytically determine the optimal choice for several regions of noise parameters and quantify the advantage it entails, not only in terms of final entanglement but also in terms of the capability of the final state to act as a shared resource for quantum teleportation. We will see that, for 'ideal' or 'nearly ideal' memories, the more efficient of the two options is the one that better protects the quadrature subject to the largest noise in the memory (by increasing it and making it more robust).

id: 1010.3223
title: Casimir force between sharp-shaped conductors
authors: Mohammad F. Maghrebi, Sahand Jamal Rahi, Thorsten Emig, Noah Graham, Robert L. Jaffe, Mehran Kardar
comments: 
journal: Proc.Nat.Acad.Sci.108:6867-6871,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3223
abstract: Casimir forces between conductors at the sub-micron scale cannot be ignored in the design and operation of micro-electromechanical (MEM) devices. However, these forces depend non-trivially on geometry, and existing formulae and approximations cannot deal with realistic micro-machinery components with sharp edges and tips. Here, we employ a novel approach to electromagnetic scattering, appropriate to perfect conductors with sharp edges and tips, specifically to wedges and cones. The interaction of these objects with a metal plate (and among themselves) is then computed systematically by a multiple-scattering series. For the wedge, we obtain analytical expressions for the interaction with a plate, as functions of opening angle and tilt, which should provide a particularly useful tool for the design of MEMs. Our result for the Casimir interactions between conducting cones and plates applies directly to the force on the tip of a scanning tunneling probe; the unexpectedly large temperature dependence of the force in these configurations should attract immediate experimental interest.

id: 1010.3232
title: Design and Testing of Superconducting Microwave Passive Components for Quantum Information Processing
authors: H. S. Ku, F. Mallet, L. R. Vale, K. D. Irwin, S. E. Russek, G. C. Hilton, K. W. Lehnert
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3232
abstract: We report on the design, fabrication and testing of two superconducting passive microwave components, a quadrature hybrid and a 20 dB directional coupler. These components are designed to be integrated with superconducting qubits or Josephson parametric amplifiers and used in quantum information processing applications. For the coupler, we measure return loss and isolation > 20 dB, and insertion loss < 0.3 dB in a 2 GHz band around 6 GHz. For the hybrid performance, we measure isolation > 20 dB and insertion loss < 0.3 dB in a 10% band around 6.5 GHz. These values are within the design specifications of our application; however, we find a 7% difference between the designed and measured center frequency for the hybrid.

id: 1010.3242
title: 5-qubit quantum error correction in a charge qubit quantum computer
authors: Dave Touchette, Haleemur Ali, Michael Hilke
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, 1 table, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3242
abstract: We implement the DiVincenzo-Shor 5 qubit quantum error correcting code into a solid-state quantum register. The quantum register is a multi charge-qubit system in a semiconductor environment, where the main sources of noise are phase decoherence and relaxation. We evaluate the decay of the density matrix for this multi-qubit system and perform regular quantum error corrections. The performance of the error correction in this realistic system is found to yield an improvement of the fidelity. The fidelity can be maintained arbitrarily close to one by sufficiently increasing the frequency of error correction. This opens the door for arbitrarily long quantum computations.

id: 1010.3253
title: Predicting decoherence in discrete models
authors: Mario Castagnino, Sebastian Fortin
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Int J Theor Phys, Volume 50, Number 7, 2259-2267, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3253
abstract: The general aim of this paper is to supply a method to decide whether a discrete system decoheres or not, and under what conditions decoherence occurs, with no need of appealing to computer simulations to obtain the time evolution of the reduced state. In particular, a lemma is presented as the core of the method.

id: 1010.3254
title: Analyzing the spin-bath model without simulations
authors: Sebastian Fortin, Olimpia Lombardi
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3254
abstract: On the basis of a lemma designed to decide whether a discrete system decoheres or not with no need of computer simulations, in this paper we analyze the well-known spin-bath model. The lemma allows us to predict the decoherence of the system by analytical means.

id: 1010.3269
title: Uncertainty related to position and momentum localization of a quantum state
authors: ?ukasz Rudnicki
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3269
abstract: This paper presents the uncertainty related to position and momentum localization of a quantum state in terms of entropic uncertainty relations. We slightly improve the inequality given in [Phys. Rev. A 74, 052101 (2006)] and introduce a new entropic measure with corresponding uncertainty relation.

id: 1010.3271
title: Fast atomic transport without vibrational heating
authors: E. Torrontegui, S. Ib¨¢?ez, Xi Chen, A. Ruschhaupt, D. Gu¨¦ry-Odelin, J. G. Muga
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 013415 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3271
abstract: We use the dynamical invariants associated with the Hamiltonian of an atom in a one dimensional moving trap to inverse engineer the trap motion and perform fast atomic transport without final vibrational heating. The atom is driven non-adiabatically through a shortcut to the result of adiabatic, slow trap motion. For harmonic potentials this only requires designing appropriate trap trajectories, whereas perfect transport in anharmonic traps may be achieved by applying an extra field to compensate the forces in the rest frame of the trap. The results can be extended to atom stopping or launching. The limitations due to geometrical constraints, energies and accelerations involved are analyzed, as well as the relation to previous approaches (based on classical trajectories or "fast-forward" and "bang-bang" methods) which can be integrated in the invariant-based framework.

id: 1010.3273
title: Mach-Zehnder interferometry with interacting trapped Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Julian Grond, Ulrich Hohenester, Joerg Schmiedmayer, Augusto Smerzi
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, minor revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 023619 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3273
abstract: We theoretically analyze a Mach-Zehnder interferometer with trapped condensates, and find that it is surprisingly stable against the nonlinearity induced by inter-particle interactions. The phase sensitivity, which we study for number squeezed input states, can overcome the shot noise limit and be increased up to the Heisenberg limit provided that a Bayesian or Maximum-Likelihood phase estimation strategy is used. We finally demonstrate robustness of the Mach-Zehnder interferometer in presence of interactions against condensate oscillations and a realistic atom counting error.

id: 1010.3282
title: Topological approach toward quantum codes with realistic physical constraints
authors: Beni Yoshida
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. It is superseded by (and merged into) arXiv:1103.1885
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3282
abstract: The following open problems, which concern a fundamental limit on coding properties of quantum codes with realistic physical constraints, are analyzed and partially answered here: (a) the upper bound on code distances of quantum error-correcting codes with geometrically local generators, (b) the feasibility of a self-correcting quantum memory. To investigate these problems, we study stabilizer codes supported by local interaction terms with translation and scale symmetries on a $D$-dimensional lattice. Our analysis uses the notion of topology emerging in geometric shapes of logical operators, which sheds a surprising new light on theory of quantum codes with physical constraints.

id: 1010.3289
title: Experimental Evidence for a Dynamical Non-Locality Induced Effect in Quantum Interference Using Weak Values
authors: S. E. Spence, A. D. Parks
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3289
abstract: The quantum theoretical concepts of modular momentum and dynamical non-locality, which were introduced four decades ago, have recently been used to explain single particle quantum interference phenomena. Although the non-local exchange of modular momentum associated with such phenomena cannot be directly observed, it has been suggested that effects induced by this exchange can be measured experimentally using weak measurements of pre- and post-selected ensembles of particles. This paper reports on such an optical experiment that yielded measured weak values that were consistent with the theoretical prediction of an effect induced by a non-local exchange of modular momentum.

id: 1010.3375
title: Non-classical correlation of cascaded photon pairs emitted from quantum dot
authors: Yang Zou, Chuan-Feng Li, Jin-Shi Xu, Rong-Chun Ge, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 054302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3375
abstract: We studied the quantum correlation between the photon pairs generated by biexciton cascade decays of self-assembled quantum dots, and determined the temperature behavior associated with so-called sudden change of the quantum correlation. The relationship between the fine structure splitting and the sudden change temperature is also provided. Our study indicates that this correlation behavior sudden change temperature is independent on the back ground noise in the system and far lower than entanglement sudden death temperature, therefore it should be easier to observe the phenomenon of correlation sudden change in experiments than to observe entanglement sudden death.

id: 1010.3402
title: Non-Markovian Entanglement Sudden Death and Rebirth of a Two-Qubit System in the Presence of System-Bath Coherence
authors: Hao-Tian Wang, Chuan-Feng Li, Yang Zou, Rong-Chun Ge, Guang-Can Guo
comments: Submitted to Europhysics Letters (Oct. 5, 2010)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3402
abstract: We present a detailed study of the entanglement dynamics of a two-qubit system coupled to independent non-Markovian environments, employing hierarchy equations. This recently developed theoretical treatment can conveniently solve non-Markovian problems and take into consideration the correlation between the system and bath in an initial state. We concentrate on calculating the death and rebirth time points of the entanglement to obtain a general view of the concurrence curve and explore the behavior of entanglement dynamics with respect to the coupling strength, the characteristic frequency of the noise bath and the environment temperature.

id: 1010.3413
title: On the concurrence of superpositions of many states
authors: Seyed Javad Akhtarshenas
comments: 1 figure, 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3413
abstract: In this paper we use the \textit{concurrence vector}, as a measure of entanglement, and investigate lower and upper bounds on the concurrence of a superposition of bipartite states as a function of the concurrence of the superposed states. We show that the amount of entanglement quantified by the concurrence vector is exactly the same as that quantified by \textit{I-concurrence}, so that our results can be compared to those given in [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 76}, 042328 (2007)]. We obtain a tighter lower bound in the case that two superposed states are orthogonal. We also show that when the two superposed states are not necessarily orthogonal, both lower and bounds are, in general, tighter than the bounds given in terms of the I-concurrence. An extension of the results to the case with more than two states in the superpositions is also given.

id: 1010.3419
title: Information Causality and Noisy Computations
authors: Li-Yi Hsu, I-Ching Yu, Feng-Li Lin
comments: 4+epsilon pages, 1 figure; v2. Correct typos and add email addresses. Comments are welcome. v3. A supplemental to check Tsirelson bound with SDP is added. v4 minor correction & polishing text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3419
abstract: We reformulate the information causality in a more general framework by adopting the results of signal propagation and computation in a noisy circuit. In our framework, the information causality leads to a broad class of Tsirelson inequalities. This fact allows us to subject information causality to experimental scrutiny. A no-go theorem for reliable nonlocal computation is also derived. Information causality prevents any physical circuit from performing reliable computations.

id: 1010.3423
title: Green's Function expansion of scalar and vector fields in the presence of a medium
authors: Fardin Kheirandish, Shahriar Salimi
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062122 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3423
abstract: Based on a canonical approach and functional-integration techniques, a series expansion of Green's function of a scalar field, in the presence of a medium, is obtained. A series expansion for Lifshitz-energy, in finite-temperature, in terms of the susceptibility of the medium is derived and the whole formalism is generalized to the case of electromagnetic field in the presence of some dielectrics. A covariant formulation of the problem is presented.

id: 1010.3473
title: Isometric Entanglement of Particle Positions in Quantum Bound Systems
authors: Robert J. Ducharme
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3473
abstract: It is shown the role of a scalar potential in the Schr\"{o}dinger equation for a steady-state two-particle system is equivalent to an isometric entanglement of the position coordinates of the particles in space and time. The entangled coordinates of each particle are complex quantities related through the entangling transformation to the real positions of both particles. The transformation takes into account all of the states in the Hilbert space of the composite system. Transforming the Schr\"{o}dinger equation into these entangled coordinates eliminates the scalar potential.

id: 1010.3481
title: Limit distribution with a combination of density functions for a 2-state quantum walk
authors: Takuya Machida
comments: Journal of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience, Vol. 10, pp.1571-1578 (2013)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3481
abstract: We consider 2-state quantum walks (QWs) on the line, which are defined by two matrices. One of the matrices operates the walk in certain intervals. In the usual QWs starting from the origin, localization does not occur at all. However, our walk can be localized around the origin. In this paper, we present some limit distributions for the walk.

id: 1010.3505
title: Adiabatic quantum state transfer in non-uniform triple-quantum-dot system
authors: Bing Chen, Wei Fan, Yan Xu
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 014301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3505
abstract: We introduce an adiabatic quantum state transfer scheme in a non-uniform coupled triple-quantum-dot system. By adiabatically varying the external gate voltage applied on the sender and receiver, the electron can be transferred between them with high fidelity. By numerically solving the master equation for a system with always-on interaction, it is indicated that the transfer fidelity depends on the ration between the peak voltage and the maximum coupling constants. The effect of coupling mismatch on the transfer fidelity is also investigated and it is shown that there is a relatively large tolerance range to permit high fidelity quantum state transfer.

id: 1010.3521
title: Comparison of different measures for quantum discord under non-Markovian noise
authors: Zhenyu Xu, Wanli Yang, Xing Xiao, Mang Feng
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures submitted for publication
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 395304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3521
abstract: Two geometric measures for quantum discord were recently proposed by Modi et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 080501 (2010)] and Dakic et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 190502 (2010)]. We study the similarities and differences for total quantum correlations of Bell-diagonal states using these two geometry-based quantum discord and the original quantum discord. We show that, under non-Markovian dephasing channels, quantum discord and one of the geometric measures stay constant for a finite amount of time, but not the other geometric measure. However, all the three measures share a common sudden change point. Our study on critical point of sudden transition might be useful for keeping long time total quantum correlations under decoherence.

id: 1010.3522
title: Phase space spinor amplitudes for spin 1/2 systems
authors: P Watson, A J Bracken
comments: 19 pages, added new results, fixed typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3522
abstract: The concept of phase space amplitudes for systems with continuous degrees of freedom is generalized to finite-dimensional spin systems. Complex amplitudes are obtained on both a sphere and a finite lattice, in each case enabling a more fundamental description of pure spin states than that previously given by Wigner functions. In each case the Wigner function can be expressed as the star product of the amplitude and its conjugate, so providing a generalized Born interpretation of amplitudes that emphasizes their more fundamental status. The ordinary product of the amplitude and its conjugate produces a (generalized) spin Husimi function. The case of spin-$\half$ is treated in detail, and it is shown that phase space amplitudes on the sphere transform correctly as spinors under under rotations, despite their expression in terms of spherical harmonics. Spin amplitudes on a lattice are also found to transform as spinors. Applications are given to the phase space description of state superposition, and to the evolution in phase space of the state of a spin-$\half$ magnetic dipole in a time-dependent magnetic field.

id: 1010.3570
title: Generating random density matrices
authors: Karol Zyczkowski, Karol A. Penson, Ion Nechita, Benoit Collins
comments: 13 pages in latex with 8 figures included
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 062201 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3570
abstract: We study various methods to generate ensembles of random density matrices of a fixed size N, obtained by partial trace of pure states on composite systems. Structured ensembles of random pure states, invariant with respect to local unitary transformations are introduced. To analyze statistical properties of quantum entanglement in bi-partite systems we analyze the distribution of Schmidt coefficients of random pure states. Such a distribution is derived in the case of a superposition of k random maximally entangled states. For another ensemble, obtained by performing selective measurements in a maximally entangled basis on a multi--partite system, we show that this distribution is given by the Fuss-Catalan law and find the average entanglement entropy. A more general class of structured ensembles proposed, containing also the case of Bures, forms an extension of the standard ensemble of structureless random pure states, described asymptotically, as N \to \infty, by the Marchenko-Pastur distribution.

id: 1010.3571
title: Uncertainty Relation Revisited from Quantum Estimation Theory
authors: Yu Watanabe, Takahiro Sagawa, Masahito Ueda
comments: manuscript including 4 pages and 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3571
abstract: By invoking quantum estimation theory we formulate bounds of errors in quantum measurement for arbitrary quantum states and observables in a finite-dimensional Hilbert space. We prove that the measurement errors of two observables satisfy Heisenberg's uncertainty relation, find the attainable bound, and provide a strategy to achieve it.

id: 1010.3584
title: Entanglement and symmetry effects in the transition to the Schroedinger cat regime
authors: Ferdinando de Pasquale, Gian Luca Giorgi, Marco Zannetti
comments: 
journal: Fortschritte der Physik - Progress of Physics 57, 1111 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3584
abstract: We study two-spin entanglement and order parameter fluctuations as a function of the system size in the XY model in a transverse field and in the isotropic XXX model. Both models are characterized by the occurrence of ground state degeneracy also when systems of finite size are considered. This is always true for the XXX model, but only at the factorizing field for the XY model. We study the size dependence of symmetric states, which, in the presence of degeneracy, can be expanded as a linear combination of broken symmetry states. We show that, while the XY model looses its quantum superposition content exponentially with the size $N$, a decrease of the order of 1/N is observed when the XXX model is considered. The emergence of two qualitatively different regimes is directly related to the difference in the symmetry of the models.

id: 1010.3620
title: Spin dynamics in the XY model
authors: Rong-Chun Ge, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 9 pages, new references added, some mistakes corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3620
abstract: We study the evolution of entanglement, quantum correlation and classical correlation for the one dimensional XY model in external transverse magnetic field. The system is initialized in the full polarized state along the z axis, after annealing, different sites will become entangled. We study the three kinds of correlation for both the nearest and the next-nearest neighbor sites. We find that for large anisotropy parameter the quantum phase transition can be indicated by the dynamics of classical correlation between the nearest neighbor sites. We find that the dynamics of entanglement for both the nearest and next-nearest neighbor sites show significantly different behaviors with different values of magnetic field. We also find that the evolution of quantum correlation and classical correlation of the nearest neighbor sites are obviously different from those of the next-nearest neighbor sites.

id: 1010.3627
title: Study of the double non linear quantum resonances in diatomic molecules
authors: G.V. Lopez, J.G.T. Zanudo
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3627
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of diatomic molecule driven by a circularly polarized resonant electric field. We look for a quantum effect due to classical chaos appearing due to the overlapping of nonlinear resonances associated to the vibrational and rotational motion. We solve the Schr\"odinger equation associated with the wave function expanded in term of proper stationary states, $|n>\otimes|lm>$ (vibrational$\otimes$angular momentum states). Looking for quantum-classic correspondence, we consider the Liouville dynamics in the two dimensional phase space defined by the coherent -like state of vibrational states, and it is found some similarities when the quantum dynamics is pictured in terms of number and phase operators.

id: 1010.3652
title: Exactness of the Original Grover Search Algorithm
authors: Zijian Diao
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 82, 044301, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3652
abstract: It is well-known that when searching one out of four, the original Grover's search algorithm is exact; that is, it succeeds with certainty. It is natural to ask the inverse question: If we are not searching one out of four, is Grover's algorithm definitely not exact? In this article we give a complete answer to this question through some rationality results of trigonometric functions.

id: 1010.3654
title: Exponential Quantum Speed-ups are Generic
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Michal Horodecki
comments: 24 pages. v2 minor corrections
journal: Q. Inf. Comp. 13, 0901 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3654
abstract: A central problem in quantum computation is to understand which quantum circuits are useful for exponential speed-ups over classical computation. We address this question in the setting of query complexity and show that for almost any sufficiently long quantum circuit one can construct a black-box problem which is solved by the circuit with a constant number of quantum queries, but which requires exponentially many classical queries, even if the classical machine has the ability to postselect. We prove the result in two steps. In the first, we show that almost any element of an approximate unitary 3-design is useful to solve a certain black-box problem efficiently. The problem is based on a recent oracle construction of Aaronson and gives an exponential separation between quantum and classical bounded-error with postselection query complexities. In the second step, which may be of independent interest, we prove that linear-sized random quantum circuits give an approximate unitary 3-design. The key ingredient in the proof is a technique from quantum many-body theory to lower bound the spectral gap of local quantum Hamiltonians.

id: 1010.3695
title: Fock-state view of weak-value measurements and implementation with photons and atomic ensembles
authors: Christoph Simon, Eugene S. Polzik
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 040101(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3695
abstract: Weak measurements in combination with post-selection can give rise to a striking amplification effect (related to a large "weak value"). We show that this effect can be understood by viewing the initial state of the pointer as the ground state of a fictional harmonic oscillator, helping us to clarify the transition from the weak-value regime to conventional dark-port interferometry. We then describe how to implement fully quantum weak-value measurements combining photons and atomic ensembles.

id: 1010.3712
title: Potential contributions of noncontact atomic force microscopy for the future Casimir force measurements
authors: W. J. Kim, U. D. Schwarz
comments: The paper appeared in the Proceedings to the 12th International Conference on Noncontact Atomic Force Microscopy (NC-AFM 2009) and Casimir 2009 Satellite Workshop
journal: J.Vac.Sci.Tech.B28:c4A1,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3712
abstract: Surface electric noise, i.e., the non-uniform distribution of charges and potentials on a surface, poses a great experimental challenge in modern precision force measurements. Such a challenge is encountered in a number of different experimental circumstances. The scientists employing atomic force microscopy (AFM) have long focused their efforts to understand the surface-related noise issues via variants of AFM techniques, such as Kelvin probe force microscopy or electric force microscopy. Recently, the physicists investigating quantum vacuum fluctuation phenomena between two closely-spaced objects have also begun to collect experimental evidence indicating a presence of surface effects neglected in their previous analyses. It now appears that the two seemingly disparate science communities are encountering effects rooted in the same surface phenomena. In this report, we suggest specific experimental tasks to be performed in the near future that are crucial not only for fostering needed collaborations between the two communities, but also for providing valuable data on the surface effects in order to draw the most realistic conclusion about the actual contribution of the Casimir force (or van der Waals force) between a pair of real materials.

id: 1010.3714
title: Can quantum theory and special relativity peacefully coexist?
authors: M.P. Seevinck
comments: Invited white paper for Quantum Physics and the Nature of Reality, John Polkinghorne 80th Birthday Conference. St Anne's College, Oxford. 26-29 September 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3714
abstract: This white paper aims to identify an open problem in 'Quantum Physics and the Nature of Reality' --namely whether quantum theory and special relativity are formally compatible--, to indicate what the underlying issues are, and put forward ideas about how the problem might be addressed.

id: 1010.3731
title: Controlling the quantum stereodynamics of ultracold bimolecular reactions
authors: M. H. G. de Miranda, A. Chotia, B. Neyenhuis, D. Wang, G. Quemener, S. Ospelkaus, J. L. Bohn, J. Ye, D. S. Jin
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Phys. 7, 502 - 507 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3731
abstract: Chemical reaction rates often depend strongly on stereodynamics, namely the orientation and movement of molecules in three-dimensional space. An ultracold molecular gas, with a temperature below 1 uK, provides a highly unusual regime for chemistry, where polar molecules can easily be oriented using an external electric field and where, moreover, the motion of two colliding molecules is strictly quantized. Recently, atom-exchange reactions were observed in a trapped ultracold gas of KRb molecules. In an external electric field, these exothermic and barrierless bimolecular reactions, KRb+KRb -> K2+Rb2, occur at a rate that rises steeply with increasing dipole moment. Here we show that the quantum stereodynamics of the ultracold collisions can be exploited to suppress the bimolecular chemical reaction rate by nearly two orders of magnitude. We use an optical lattice trap to con?fine the fermionic polar molecules in a quasi-two-dimensional, pancake-like geometry, with the dipoles oriented along the tight confinement direction. With the combination of sufficiently tight confinement and Fermi statistics of the molecules, two polar molecules can approach each other only in a "side-by-side" collision, where the chemical reaction rate is suppressed by the repulsive dipole-dipole interaction. We show that the suppression of the bimolecular reaction rate requires quantum-state control of both the internal and external degrees of freedom of the molecules. The suppression of chemical reactions for polar molecules in a quasi-two-dimensional trap opens the way for investigation of a dipolar molecular quantum gas. Because of the strong, long-range character of the dipole-dipole interactions, such a gas brings fundamentally new abilities to quantum-gas-based studies of strongly correlated many-body physics, where quantum phase transitions and new states of matter can emerge.

id: 1010.3733
title: Quantum contextuality for rational vectors
authors: Adan Cabello, Jan-Ake Larsson
comments: REVTeX4-1, 1 page
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375 (2010) 99
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3733
abstract: The Kochen-Specker theorem states that noncontextual hidden variable models are inconsistent with the quantum predictions for every yes-no question on a qutrit, corresponding to every projector in three dimensions. It has been suggested [D. A. Meyer, Phys. Rev. Lett. 83, 3751 (1999)] that the inconsistency would disappear when we are restricted to projectors on unit vectors with rational components; that noncontextual hidden variables could reproduce the quantum predictions for rational vectors. Here we show that a qutrit state with rational components violates an inequality valid for noncontextual hidden-variable models [A. A. Klyachko et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 020403 (2008)] using rational projectors. This shows that the inconsistency remains even when using only rational vectors.

id: 1010.3762
title: Detecting Full N-Particle Entanglement in Arbitrarily High-Dimensional Systems with Bell-Type Inequality
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Dong-Ling Deng, Hong-Yi Su, Chunfeng Wu, C. H. Oh
comments: 6 pages
journal: Physical Review A 83, 022316 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3762
abstract: We derive a set of Bell-type inequalities for arbitrarily high-dimensional systems, based on the assumption of partial separability in the hybrid local-nonlocal hidden variable model. Partially entangled states would not violate the inequalities, and thus upon violation, these Bell-type inequalities are sufficient conditions to detect the full $N$-particle entanglement and validity of the hybrid local-nonlocal hidden variable description.

id: 1010.3784
title: Integrated photonic 3D waveguide arrays for quantum random walks on a circle
authors: Trond Linjordet
comments: 78 pages including title page, abstract, and references. 41 figures. Honours thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3784
abstract: Quantum random walks (QRWs) can be used to perform both quantum simulations and quantum algorithms. In order to exploit this potential, quantum walks on different types of graphs must be physically implemented. To this end we design, model and experimentally fabricate, using the femtosecond laser direct-write technique, a 3D tubular waveguide array within glass to implement a photonic quantum walk on a circle. The boundary conditions of a QRW on a circle naturally suggests a 3D waveguide implementation - allowing much simpler device design than what could be achieved using a 2D waveguide architecture. We show that, in some cases, three-dimensional photonic circuits can be more suited to the simulation of complex quantum phenomena.

id: 1010.3789
title: Dissipative dynamics of quantum discord under quantum chaotic environment
authors: Y. Y. Xu, W. L. Yang, M. Feng
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, and Accepted by Europhysics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3789
abstract: We investigate the dissipative dynamics of quantum discord in a decoherence model with two initially entangled qubits in addition to a quantum kicked top. The two qubits are uncoupled during the period of our study and one of them interacts with the quantum kicked top. We find that the long time behavior of quantum discord could be well described by the fidelity decay of the quantum kicked top; for short time behavior, however, the phase of the amplitude of the fidelity decay is necessary to provide more specific information about the system. We have made comparison between the quantum kicked top and multi-mode oscillator system in describing environment, and also compared the dynamics of the entanglement with that of quantum discord.

id: 1010.3813
title: Efficiency of quantum state tomography for qubits
authors: Koichi Yamagata
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3813
abstract: The efficiency of quantum state tomography is discussed from the point of view of quantum parameter estimation theory, in which the trace of the weighted covariance is to be minimized. It is shown that tomography is optimal only when a special weight is adopted.

id: 1010.3820
title: Morse Potential, Contour Integrals, and Asian Options
authors: Peng Zhang
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Pricing of Securities (q-fin.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3820
abstract: Completeness of the eigenfunctions of a quantum mechanical system is crucial for its probability interpretation. By using the method of contour integral we give properly normalized eigenfunctions for both discrete and continuum spectrum of the Morse potential, and explicitly prove the completeness relation. As an application we use our spectral decomposition formula to study the problem of the pricing of an Asian option traded in financial markets.

id: 1010.3824
title: Quantum Action Principle in Relativistic Mechanics (II)
authors: Natalia Gorobey, Alexander Lukyanenko, Inna Lukyanenko
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3824
abstract: Quantum Action Principle formulated earlier is used as a ground for a probabilistic interpretation of one-particle relativistic quantum mechanics. In this new approach the probability "flows" in the Minkowsky space being dependent on an inner time parameter which we interpret as a particle life time. The life time is determined as a function of observable parameters of the real experiment by means of an additional condition of stationarity for the quantum action.

id: 1010.3888
title: The Jones-Hore theory of radical-ion-pair reactions is not self-consistent
authors: I. K. Kominis
comments: 2 pages, published version
journal: Chem. Phys. Lett. 508, 182 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3888
abstract: It is shown that the master equation introduced by Jones & Hore and purported to describe radical-ion-pair reactions is not self-consistent.

id: 1010.3911
title: Entanglement of a Quantum Optical Elliptic Vortex
authors: Abir Bandyopadhyay, Shashi Prabhakar, Ravindra Pratap Singh
comments: Accepted in Physics Letters A. Proof corrected version. 11 pages including 2 figs
journal: Physics Letters A 375, 1926 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3911
abstract: We calculate the entanglement of a generalized elliptical vortex formed by quantized radiation field, using Wigner quasiprobability distribution function for such states. We find a critical squeezing parameter above which the entanglement is less for higher vorticity, which is counter intuitive.

id: 1010.3936
title: Constraint on teleportation over multipartite pure states
authors: Jeong San Kim, Jaewoo Joo, Soojoon Lee
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Euro. Phys. J. D 65 (2011) 593-596
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3936
abstract: We first define a quantity exhibiting the usefulness of bipartite quantum states for teleportation, called the quantum teleportation capability, and then investigate its restricted shareability in multi-party quantum systems. In this work, we verify that the quantum teleportation capability has a monogamous property in its shareability for arbitrary three-qutrit pure states by employing the monogamy inequality in terms of the negativity.

id: 1010.3959
title: Entanglement of separate nitrogen-vacancy centers coupled to a whispering-gallery mode cavity
authors: W. L. Yang, Z. Y. Xu, M. Feng, J. F. Du
comments: 8 pages and 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3959
abstract: We present a quantum electrodynamical model involving nitrogen-vacancy centers coupled to a whispering-gallery mode cavity. Two schemes are considered to create W state and Bell state, respectively. One of the schemes makes use of the Raman transition with the cavity field virtually excited; The other enables the Bell state preparation and quantum information transfer by virtue of dark state evolution and adiabatic passage, which is tolerant to ambient noise and experimental parameter fluctuations. We justify our schemes by considering the experimental feasibility and challenge using currently available technology.

id: 1010.3969
title: Parameter Independence and Outcome Independence in Dynamical Collapse Theories
authors: Travis Norsen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3969
abstract: Ghirardi, Grassi, Butterfield, and Fleming have previously argued that two distinct formulations of dynamical reduction (GRW) theories have distinct non-local properties: one (the "non-linear" formulation) violates Parameter Independence while the other (the "linear + cooking" formulation) violates Outcome Independence. The claim is then that, since theories violating Outcome Independence are compatible with relativity in a way that theories violating Parameter Independence are not, the "linear + cooking" dynamical reduction theories hold the key to reconciling quantum non-locality with relativity. I review and assess this claim, arguing that, while ultimately misleading, there is an interesting and important lesson to be extracted.

id: 1010.3975
title: Single-photon-level quantum memory at room temperature
authors: K. F. Reim, P. Michelberger, K.C. Lee, J. Nunn, N. K. Langford, I. A. Walmsley
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3975
abstract: Quantum memories capable of storing single photons are essential building blocks for quantum information processing, enabling the storage and transfer of quantum information over long distances. Devices operating at room temperature can be deployed on a large scale and integrated into existing photonic networks, but so far warm quantum memories have been susceptible to noise at the single photon level. This problem is circumvented in cold atomic ensembles, but these are bulky and technically complex. Here we demonstrate controllable, broadband and efficient storage and retrieval of weak coherent light pulses at the single-photon level in warm atomic caesium vapour using the far off-resonant Raman memory scheme. The unconditional noise floor is found to be low enough to operate the memory in the quantum regime at room temperature.

id: 1010.3995
title: An iterative approach for amplitude amplification with nonorthogonal measurements
authors: H. T. Ng, Franco Nori
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures; title changed, major revisions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3995
abstract: Using three coupled harmonic oscillators, we present an amplitude-amplification method for factorization of an integer. We generalize the method in [arXiv:1007.4338] by employing non-orthogonal measurements on the harmonic oscillator. This method can increase the probability of obtaining the factors by repeatedly using the nonlinear interactions between the oscillators and non-orthogonal measurements. However, this approach requires an exponential amount of resources for implementation. Thus, this method cannot provide a speed-up over classical algorithms unless its limitations are resolved.

id: 1010.4020
title: The Consistency of Quantum Mechanics Implies its Non-Determinism
authors: Iegor Reznikoff
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4020
abstract: In a previous paper (arXiv:1008.3661v1[quant-ph] 21 Aug 2010), we have given a purely logical proof of the Conway and Kochen Free Will theorem in QM: the freedom of the observer implies the freedom of the observed particle. Here we show that the hypothesis of the observer's freedom is not necessary: the assumption of the (informal) consistency (non contradiction) of QM implies its non-determinism relative to physical events (the freedom of observed particles).

id: 1010.4038
title: Mutual information and the structure of entanglement in quantum field theory
authors: Brian Swingle
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4038
abstract: I study the mutual information between spatial subsystems in a variety of scale invariant quantum field theories. While it is derived from the bare entanglement entropy, the mutual information offers a more refined probe of the entanglement structure of quantum field theories because it remains finite in the continuum limit. I argue that the mutual information has certain universal singularities that are a manifestation of the idea of "entanglement per scale". Moreover, I propose a method, based on an ansatz for higher dimensional twist operators, to compute the entanglement entropy, Renyi entropy, and mutual information in a general quantum field theory. The relevance of these results to the search for renormalization group monotones, to holographic duality, and to entanglement based simulation methods for many body systems are all discussed.

id: 1010.4056
title: From Cavity Electromechanics to Cavity Optomechanics
authors: C. A. Regal, K. W. Lehnert
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, ICAP proceedings submission
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 264, 012025 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4056
abstract: We present an overview of experimental work to embed high-Q mesoscopic mechanical oscillators in microwave and optical cavities. Based upon recent progress, the prospect for a broad field of "cavity quantum mechanics" is very real. These systems introduce mesoscopic mechanical oscillators as a new quantum resource and also inherently couple their motion to photons throughout the electromagnetic spectrum.

id: 1010.4121
title: EPR entanglement strategies in two-well BEC
authors: Q. Y. He, M. D. Reid, C. Gross, M. Oberthaler, P. D. Drummond
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:120405,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4121
abstract: Criteria suitable for measuring entanglement between two different potential wells in a Bose- Einstein condensation (BEC) are evaluated. We show how to generate the required entanglement, utilizing either an adiabatic two-mode or dynamic four-mode interaction strategy, with techniques that take advantage of s-wave scattering interactions to provide the nonlinear coupling. The dynamic entanglement method results in an entanglement signature with spatially separated detectors, as in the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) paradox.

id: 1010.4130
title: Energy gaps of Hamiltonians from graph Laplacians
authors: Abbas Al-Shimary, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 4+2 pages, 5 figures, including mathematical supplement, Ising model presentation clarified
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4130
abstract: The Cheeger inequalities give an upper and lower bound on the spectral gap of discrete Laplacians defined on a graph in terms of the geometric characteristics of the graph. We generalise this approach and we employ it to determine if a given discrete Hamiltonian with non-positive elements is gapped or not in the thermodynamic limit. First, we define the graph that corresponds to such a generic Hamiltonian. Then we present a suitable generalisation of the Cheeger inequalities that overcomes scaling deficiencies of the original version. By employing simple examples we illustrate how the generalised Cheeger inequalities can successfully identify gapped or gapless phases and we comment on the computational complexity of this approach.

id: 1010.4164
title: On the non-linearity of the master equation describing spin-selective radical-ion-pair reactions
authors: I. K. Kominis
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. contained in arXiv:1009.2807
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4164
abstract: We elaborate on the physical meaning of the non-linear master equation that was recently derived to account for spin-selective radical-ion-pair reactions. Based on quite general arguments, we show that such a non-linear master equation is indeed to be expected.

id: 1010.4188
title: A realist interpretation of quantum mechanics based on undecidability due to gravity
authors: Rodolfo Gambini, Luis Pedro Garcia-Pintos, Jorge Pullin
comments: 7 pages, IOPAMS style, no figures, contributed to the proceedings of DICE 2010, Castiglioncello, slightly improved version
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.306:012005,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4188
abstract: We summarize several recent developments suggesting that solving the problem of time in quantum gravity leads to a solution of the measurement problem in quantum mechanics. This approach has been informally called "the Montevideo interpretation". In particular we discuss why definitions in this approach are not "for all practical purposes" (fapp) and how the problem of outcomes is resolved.

id: 1010.4224
title: The Dynamical Nonlocality of Neutral Kaons and the Kaonic Quantum Eraser
authors: Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 10 pages, 1 figures, to be published in AIP Conference Proceedings: Advances in Quantum Theory, Vaexjoe 2010
journal: AIP Conf.Proc.1327:118-127,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4224
abstract: Testing quantum foundations for systems in high energy physics gets currently more and more attention e.g. witnessed for entangled neutral K-mesons by the approved programme of the KLOE collaboration at the accelerator facility DAPHNE (Frascati, Italy). We focus on this quantum system in high energy physics and discuss two topics, Bell inequalities and the kaonic quantum eraser, and show how the neutral kaon system differs from systems of ordinary matter and light. In detail, we show a relation of the imbalance of matter and antimatter to the violation of a Bell inequality and discuss another Bell inequality which is maximally violated for a non-maximally entangled state though neutral kaons can be considered as two state systems. We compare in general this system in high energy physics with bipartite qudits. Last but not least we review the quantum marking and eraser procedure and explain why neutral kaons offer more eraser possibilities than usual quantum systems.

id: 1010.4233
title: Reply to "Comment on 'Semiquantum-key distribution using less than four quantum states' "
authors: Xiangfu Zou, Daowen Qiu
comments: 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4233
abstract: Recently Boyer and Mor pointed out the first conclusion of Lemma 1 in our original paper is not correct, and therefore, the proof of Theorem 5 based on Lemma 1 is wrong. Furthermore, they gave a direct proof for Theorem 5 and affirmed the conclusions in our original paper. In this reply, we admit the first conclusion of Lemma 1 is not correct, but we need to point out the second conclusion of Lemma 1 is correct. Accordingly, all the proofs for Lemma 2, Lemma 3, and Theorems 3--6 are only based on the the second conclusion of Lemma 1 and therefore are correct.

id: 1010.4235
title: Finite temperature Casimir effect in the presence of nonlinear dielectrics
authors: Fardin Kheirandish, Ehsan Amooghorban, Morteza Soltani
comments: 16 pages, 0 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032507 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4235
abstract: Starting from a Lagrangian, electromagnetic field in the presence of a nonlinear dielectric medium is quantized using path-integral techniques and correlation functions of different fields are calculated. The susceptibilities of the nonlinear medium are obtained and their relation to coupling functions are determined. Finally, the Casimir energy and force in the presence of a nonlinear medium at finite temperature is calculated.

id: 1010.4244
title: Less than perfect quantum wavefunctions in momentum-space: How phi(p) senses disturbances in the force
authors: M. Belloni, R. W. Robinett
comments: 22 pages, 2 figures. To appear in Am. J. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4244
abstract: We develop a systematic approach to determine the large |p| behavior of the momentum-space wavefunction, phi(p), of a one-dimensional quantum system for wich the position-space wavefunction, psi(x), has a discontinuous derivative at any order. We find that if the k-th derivative of the potential energy function has a discontinuity, there is a corresponding discontinuity in psi^{(k+2)}(x) at the same point. This discontinuity leads directly to a power-law tail in the momentum-space wavefunction proportional to 1/p^{k+3}. A number of familiar pedagogical examples are examined in this context, leading to a general derivation of the result.

id: 1010.4325
title: Phase directed excitonic transport and its limitations due to environmental influence
authors: Alexander Eisfeld
comments: 
journal: Chem. Phys. 379, 33 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4325
abstract: We investigate theoretically the transfer of excitation along a one dimensional chain of monomers for a situation in which initially the excitation is shared coherently by two monomers. We show that depending on the relative phase between the two monomers strong directionality of the energy transfer is possible. It is also investigated how dephasing, induced by an environment, influences this directed transport.

id: 1010.4350
title: Quantum computation over the butterfly network
authors: Akihito Soeda, Yoshiyuki Kinjo, Peter S. Turner, Mio Murao
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures, the second version has been significantly expanded, and author ordering changed and the third version is a minor revision of the previous version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012333 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4350
abstract: In order to investigate distributed quantum computation under restricted network resources, we introduce a quantum computation task over the butterfly network where both quantum and classical communications are limited. We consider deterministically performing a two-qubit global unitary operation on two unknown inputs given at different nodes, with outputs at two distinct nodes. By using a particular resource setting introduced by M. Hayashi [Phys. Rev. A \textbf{76}, 040301(R) (2007)], which is capable of performing a swap operation by adding two maximally entangled qubits (ebits) between the two input nodes, we show that unitary operations can be performed without adding any entanglement resource, if and only if the unitary operations are locally unitary equivalent to controlled unitary operations. Our protocol is optimal in the sense that the unitary operations cannot be implemented if we relax the specifications of any of the channels. We also construct protocols for performing controlled traceless unitary operations with a 1-ebit resource and for performing global Clifford operations with a 2-ebit resource.

id: 1010.4353
title: Parity proofs of the Bell-Kochen-Specker theorem based on the 600-cell
authors: Mordecai Waegell, P.K. Aravind, Norman D. Megill, Mladen Pavicic
comments: 19 pages, 11 tables, 3 figures. Email address of first author has been corrected. Ref.[5] has been corrected, as has an error in Fig.3. Formatting error in Sec.4 has been corrected and the placement of tables and figures has been improved. A new paragraph has been added to Sec.4 and another new paragraph to the end of the Appendix
journal: Foundations of Physics 41 (2011), 883-904
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4353
abstract: The set of 60 real rays in four dimensions derived from the vertices of a 600-cell is shown to possess numerous subsets of rays and bases that provide basis-critical parity proofs of the Bell-Kochen-Specker (BKS) theorem (a basis-critical proof is one that fails if even a single basis is deleted from it). The proofs vary considerably in size, with the smallest having 26 rays and 13 bases and the largest 60 rays and 41 bases. There are at least 90 basic types of proofs, with each coming in a number of geometrically distinct varieties. The replicas of all the proofs under the symmetries of the 600-cell yield a total of almost a hundred million parity proofs of the BKS theorem. The proofs are all very transparent and take no more than simple counting to verify. A few of the proofs are exhibited, both in tabular form as well as in the form of MMP hypergraphs that assist in their visualization. A survey of the proofs is given, simple procedures for generating some of them are described and their applications are discussed. It is shown that all four-dimensional parity proofs of the BKS theorem can be turned into experimental disproofs of noncontextuality.

id: 1010.4369
title: Direct and Indirect Couplings in Coherent Feedback Control of Linear Quantum Systems
authors: Guofeng Zhang, Matthew R. James
comments: 33 pages, 7 figures; accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, October 2010
journal: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control,56(7): 1535-1550, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4369
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to study and design direct and indirect couplings for use in coherent feedback control of a class of linear quantum stochastic systems. A general physical model for a nominal linear quantum system coupled directly and indirectly to external systems is presented. Fundamental properties of stability, dissipation, passivity, and gain for this class of linear quantum models are presented and characterized using complex Lyapunov equations and linear matrix inequalities (LMIs). Coherent $H^\infty$ and LQG synthesis methods are extended to accommodate direct couplings using multistep optimization. Examples are given to illustrate the results.

id: 1010.4402
title: Initial correlations in open system's dynamics: The Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: A. Smirne, H.-P. Breuer, J. Piilo, B. Vacchini
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062114 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4402
abstract: Employing the trace distance as a measure for the distinguishability of quantum states, we study the influence of initial correlations on the dynamics of open systems. We concentrate on the Jaynes-Cummings model for which the knowledge of the exact joint dynamics of system and reservoir allows the treatment of initial states with arbitrary correlations. As a measure for the correlations in the initial state we consider the trace distance between the system-environment state and the product of its marginal states. In particular, we examine the correlations contained in the thermal equilibrium state for the total system, analyze their dependence on the temperature and on the coupling strength, and demonstrate their connection to the entanglement properties of the eigenstates of the Hamiltonian. A detailed study of the time dependence of the distinguishability of the open system states evolving from the thermal equilibrium state and its corresponding uncorrelated product state shows that the open system dynamically uncovers typical features of the initial correlations.

id: 1010.4412
title: The Locality Problem in Quantum Measurements
authors: D.A. Slavnov
comments: Latex, 40 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4412
abstract: The locality problem of quantum measurements is considered in the framework of the algebraic approach. It is shown that contrary to the currently widespread opinion one can reconcile the mathematical formalism of the quantum theory with the assumption of the existence of a local physical reality determining the results of local measurements. The key quantum experiments: double-slit experiment on electron scattering, Wheeler's delayed-choice experiment, the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox, and quantum teleportation are discussed from the locality-problem point of view. A clear physical interpretation for these experiments, which does not contradict the classical ideas, is given.

id: 1010.4416
title: Counting statistics of collective photon transmissions
authors: Malte Vogl, Gernot Schaller, Tobias Brandes
comments: extended results, 9 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals of Physics 326, 2827 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4416
abstract: We theoretically study cooperative effects in the steady-state transmission of photons through a medium of $N$ radiators. Using methods from quantum transport, we find a cross-over in scaling from $N$ to $N^2$ in the current and even higher powers of $N$ in the higher cumulants of the photon counting statistics as a function of the tunable source occupation. The effect should be observable for atoms confined within a nano-cell with a pumped optical cavity as photon source.

id: 1010.4458
title: Variable time amplitude amplification and a faster quantum algorithm for solving systems of linear equations
authors: Andris Ambainis
comments: 17 pages, no figures, v2: various small corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4458
abstract: We present two new quantum algorithms. Our first algorithm is a generalization of amplitude amplification to the case when parts of the quantum algorithm that is being amplified stop at different times. Our second algorithm uses the first algorithm to improve the running time of Harrow et al. algorithm for solving systems of linear equations from O(kappa^2 log N) to O(kappa log^3 kappa log N) where \kappa is the condition number of the system of equations.

id: 1010.4553
title: Van der Waals torque induced by external magnetic fields
authors: R. Esquivel-Sirvent, G. H. Cocoletzi, M. Palomono-Ovando
comments: to appear in Journal of Applied Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4553
abstract: We present a method for inducing and controlling van der Waals torques between two parallel slabs using a constant magnetic field. The torque is calculated using the Barash theory of dispersive torques. In III-IV semiconductors such as $InSb$, the effect of an external magnetic field is to induce an optical anisotropy, in an otherwise isotropic material, that will in turn induce a torque. The calculations of the torque are done in the Voigt configuration, with the magnetic field parallel to the surface of the slabs. As a case study we consider a slab made of calcite and a second slab made of $InSb$. In the absence of magnetic field there is no torque. As the magnetic field increases, the optical anisotropy of $InSb$ increases and the torque becomes different from zero, increasing with the magnetic field. The resulting torque is of the same order of magnitude as that calculated using permanent anisotropic materials when the magnetic fields is close to 1 T.

id: 1010.4557
title: Wave packet evolution in non-Hermitian quantum systems
authors: Eva-Maria Graefe, Roman Schubert
comments: Example added, references updated, 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 060101(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4557
abstract: The quantum evolution of the Wigner function for Gaussian wave packets generated by a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian is investigated. In the semiclassical limit $\hbar\to 0$ this yields the non-Hermitian analog of the Ehrenfest theorem for the dynamics of observable expectation values. The lack of Hermiticity reveals the importance of the complex structure on the classical phase space: The resulting equations of motion are coupled to an equation of motion for the phase space metric---a phenomenon having no analog in Hermitian theories.

id: 1010.4572
title: Time-asymmetry and causal structure
authors: Bob Coecke, Raymond Lal
comments: This paper has been withdrawn, as it's results are comprised in a more compelling manner in arXiv:1108.1988 [gr-qc]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4572
abstract: We consider devices with two inputs and two outputs, Alice and Bob each having access to one input and one output. To such a device we associate time-reverses by exchanging the roles of the inputs and the outputs. We find that there are devices which admit a local hidden variable representation, but for which time-reverses enable perfect signaling between Alice and Bob. That is, a `perfect channel in one time direction' becomes a `non-channel in the other direction'. Also, for PR boxes time-reverses enable signaling between Alice and Bob, but never as a perfect channel. These results undermine the representation of causal structures as partial orders or similar `time-symmetric structures', as is often assumed in search of a theory of quantum gravity. They also provide new insights into the structure of the polytope of generalized probabilistic correlations, and contribute to the growing area of research into quantum information processing in relativistic spacetimes.

id: 1010.4575
title: Experimental Extraction of Secure Correlations from a Noisy Private State
authors: Krzysztof Dobek, Michal Karpinski, Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, Konrad Banaszek, Pawel Horodecki
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 030501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4575
abstract: We report experimental generation of a noisy entangled four-photon state that exhibits a separation between the secure key contents and distillable entanglement, a hallmark feature of the recently established quantum theory of private states. The privacy analysis, based on the full tomographic reconstruction of the prepared state, is utilized in a proof-of-principle key generation. The inferiority of distillation-based strategies to extract the key is exposed by an implementation of an entanglement distillation protocol for the produced state.

id: 1010.4576
title: Information propagation for interacting particle systems
authors: Norbert Schuch, Sarah K. Harrison, Tobias J. Osborne, Jens Eisert
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032309 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4576
abstract: We show that excitations of interacting quantum particles in lattice models always propagate with a finite speed of sound. Our argument is simple yet general and shows that by focusing on the physically relevant observables one can generally expect a bounded speed of information propagation. The argument applies equally to quantum spins, bosons such as in the Bose-Hubbard model, fermions, anyons, and general mixtures thereof, on arbitrary lattices of any dimension. It also pertains to dissipative dynamics on the lattice, and generalizes to the continuum for quantum fields. Our result can be seen as a meaningful analogue of the Lieb-Robinson bound for strongly correlated models.

id: 1010.4587
title: Loophole-free Bell test for continuous variables via wave and particle correlations
authors: Se-Wan Ji, Jaewan Kim, Hai-Woong Lee, M. S. Zubairy, Hyunchul Nha
comments: 4 pages, published version
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:170404,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4587
abstract: We derive two classes of multi-mode Bell inequalities under local realistic assumptions, which are violated only by the entangled states negative under partial transposition in accordance with the Peres conjecture. Remarkably, the failure of local realism can be manifested by exploiting wave and particle correlations of readily accessible continuous-variable states, with very large violation of inequalities insensitive to detector-efficiency, which makes a strong case for a loophole-free test.

id: 1010.4590
title: Equivalence of O(3) nonlinear sigma model and the CP1 model: A path integral approach
authors: Ran Cheng, Qian Niu
comments: 2 pages, supplementary notes to our recent work on the non-Abelian Berry curvature in antiferromagnets
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4590
abstract: A rigorous proof is given on the equivalence of the O(3) nonlinear sigma model and the CP1 model via path integral approach.

id: 1010.4599
title: Comparing globalness of bipartite unitary operations: delocalization power, entanglement cost, and entangling power
authors: Akihito Soeda, Mio Murao
comments: presentation improved & definitions of new concepts clarified, 16 pages
journal: Math. Struct. in Comp. Science (2013), vol. 23, pp. 454-470
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4599
abstract: We compare three different characterizations of the globalness of bipartite unitary operations, namely, delocalization power, entanglement cost, and entangling power, to investigate global properties of unitary operations. We show that the globalness of the same unitary operation depends on whether input states are given by unknown states representing pieces of quantum information, or a set of known states for the characterization. We extend our analysis on the delocalization power in two ways. First, we show that the delocalization power differs whether the global operation is applied on one piece or two pieces of quantum information. Second, by introducing a new task called LOCC one-piece relocation, we prove that the controlled-unitary operations do not have the delocalization power strong enough to relocate one of two pieces of quantum information by adding LOCC.

id: 1010.4608
title: Are quantum walks the saviour of optical quantum computing?
authors: Peter P. Rohde
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4608
abstract: Quantum walks have emerged as an interesting candidate for the implementation of quantum information processing protocols. Optical implementations of quantum walks have been demonstrated by various groups and some have received high-profile coverage. It is often claimed that quantum walks provide an avenue towards universal quantum computation. In this comment I wish to dispel some misconceptions surrounding the prospects of quantum walks as a route towards universal optical quantum computation.

id: 1010.4661
title: Efficient excitation of a two level atom by a single photon in a propagating mode
authors: Yimin Wang, Ji?¨ª Min¨¢?, Lana Sheridan, Valerio Scarani
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 063842 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4661
abstract: State mapping between atoms and photons, and photon-photon interactions play an important role in scalable quantum information processing. We consider the interaction of a two-level atom with a quantized \textit{propagating} pulse in free space and study the probability $P_e(t)$ of finding the atom in the excited state at any time $t$. This probability is expected to depend on (i) the quantum state of the pulse field and (ii) the overlap between the pulse and the dipole pattern of the atomic spontaneous emission. We show that the second effect is captured by a single parameter $\Lambda\in[0,8\pi/3]$, obtained by weighting the dipole pattern with the numerical aperture. Then $P_e(t)$ can be obtained by solving time-dependent Heisenberg-Langevin equations. We provide detailed solutions for both single photon Fock state and coherent states and for various temporal shapes of the pulses.

id: 1010.4662
title: The extension problem for partial Boolean structures in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Costantino Budroni, Giovanni Morchio
comments: A number of misprints have been corrected and some terminology changed in order to avoid possible ambiguities
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 122205 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4662
abstract: Alternative partial Boolean structures, implicit in the discussion of classical representability of sets of quantum mechanical predictions, are characterized, with definite general conclusions on the equivalence of the approaches going back to Bell and Kochen-Specker. An algebraic approach is presented, allowing for a discussion of partial classical extension, amounting to reduction of the number of contexts, classical representability arising as a special case. As a result, known techniques are generalized and some of the associated computational difficulties overcome. The implications on the discussion of Boole-Bell inequalities are indicated.

id: 1010.4666
title: Quantum Game of Life
authors: D. Bleh, T. Calarco, S. Montangero
comments: 
journal: EPL, 97 (2012) 20012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4666
abstract: We introduce a quantum version of the Game of Life and we use it to study the emergence of complexity in a quantum world. We show that the quantum evolution displays signatures of complex behaviour similar to the classical one, however a regime exists, where the quantum Game of Life creates more complexity, in terms of diversity, with respect to the corresponding classical reversible one.

id: 1010.4684
title: Dynamics of a qubit coupled to a dissipative nonlinear quantum oscillator: an effective bath approach
authors: Carmen Vierheilig, Dario Bercioux, Milena Grifoni
comments: 11 pagws, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4684
abstract: We consider a qubit coupled to a nonlinear quantum oscillator, the latter coupled to an Ohmic bath, and investigate the qubit dynamics. This composed system can be mapped onto that of a qubit coupled to an effective bath. An approximate mapping procedure to determine the spectral density of the effective bath is given. Specifically, within a linear response approximation the effective spectral density is given by the knowledge of the linear susceptibility of the nonlinear quantum oscillator. To determine the actual form of the susceptibility, we consider its periodically driven counterpart, the problem of the quantum Duffing oscillator within linear response theory in the driving amplitude. Knowing the effective spectral density, the qubit dynamics is investigated. In particular, an analytic formula for the qubit's population difference is derived. Within the regime of validity of our theory, a very good agreement is found with predictions obtained from a Bloch-Redfield master equation approach applied to the composite qubit-nonlinear oscillator system.

id: 1010.4705
title: Spatial search using the discrete time quantum walk
authors: Neil B. Lovett, Matthew Everitt, Matthew Trevers, Daniel Mosby, Dan Stockton, Viv Kendon
comments: 23 pages, 19 figures. Proceedings of Physics and Computation 2009, Ponta Delgada, Azores, 2009
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4705
abstract: We study the quantum walk search algorithm of Shenvi, Kempe and Whaley [PRA 67 052307 (2003)] on data structures of one to two spatial dimensions, on which the algorithm is thought to be less efficient than in three or more spatial dimensions. Our aim is to understand why the quantum algorithm is dimension dependent whereas the best classical algorithm is not, and to show in more detail how the efficiency of the quantum algorithm varies with spatial dimension or accessibility of the data. Our numerical results agree with the expected scaling in 2D of $O(\sqrt{N \log N})$, and show how the prefactors display significant dependence on both the degree and symmetry of the graph. Specifically, we see, as expected, the prefactor of the time complexity dropping as the degree (connectivity) of the structure is increased.

id: 1010.4718
title: Universal Markovian reduction of Brownian particle dynamics
authors: Rocco Martinazzo, Bassano Vacchini, Keith H. Hughes, Irene Burghardt
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 134, 011101 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4718
abstract: Non-Markovian processes can often be turned Markovian by enlarging the set of variables. Here we show, by an explicit construction, how this can be done for the dynamics of a Brownian particle obeying the generalized Langevin equation. Given an arbitrary bath spectral density $J_{0}$, we introduce an orthogonal transformation of the bath variables into effective modes, leading stepwise to a semi-infinite chain with nearest-neighbor interactions. The transformation is uniquely determined by $J_{0}$ and defines a sequence $\{J_{n}\}_{n\in\mathbb{N}}$ of residual spectral densities describing the interaction of the terminal chain mode, at each step, with the remaining bath. We derive a simple, one-term recurrence relation for this sequence, and show that its limit is the quasi-Ohmic expression provided by the Rubin model of dissipation. Numerical calculations show that, irrespective of the details of $J_{0}$, convergence is fast enough to be useful in practice for an effective Markovian reduction of quantum dissipative dynamics.

id: 1010.4745
title: From Markovian semigroup to non-Markovian quantum evolution
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: 8 pages
journal: EPL, 97, 20005 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4745
abstract: We provided a class of legitimate memory kernels leading to completely positive trace preserving dynamical maps. Our construction is based on a simple normalization procedure. Interestingly, when applied to the celebrated Wigner-Weisskopf theory it gives the standard Markovian evolution governed by the local master equation.

id: 1010.4767
title: The Many-Worlds Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics is Fatally Flawed
authors: Casey Blood
comments: 8 pages. The argument is made simpler and clearer in version 2 by emphasizing linearity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4767
abstract: The linear mathematics of quantum mechanics gives many versions of reality instead of the single version we perceive, with the perceived version chosen at random according to a probability law. Because of these peculiarities, the theory requires an interpretation to be fully understood. Over 50 years ago, Everett proposed in his many-worlds interpretation that these characteristics could be accounted for if the mathematics itself, with no collapse or hidden variables, was carefully analyzed. We show this is incorrect; the linear mathematics cannot account for the probability law. Thus the many-worlds interpretation is not viable. Some mechanism, such as collapse or hidden variables, must be added to obtain a satisfactory understanding of the physical universe.

id: 1010.4777
title: Geometric Entanglement of Symmetric States and the Majorana Representation
authors: Martin Aulbach, Damian Markham, Mio Murao
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures; submitted to Lecture Notes in Computer Science (LNCS)
journal: Proceedings of TQC 2010, Leeds, UK, volume 6519 pp. 141-158 (LNCS, Berlin, 2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4777
abstract: Permutation-symmetric quantum states appear in a variety of physical situations, and they have been proposed for quantum information tasks. This article builds upon the results of [New J. Phys. 12, 073025 (2010)], where the maximally entangled symmetric states of up to twelve qubits were explored, and their amount of geometric entanglement determined by numeric and analytic means. For this the Majorana representation, a generalization of the Bloch sphere representation, can be employed to represent symmetric n qubit states by n points on the surface of a unit sphere. Symmetries of this point distribution simplify the determination of the entanglement, and enable the study of quantum states in novel ways. Here it is shown that the duality relationship of Platonic solids has a counterpart in the Majorana representation, and that in general maximally entangled symmetric states neither correspond to anticoherent spin states nor to spherical designs. The usability of symmetric states as resources for measurement-based quantum computing is also discussed.

id: 1010.4828
title: Normal and lateral Casimir force: Advances and prospects
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya
comments: 27 pages, 13 figures; Invited keynote lecture at the 2nd International Conference on Science of Friction, Ise-Shima, Mie, Japan, September 13-18, 2010; to appear in J. Phys.: Conf. Ser
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.258:012001,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4828
abstract: We discuss recent experimental and theoretical results on the Casimir force between real material bodies made of different materials. Special attention is paid to calculations of the normal Casimir force acting perpendicular to the surface with the help of the Lifshitz theory taking into account the role of free charge carriers. Theoretical results for the thermal Casimir force acting between metallic, dielectric and semiconductor materials are presented and compared with available experimental data. Main attention is concentrated on the possibility to control the magnitude and sign of the Casimir force for applications in nanotechnology. In this respect we consider experiments on the optical modulation of the Casimir force between metal and semiconductor test bodies with laser light. Another option is the use of ferromagnetic materials, specifically, ferromagnetic dielectrics. Under some conditions this allows to get Casimir repulsion. The lateral Casimir force acting between sinusoidally corrugated surfaces can be considered as some kind of noncontact friction caused by zero-point oscillations of the electromagnetic field. Recent experiments and computations using the exact theory have demonstrated the role of diffraction-type effects in this phenomenon and the possibility to get asymmetric force profiles. Conclusion is made that the Casimir force may play important role in the operation of different devices on the nanoscale.

id: 1010.4829
title: Distribution of the Riemann zeros represented by the Fermi gas
authors: Shigenori Tanaka
comments: 7 pages
journal: Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 80 (2011) 034001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4829
abstract: The multiparticle density matrices for degenerate, ideal Fermi gas system in any dimension are calculated. The results are expressed as a determinant form, in which a correlation kernel plays a vital role. Interestingly, the correlation structure of one-dimensional Fermi gas system is essentially equivalent to that observed for the eigenvalue distribution of random unitary matrices, and thus to that conjectured for the distribution of the non-trivial zeros of the Riemann zeta function. Implications of the present findings are discussed briefly.

id: 1010.4840
title: Categorical Quantum Circuits
authors: Ville Bergholm, Jacob D. Biamonte
comments: 25 pages, 20 figures. Published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 245304 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4840
abstract: In this paper, we extend past work done on the application of the mathematics of category theory to quantum information science. Specifically, we present a realization of a dagger-compact category that can model finite-dimensional quantum systems and explicitly allows for the interaction of systems of arbitrary, possibly unequal, dimensions. Hence our framework can handle generic tensor network states, including matrix product states. Our categorical model subsumes the traditional quantum circuit model while remaining directly and easily applicable to problems stated in the language of quantum information science. The circuit diagrams themselves now become morphisms in a category, making quantum circuits a special case of a much more general mathematical framework. We introduce the key algebraic properties of our tensor calculus diagrammatically and show how they can be applied to solve problems in the field of quantum information.

id: 1010.4870
title: On-demand control of photon echoes far exceeding the spin coherence constraint via coherence swapping between optical and spin transitions
authors: Byoung S. Ham
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4870
abstract: Using on-demand coherence conversion via optical locking in conventional stimulated (three-pulse) photon echoes, ultralong, ultraefficient photon storage has been observed in a rare-earth Pr3+ doped Y2SiO5, where storage time is several orders of magnitude longer and retrieval efficiency is enhanced by fifty times. Compared with the same method applied to two-pulse photon echoes for a rephasing halt, use of spectral grating in the stimulated photon echoes offers a phase-independent coherence conversion between optical and spin states. Eventually an ultralong spin population decay-dependent photon storage protocol is achieved by applying optical locking to a spectral grating in conventional stimulated photon echoes. The present breakthrough in both photon storage time and retrieval efficiency opens a door to long-distance quantum communications utilizing quantum repeaters.

id: 1010.4875
title: Environmental influences on Quantum Monty Hall problem
authors: Salman Khan, M. Ramzan, M. K. Khan
comments: The paper has been withdrawn to some error in the calculations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4875
abstract: We reformulate the quantum Monty Hall problem in the presence of decoherence. The decoherence destroys the fairness of the game. A new Nash equilibrium for a particular strategy profile in the presence of decoherence emerges. It is shown that in the presence of decoherence under the action of amplitude damping channel, Bob's winning probability is always higher than three-forth, irrespective of Alice's strategy, if he does not switch to the other door and always wins for a fully decohered case of the channel. Depolarizing channel damps up Bob's winning probability and gets better off if he sticks to his current selection. Phase damping channel leaves the winning probability unaffected. Unlike the classical and the quantum forms of the game, Bob's dominant strategy in the presence of decoherence is not switching.

id: 1010.4926
title: QOperAv, a Code Generator for Generating Quantum Circuits for Evaluating Certain Quantum Operator Averages
authors: Robert R. Tucci
comments: 5 pages, 5 files(1 .tex, 1 .sty, 1 .pdf, 1 .txt, 1 .xxx)Source code in QOperAv1-5.txt
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4926
abstract: This paper introduces QOperAv v1.5, a Java application available for free. (Source code included in the distribution.) QOperAv is a "code generator" for generating quantum circuits. The quantum circuits generated by QOperAv can be used to evaluate with polynomial efficiency the average of $f(A)$ for some simple (that is, computable with polynomial efficiency) function $f$ and a Hermitian operator $A$, provided that we know how to compile $\exp(iA)$ with polynomial efficiency. QOperAv implements an algorithm described in earlier papers, that combines various standard techniques such as quantum phase estimation and quantum multiplexors.

id: 1010.4935
title: Correlation and Entanglement of Multipartite States
authors: Y. B. Band, I. Osherov
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4935
abstract: We derive a classification and a measure of classical- and quantum-correlation of multipartite qubit, qutrit, and in general, $n$-level systems, in terms of SU$(n)$ representations of density matrices. We compare the measure for the case of bipartite correlation with concurrence and the entropy of entanglement. The characterization of correlation is in terms of the number of nonzero singular values of the correlation matrix, but that of mixed state entanglement requires additional invariant parameters in the density matrix. For the bipartite qubit case, the condition for mixed state entanglement is written explicitly in terms of the invariant paramters in the density matrix. For identical particle systems we analyze the effects of exchange symmetry on classical and quantum correlation.

id: 1010.4969
title: Measurable bounds for Entanglement of Formation
authors: Ming Li, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82 (2010) 044303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4969
abstract: We study the entanglement of formation for arbitrary dimensional bipartite mixed unknown states. Experimentally measurable lower and upper bounds for entanglement of formation are derived.

id: 1010.4983
title: Sequential Strong Measurements and Heat Vision
authors: Miguel Navascues, David Perez-Garcia
comments: See the Appendix for weird examples of heat vision
journal: New Journal of Physics 13, 113038 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4983
abstract: We study scenarios where a finite set of non-demolition von-Neumann measurements are available. We note that, in some situations, repeated application of such measurements allows estimating an infinite number of parameters of the initial quantum state, and illustrate the point with a physical example. We then move on to study how the system under observation is perturbed after several rounds of projective measurements. While in the finite dimensional case the effect of this perturbation always saturates, there are some instances of infinite dimensional systems where such a perturbation is accumulative, and the act of retrieving information about the system increases its energy indefinitely (i.e., we have `Heat Vision'). We analyze this effect and discuss a specific physical system with two dichotomic von-Neumann measurements where Heat Vision is expected to show.

id: 1010.5022
title: Layered architecture for quantum computing
authors: N. Cody Jones, Rodney Van Meter, Austin G. Fowler, Peter L. McMahon, Jungsang Kim, Thaddeus D. Ladd, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 27 pages, 20 figures
journal: Physical Review X 2, 031007 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5022
abstract: We develop a layered quantum computer architecture, which is a systematic framework for tackling the individual challenges of developing a quantum computer while constructing a cohesive device design. We discuss many of the prominent techniques for implementing circuit-model quantum computing and introduce several new methods, with an emphasis on employing surface code quantum error correction. In doing so, we propose a new quantum computer architecture based on optical control of quantum dots. The timescales of physical hardware operations and logical, error-corrected quantum gates differ by several orders of magnitude. By dividing functionality into layers, we can design and analyze subsystems independently, demonstrating the value of our layered architectural approach. Using this concrete hardware platform, we provide resource analysis for executing fault-tolerant quantum algorithms for integer factoring and quantum simulation, finding that the quantum dot architecture we study could solve such problems on the timescale of days.

id: 1010.5025
title: The Accuracy of Perturbative Master Equations
authors: Chris H. Fleming, Nick I. Cummings
comments: 6 pages, 0 figures; v2 updated references; v3 updated references, extension to full-time and nonlocal regimes
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 031117 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5025
abstract: We consider open quantum systems with dynamics described by master equations that have perturbative expansions in the system-environment interaction. We show that, contrary to intuition, full-time solutions of order-2n accuracy require an order-(2n+2) master equation. We give two examples of such inaccuracies in the solutions to an order-2n master equation: order-2n inaccuracies in the steady state of the system and order-2n positivity violations, and we show how these arise in a specific example for which exact solutions are available. This result has a wide-ranging impact on the validity of coupling (or friction) sensitive results derived from second-order convolutionless, Nakajima-Zwanzig, Redfield, and Born-Markov master equations.

id: 1010.5047
title: Van der Waals interaction between an atom with spherical plasma shell
authors: Nail R. Khusnutdinov
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 115454 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5047
abstract: We consider the van der Waals energy of an atom near the infinitely thin sphere with finite conductivity which model the fullerene. We put the sphere into spherical cavity inside the infinite dielectric media, then calculate the energy of vacuum fluctuations in framework of the zeta-function approach. The energy for a single atom is obtained from this expression by consideration of the rare media. In the limit of the infinite radius of the sphere the Casimir-Polder expression for an atom and plate is recovered. For finite radius of sphere the energy of an atom monotonously falls down as $d^{-3}$ close to the sphere and $d^{-7}$ far from the sphere. For hydrogen atom on the surface of the fullerene $C_{60}$ we obtain that the energy is $3.8 eV$. We obtain also that the polarizability of fullerene is merely cube of its radius.

id: 1010.5049
title: Determinism and Quantum Mechanics with time Bell inequalities
authors: Ramon Lapiedra, A. Perez
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5049
abstract: We propose a definition of determinism for a physical system that includes, besides the measurement device, the surrounding environment. This enlarged system is assumed to follow a predefined trajectory starting from some (unknown) initial conditions that play the role of hidden variables for the experiment. These assumptions, which are different from realism, allow us to derive a type of time Bell inequalities, which are violated by Quantum Mechanics. In order to illustrate this violation, we discuss the particular case of measurements on a spin 1/2 particle.

id: 1010.5062
title: Reduction of quantum noise in optical interferometers using squeezed light
authors: Michael Weyrauch, Volodymyr G. Voronov
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5062
abstract: We study the photon counting noise in optical interferometers used for gravitational wave detection. In order to reduce quantum noise a squeezed vacuum state is injected into the usually unused input port. Here, we specifically investigate the so called `dark port case', when the beam splitter is oriented close to 90{\deg} to the incoming laser beam, such that nearly all photons go to one output port of the interferometer, and only a small fraction of photons is seen in the other port (`dark port'). For this case it had been suggested that signal amplification is possible without concurrent noise amplification [R.Barak and Y.Ben-Aryeh, J.Opt.Soc.Am.B25(361)2008]. We show that by injection of a squeezed vacuum state into the second input port, counting noise is reduced for large values of the squeezing factor, however the signal is not amplified. Signal strength only depends on the intensity of the laser beam.

id: 1010.5064
title: Device-independent tests of classical and quantum dimensions
authors: Rodrigo Gallego, Nicolas Brunner, Christopher Hadley, Antonio Acin
comments: To appear in PRL
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:230501,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5064
abstract: We address the problem of testing the dimensionality of classical and quantum systems in a `black-box' scenario. We develop a general formalism for tackling this problem. This allows us to derive lower bounds on the classical dimension necessary to reproduce given measurement data. Furthermore, we generalise the concept of quantum dimension witnesses to arbitrary quantum systems, allowing one to place a lower bound on the Hilbert space dimension necessary to reproduce certain data. Illustrating these ideas, we provide simple examples of classical and quantum dimension witnesses.

id: 1010.5065
title: The classicality and quantumness of a quantum ensemble
authors: Xuanmin Zhu, Shengshi Pang, Shengjun Wu, Quanhui Liu
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physics Letters A 375 (2011) 1855-1859
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5065
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the classicality and quantumness of a quantum ensemble. We define a quantity called classicality to characterize how classical a quantum ensemble is. An ensemble of commuting states that can be manipulated classically has a unit classicality, while a general ensemble has a classicality less than 1. We also study how quantum an ensemble is by defining a related quantity called quantumness. We find that the classicality of an ensemble is closely related to how perfectly the ensemble can be cloned, and that the quantumness of an ensemble is essentially responsible for the security of quantum key distribution(QKD) protocols using that ensemble. Furthermore, we show that the quantumness of an ensemble used in a QKD protocol is exactly the attainable lower bound of the error rate in the sifted key.

id: 1010.5074
title: Entangled inputs cannot make imperfect quantum channels perfect
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Jens Eisert, Michal Horodecki, Dong Yang
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, an error in the argument on the quantum capacity corrected, version to be published in the Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 230502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5074
abstract: Entangled inputs can enhance the capacity of quantum channels, this being one of the consequences of the celebrated result showing the non-additivity of several quantities relevant for quantum information science. In this work, we answer the converse question (whether entangled inputs can ever render noisy quantum channels have maximum capacity) to the negative: No sophisticated entangled input of any quantum channel can ever enhance the capacity to the maximum possible value; a result that holds true for all channels both for the classical as well as the quantum capacity. This result can hence be seen as a bound as to how "non-additive quantum information can be". As a main result, we find first practical and remarkably simple computable single-shot bounds to capacities, related to entanglement measures. As examples, we discuss the qubit amplitude damping and identify the first meaningful bound for its classical capacity.

id: 1010.5075
title: Information, fidelity, and reversibility in photodetection processes
authors: Hiroaki Terashima
comments: 34 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A83 (2011) 032111
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5075
abstract: Four types of photon counters are discussed in terms of information, fidelity, and physical reversibility: conventional photon counter, quantum counter, and their quantum nondemolition (QND) versions. It is shown that when a photon field to be measured is in an arbitrary superposition of vacuum and one-photon states, the quantum counter is the most reversible, the QND version of conventional photon counter provides the most information, and the QND version of quantum counter causes the smallest state change. Our results suggest that the physical reversibility of a counter tends to decrease the amount of information obtained by the counter.

id: 1010.5080
title: Distillation by repeated measurements: continuous spectrum case
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Giuseppe Compagno, Hiromichi Nakazato, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A (Rapid Communication) 82, 060101(R) (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5080
abstract: Repeated measurements on a part of a bipartite system strongly affect the other part not measured, whose dynamics is regulated by an effective contracted evolution operator. When the spectrum of this operator is discrete, the latter system is driven into a pure state irrespective of the initial state, provided the spectrum satisfies certain conditions. We here show that even in the case of continuous spectrum an effective distillation can occur under rather general conditions. We confirm it by applying our formalism to a simple model.

id: 1010.5093
title: Partial Weyl Law for Billiards
authors: Arnd B?cker, Roland Ketzmerick, Steffen L?ck, Holger Schanz
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, derivation extended, cosine billiard added
journal: Europhys. Lett. 94, 30004 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5093
abstract: For two-dimensional quantum billiards we derive the partial Weyl law, i.e. the average density of states, for a subset of eigenstates concentrating on an invariant region $\Gamma$ of phase space. The leading term is proportional to the area of the billiard times the phase-space fraction of $\Gamma$. The boundary term is proportional to the fraction of the boundary where parallel trajectories belong to $\Gamma$. Our result is numerically confirmed for the mushroom billiard and the generic cosine billiard, where we count the number of chaotic and regular states, and for the elliptical billiard, where we consider rotating and oscillating states.

id: 1010.5099
title: Fermion- and spin-counting in strongly correlated systems in and out of thermal equilibrium
authors: Sibylle Braungardt, Mirta Rodriguez, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Roy J. Glauber, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 013601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5099
abstract: Atom counting theory can be used to study the role of thermal noise in quantum phase transitions and to monitor the dynamics of a quantum system. We illustrate this for a strongly correlated fermionic system, which is equivalent to an anisotropic quantum XY chain in a transverse field, and can be realized with cold fermionic atoms in an optical lattice. We analyze the counting statistics across the phase diagram in the presence of thermal fluctuations, and during its thermalization when the system is coupled to a heat bath. At zero temperature, the quantum phase transition is reflected in the cumulants of the counting distribution. We find that the signatures of the crossover remain visible at low temperature and are obscured with increasing thermal fluctuations. We find that the same quantities may be used to scan the dynamics during the thermalization of the system.

id: 1010.5107
title: Spin entanglement of two spin-1/2 particles in a classical gravitational field
authors: Bahram Nasr Esfahani
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 455305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5107
abstract: The effect of a classical gravitational field on the spin entanglement of a system of two spin-1/2 particles moving in the curved spacetime is discussed. The system is described by a two-particle Gaussian wave packet represented in the momentum space and both the acceleration of the system and the curvature of the spacetime cause to produce a Wigner rotation acting on the wave packet as it moves along a path in the curved spacetime. By calculating the reduced density operator at a final point, we focus on the spin entanglement of the system. In a spherically symmetric and static gravitational field, for example a charged black hole, there can be particular paths on which the Wigner rotation is trivial and so the initial reduced density matrix remains intact. This causes the spin entanglement to be invariant during the motion. The spin entanglement descends to zero by increasing the angular velocity of the mean centroid of the system as well increasing the proper time during which the centroid moves on its circular path around the center.

id: 1010.5180
title: Radial and Azimuthal Profiles of Two-Qubit/Rebit Hilbert-Schmidt Separability Probabilities and Related 3-D Visualization Analyses
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 19 pages, 12 figures. updated references 32 and 38
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5180
abstract: Firstly, we reduce the long-standing problem of ascertaining the Hilbert-Schmidt probability that a generic pair of qubits is separable to that of determining the specific nature of a one-dimensional (separability) function of the radial coordinate (r) of the unit ball in 15-dimensional Euclidean space, and similarly for a generic pair of rebits, using the 9-dimensional unit ball. Separability probabilities, could, then, be directly obtained by integrating the products of these functions (which we numerically estimate and plot) with jacobian factors of r^m over r in [0,1], with m=17 for the two-rebit case, and m=29 in the two-qubit instance. Secondly, we repeat the analyses, but for the replacement of r as the free variable, by the azimuthal angle phi \in [0,2 pi]--with the associated jacobian factors now being, trivially, unity. So, the separability probabilities, then, become simply the areas under the curves generated. For our analyses, we employ an interesting Cholesky-decomposition parameterization of the 4 x 4 density matrices. Thirdly, in an exploratory investigation, we examine the Hilbert-Schmidt separability probability question using the three-dimensional visualization (cube/tetrahedron/octahedron) of two qubits associated with Avron, Bisker and Kenneth, and Leinaas, Myrheim and Ovrum, among others.

id: 1010.5191
title: Activation of Non-Local Quantum Resources
authors: Miguel Navascues, Tamas Vertesi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 060403 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5191
abstract: We find two two-qubit states such that any number of copies of one state or the other cannot violate the CHSH Bell inequality. However, their tensor product can produce a CHSH violation of at least 2.023. We also identify a CHSH-local state such that two copies of it are CHSH-violating. The tools employed here can be easily adapted to find instances of non-locality activation in arbitrary Bell scenarios.

id: 1010.5211
title: Dynamical control of quantum state transfer within hybrid open systems
authors: B. M. Escher, G. Bensky, J. Clausen, G. Kurizki, L. Davidovich
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B 44, 154015 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5211
abstract: We analyze quantum state-transfer optimization within hybrid open systems, from a "noisy" (write-in) qubit to its "quiet" counterpart (storage qubit). Intriguing interplay is revealed between our ability to avoid bath-induced errors that profoundly depend on the bath-memory time and the limitations imposed by leakage out of the operational subspace. Counterintuitively, under no circumstances is the fastest transfer optimal (for a given transfer energy).

id: 1010.5214
title: Optimal quantum cloning of orbital angular momentum photon qubits via Hong-Ou-Mandel coalescence
authors: Eleonora Nagali, Linda Sansoni, Fabio Sciarrino, Francesco De Martini, Lorenzo Marrucci, Bruno Piccirillo, Ebrahim Karimi, Enrico Santamato
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 3, 720-723 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5214
abstract: The orbital angular momentum (OAM) of light, associated with a helical structure of the wavefunction, has a great potential for quantum photonics, as it allows attaching a higher dimensional quantum space to each photon. Hitherto, however, the use of OAM has been hindered by its difficult manipulation. Here, exploiting the recently demonstrated spin-OAM information transfer tools, we report the first observation of the Hong-Ou-Mandel coalescence of two incoming photons having nonzero OAM into the same outgoing mode of a beam-splitter. The coalescence can be switched on and off by varying the input OAM state of the photons. Such effect has been then exploited to carry out the 1 \rightarrow 2 universal optimal quantum cloning of OAM-encoded qubits, using the symmetrization technique already developed for polarization. These results are finally shown to be scalable to quantum spaces of arbitrary dimension, even combining different degrees of freedom of the photons.

id: 1010.5215
title: Optimized pulse sequences for suppressing unwanted transitions in quantum systems
authors: C.A. Schroeder, G.S. Agarwal
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5215
abstract: We investigate the nature of the pulse sequence so that unwanted transitions in quantum systems can be inhibited optimally. For this purpose we show that the sequence of pulses proposed by Uhrig [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{98}, 100504 (2007)] in the context of inhibition of environmental dephasing effects is optimal. We derive exact results for inhibiting the transitions and confirm the results numerically. We posit a very significant improvement by usage of the Uhrig sequence over an equidistant sequence in decoupling a quantum system from unwanted transitions. The physics of inhibition is the destructive interference between transition amplitudes before and after each pulse.

id: 1010.5229
title: The Dirac-Moshinsky oscillator coupled to an external field and its connection to quantum optics
authors: Juan Mauricio Torres, Emerson Sadurni, Thomas H. Seligman
comments: To appear in the Proceedings of Symposium Symmetries in Nature in memoriam Marcos Moshinsky. this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5229
abstract: The Dirac-Moshinsky oscillator is an elegant example of an exactly solvable quantum relativistic model that under certain circumstances can be mapped onto the Jaynes-Cummings model in quantum optics. In this work we show, how to do this in detail. Then we extend it by considering its coupling with an external (isospin) field and find the conditions that maintain solvability. We use this extended system to explore entanglement in relativistic systems and then identify its quantum optical analog: two different atoms interacting with an electromagnetic mode. We show different aspects of entanglement which gain relevance in this last system, which can be used to emulate the former.

id: 1010.5263
title: The quantum vacuum: an interpretation of quantum mechanics
authors: Eduardo V. Flores
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5263
abstract: We assume that particles are point-like objects even when not observed. We report on the consequences of our assumption within the realm of quantum theory. An important consequence is the necessity of vacuum fields to account for particle dynamics. The zero-point energy is evidence of the reality of vacuum fields. The dynamics of vacuum fields depends on wave equations, boundary conditions and external sources. The wavefunction is an expression of vacuum fields. Particle events are described by probabilistic distribution functions obtained from vacuum fields. We solve the measurement problem by noticing that in our model the wavefunction does not collapse.

id: 1010.5295
title: Quantum Random Walks of Waves
authors: Tian-Li Feng, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Guang-Ming Zhao, Sheng Liu, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5295
abstract: The extremely fascinating behaviors of the quantum walks of particles, which differ much from the classical counterparts, have attracted many physicists. Here we investigate another interesting part of the quantum walks, that is the quantum walks of waves. Firstly, we show the behaviors of the quantum walks of plane wave, which are largely different from the counterparts of either the classical or the quantum walks of particles. Two situations - with and without intermediate time measurements of the walks are considered. At last, it is shown that the quantum walks of plane wave can be used to calculate the evolution of the general wave packets, e.g., Gaussian wave packet.

id: 1010.5300
title: Derivation of the Rules of Quantum Mechanics from Information-Theoretic Axioms
authors: Daniel I. Fivel
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5300
abstract: Conventional quantum mechanics with a complex Hilbert space and the Born Rule is derived from five axioms describing properties of probability distributions for the outcome of measurements. Axioms I,II,III are common to quantum mechanics and hidden variable theories. Axiom IV recognizes a phenomenon, first noted by Turing and von Neumann, in which the increase in entropy resulting from a measurement is reduced by a suitable intermediate measurement. This is shown to be impossible for local hidden variable theories. Axiom IV, together with the first three, almost suffice to deduce the conventional rules but allow some exotic, alternatives such as real or quaternionic quantum mechanics. Axiom V recognizes a property of the distribution of outcomes of random measurements on qubits which holds only in the complex Hilbert space model. It is then shown that the five axioms also imply the conventional rules for all dimensions.

id: 1010.5301
title: Deterministic polarization-entanglement purification using spatial entanglement
authors: Xi-Han Li
comments: 4pages,1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 82, 044304 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5301
abstract: We present an efficient entanglement purification protocol with hyperentanglement in which additional spatial entanglement is utilized to purify the two-particle polarization-entangled state. The bit-flip error and phase-flip error can be corrected and eliminated in one step. Two remote parties can obtainmaximally entangled polarization states deterministically and only passive linear optics are employed. We also discuss the protocol with practical quantum source and noisy channel.

id: 1010.5329
title: Time-delay of classical and quantum scattering processes: a conceptual overview and a general definition
authors: Massimiliano Sassoli de Bianchi
comments: To appear in: CEJP
journal: Central European Journal of Physics, Volume 10, Number 2 (2012), 282-319
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5329
abstract: We present a step by step introduction to the notion of time-delay in classical and quantum mechanics, with the aim of clarifying its foundation at a conceptual level. In doing so, we motivate the introduction of the concepts of "fuzzy" and "free-flight" sojourn times, that we use to provide the most general possible definition for the quantum time-delay, valid for simple and multichannel scattering systems, with or without conditions on the observation of the scattering particle, and for incoming wave packets whose energy can be smeared out or sharply peaked (fixed energy). We conclude our conceptual analysis by presenting what we think is the right interpretation of the concepts of sojourn and delay times in quantum mechanics, explaining why, in ultimate analysis, they shouldn't be called "times".

id: 1010.5330
title: Spin Fidelity for Three-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger and W States Under Lorentz Transformations
authors: Bahram Nasr Esfahani, Mohsen Aghaee
comments: 12pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5330
abstract: Constructing the reduced density matrix for a system of three massive spin$-\frac{1}{2}$ particles described by a wave packet with Gaussian momentum distribution and a spin part in the form of GHZ or W state, the fidelity for the spin part of the system is investigated from the viewpoint of moving observers in the jargon of special relativity. Using a numerical approach, it turns out that by increasing the boost speed, the spin fidelity decreases and reaches to a non-zero asymptotic value that depends on the momentum distribution and the amount of momentum entanglement.

id: 1010.5342
title: Quantum Fingerprints that Keep Secrets
authors: Dmitry Gavinsky, Tsuyoshi Ito
comments: 28 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5342
abstract: We introduce a new type of cryptographic primitive that we call hiding fingerprinting. A (quantum) fingerprinting scheme translates a binary string of length $n$ to $d$ (qu)bits, typically $d\ll n$, such that given any string $y$ and a fingerprint of $x$, one can decide with high accuracy whether $x=y$. Classical fingerprinting schemes cannot hide information very well: a classical fingerprint of $x$ that guarantees error at most $\epsilon$ necessarily reveals $\Omega(\log(1/\ epsilon))$ bits about $x$. We call a scheme hiding if it reveals $o(\log(1/\epsilon))$ bits; accordingly, no classical scheme is hiding. For any constant $c$, we construct two kinds of hiding fingerprinting schemes, both mapping $n$-bit strings to $O(\log n)$ qubits and guaranteeing one-sided error probability at most $1/n^c$. The first kind uses pure states and leaks at most $O(1)$ bits, and the second kind uses mixed states and leaks at most $1/n^c$ bits, where the "leakage" is bounded via accessible information. The schemes are computationally efficient. Our mixed-state scheme is optimal, as shown via a generic strategy that extracts $1/\poly(n)$ bits from any fingerprint over $O(\log n)$ qubits.

id: 1010.5358
title: A note on "Loophole-free Bell test for continuous variables via wave and particle correlations (Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 170404 (2010))"
authors: D. Cavalcanti, V. Scarani
comments: 1 page
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 208901 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5358
abstract: The inequalities proposed in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 170404 (2010)] are not Bell's inequalities in the usual sense: there are local classical models that violate these inequalities. Thus, their violation demonstrates nonlocality only under assumptions about the physical implementation and moreover they cannot be used as a device-independent test of nonlocality.

id: 1010.5395
title: Open Quantum Systems in Noninertial Frames
authors: Salman Khan, M. K. Khan
comments: 11 pages, 6 eps figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 045305, (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5395
abstract: We study the effects of decoherence on the entanglement generated by Unruh effect in noninertial frames by using bit flip, phase damping and depolarizing channels. It is shown that decoherence strongly influences the initial state entanglement. The entanglement sudden death can happens irrespective of the acceleration of the noninertial frame under the action of phase flip and phase damping channels. It is investigated that an early sudden death happens for large acceleration under the depolarizing environment. Moreover, the entanglement increases for a highly decohered phase flip channel.

id: 1010.5425
title: How specific exponential type orbitals recently became a viable basis set choice in NMR shielding tensor calculation
authors: Philip E. Hoggan
comments: 24p 1 figure 4 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5425
abstract: This paper advocates use of the atomic orbitals which have direct physical interpretation, i.e. Coulomb Sturmians and hydrogen-like orbitals. They are exponential type orbitals (ETOs). Their radial nodes are shown to be essential in obtaining accurate nuclear shielding tensors for NMR work. The present work builds on a 2003 French PhD and many numerical results were published by 2007. The improvements in this paper are noteworthy, the key being the actual basis function choice. Until 2008, their products on different atoms were difficult to manipulate for the evaluation of two-electron integrals. Coulomb resolutions provide an excellent approximation that reduces these integrals to a sum of one-electron overlap-like integral products that each involve orbitals on at most two centers. Such two-center integrals are separable in prolate spheroidal co-ordinates. They are thus readily evaluated. Only these integrals need to be re-evaluated to change basis functions. In this paper, a review of the translation procedures for Slater type orbitals (STO) and for Coulomb Sturmians follows that of the more recent application to ETOs of a particularly convenient Coulomb resolution.

id: 1010.5447
title: Approaches for a quantum memory at telecommunication wavelengths
authors: Bj?rn Lauritzen, Ji?¨ª Min¨¢?, Hugues de Riedmatten, Mikael Afzelius, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012318 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5447
abstract: We report experimental storage and retrieval of weak coherent states of light at telecommunication wavelengths using erbium ions doped into a solid. We use two photon echo based quantum storage protocols. The first one is based on controlled reversible inhomogeneous broadening (CRIB). It allows the retrieval of the light on demand by controlling the collective atomic coherence with an external electric field, via the linear Stark effect. We study how atoms in the excited state affect the signal to noise ratio of the CRIB memory. Additionally we show how CRIB can be used to modify the temporal width of the retrieved light pulse. The second protocol is based on atomic frequency combs (AFC). Using this protocol we also verify that the reversible mapping is phase preserving by performing an interference experiment with a local oscillator. These measurements are enabling steps towards solid state quantum memories at telecommunication wavelengths. We also give an outlook on possible improvements.

id: 1010.5452
title: Non-contextuality and free will in modal quantum theory
authors: Benjamin Schumacher, Michael D. Westmoreland
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5452
abstract: Modal quantum theory (MQT) is a simplified cousin of ordinary Hilbert space quantum theory. We show that two important theorems of actual quantum theory, the Kochen-Specker theorem excluding non-contextual hidden variables and the Conway-Kochen "free will theorem" about entangled systems, have direct analogues in MQT. The proofs of these analogue theorems are similar to, but much simpler than, the originals. We also show that the structure of possible measurement results for an entangled system in MQT cannot be represented by probability assignments satisfying the no-signaling principle, such as those given by ordinary quantum theory.

id: 1010.5506
title: Dualities and Identities for Entanglement-Assisted Quantum Codes
authors: Ching-Yi Lai, Todd A. Brun, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 24 pages, 3 figures, to be published in Quantum Information Processing. A new section about EA hashing bound is included in the new version
journal: Quantum Information Processing, vol. 13, no. 4, pages 957-990 (April 2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5506
abstract: The dual of an entanglement-assisted quantum error-correcting (EAQEC) code is the code resulting from exchanging the original code's information qubits with its ebits. To introduce this notion, we show how entanglement-assisted (EA) repetition codes and accumulator codes are dual to each other, much like their classical counterparts, and we give an explicit, general quantum shift-register circuit that encodes both classes of codes.We later show that our constructions are optimal, and this result completes our understanding of these dual classes of codes. We also establish the Gilbert-Varshamov bound and the Plotkin bound for EAQEC codes, and we use these to examine the existence of some EAQEC codes. Finally, we provide upper bounds on the block error probability when transmitting maximal-entanglement EAQEC codes over the depolarizing channel, and we derive variations of the hashing bound for EAQEC codes, which is a lower bound on the maximum rate at which reliable communication over Pauli channels is possible with the use of pre-shared entanglement.

id: 1010.5521
title: The quantum Arnold transformation
authors: Victor Aldaya, Francisco Cossio, Julio Guerrero, Francisco F. Lopez-Ruiz
comments: 19 pages, minor changes, references updated
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 065302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5521
abstract: By a quantum version of the Arnold transformation of classical mechanics, all quantum dynamical systems whose classical equations of motion are non-homogeneous linear second-order ordinary differential equations, including systems with friction linear in velocity, can be related to the quantum free-particle dynamical system. This transformation provides a basic (Heisenberg-Weyl) algebra of quantum operators, along with well-defined Hermitian operators which can be chosen as evolution-like observables and complete the entire Schr\"odinger algebra. It also proves to be very helpful in performing certain computations quickly, to obtain, for example, wave functions and closed analytic expressions for time-evolution operators.

id: 1010.5525
title: Harmonic states for the free particle
authors: Julio Guerrero, Francisco F. L¨®pez-Ruiz, Victor Aldaya, Francisco Cossio
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures. Title changed, content added, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5525
abstract: Different families of states, which are solutions of the time-dependent free Schr\"odinger equation, are imported from the harmonic oscillator using the Quantum Arnold Transformation introduced in a previous paper. Among them, infinite series of states are given that are normalizable, expand the whole space of solutions, are spatially multi-localized and are eigenstates of a suitably defined number operator. Associated with these states new sets of coherent and squeezed states for the free particle are defined representing traveling, squeezed, multi-localized wave packets. These states are also constructed in higher dimensions, leading to the quantum mechanical version of the Hermite-Gauss and Laguerre-Gauss states of paraxial wave optics. Some applications of these new families of states and procedures to experimentally realize and manipulate them are outlined.

id: 1010.5533
title: Linearly independent pure-state decomposition and quantum state discrimination
authors: Luis Roa, Alejandra Maldonad-Trapp, Marcelo Alid
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, Submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5533
abstract: We put the pure-state decomposition mathematical property of a mixed state to a physical test. We begin by characterizing all the possible decompositions of a rank-two mixed state by means of the complex overlap between two involved states. The physical test proposes a scheme of quantum state recognition of one of the two linearly independent states which arise from the decomposition. We find that the two states associated with the balanced pure-state decomposition have the smaller overlap modulus and therefore the smallest probability of being discriminated conclusively, while in the nonconclusive scheme they have the highest probability of having an error. In addition, we design an experimental scheme which allows to discriminate conclusively and optimally two nonorthogonal states prepared with different a priori probabilities. Thus, we propose a physical implementation for this linearly independent pure-state decomposition and state discrimination test by using twin photons generated in the process of spontaneous parametric down conversion. The information-state is encoded in one photon polarization state whereas the second single-photon is used for heralded detection.

id: 1010.5539
title: Computation of Casimir Interactions between Arbitrary 3D Objects with Arbitrary Material Properties
authors: M. T. Homer Reid, Jacob White, Steven G. Johnson
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A, Vol. 84, No. 1, 010503(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5539
abstract: We extend a recently introduced method for computing Casimir forces between arbitrarily--shaped metallic objects [M. T. H. Reid et al., Phys. Rev. Lett._103_ 040401 (2009)] to allow treatment of objects with arbitrary material properties, including imperfect conductors, dielectrics, and magnetic materials. Our original method considered electric currents on the surfaces of the interacting objects; the extended method considers both electric and magnetic surface current distributions, and obtains the Casimir energy of a configuration of objects in terms of the interactions of these effective surface currents. Using this new technique, we present the first predictions of Casimir interactions in several experimentally relevant geometries that would be difficult to treat with any existing method. In particular, we investigate Casimir interactions between dielectric nanodisks embedded in a dielectric fluid; we identify the threshold surface--surface separation at which finite--size effects become relevant, and we map the rotational energy landscape of bound nanoparticle diclusters.

id: 1010.5555
title: Quantum mechanical photon-count formula derived by entangled state representation
authors: Li-yun Hu, Z. S. Wang, L. C. Kwek, Hong-yi Fan
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5555
abstract: By introducing the thermo entangled state representation, we derived four new photocount distribution formulas for a given density operator of light field. It is shown that these new formulas, which is convenient to calculate the photocount, can be expressed as such integrations over Laguree-Gaussian function with characteristic function, Wigner function, Q-function, and P-function, respectively.

id: 1010.5577
title: Another Quantum Lov¨¢sz Local Lemma
authors: Mingsheng Ying
comments: A mistake in the original version is corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5577
abstract: We define a natural conceptual framework in which a generalization of the Lov\'{a}sz Local Lemma can be established in quantum probability theory.

id: 1010.5638
title: High-visibility nonclassical interference between pure heralded single photons and weak coherent photons
authors: Rui-Bo Jin, Jun Zhang, Ryosuke Shimizu, Nobuyuki Matsuda, Yasuyoshi Mitsumori, Hideo Kosaka, Keiichi Edamatsu
comments: 4 pages,5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5638
abstract: We present an experiment of nonclassical interference between a pure heralded single-photon state and a weak coherent state. Our experiment is the first to demonstrate that spectrally pure single photons can have high interference visibility, 89.4 \pm 0.5%, with weak coherent photons. Our scheme lays the groundwork for future experiments requiring quantum interference between photons in nonclassical states and those in coherent states.

id: 1010.5664
title: A Single Laser System for Ground-State Cooling of 25-Mg+
authors: Boerge Hemmerling, Florian Gebert, Yong Wan, Daniel Nigg, Ivan V. Sherstov, Piet O. Schmidt
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics B: Lasers and Optics 104 (2011) 583-590
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5664
abstract: We present a single solid-state laser system to cool, coherently manipulate and detect $^{25}$Mg$^+$ ions. Coherent manipulation is accomplished by coupling two hyperfine ground state levels using a pair of far-detuned Raman laser beams. Resonant light for Doppler cooling and detection is derived from the same laser source by means of an electro-optic modulator, generating a sideband which is resonant with the atomic transition. We demonstrate ground-state cooling of one of the vibrational modes of the ion in the trap using resolved-sideband cooling. The cooling performance is studied and discussed by observing the temporal evolution of Raman-stimulated sideband transitions. The setup is a major simplification over existing state-of-the-art systems, typically involving up to three separate laser sources.

id: 1010.5682
title: Coupling molecular spin states by photon-assisted tunneling
authors: L. R. Schreiber, F. R. Braakman, T. Meunier, V. Calado, J. Danon, J. M. Taylor, W. Wegscheider, L. M. K. Vandersypen
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: Nat. Commun. 2:556 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5682
abstract: Artificial molecules containing just one or two electrons provide a powerful platform for studies of orbital and spin quantum dynamics in nanoscale devices. A well-known example of these dynamics is tunneling of electrons between two coupled quantum dots triggered by microwave irradiation. So far, these tunneling processes have been treated as electric dipole-allowed spin-conserving events. Here we report that microwaves can also excite tunneling transitions between states with different spin. In this work, the dominant mechanism responsible for violation of spin conservation is the spin-orbit interaction. These transitions make it possible to perform detailed microwave spectroscopy of the molecular spin states of an artificial hydrogen molecule and open up the possibility of realizing full quantum control of a two spin system via microwave excitation.

id: 1010.5715
title: Controlling qubit arrays with anisotropic XXZ Heisenberg interaction by acting on a single qubit
authors: Rahel Heule, C. Bruder, Daniel Burgarth, Vladimir M. Stojanovic
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 63, 41-46 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5715
abstract: We investigate anisotropic $XXZ$ Heisenberg spin-1/2 chains with control fields acting on one of the end spins, with the aim of exploring local quantum control in arrays of interacting qubits. In this work, which uses a recent Lie-algebraic result on the local controllability of spin chains with "always-on" interactions, we determine piecewise-constant control pulses corresponding to optimal fidelities for quantum gates such as spin-flip (NOT), controlled-NOT (CNOT), and square-root-of-SWAP ($\sqrt{\textrm{SWAP}}$). We find the minimal times for realizing different gates depending on the anisotropy parameter $\Delta$ of the model, showing that the shortest among these gate times are achieved for particular values of $\Delta$ larger than unity. To study the influence of possible imperfections in anticipated experimental realizations of qubit arrays, we analyze the robustness of the obtained results for the gate fidelities to random variations in the control-field amplitudes and finite rise time of the pulses. Finally, we discuss the implications of our study for superconducting charge-qubit arrays.

id: 1010.5762
title: One-dimensional quantum walks with one defect
authors: M.J. Cantero, F.A. Grunbaum, L. Moral, L. Velazquez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5762
abstract: The CGMV method allows for the general discussion of localization properties for the states of a one-dimensional quantum walk, both in the case of the integers and in the case of the non negative integers. Using this method we classify, according to such localization properties, all the quantum walks with one defect at the origin, providing explicit expressions for the asymptotic return probabilities at the origin.

id: 1010.5773
title: High--order connected moments expansion for the Rabi Hamiltonian
authors: Paolo Amore, Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez, Martin Rodriguez
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5773
abstract: We analyze the convergence properties of the connected moments expansion (CMX) for the Rabi Hamiltonian. To this end we calculate the moments and connected moments of the Hamiltonian operator to a sufficiently large order. Our large--order results suggest that the CMX is not reliable for most practical purposes because the expansion exhibits considerable oscillations.

id: 1010.5851
title: Continuous monitoring can improve single-photon probability
authors: Shesha Raghunathan, Todd Brun
comments: 11 pages and 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5851
abstract: An engineering technique using continuous quantum measurement together with a change detection algorithm is proposed to improve the probability of single photon emission for a quantum-dot based single-photon source. The technique involves continuous monitoring of the emitter, integrating the measured signal, and a simple change detection circuit to decide when to stop pumping. The idea is to pump just long enough such that the emitter $+$ cavity system is in a state that can emit at most one photon with high probability. Continuous monitoring provides partial information on the state of the emitter. This technique is useful when the system is operating in the weak coupling regime, and the rate of pumping is smaller than, or comparable to, the emitter-cavity coupling strength, as can be the case for electrical pumping.

id: 1010.5879
title: Reply to the comment on "Loophole-free Bell test for continuous variables via wave and particle correlations"
authors: Se-Wan Ji, Jaewan Kim, Hai-Woong Lee, M. S. Zubairy, Hyunchul Nha
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 208902 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5879
abstract: In a recent note, Cavalcanti and Scarani (CS) constructed a counter local-hidden-variable model to explain the violation of our inequalities in Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 170404 (2010). Here, we briefly discuss some issues in response to the comments raised by CS.

id: 1010.5926
title: Nonperturbative Analysis of a Quantum Mechanical Model for Unstable Particles
authors: U.G. Aglietti, P.M. Santini
comments: LaTex file, 13 pages, 3 (.eps) figures. References and note added, the latter containing detailed comparison with a previous computation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5926
abstract: We present a detailed non-perturbative analysis of the time-evolution of a well-known quantum-mechanical system - a particle between potential walls - describing the decay of unstable states. For sufficiently high barriers, corresponding to unstable particles with large lifetimes, we find an exponential decay for intermediate times, turning into an asymptotic power decay. We explicitly compute such power terms in time as a function of the coupling in the model. The same behavior is obtained with a repulsive as well as with an attractive potential, the latter case not being related to any tunnelling effect.

id: 1010.5964
title: Quadratic discrete Fourier transform and mutually unbiased bases
authors: Maurice Robert Kibler
comments: 36 pages, submitted for publication in "Fourier Transforms, Theory and Applications", G. Nikolic (Ed.), InTech (Open Access Publisher), Vienna, 2011
journal: Quadratic discrete Fourier transform and mutually unbiased bases, G. Nikolic (Ed.) (2010) 103-138
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5964
abstract: The present chapter [submitted for publication in "Fourier Transforms, Theory and Applications", G. Nikolic (Ed.), InTech (Open Access Publisher), Vienna, 2011] is concerned with the introduction and study of a quadratic discrete Fourier transform. This Fourier transform can be considered as a two-parameter extension, with a quadratic term, of the usual discrete Fourier transform. In the case where the two parameters are taken to be equal to zero, the quadratic discrete Fourier transform is nothing but the usual discrete Fourier transform. The quantum quadratic discrete Fourier transform plays an important role in the field of quantum information. In particular, such a transformation in prime dimension can be used for obtaining a complete set of mutually unbiased bases.

id: 1010.5986
title: Full quantum treatment of Rabi oscillation driven by a pulse train and its application in ion-trap quantum computation
authors: Li Yang, Biyao Yang, Yufu Chen
comments: 22 pages, 5 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5986
abstract: Rabi oscillation of a two-level system driven by a pulse train is a basic process involved in quantum computation. We present a full quantum treatment of this process and show that the population inversion of this process collapses exponentially, has no revival phenomenon, and has a dual-pulse structure in every period. As an application, we investigate the properties of this process in ion-trap quantum computation. We find that in the Cirac--Zoller computation scheme, when the wavelength of the driving field is of the order $10^{-6}$ m, the lower bound of failure probability is of the order $10^{-2}$ after about $10^2$ controlled-NOT gates. This value is approximately equal to the generally-accepted threshold in fault-tolerant quantum computation.

id: 1010.6012
title: Decoherence in a quantum harmonic oscillator monitored by a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: S. Brouard, D. Alonso, D. Sokolovski
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, letter
journal: Phys. Rev. A, Vol. 84, No. 1., 012114 (July 2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.6012
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of a quantum oscillator, whose evolution is monitored by a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) trapped in a symmetric double well potential. It is demonstrated that the oscillator may experience various degrees of decoherence depending on the variable being measured and the state in which the BEC is prepared. These range from a `coherent' regime in which only the variances of the oscillator position and momentum are affected by measurement, to a slow (power law) or rapid (Gaussian) decoherence of the mean values themselves.

id: 1010.6023
title: Analysis of the near-resonant fluorescence spectra of a single rubidium atom localized in a three-dimensional optical lattice
authors: Wookrae Kim, Changwon Park, Jung-Ryul Kim, Yea-Lee Lee, Jisoon Ihm, Kyungwon An
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.6023
abstract: Supplementary information is presented on the recent work by W. Kim et al. on the matter-wave-tunneling-induced broadening in the near-resonant spectra of a single rubidium atom localized in a three-dimensional optical lattice in a strong Lamb-Dicke regime.

id: 1010.6029
title: The smallest possible heat engines
authors: Noah Linden, Sandu Popescu, Paul Skrzypczyk
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.6029
abstract: We construct the smallest possible self contained heat engines; one composed of only two qubits, the other of only a single qutrit. The engines are self-contained as they do not require external sources of work and/or control. They are able to produce work which is used to continuously lift a weight. Despite the dimension of the engine being small, it is still able to operate at the Carnot efficiency.

id: 1010.6049
title: Taming multiparticle entanglement
authors: Bastian Jungnitsch, Tobias Moroder, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 4 pages + appendix, 2 figures, published version; see this http URL for associated MATLAB code
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 190502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.6049
abstract: We present an approach to characterize genuine multiparticle entanglement using appropriate approximations in the space of quantum states. This leads to a criterion for entanglement which can easily be calculated using semidefinite programming and improves all existing approaches significantly. Experimentally, it can also be evaluated when only some observables are measured. Furthermore, it results in a computable entanglement monotone for genuine multiparticle entanglement. Based on this, we develop an analytical approach for the entanglement detection in cluster states, leading to an exponential improvement compared with existing schemes.

id: 1010.6108
title: Superconducting microfabricated ion traps
authors: Shannon X. Wang, Yufei Ge, Jaroslaw Labaziewicz, Eric Dauler, Karl Berggren, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 97, 244102 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.6108
abstract: We fabricate superconducting ion traps with niobium and niobium nitride and trap single 88Sr ions at cryogenic temperatures. The superconducting transition is verified and characterized by measuring the resistance and critical current using a 4-wire measurement on the trap structure, and observing change in the rf reflection. The lowest observed heating rate is 2.1(3) quanta/sec at 800 kHz at 6 K and shows no significant change across the superconducting transition, suggesting that anomalous heating is primarily caused by noise sources on the surface. This demonstration of superconducting ion traps opens up possibilities for integrating trapped ions and molecular ions with superconducting devices.

id: 1010.6125
title: Rescaled Perturbation Theory
authors: Tomoya Hayata
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Prog.Theor.Phys.124:1097-1104,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.6125
abstract: A non-perturbative method which can go beyond the weak coupling perturbation theory is introduced. Essential idea is to formulate a set of exact differential equations as a function of the coupling strength $g$. Unlike other resummation in which information of the higher order terms is necessary, we only need a leading order perturbative formula in every step to reach the large value of $g$. The method is applied to the quantum anharmonic oscillator and quantum double well potential in one dimension. Both are known to have divergent series in the weak coupling perturbation and the latter is not Borel summable. Our method is shown to work well from the weak coupling to the strong coupling for the energy eigenvalues and the wave functions. The method is also applied successfully to the system with time-dependent external field.

id: 1010.6138
title: Quantum information transfer with nitrogen-vacancy centers coupled to a whispering-gallery microresonator
authors: Pengbo Li, Shaoyan Gao, Fuli Li
comments: Final version for publication in PRA
journal: PhysRevA-83-054306-2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.6138
abstract: We propose an efficient scheme for the realization of quantum information transfer and entanglement with nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers coupled to a high-Q whispering-gallery mode (WGM) microresonator. We show that, based on the effective dipole-dipole interaction between the NV centers mediated by the WGM, quantum information can be transferred between the NV centers through Raman transitions combined with laser fields. This protocol may open up promising possibilities for quantum communications with the solid state cavity QED system.

id: 1010.6156
title: Dynamical Casimir-Polder force on a partially dressed atom near a conducting wall
authors: Riccardo Messina, Ruggero Vasile, Roberto Passante
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062501 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.6156
abstract: We study the time evolution of the Casimir-Polder force acting on a neutral atom in front of a perfectly conducting plate, when the system starts its unitary evolution from a partially dressed state. We solve the Heisenberg equations for both atomic and field quantum operators, exploiting a series expansion with respect to the electric charge and an iterative technique. After discussing the behaviour of the time-dependent force on an initially partially-dressed atom, we analyze a possible experimental scheme to prepare the partially dressed state and the observability of this new dynamical effect.

id: 1010.6159
title: Tunable one-dimensional microwave emissions from cyclic-transition three-level atoms
authors: W. Z. Jia, L. F. Wei, Z. D. Wang
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.6159
abstract: By strongly driving a cyclic-transition three-level artificial atom, demonstrated by such as a flux-based superconducting circuit, we show that coherent microwave signals can be excited along a coupled one-dimensional transmission line. Typically, the intensity of the generated microwave is tunable via properly adjusting the Rabi frequencies of the applied strong-driving fields or introducing a probe field with the same frequency. In practice, the system proposed here could work as an on-chip quantum device with controllable atom-photon interaction to implement a total-reflecting mirror or switch for the propagating probe field.

id: 1010.6287
title: Fabrication and characterization of high quality factor silicon nitride nanobeam cavities
authors: Mughees Khan, Thomas Babinec, Murray W. McCutcheon, Parag Deotare, Marko Lon?ar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.6287
abstract: Si3N4 is an excellent material for applications of nanophotonics at visible wavelengths due to its wide bandgap and moderately large refractive index (n $\approx$ 2.0). We present the fabrication and characterization of Si3N4 photonic crystal nanobeam cavities for coupling to diamond nanocrystals and Nitrogen-Vacancy centers in a cavity QED system. Confocal micro-photoluminescence analysis of the nanobeam cavities demonstrates quality factors up to Q ~ 55,000, which is limited by the resolution of our spectrometer. We also demonstrate coarse tuning of cavity resonances across the 600-700nm range by lithographically scaling the size of fabricated devices. This is an order of magnitude improvement over previous SiNx cavities at this important wavelength range.

id: 1010.6288
title: Rydberg state mediated quantum gates and entanglement of pairs of neutral atoms
authors: M Saffman, X L Zhang, A T Gill, L Isenhower, T G Walker
comments: submitted to ICAP 2010 proceedings
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 264, 012023 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.6288
abstract: Experiments performed within the last year have demonstrated Rydberg state mediated quantum gates and deterministic entanglement between pairs of trapped neutral atoms. These experiments validate ten year old proposals for Rydberg mediated quantum logic, but are only the beginning of ongoing efforts to improve the fidelity of the results obtained and scale the experiments to larger numbers of qubits. We present here a summary of the results to date, along with a critical evaluation of the prospects for higher fidelity Rydberg gates.

id: 1010.6302
title: Preservation of loss in linear-optical processing
authors: Dominic W. Berry, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, expanded explanation
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042304 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.6302
abstract: We propose a measure of quantum efficiency of a multimode state of light that quantifies the amount of optical loss this state has experienced, and prove that this efficiency cannot increase in any linear-optical processing with destructive conditional measurements. Any loss that has affected a state can neither be removed nor redistributed so as to further increase the efficiency in higher-efficiency modes at the expense of lower-efficiency modes. This result eliminates the possibility of catalytically improving photon sources.

id: 1010.0039
title: Modified Pad¨¦ Approach to the S-Wave Charmonium Spectroscopy in QCD
authors: Shu-Wei Chen, Ching-Chang Lin, Kwei-Chou Yang
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure, 3 tables, relativistically kinetic correction added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0039
abstract: We calculate the $S$-wave charmonium spectroscopy using the Hamiltonian with the non-relativistic QCD (NRQCD) potential. The logarithmic factor $\ln \mu r$, appearing in the next-to-leading order QCD loop corrections to the potential, is expanded about $r=1/\mu$, where $\mu$ corresponds to the typical charmonium scale. The resulting potential characterized by the Coulombic and linear components is consistent with the form of the Cornell potential. We obtain $\chi^2$ fitting results for the masses of the $S$-wave charmonium states, $\eta_c(1^1S_0)$, $J/\psi(1^3S_1)$, $\eta_c(2^1S_0)$, and $\psi(2^3S_1)$ in remarkable accordance with data. Our results successfully account for the hyperfine splitting for the 1S state as well as for the 2S state. We further use the three best fit parameters: the charm quark mass $m_c$, coupling constant $\alpha_s$ and the corresponding scale $\mu$ to predict the $S$-wave mass spectrum with $n\leq 6$. The hints for results are discussed.

id: 1010.0042
title: Thermally induced 0-pi phase transition in Josephson junctions through a ferromagnetic oxide film
authors: Shiro Kawabata, Yasuhiro Asano, Alexander A. Golubov, Yukio Tanaka, Satoshi Kashiwaya
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physica C 470 (2010) 1496
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0042
abstract: We investigate the Josephson transport through a ferromagnetic oxide film, e.g., La$_2$BaCuO$_5$, theoretically. Using the recursive Green's function technique, we found the formation of a pi-junction in such systems. Moreover the 0-pi phase transition is induced by increasing the temperature. Such ferromagnetic-oxide based Josephson junctions may become an element in the architecture of future quantum computers.

id: 1010.0073
title: Some New Aspects of Degenerate Quantum Plasma
authors: Nodar L. Tsintsadze
comments: Invited Talk ICTP 2010, Advanced Workshop on the Frontiers of Plasma Physics
journal: AIP Conf.Proc.1306:75-88,2010
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0073
abstract: Answers to some salient questions, which arise in quantum plasmas, are given. Starting from the Schr\"{o}dinger equation for a single particle it is demonstrated how the Wigner-Moyal equation can be derived. It is shown that the Wigner-Moyal type of equation also exists in the classical field theory. As an example, from the Maxwell equations the Wigner-Moyal type of equation is obtained for a dense photon gas, which is classical, concluding that the Wigner-Moyal type of equation can be derived for any system, classical or quantum. A new type of quantum kinetic equations are presented. These novel kinetic equations allow to obtain a set of quantum hydrodynamic equations, which is impossible to derive by the Wigner-Moyal equation. The propagation of small perturbations and instabilities of these perturbations are then discussed, presenting new modes of quantum plasma waves. In the case of low frequency oscillations with ions, a new Bogolyubov type of spectrum is found. Furthermore, the Korteweg-de Vries (KdV) equation is derived and the contribution of the Madelung term in the formation of the KdV solitons is discussed.

id: 1010.0138
title: Coherent control of atomic excitation using off-resonant strong few-cycle pulses
authors: Pankaj K. Jha, Hichem Eleuch, Yuri V. Rostovtsev
comments: 5 Pages, 7 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 045805 (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0138
abstract: We study the dynamics of a two-level system driven by an off-resonant few-cycle pulse which has a phase jump $\phi$ at $t=t_{0}$, in contrast to many cycle pulses, under non rotating-wave approximation (NRWA). We give a closed form analytical solution for the evolution of the probability amplitude $|C_{a} (t)|$ for the upper level. Using the appropriate pulse parameters like phase-jump $\phi$, jump time $t_{0}$, pulse width $\tau$, frequency $\nu$ and Rabi frequency $\Omega_{0}$ the population transfer, after the pulse is gone, can be optimized and for the pulse considered here, enhancement of $10^{6}-10^{8}$ factor was obtained.

id: 1010.0159
title: Hidden XY structure of the bond-charge Hubbard model
authors: Marco Roncaglia, Cristian Degli Esposti Boschi, Arianna Montorsi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 233105 (2010)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0159
abstract: The repulsive one-dimensional Hubbard model with bond-charge interaction (HBC) in the superconducting regime is mapped onto the spin-1/2 XY model with transverse field. We calculate correlations and phase boundaries, realizing an excellent agreement with numerical results. The critical line for the superconducting transition is shown to coincide with the analytical factorization line identifying the commensurate-incommensurate transition in the XY model.

id: 1010.0293
title: The scattering amplitude of ultracold atoms near the p-wave magnetic Feshbach Resonance
authors: Peng Zhang, Pascal Naidon, Masahito Ueda
comments: 13 pages, 3 figs
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0293
abstract: Most of the current theories on the p-wave superfluid in cold atomic gases are based on the effective-range theory for the two-body scattering, where the low energy p-wave scattering amplitude $f_1(k)$ is given by $% f_1(k)=-1/[ik+1/(\mathcal{V}k^2)+1/\mathcal{R}]$, where $k$ is the incident momentum, and $\mathcal{V}$ and $\mathcal{R}$ are the $k$-independent scattering volume and effective-range, respectively. However, due to the long-range nature of the van der Waals interaction between two colliding ultracold atoms, the p-wave scattering amplitude of the two atoms is not described by the effective-range theory. In this paper we provide an explicit calculation for the p-wave scattering of two ultracold atoms near the p-wave magnetic Feshbach resonance (PMFR). We show that the low energy p-wave scattering amplitude in the presence of PMFR takes the form $f_1(k)=-1/[ik+1/(\mathcal{V}^{\mathrm{eff}}k^2)+1/(\mathcal{S}^{\mathrm{eff}%}k)+1/\mathcal{R}^{\mathrm{eff}}]$ where $\mathcal{V}^{\mathrm{eff}},$ $% \mathcal{S}^{\mathrm{eff}}$ and $\mathcal{R}^{\mathrm{eff}}$ are $k$% -dependent parameters. Based on this result, we show sufficient conditions for the effective range theory to be a good approximation of the exact scattering amplitude. Using these conditions we show that the effective-range theory is a good approximation for the p-wave scattering in the ultracold gases of $^{6}$Li and $^{40}$K when the scattering volume is enhanced by the resonance.

id: 1010.0354
title: Combinatorial Models of Creation-Annihilation
authors: Pawel Blasiak, Philippe Flajolet
comments: 78 pages, 27 figures; Final version as published at "Seminaire Lotharingien de Combinatoire" 65, Art. B65c (2011)
journal: Seminaire Lotharingien de Combinatoire 65, Art. B65c (2011)
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0354
abstract: Quantum physics has revealed many interesting formal properties associated with the algebra of two operators, A and B, satisfying the partial commutation relation AB-BA=1. This study surveys the relationships between classical combinatorial structures and the reduction to normal form of operator polynomials in such an algebra. The connection is achieved through suitable labelled graphs, or "diagrams", that are composed of elementary "gates". In this way, many normal form evaluations can be systematically obtained, thanks to models that involve set partitions, permutations, increasing trees, as well as weighted lattice paths. Extensions to q-analogues, multivariate frameworks, and urn models are also briefly discussed.

id: 1010.0569
title: Klein tunneling in carbon nanostructures: a free particle dynamics in disguise
authors: Vit Jakubsky, Luis-Miguel Nieto, Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 4 pages, 1 fig., typos corrected
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:047702,2011
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0569
abstract: The absence of backscattering in metallic nanotubes as well as perfect Klein tunneling in potential barriers in graphene are the prominent electronic characteristics of carbon nanostructures. We show that the phenomena can be explained by a peculiar supersymmetry generated by a first order Hamiltonian and zero order supercharge operators. Like the supersymmetry associated with second order reflectionless finite-gap systems, it relates here the low-energy behavior of the charge carriers with the free particle dynamics.

id: 1010.0572
title: Spin and magnetization effects in plasmas
authors: G. Brodin, M. Marklund, J. Zamanian, M. Stefan
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure. To appear in Plasma Physics and Controlled Fusion, Special Issue for the 37th ICPP, Santiago, Chile
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0572
abstract: We give a short review of a number of different models for treating magnetization effects in plasmas. In particular, the transition between kinetic models and fluid models is discussed. We also give examples of applications of such theories. Some future aspects are discussed.

id: 1010.0580
title: Can gravity be added to Pilot Wave models?
authors: Roman Sverdlov
comments: 21 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0580
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to come up with one of the many possible schemes of "adding" gravity to Pilot Wave models.

id: 1010.0597
title: Quantum Vacuum influence on the evolution of Pulsars
authors: Arnaud Dupays, Carlo Rizzo, Bignami Giovanni Fabrizio
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Solar and Stellar Astrophysics (astro-ph.SR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0597
abstract: In this letter we show that Quantum Vacuum Friction (QVF) should play an important role in neutron star evolution. Taking into account this effect we show that magnetars could be understood as a natural evolution of standard pulsars. For the Crab pulsar, of which the characteristic age is known, we present the first completely coherent time evolution for its period and braking index. For this pulsar we also give the predicted value of the current first derivative of the braking index, providing a very important test to confirm QVF.

id: 1010.0620
title: Generalized quantum isotonic nonlinear oscillator in d dimensions
authors: Richard L. Hall, Nasser Saad, Ozlem Yesiltas
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: J.Phys.A43:465304,2010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0620
abstract: We present a supersymmetric analysis for the d-dimensional Schroedinger equation with the generalized isotonic nonlinear-oscillator potential V(r)={B^2}/{r^{2}}+\omega^{2} r^{2}+2g{(r^{2}-a^{2})}/{(r^{2}+a^{2})^{2}}, B\geq 0. We show that the eigenequation for this potential is exactly solvable provided g=2 and (\omega a^2)^2 = B^2 +(\ell +(d-2)/2)^2. Under these conditions, we obtain explicit formulae for all the energies and normalized bound-state wavefunctions.

id: 1010.0709
title: Nonlocal Handbury-Brown Twiss Interferometry & Entanglement Generation from Majorana Bound States
authors: Sougato Bose, Pasquale Sodano
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 085002
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0709
abstract: We show that a one dimensional device supporting a pair of Majorana bound states at its ends can produce remarkable Hanbury-Brown Twiss like interference effects between well separated Dirac fermions of pertinent energies. We find that the simultaneous scattering of two incoming electrons or two incoming holes from the Majorana bound states leads exclusively to an electron-hole final state. This "anti-bunching" in electron-hole internal pseudospin space can be detected through current-current correlations. Further, we show that, by scattering appropriate spin polarized electrons from the Majorana bound states, one can engineer a non-local entangler of electronic spins for quantum information applications. Both the above phenomena should be observable in diverse physical systems enabling to detect the presence of low energy Majorana modes.

id: 1010.0779
title: Controlling single diamond NV color center photoluminescence spectrum with a Fabry-Perot microcavity
authors: Yannick Dumeige, Romain All¨¦aume, Philippe Grangier, Fran?ois Treussart, Jean-Fran?ois Roch
comments: 22 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0779
abstract: We present both theoretical and experimental results on fluorescence of single defect centers in diamond nanocrystals embedded in a planar dielectric microcavity. From a theoretical point of view, we show that the overall fluorescence collection efficiency using moderate numerical aperture microscope objective can be enhanced by using a low quality factor microcavity. This could be used in particular for low temperature applications where the numerical aperture of collection microscope objectives is limited due to the experimental constraints. We experimentally investigate the control of the fluorescence spectrum of the emitted light from a single center. We show the simultaneous narrowing of the room temperature broadband emission spectrum and the increase of the fluorescence spectral density.

id: 1010.0818
title: Diagrammar In Classical Scalar Field Theory
authors: Enrico Cattaruzza, Ennio Gozzi, Antonio Francisco Neto
comments: 67 pages. Improvements inserted in the third order calculations
journal: Annals Phys.326:2377-2430,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0818
abstract: In this paper we analyze perturbatively a g phi^4 classical field theory with and without temperature. In order to do that, we make use of a path-integral approach developed some time ago for classical theories. It turns out that the diagrams appearing at the classical level are many more than at the quantum level due to the presence of extra auxiliary fields in the classical formalism. We shall show that several of those diagrams cancel against each other due to a universal supersymmetry present in the classical path integral mentioned above. The same supersymmetry allows the introduction of super-fields and super-diagrams which considerably simplify the calculations and make the classical perturbative calculations almost "identical" formally to the quantum ones. Using the super-diagrams technique we develop the classical perturbation theory up to third order. We conclude the paper with a perturbative check of the fluctuation-dissipation theorem.

id: 1010.0887
title: Molecular Frisbee: Motion of Spinning Molecules in Inhomogeneous Fields
authors: Johannes Floss, Erez Gershnabel, Ilya Sh. Averbukh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0887
abstract: Several laser techniques have been suggested and demonstrated recently for preparing polarizable molecules in rapidly spinning states with a disc-like angular distribution. We consider motion of these spinning discs in inhomogeneous fields, and show that the molecular trajectories may be precisely controlled by the tilt of the plane of the laser-induced rotation. The feasibility of the scheme is illustrated by optical deflection of linear molecules twirled by two delayed cross-polarized laser pulses. These results open new ways for many applications involving molecular focusing, guiding and trapping, and may be suitable for separating molecular mixtures by optical and static fields.

id: 1010.0940
title: Optimal control of open quantum systems: cooperative effects of driving and dissipation
authors: Rebecca Schmidt, Antonio Negretti, Joachim Ankerhold, Tommaso Calarco, J¨¹rgen T. Stockburger
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; 6 page supplement, v2: major revision for wider scope, additional data, change of title, v3: fixed typo, v4: minor changes for clarity, extended supplement
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 130404 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0940
abstract: We investigate the optimal control of open quantum systems, in particular, the mutual influence of driving and dissipation. A stochastic approach to open-system control is developed, using a generalized version of Krotov's iterative algorithm, with no need for Markovian or rotating-wave approximations. The application to a harmonic degree of freedom reveals cooperative effects of driving and dissipation that a standard Markovian treatment cannot capture. Remarkably, control can modify the open-system dynamics to the point where the entropy change turns negative, thus achieving cooling of translational motion without any reliance on internal degrees of freedom.

id: 1010.0954
title: Dispersive readout scheme for a Josephson phase qubit
authors: T. Wirth, J. Lisenfeld, A. Lukashenko, A. V. Ustinov
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0954
abstract: We present experimental results on a dispersive scheme for reading out a Josephson phase qubit. A capacitively shunted dc-SQUID is used as a nonlinear resonator which is inductively coupled to the qubit. We detect the flux state of the qubit by measuring the amplitude and phase of a microwave pulse reflected from the SQUID resonator. By this low-dissipative method, we reduce the qubit state measurement time down to 25 microseconds, which is much faster than using the conventional readout performed by switching the SQUID to its non-zero dc voltage state. The demonstrated readout scheme allows for reading out multiple qubits using a single microwave line by employing frequency-division multiplexing.

id: 1010.1043
title: Experimental observation of carrier-envelope phase effects by multicycle pulses
authors: Pankaj K. Jha, Yuri V. Rostovtsev, Hebin Li, Vladimir A. Sautenkov, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 8 Pages, 6 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 033404 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1043
abstract: We present an experimental and theoretical study of carrier-envelope phase (CEP) effects on the population transfer between two bound atomic states interacting with pulses consisting of many cycles. Using intense radio-frequency pulse with Rabi frequency of the order of the atomic transition frequency, we investigated the influence of CEP on the control of phase dependent multi-photon transitions between the Zeeman sub-levels of the ground state of $^{87}$Rb. Our scheme has no limitation on the duration of the pulses. Extending the CEP control to longer pulses creates interesting possibilities to generate pulses with accuracy that is better then the period of optical oscillations.

id: 1010.1122
title: Non-degenerate four-wave mixing in rubidium vapor: transient regime
authors: F. E. Becerra, R. T. Willis, S. L. Rolston, H. J. Carmichael, L. A. Orozco
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures, to be published in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1122
abstract: We investigate the transient response of the generated light from Four-Wave Mixing (FWM) in the diamond configuration using a step-down field excitation. The transients show fast decay times and oscillations that depend on the detunings and intensities of the fields. A simplified model taking into account the thermal motion of the atoms, propagation, absorption and dispersion effects shows qualitative agreement with the experimental observations with the energy levels in rubidium (5S1/2, 5P1/2, 5P3/2 and 6S1/2). The atomic polarization comes from all the contributions of different velocity classes of atoms in the ensemble modifying dramatically the total transient behavior of the light from FWM.

id: 1010.1335
title: Upper continuity bounds on the relative $q$-entropy for $q>1$
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 7 pages, no figures. The statements and the proofs from Section III are corrected. The results of Section IV are improved. Appendix A has been excluded
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 062203 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1335
abstract: Generalized entropies and relative entropies are the subject of active research. Similar to the standard relative entropy, the relative $q$-entropy is generally unbounded for $q>1$. Upper bounds on the quantum relative $q$-entropy in terms of norm distances between its arguments are obtained in finite-dimensional context. These bounds characterize a continuity property in the sense of Fannes.

id: 1010.1336
title: High-energy long-lived resonance of electrons in fractal-like semiconductor heterostructures
authors: Seng Pei Liew, Naomichi Hatano
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Figures of better resolution are available upon request
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1336
abstract: A fractal-like alignment of quantum wells is shown to accommodate resonant states with long lifetimes. For the parameters of the semiconductor heterostructure GaAs/Al$_{0.4}$Ga$_{0.6}$As with the well depth 300meV, a resonant state of the energy as high as 44meV with the lifetime as long as 2.8\{mu}s is shown to be achievable.

id: 1010.1342
title: Resonant-state expansion of the Green's function of open quantum systems
authors: Naomichi Hatano, Gonzalo Ordonez
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures. Submitted to International Journal of Theoretical Physics as an article in the Proceedings for PHHQP 2010 (this http URL)
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 50 (2011) 1105--1115
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1342
abstract: Our series of recent work on the transmission coefficient of open quantum systems in one dimension will be reviewed. The transmission coefficient is equivalent to the conductance of a quantum dot connected to leads of quantum wires. We will show that the transmission coefficient is given by a sum over all discrete eigenstates without a background integral. An apparent "background" is in fact not a background but generated by tails of various resonance peaks. By using the expression, we will show that the Fano asymmetry of a resonance peak is caused by the interference between various discrete eigenstates. In particular, an unstable resonance can strongly skew the peak of a nearby resonance.

id: 1010.1408
title: Interaction of the Electromagnetic S-Wave with the Thin Metal Film
authors: A. V. Latyshev, A. A. Yushkanov
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1408
abstract: It is shown that for thin metal films, thickness of which does not exceed a thickness of a skin-layer, the problem allows analytical solution for any boundary conditions. The analysis of transmission, reflection and absorption of an electromagnetic wave coefficients depending on a angle of incidence, thickness of a layer, coefficient of specular reflection and frequency of oscillations of electromagnetic field is carried out.

id: 1010.1432
title: Minimal and Maximal Operator Spaces and Operator Systems in Entanglement Theory
authors: Nathaniel Johnston, David W. Kribs, Vern I. Paulsen, Rajesh Pereira
comments: 17 pages, to appear in JFA
journal: J. Funct. Anal. 260, 2407-2423 (2011)
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1432
abstract: We examine k-minimal and k-maximal operator spaces and operator systems, and investigate their relationships with the separability problem in quantum information theory. We show that the matrix norms that define the k-minimal operator spaces are equal to a family of norms that have been studied independently as a tool for detecting k-positive linear maps and bound entanglement. Similarly, we investigate the k-super minimal and k-super maximal operator systems that were recently introduced and show that their cones of positive elements are exactly the cones of k-block positive operators and (unnormalized) states with Schmidt number no greater than k, respectively. We characterize a class of norms on the k-super minimal operator systems and show that the completely bounded versions of these norms provide a criterion for testing the Schmidt number of a quantum state that generalizes the recently-developed separability criterion based on trace-contractive maps.

id: 1010.1505
title: Constraints on anomalous spin-spin interactions from spin-exchange collisions
authors: D. F. Jackson Kimball, Alec Boyd, D. Budker
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062714 (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1505
abstract: Measured and calculated cross sections for spin-exchange between alkali atoms and noble gases (specifically sodium and helium) are used to constrain anomalous spin-dependent forces between nuclei at the atomic scale ($\sim 10^{-8}~{\rm cm}$). Combined with existing stringent limits on anomalous short-range, spin-dependent couplings of the proton, the dimensionless coupling constant for a heretofore undiscovered axial vector interaction of the neutron arising from exchange of a boson of mass $\lesssim 100~{\rm eV}$ is constrained to be $g_A^n/\sqrt{4 \pi \hbar c} < 2 \times 10^{-3}$. Constraints are established for a velocity- and spin-dependent interaction $\propto \prn{\mathbf{I} \cdot \mathbf{v}} \prn{\mathbf{K} \cdot \mathbf{v}}$, where $\mathbf{I}$ and $\mathbf{K}$ are the nuclear spins of He and Na, respectively, and $\mathbf{v}$ is the relative velocity of the atoms. Constraints on torsion gravity are also considered.

id: 1010.1513
title: Two-spin relaxation of P-dimers in Silicon
authors: Massoud Borhani, Xuedong Hu
comments: 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 241302 (R) (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1513
abstract: We study two-electron singlet-triplet relaxation of donor-bound electrons in Silicon. Hyperfine interaction of the electrons with the phosphorus (P) nuclei, in combination with the electron-phonon interaction, lead to relaxation of the triplet states. Within the Heitler-London and effective mass approximations, we calculate the triplet relaxation rates in the presence of an applied magnetic field. This relaxation mechanism affects the resonance peaks in current Electron Spin Resonance (ESR) experiments on P-dimers. Moreover, the estimated time scales for the spin decay put an upper bound on the gate pulses needed to perform fault-tolerant two-qubit operations in donor-spin-based quantum computers (QCs).

id: 1010.1517
title: A classification of 2D fermionic and bosonic topological orders
authors: Zheng-Cheng Gu, Zhenghan Wang, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 19 page 5 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. B 91, 125149 (2015)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1517
abstract: The string-net approach by Levin and Wen, and the local unitary transformation approach by Chen, Gu, and Wen, provide ways to classify topological orders with gappable edge in 2D bosonic systems. The two approaches reveal that the mathematical framework for 2+1D bosonic topological order with gappable edge is closely related to unitary fusion category theory. In this paper, we generalize these systematic descriptions of topological orders to 2D fermion systems. We find a classification of 2+1D fermionic topological orders with gappable edge in terms of the following set of data $(N^{ij}_k, F^{ij}_k, F^{ijm,\alpha\beta}_{jkn,\chi\delta},d_i)$, that satisfy a set of non-linear algebraic equations. The exactly soluble Hamiltonians can be constructed from the above data on any lattices to realize the corresponding topological orders. When $F^{ij}_k=0$, our result recovers the previous classification of 2+1D bosonic topological orders with gappable edge.

id: 1010.1560
title: Band structure of Si/Ge core-shell nanowires along [110] direction modulated by external uniaxial strain
authors: Xihong Peng, Fu Tang, Paul Logan
comments: 3 tables, 7 figures, Accepted by J. Phys. Condens. Matter
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 23 115502 (2011)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1560
abstract: Strain modulated electronic properties of Si/Ge core-shell nanowires along [110] direction were reported based on first principles density-functional theory calculations. Particularly, the energy dispersion relationship of the conduction/valence band was explored in detail. At the {\Gamma} point, the energy levels of both bands are significantly altered by applied uniaxial strain, which results in an evident change of band gap. In contrast, for the K vectors far away from {\Gamma}, the variation of the conduction/valence band with strain is much reduced. In addition, with a sufficient tensile strain (~1%), the valence band edge (VBE) shifts away from {\Gamma}, which indicates that the band gap of the Si/Ge core-shell nanowires experiences a transition from direct to indirect. Our studies further showed that effective masses of charge carriers can be also tuned by the external uniaxial strain. The effective mass of the hole increases dramatically with a tensile strain, while strain shows a minimal effect on tuning the effective mass of the electron. Finally, the relation between strain and the conduction/valence band edge is discussed thoroughly in terms of site-projected wave-function characters.

id: 1010.1671
title: Engineering of Landau-Zener tunneling
authors: Ghazal Tayebirad, Riccardo Mannella, Sandro Wimberger
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1671
abstract: Several ways are discussed how to control the Landau-Zener tunneling in the Wannier-Stark system. We focus on a realization of this system with interacting and noninteracting ultracold bosons. The tunneling from the ground band to the continuum is shown to depend crucially on the initial condition and system parameters and, more interestingly, on added timedependent disorder -- noise -- on the lattice beams.

id: 1010.1716
title: Dirac Equation For Cold Atoms In Artificial Curved Spacetimes
authors: O. Boada, A. Celi, J. I. Latorre, M. Lewenstein
comments: v2: minor changes, references added, iopstyle, 20 pages
journal: New J.Phys.13:035002,2011
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1716
abstract: We argue that the Fermi-Hubbard Hamiltonian describing the physics of ultracold atoms on optical lattices in the presence of artificial non-Abelian gauge fields, is exactly equivalent to the gauge theory Hamiltonian describing Dirac fermions in the lattice. We show that it is possible to couple the Dirac fermions to an "artificial" gravitational field, i.e. to consider the Dirac physics in a curved spacetime. We identify the special class of spacetime metrics that admit a simple realization in terms of a Fermi-Hubbard model subjected to an artificial SU(2) field, corresponding to position dependent hopping matrices. As an example, we discuss in more detail the physics of the 2+1D Rindler metric, its possible experimental realization and detection.

id: 1010.1744
title: Analytical solution to position dependent mass Schr?dinger equation
authors: Pankaj K. Jha, Hichem Eleuch, Yuri V. Rostovtsev
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 58, 652 (2011)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1744
abstract: Using a recently developed technique to solve Schr\"odinger equation for constant mass, we studied the regime in which mass varies with position i.e position dependent mass Schr\"odinger equation(PDMSE). We obtained an analytical solution for the PDMSE and applied our approach to study a position dependent mass $m(x)$ particle scattered by a potential $\mathcal{V}(x)$. We also studied the structural analogy between PDMSE and two-level atomic system interacting with a classical field.

id: 1010.1782
title: Tunable Holstein model with cold polar molecules
authors: Felipe Herrera, Roman V. Krems
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures (accepted in as a Rapid Communication in Phys.Rev.A)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 051401 2011
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1782
abstract: We show that an ensemble of polar molecules trapped in an optical lattice can be considered as a controllable open quantum system. The coupling between collective rotational excitations and the motion of the molecules in the lattice potential can be controlled by varying the strength and orientation of an external DC electric field as well as the intensity of the trapping laser. The system can be described by a generalized Holstein Hamiltonian with tunable parameters and can be used as a quantum simulator of excitation energy transfer and polaron phenomena. We show that the character of excitation energy transfer can be modified by tuning experimental parameters.

id: 1010.1794
title: Noiseless nonreciprocity in a parametric active device
authors: Archana Kamal, John Clarke, Michel Devoret
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures + 12 pages Supplementary Information
journal: Nature Physics 7, 311-315 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1794
abstract: Nonreciprocal devices such as circulators and isolators belong to an important class of microwave components employed in applications like the measurement of mesoscopic circuits at cryogenic temperatures. The measurement protocols usually involve an amplification chain which relies on circulators to separate input and output channels and to suppress backaction from different stages on the sample under test. In these devices the usual reciprocal symmetry of circuits is broken by the phenomenon of Faraday rotation based on magnetic materials and fields. However, magnets are averse to on-chip integration, and magnetic fields are deleterious to delicate superconducting devices. Here we present a new proposal combining two stages of parametric modulation emulating the action of a circulator. It is devoid of magnetic components and suitable for on-chip integration. As the design is free of any dissipative elements and based on reversible operation, the device operates noiselessly, giving it an important advantage over other nonreciprocal active devices for quantum information processing applications.

id: 1010.1831
title: Generalized Spin and Pseudo-Spin Symmetry: Relativistic Extension of Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: A. D. Alhaidari
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys.Lett.B699:309-313,2011
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1831
abstract: We consider the Dirac equation in 1+1 space-time dimension with vector, scalar and pseudo-scalar coupling. In the traditional spin (or pseudo-spin) symmetry, the difference between (or sum of) the scalar and vector potentials is a constant. Here, however, we introduce an alternative symmetry where the scalar or pseudo-scalar potential is proportional to the vector potential. This leads to a model with significant extensions to supersymmetric quantum mechanics. We present a formal solution of the problem but give explicit analytic results for specific examples.

id: 1010.1849
title: Polarization-preserving confocal microscope for optical experiments in a dilution refrigerator with high magnetic field
authors: Maksym Sladkov, M. P. Bakker, A. U. Chaubal, D. Reuter, A. D. Wieck, C. H. van der Wal
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1849
abstract: We present the design and operation of a fiber-based cryogenic confocal microscope. It is designed as a compact cold-finger that fits inside the bore of a superconducting magnet, and which is a modular unit that can be easily swapped between use in a dilution refrigerator and other cryostats. We aimed at application in quantum optical experiments with electron spins in semiconductors and the design has been optimized for driving with, and detection of optical fields with well-defined polarizations. This was implemented with optical access via a polarization maintaining fiber together with Voigt geometry at the cold finger, which circumvents Faraday rotations in the optical components in high magnetic fields. Our unit is versatile for use in experiments that measure photoluminescence, reflection, or transmission, as we demonstrate with a quantum optical experiment with an ensemble of donor-bound electrons in a thin GaAs film.

id: 1010.1977
title: Intrinsic coherence dynamics and phase localization in Aharonov-Bohm Interferometers
authors: Matisse Wei-Yuan Tu, Wei-Min Zhang, Jinshuang Jin
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 115318 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1977
abstract: The nonequilibrium real-time dynamics of electron coherence is explored in the quantum transport through the double-dot Aharonov-Bohm interferometers. We solve the exact master equation to find the exact quantum state of the device, from which the changes of the electron coherence through the magnetic flux in the nonequilibrium transport processes is obtained explicitly. We find that the relative phase between the two charge states of the double dot localizes to $\frac{\pi}{2}$ or $-\frac{\pi}{2}$ for all different magnetic flux. This nontrivial phase localization process can be manifested in the measurable occupation numbers.

id: 1010.2004
title: Ultrafast control of inelastic tunneling in a double semiconductor quantum
authors: Michael Schueler, Yaroslav Pavlyukh, Jamal Berakdar
comments: to be published in Appl.Phys.Lett
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2004
abstract: In a semiconductor-based double quantum well (QW) coupled to a degree of freedom with an internal dynamics, we demonstrate that the electronic motion is controllable within femtoseconds by applying appropriately shaped electromagnetic pulses. In particular, we consider a pulse-driven AlxGa1-xAs based symmetric double QW coupled to uniformly distributed or localized vibrational modes and present analytical results for the lowest two levels. These predictions are assessed and generalized by full-fledged numerical simulations showing that localization and time-stabilization of the driven electron dynamics is indeed possible under the conditions identified here, even with a simultaneous excitations of vibrational modes.

id: 1010.2050
title: The Gelfand spectrum of a noncommutative C*-algebra: a topos-theoretic approach
authors: Chris Heunen, Nicolaas P. Landsman, Bas Spitters, Sander Wolters
comments: 12 pages
journal: Journal of the Australian Mathematical Society (90) 39-52, 2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2050
abstract: We compare two influential ways of defining a generalized notion of space. The first, inspired by Gelfand duality, states that the category of 'noncommutative spaces' is the opposite of the category of C*-algebras. The second, loosely generalizing Stone duality, maintains that the category of 'pointfree spaces' is the opposite of the category of frames (i.e., complete lattices in which the meet distributes over arbitrary joins). One possible relationship between these two notions of space was unearthed by Banaschewski and Mulvey, who proved a constructive version of Gelfand duality in which the Gelfand spectrum of a commutative C*-algebra comes out as a pointfree space. Being constructive, this result applies in arbitrary toposes (with natural numbers objects, so that internal C*-algebras can be defined). Earlier work by the first three authors, shows how a noncommutative C*-algebra gives rise to a commutative one internal to a certain sheaf topos. The latter, then, has a constructive Gelfand spectrum, also internal to the topos in question. After a brief review of this work, we compute the so-called external description of this internal spectrum, which in principle is a fibered pointfree space in the familiar topos Sets of sets and functions. However, we obtain the external spectrum as a fibered topological space in the usual sense. This leads to an explicit Gelfand transform, as well as to a topological reinterpretation of the Kochen-Specker Theorem of quantum mechanics, which supplements the remarkable topos-theoretic version of this theorem due to Butterfield and Isham.

id: 1010.2055
title: Post Quantum Cryptography from Mutant Prime Knots
authors: Annalisa Marzuoli, Giandomenico Palumbo
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: Int. J. Geom. Meth. in Mod. Phys. Vol 8, No.7 (2011) 1571-1581
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2055
abstract: By resorting to basic features of topological knot theory we propose a (classical) cryptographic protocol based on the `difficulty' of decomposing complex knots generated as connected sums of prime knots and their mutants. The scheme combines an asymmetric public key protocol with symmetric private ones and is intrinsecally secure against quantum eavesdropper attacks.

id: 1010.2067
title: Algorithmic Thermodynamics
authors: John C. Baez, Mike Stay
comments: 20 pages, one encapsulated postscript figure
journal: Computability of the Physical, Mathematical Structures in Computer Science 22 (2012), 771--787
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2067
abstract: Algorithmic entropy can be seen as a special case of entropy as studied in statistical mechanics. This viewpoint allows us to apply many techniques developed for use in thermodynamics to the subject of algorithmic information theory. In particular, suppose we fix a universal prefix-free Turing machine and let X be the set of programs that halt for this machine. Then we can regard X as a set of 'microstates', and treat any function on X as an 'observable'. For any collection of observables, we can study the Gibbs ensemble that maximizes entropy subject to constraints on expected values of these observables. We illustrate this by taking the log runtime, length, and output of a program as observables analogous to the energy E, volume V and number of molecules N in a container of gas. The conjugate variables of these observables allow us to define quantities which we call the 'algorithmic temperature' T, 'algorithmic pressure' P and algorithmic potential' mu, since they are analogous to the temperature, pressure and chemical potential. We derive an analogue of the fundamental thermodynamic relation dE = T dS - P d V + mu dN, and use it to study thermodynamic cycles analogous to those for heat engines. We also investigate the values of T, P and mu for which the partition function converges. At some points on the boundary of this domain of convergence, the partition function becomes uncomputable. Indeed, at these points the partition function itself has nontrivial algorithmic entropy.

id: 1010.2079
title: Quantum Mechanics on Curved Hypersurfaces
authors: Mehmet Ali Olpak
comments: 39 pages, M. Sc. Thesis, incorporates minor corrections in the text
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2079
abstract: In this work, Schr\"odinger and Dirac equations will be examined in geometries that confine the particles to hypersurfaces. For this purpose, two methods will be considered. The first method is the thin layer method which relies on explicit use of geometrical relations and the squeezing of a certain coordinate of space (or spacetime). The second is Dirac's quantization procedure involving the modification of canonical quantization making use of the geometrical constraints. For the Dirac equation, only the first method will be considered. Lastly, the results of the two methods will be compared and some notes on the differences between the results will be included.

id: 1010.2101
title: Quantum singular operator limits of thin Dirichlet tubes via $¦£$-convergence
authors: Cesar R. de Oliveira
comments: 28 pages; no figures; to appear in Rep. Math. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2101
abstract: The $\Gamma$-convergence of lower bounded quadratic forms is used to study the singular operator limit of thin tubes (i.e., the vanishing of the cross section diameter) of the Laplace operator with Dirichlet boundary conditions; a procedure to obtain the effective Schr\"odinger operator (in different subspaces) is proposed, generalizing recent results in case of compact tubes. Finally, after scaling curvature and torsion the limit of a broken line is briefly investigated.

id: 1010.2119
title: New Exactly Solvable Two-Dimensional Quantum Model Not Amenable to Separation of Variables
authors: M.V. Ioffe, D.N. Nishnianidze, P.A. Valinevich
comments: 23 pages
journal: J.Phys.A43:485303,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2119
abstract: The supersymmetric intertwining relations with second order supercharges allow to investigate new two-dimensional model which is not amenable to standard separation of variables. The corresponding potential being the two-dimensional generalization of well known one-dimensional P\"oschl-Teller model is proven to be exactly solvable for arbitrary integer value of parameter $p:$ all its bound state energy eigenvalues are found analytically, and the algorithm for analytical calculation of all wave functions is given. The shape invariance of the model and its integrability are of essential importance to obtain these results.

id: 1010.2171
title: High-Q Nanomechanics via Destructive Interference of Elastic Waves
authors: I. Wilson-Rae, R.A. Barton, S.S. Verbridge, D.R. Southworth, B. Ilic, H.G. Craighead, J.M. Parpia
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 047205 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2171
abstract: Mechanical dissipation poses an ubiquitous challenge to the performance of nanomechanical devices. Here we analyze the support-induced dissipation of high-stress nanomechanical resonators. We develop a model for this loss mechanism and test it on silicon nitride membranes with circular and square geometries. The measured Q-values of different harmonics present a non-monotonic behavior which is successfully explained. For azimuthal harmonics of the circular geometry we predict that destructive interference of the radiated waves leads to an exponential suppression of the clamping loss in the harmonic index. Our model can also be applied to graphene drums under high tension.

id: 1010.2218
title: PT invariant complex E(8) root spaces
authors: Andreas Fring, Monique Smith
comments: 9 pages
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.50:974-981,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2218
abstract: We provide a construction procedure for complex root spaces invariant under antilinear transformations, which may be applied to any Coxeter group. The procedure is based on the factorisation of a chosen element of the Coxeter group into two factors. Each of the factors constitutes an involution and may therefore be deformed in an antilinear fashion. Having the importance of the E(8)-Coxeter group in mind, such as underlying a particular perturbation of the Ising model and the fact that for it no solution could be found previously, we exemplify the procedure for this particular case. As a concrete application of this construction we propose new generalisations of Calogero-Moser Sutherland models and affine Toda field theories based on the invariant complex root spaces and deformed complex simple roots, respectively.

id: 1010.2344
title: Infinite disorder scaling of random quantum magnets in three and higher dimensions
authors: Istvan A. Kovacs, Ferenc Igloi
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B83, 174207 (2011)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2344
abstract: Using a very efficient numerical algorithm of the strong disorder renormalization group method we have extended the investigations about the critical behavior of the random transverse-field Ising model in three and four dimensions, as well as for Erd\H os-R\'enyi random graphs, which represent infinite dimensional lattices. In all studied cases an infinite disorder quantum critical point is identified, which ensures that the applied method is asymptotically correct and the calculated critical exponents tend to the exact values for large scales. We have found that the critical exponents are independent of the form of (ferromagnetic) disorder and they vary smoothly with the dimensionality.

id: 1010.2349
title: Many-body spin interactions and the ground state of a dense Rydberg lattice gas
authors: I. Lesanovsky
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 025301 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2349
abstract: We study a one-dimensional atomic lattice gas in which Rydberg atoms are excited by a laser and whose external dynamics is frozen. We identify a parameter regime in which the Hamiltonian is well-approximated by a spin Hamiltonian with quasi-local many-body interactions which possesses an exact analytic ground state solution. This state is a superposition of all states of the system that are compatible with an interaction induced constraint weighted by a fugacity. We perform a detailed analysis of this state which exhibits a cross-over between a paramagnetic phase with short-ranged correlations and a crystal. This study also leads us to a class of spin models with many-body interactions that permit an analytic ground state solution.

id: 1010.2385
title: The role of positronium decoherence in the studies of positron annihilation in matter
authors: Marek Pietrow, Piotr Slomski
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 375, Issue 44, 2011, Pages 3872-3876
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2385
abstract: A small difference between the energy of the para-positronium (p-Ps) and ortho-positronium (o-Ps) states suggests the possibility of superposition of p-Ps and o-Ps during the formation of positronium (Ps) from pre-Ps terminating its migration in the matter in a void ('free volume'). It is shown that such a superposition decohere in the basis of p-Ps and o-Ps and the decoherence time is estimated. The time scale of the decoherence estimated here motivates respective correction in decomposition of the positron annihilation lifetime spectra. The way of the correction is sketched. The timescale of the decoherence suggests a need of awareness when experimental data from positron annihilation techniques are processed. More generally, the superposited state of Ps should contribute to the evolution theory of positronium in matter.

id: 1010.2504
title: Soliton-like Solutions for Nonlinear Schroedinger Equation with Variable Quadratic Hamiltonians
authors: Erwin Suazo, Sergei K. Suslov
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2504
abstract: We construct one soliton solutions for the nonlinear Schroedinger equation with variable quadratic Hamiltonians in a unified form by taking advantage of a complete (super) integrability of generalized harmonic oscillators. The soliton wave evolution in external fields with variable quadratic potentials is totally determined by the linear problem, like motion of a classical particle with acceleration, and the (self-similar) soliton shape is due to a subtle balance between the linear Hamiltonian (dispersion and potential) and nonlinearity in the Schroedinger equation by the standards of soliton theory. Most linear (hypergeometric, Bessel) and a few nonlinear (Jacobian elliptic, second Painleve transcendental) classical special functions of mathematical physics are linked together through these solutions, thus providing a variety of nonlinear integrable cases. Examples include bright and dark solitons, and Jacobi elliptic and second Painleve transcendental solutions for several variable Hamiltonians that are important for current research in nonlinear optics and Bose-Einstein condensation. The Feshbach resonance matter wave soliton management is briefly discussed from this new perspective.

id: 1010.2738
title: Heavy-particle formalism with Foldy-Wouthuysen representation
authors: Bingwei Long, Vadim Lensky
comments: 28 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4, appendix added, version published in Phys. Rev. C
journal: Phys.Rev.C83:045206,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2738
abstract: Utilizing the Foldy-Wouthuysen representation, we use a bottom-up approach to construct heavy-baryon Lagrangian terms, without employing a relativistic Lagrangian as the starting point. The couplings obtained this way feature a straightforward $1/m$ expansion, which ensures Lorentz invariance order by order in effective field theories. We illustrate possible applications with two examples in the context of chiral effective field theory: the pion-nucleon coupling, which reproduces the results in the literature, and the pion-nucleon-delta coupling, which does not employ the Rarita-Schwinger field for describing the delta isobar, and hence does not invoke any spurious degrees of freedom. In particular, we point out that one of the subleading $\pi N \Delta$ couplings used in the literature is, in fact, redundant, and discuss the implications of this. We also show that this redundant term should be dropped if one wants to use low-energy constants fitted from $\pi N$ scattering in calculations of $NN\to NN\pi$ reactions.

id: 1010.2791
title: The Wigner-Fokker-Planck equation: Stationary states and large-time behavior
authors: Anton Arnold, Irene M. Gamba, Maria Pia Gualdani, Stephane Mischler, Clement Mouhot, Christof Sparber
comments: This manuscript essentially replaces (and corrects a mistake found in) the submission arXiv:0707.2445, by establishing a new functional framework and new spectral estimates
journal: 
subjects: Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2791
abstract: We consider the linear Wigner-Fokker-Planck equation subject to confining potentials which are smooth perturbations of the harmonic oscillator potential. For a certain class of perturbations we prove that the equation admits a unique stationary solution in a weighted Sobolev space. A key ingredient of the proof is a new result on the existence of spectral gaps for Fokker-Planck type operators in certain weighted $L^2$-spaces. In addition we show that the steady state corresponds to a positive density matrix operator with unit trace and that the solutions of the time-dependent problem converge towards the steady state with an exponential rate.

id: 1010.2965
title: Gravity-analogy in one-dimensional ideal Fermi fluids and Burgers' equation
authors: Stefano Giovanazzi
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2965
abstract: An hydrodynamic description of a one-dimensional flow of an ideal Fermi fluid is constructed from a semiclassical approximation. For an initially fully degenerate fluid, Euler and continuity hydrodynamic equations are dual to two uncoupled inviscid Burgers' equations. Yet the price for the initial simplicity of the description is paid by the complexity of non-linear instabilities towards possible turbulent evolutions. Nevertheless, it is shown that linear long-wavelength density perturbations on a stationary flow are generically stable. Consequently, linear sound obeys a wave equation with analogy to gravity. The results have applications for ultra-cold atomic gases.

id: 1010.3318
title: Auto- and Cross-Correlation-Functions as entanglement quantifiers in semiconductor microcavities
authors: Ruben Dario Guerrero
comments: Use bracket.sty, 20 pages 9 figures, Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3318
abstract: The dynamics of the exciton-photon entanglement, in a semiconductor microcavity is analyzed. Finding a closed analytical expression for the time evolution of the concurrence. Using as model two coupled, quantum oscillators with detuning between them. Supposing that the system is at a temperature closer to zero. And that the quantum state of the system, remains in the one excitation sector of the total Hilbert space. The former theoretical setup, describes the excitons coupled to the photons in the microcavity accurately, for a system with ultra low density of excitons. We remark in first place, that our closed expression for the concurrence dynamics. Enable us to establish a good analytical criterion, to determine the coupling dynamical regime, in which the system is. Even more, we show that our criterion, is in good agreement with typically accepted, experimental signatures for strong, and wake coupling regimes. Finally we present theoretical evidence, suggesting that the entanglement between the exciton and the photon. Can be measured in experiments, v\'ia the cross correlation contribution, to the time resolved spectra of the system.

id: 1010.3331
title: Majorana meets Coxeter: Non-Abelian Majorana Fermions and Non-Abelian Statistics
authors: Shigehiro Yasui, Kazunori Itakura, Muneto Nitta
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, references added, published version
journal: Phys.Rev.B83:134518,2011
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3331
abstract: We discuss statistics of vortices having zero-energy non-Abelian Majorana fermions inside them. Considering the system of multiple non-Abelian vortices, we derive a non-Abelian statistics that differs from the previously derived non-Abelian statistics. The new non-Abelian statistics presented here is given by a tensor product of two different groups, namely the non-Abelian statistics obeyed by the Abelian Majorana fermions and the Coxeter group. The Coxeter group is a symmetric group related to the symmetry of polytopes in a high-dimensional space. As the simplest example, we consider the case in which a vortex contains three Majorana fermions that are mixed with each other under the SO(3) transformations. We concretely present the representation of the Coxeter group in our case and its geometrical expressions in the high-dimensional Hilbert space constructed from non-Abelian Majorana fermions.

id: 1010.3370
title: Finite Quantum Models: Constructive Approach to Description of Quantum Behavior
authors: Vladimir V. Kornyak
comments: v2: English translation added, some changes in text, English version 16 pages, Russian version 18 pages, submitted to "Zapiski Nauchnykh Seminarov POMI" (Notes of Scientific Seminars of the St.Petersburg Department of the Steklov Mathematical Institute)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Group Theory (math.GR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3370
abstract: Universality of quantum mechanics -- its applicability to physical systems of quite different nature and scales -- indicates that quantum behavior can be a manifestation of general mathematical properties of systems containing indistinguishable, i.e. lying on the same orbit of some symmetry group, elements. In this paper we demonstrate, that quantum behavior arises naturally in systems with finite number of elements connected by non-trivial symmetry groups. The "finite" approach allows to see the peculiarities of quantum description more distinctly without need for concepts like "wave function collapse", "Everett's multiverses" etc. In particular, under the finiteness assumption any quantum dynanics is reduced to the simple permutation dynamics. The advantage of the finite quantum models is that they can be studied constructively by means of computer algebra and computational group theory methods.

id: 1010.3392
title: High-pressure behavior of dense hydrogen up to 3.5 TPa from density functional theory calculations
authors: Hua Y. Geng, Hong X. Song, J. F. Li, Q. Wu
comments: 33 pages, 15 figures, published at J. Appl. Phys. 111, 063510 (2012)
journal: Journal of Applied Physics, 063510 (2012)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3392
abstract: Structural behavior and equation of state of atomic and molecular crystal phases of dense hydrogen at pressures up to 3.5 TPa are systematically investigated with density functional theory. The results indicate that the Vinet EOS model that fitted to low-pressure experimental data overestimates the compressibility of dense hydrogen drastically when beyond 500 GPa. Metastable multi-atomic molecular phases with weak covalent bonds are observed. When compressed beyond about 2.8 TPa, these exotic low-coordinated phases become competitive with the groundstate and other high-symmetry atomic phases. Using nudged elastic band method, the transition path and the associated energy barrier between these high-pressure phases are evaluated. In particular for the case of dissociation of diatomic molecular phase into the atomic metallic Cs-IV phase, the existent barrier might raise the transition pressure about 200 GPa at low temperatures. Plenty of flat and broad basins on the energy surface of dense hydrogen have been discovered, which should take a major responsibility for the highly anharmonic zero point vibrations of the lattice, as well as the quantum structure fluctuations in some extreme cases. At zero pressure, our analysis demonstrates that all of these atomic phases of dense hydrogen known so far are unquenchable. NOTE: In the previous version of this paper (1010.3392v1) we made a mistake when evaluating the enthalpy of Cs-IV phase, which misled us to a conclusion that taking the multi-atomic molecular phases as the ground-state. After corrected this error, however, the atomic phase of Cs-IV becomes the static structure with the lowest enthalpy. Current version not only includes a substantial improvement of the previous one, but also contains many NEW interesting topics that were not touched before.

id: 1010.3395
title: Rescuing the Born Rule for Quantum Cosmology
authors: Joshua H. Cooperman
comments: 24 pages; reflects published version
journal: JCAP 1102:014,2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3395
abstract: Page has recently argued that the Born rule does not suffice for computing all probabilities in quantum cosmology. He further asserts that the Born rule's failure gives rise to the cosmological measure problem. Here I contend that Page's result stems from his use of an overly restrictive definition of the Born rule. In particular, I demonstrate that all of the probabilities he wishes to compute follow from the Born rule when generalized measurements are permitted. I also register two comments on Page's theoretical setting, relating respectively to Hilbert space dimensionality and permutation symmetry. These considerations lead me to conclude that the claimed insufficiency of the Born rule is by no means specific to the cosmological context.

id: 1010.3437
title: Dynamical mass generation via space compactification in graphene
authors: A. D. Alhaidari, A. Jellal, E. B. Choubabi, H. Bahlouli
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Quantum Matter 2, 140 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3437
abstract: Fermions in a graphene sheet behave like massless particles. We show that by folding the sheet into a tube they acquire non-zero effective mass as they move along the tube axis. That is, changing the space topology of graphene from 2D to 1D (space compactification) changes the 2D massless problem into an effective massive 1D problem. The size of the resulting mass spectrum depends on the quantized azimuthal frequency and its line spacing is proportional to the inverse of the tube diameter.

id: 1010.3444
title: Hybrid quantum systems of atoms and ions
authors: Christoph Zipkes, Lothar Ratschbacher, Stefan Palzer, Carlo Sias, Michael K?hl
comments: ICAP proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3444
abstract: In recent years, ultracold atoms have emerged as an exceptionally controllable experimental system to investigate fundamental physics, ranging from quantum information science to simulations of condensed matter models. Here we go one step further and explore how cold atoms can be combined with other quantum systems to create new quantum hybrids with tailored properties. Coupling atomic quantum many-body states to an independently controllable single-particle gives access to a wealth of novel physics and to completely new detection and manipulation techniques. We report on recent experiments in which we have for the first time deterministically placed a single ion into an atomic Bose Einstein condensate. A trapped ion, which currently constitutes the most pristine single particle quantum system, can be observed and manipulated at the single particle level. In this single-particle/many-body composite quantum system we show sympathetic cooling of the ion and observe chemical reactions of single particles in situ.

id: 1010.3445
title: Parameter Dependent Commuting Matrices, Pl¨¹cker relations and Related Quantum Glass Models
authors: B Sriram Shastry
comments: 9 pages, two figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 052001 (2011)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3445
abstract: Type-I matrices were introduced recently as finite dimensional prototypes of quantum integrable systems. These matrices are linearly dependent on an "interaction" type parameter, and possess interesting properties such as commuting partner matrices and generically violate the von Neumann Wigner non crossing rule. The important role of Pl\"ucker relations in this construction is noted. Type-I matrices are given a transparent formulation in terms of Fermi or Bose type particle operators- they represent a Quantum glass model with either Fermi or Bose statistics, with several free parameters that may be chosen at will.

id: 1010.3515
title: Classical and Quantum Mechanics with Poincare-Snyder Relativity
authors: Otto C. W. Kong, Hung-Yi Lee
comments: 27 pages in Revtex; 2 figures in 3 eps files incorporated
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3515
abstract: The Poincar\'e-Snyder relativity was introduced in an earlier paper of ours as an extended form of Einstein relativity obtained by appropriate limiting setting of the full Quantum Relativity. The latter, with fundamental constants $\hbar$ and $G$ built into the symmetry, is supposed to be the relativity of quantum space-time. Studying the mechanics of Poincar\'e-Snyder relativity is an important means to get to confront the great challenge of constructing the dynamics of Quantum Relativity. The mechanics will also be of interest on its own, plausibly yielding prediction accessible to experiments. We write the straightforward canonical formulation here, and show that it yields sensible physics pictures. Besides the free particle case, we also give an explicit analysis of two particle collision as dictated by the formulation, as well as the case of a particle rebouncing from an insurmountable potential barrier in the time direction. The very interesting solution of particle-antiparticle creation and annihilation as interpreted in a the usual time evolution picture can be obtained, in the simple classical mechanics setting. We consider that a nontrivial success of the theory, giving confidence that the whole background approach is sensible and plausibly on the right track. We also sketch the quantum mechanics formulation, direct from the familiar canoincal quantization, matching to a relativity group geometric quantization formulation in a previous publication.

id: 1010.3576
title: Prepotential approach to quasinormal modes
authors: Choon-Lin Ho
comments: 12 pages, no figure. Typos corrected
journal: Ann. Phys. 326 (2011) 1394
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3576
abstract: In this paper we demonstrate how the recently reported exactly and quasi-exactly solvable models admitting quasinormal modes can be constructed and classified very simply and directly by the newly proposed prepotential approach. These new models were previously obtained within the Lie-algebraic approach. Unlike the Lie-algebraic approach, the prepotential approach does not require any knowledge of the underlying symmetry of the system. It treats both quasi-exact and exact solvabilities on the same footing, and gives the potential as well as the eigenfunctions and eigenvalues simultaneously. We also present three new models with quasinormal modes: a new exactly solvable Morse-like model, and two new quasi-exactly solvable models of the Scarf II and generalized P\"oschl-Teller types.

id: 1010.3611
title: Coupled-channels density-matrix approach to low-energy nuclear collision dynamics: A technique for quantifying quantum decoherence effects on reaction observables
authors: Alexis Diaz-Torres
comments: 7 pages, 4 Figures
journal: Phys.Rev.C82:054617,2010
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3611
abstract: The coupled-channels density-matrix technique for nuclear reaction dynamics, which is based on the Liouville-von Neumann equation with Lindblad dissipative terms, is developed with the inclusion of full angular momentum couplings. It allows a quantitative study of the role and importance of quantum decoherence in nuclear scattering. Formulae of asymptotic observables that can reveal effects of quantum decoherence are given. A method for extracting energy-resolved scattering information from the time-dependent density matrix is introduced. As an example, model calculations are carried out for the low-energy collision of the $^{16}$O projectile on the $^{154}$Sm target.

id: 1010.3621
title: Quantum versus Classical Dynamics in a driven barrier: the role of kinematic effects
authors: P. K. Papachristou, E. Katifori, F. K. Diakonos, V. Constantoudis, E. Mavrommatis
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86, 036213 (2012)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3621
abstract: We study the dynamics of the classical and quantum mechanical scattering of a wave packet from an oscillating barrier. Our main focus is on the dependence of the transmission coefficient on the initial energy of the wave packet for a wide range of oscillation frequencies. The behavior of the quantum transmission coefficient is affected by tunneling phenomena, resonances and kinematic effects emanating from the time dependence of the potential. We show that when kinematic effects dominate (mainly in intermediate frequencies), classical mechanics provides very good approximation of quantum results. Moreover, in the frequency region of optimal agreement between classical and quantum transmission coefficient, the transmission threshold, i.e. the energy above which the transmission coefficient becomes larger than a specific small threshold value, is found to exhibit a minimum. We also consider the form of the transmitted wave packet and we find that for low values of the frequency the incoming classical and quantum wave packet can be split into a train of well separated coherent pulses, a phenomenon which can admit purely classical kinematic interpretation.

id: 1010.3700
title: Holography and Entanglement in Flat Spacetime
authors: Wei Li, Tadashi Takayanagi
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure; to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:141301,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3700
abstract: We propose a holographic correspondence of the flat spacetime based on the behavior of the entanglement entropy and the correlation functions. The holographic dual theory turns out to be highly non-local. We argue that after most part of the space is traced out, the reduced density matrix gives the maximal entropy and the correlation functions become trivial. We present a toy model for this holographic dual using a non-local scalar field theory that reproduces the same property of the entanglement entropy. Our conjecture is consistent with the entropy of Schwarzschild black holes in asymptotically flat spacetimes.

id: 1010.3732
title: Classifying quantum phases using Matrix Product States and PEPS
authors: Norbert Schuch, David Perez-Garcia, Ignacio Cirac
comments: v2: 21 pages, 6 figures. Significantly rewritten and extended. Now contains a classification of phases both without and with symmetries, for systems with both unique and degenerate ground states. v3: 24 pages. Improved according to referees' suggestions (most notably added examples and improved definition of phases under symmetries). Accepted at Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 165139 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3732
abstract: We give a classification of gapped quantum phases of one-dimensional systems in the framework of Matrix Product States (MPS) and their associated parent Hamiltonians, for systems with unique as well as degenerate ground states, and both in the absence and presence of symmetries. We find that without symmetries, all systems are in the same phase, up to accidental ground state degeneracies. If symmetries are imposed, phases without symmetry breaking (i.e., with unique ground states) are classified by the cohomology classes of the symmetry group, this is, the equivalence classes of its projective representations, a result first derived in [X. Chen, Z.-C. Gu, and X.-G. Wen, Phys. Rev. B 83, 035107 (2011); arXiv:1008.3745]. For phases with symmetry breaking (i.e., degenerate ground states), we find that the symmetry consists of two parts, one of which acts by permuting the ground states, while the other acts on individual ground states, and phases are labelled by both the permutation action of the former and the cohomology class of the latter. Using Projected Entangled Pair States (PEPS), we subsequently extend our framework to the classification of two-dimensional phases in the neighborhood of a number of important cases, in particular systems with unique ground states, degenerate ground states with a local order parameter, and topological order. We also show that in two dimensions, imposing symmetries does not constrain the phase diagram in the same way it does in one dimension. As a central tool, we introduce the isometric form, a normal form for MPS and PEPS which is a renormalization fixed point. Transforming a state to its isometric form does not change the phase, and thus, we can focus on to the classification of isometric forms.

id: 1010.4093
title: Two-spin dephasing by electron-phonon interaction in semiconductor double quantum dots
authors: Xuedong Hu
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 165322 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4093
abstract: We study electron-phonon interaction induced decoherence between two-electron singlet and triplet states in a semiconductor double quantum dot using a spin-boson model. We investigate the onset and time evolution of this dephasing, and study its dependence on quantum dot parameters such as dot size and double dot separations, as well as the host materials (GaAs and Si). At the short time limit, electron-phonon interaction only causes an incomplete initial Gaussian decay of the off-diagonal density matrix element in the singlet-triplet Hilbert space. A complete long-time exponential decay due to phonon relaxation would eventually dominate over two-spin decoherence. We analyze two-spin decoherence in both symmetric and biased double quantum dots, identifying their difference in electron-phonon coupling and the relevant consequences.

id: 1010.4094
title: Quantum entanglement between a nonlinear nanomechanical resonator and a microwave field
authors: Charles P. Meaney, Ross H. McKenzie, G. J. Milburn
comments: 36 pages, 18 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 056202 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4094
abstract: We consider a theoretical model for a nonlinear nanomechanical resonator coupled to a superconducting microwave resonator. The nanomechanical resonator is driven parametrically at twice its resonance frequency, while the superconducting microwave resonator is driven with two tones that differ in frequency by an amount equal to the parametric driving frequency. We show that the semi-classical approximation of this system has an interesting fixed point bifurcation structure. In the semi-classical dynamics a transition from stable fixed points to limit cycles is observed as one moves from positive to negative detuning. We show that signatures of this bifurcation structure are also present in the full dissipative quantum system and further show that it leads to mixed state entanglement between the nanomechanical resonator and the microwave cavity in the dissipative quantum system that is a maximum close to the semi-classical bifurcation. Quantum signatures of the semi-classical limit-cycles are presented.

id: 1010.4157
title: Black hole entropy divergence and the uncertainty principle
authors: Ram Brustein, Judy Kupferman
comments: Added clarifications and explanations
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:124014,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4157
abstract: Black hole entropy has been shown by 't Hooft to diverge at the horizon. The region near the horizon is in a thermal state, so entropy is linear to energy which consequently also diverges. We find a similar divergence for the energy of the reduced density matrix of relativistic and non-relativistic field theories, extending previous results in quantum mechanics. This divergence is due to an infinitely sharp division between the observable and unobservable regions of space, and it stems from the position/momentum uncertainty relation in the same way that the momentum fluctuations of a precisely localized quantum particle diverge. We show that when the boundary between the observable and unobservable regions is smoothed the divergence is tamed. We argue that the divergence of black hole entropy can also be interpreted as a consequence of position/momentum uncertainty, and that 't Hooft's brick wall tames the divergence in the same way, by smoothing the boundary.

id: 1010.4232
title: Electric Deflection of Rotating Molecules
authors: E. Gershnabel, I. Sh. Averbukh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4232
abstract: We provide a theory of the deflection of polar and non-polar rotating molecules by inhomogeneous static electric field. Rainbow-like features in the angular distribution of the scattered molecules are analyzed in detail. Furthermore, we demonstrate that one may efficiently control the deflection process with the help of short and strong femtosecond laser pulses. In particular the deflection process may by turned-off by a proper excitation, and the angular dispersion of the deflected molecules can be substantially reduced. We study the problem both classically and quantum mechanically, taking into account the effects of strong deflecting field on the molecular rotations. In both treatments we arrive at the same conclusions. The suggested control scheme paves the way for many applications involving molecular focusing, guiding, and trapping by inhomogeneous fields.

id: 1010.4295
title: Variational cluster approach for strongly correlated lattice bosons in the superfluid phase
authors: Michael Knap, Enrico Arrigoni, Wolfgang von der Linden
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 134507 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4295
abstract: We extend the variational cluster approach to deal with strongly correlated lattice bosons in the superfluid phase. To this end, we reformulate the approach within a pseudoparticle formalism, whereby cluster excitations are described by particlelike excitations. The approximation amounts to solving a multicomponent noninteracting bosonic system by means of a multimode Bogoliubov approximation. A source-and-drain term is introduced in order to break U(1) symmetry at the cluster level. We provide an expression for the grand potential, the single-particle normal and anomalous Green's functions, the condensate density, and other static quantities. As a first nontrivial application of the method we choose the two-dimensional Bose-Hubbard model and evaluate results in both the Mott and the superfluid phases. Our results show an excellent agreement with quantum Monte Carlo calculations.

id: 1010.4352
title: Rotational Symmetry of Classical Orbits, Arbitrary Quantization of Angular Momentum and the Role of Gauge Field in Two-Dimensional Space
authors: Jun-Li Xin, J.-Q. Liang
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4352
abstract: We study the quantum-classical correspondence in terms of coherent wave functions of a charged particle in two-dimensional central-scalar-potentials as well as the gauge field of a magnetic flux in the sense that the probability clouds of wave functions are well localized on classical orbits. For both closed and open classical orbits, the non-integer angular-momentum quantization with the level-space of angular momentum being greater or less than $\hbar$ is determined uniquely by the same rotational symmetry of classical orbits and probability clouds of coherent wave functions, which is not necessarily $2\pi$-periodic. The gauge potential of a magnetic flux impenetrable to the particle cannot change the quantization rule but is able to shift the spectrum of canonical angular momentum by a flux-dependent value, which results in a common topological phase for all wave functions in the given model. The quantum mechanical model of anyon proposed by Wilczek (Phys. Rev. Lette. 48, 1144) becomes a special case of the arbitrary-quantization.

id: 1010.4387
title: Anharmonic oscillator and the optimized basis expansion
authors: Pouria Pedram
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures, to appear in Applied Mathematics and Computation
journal: Applied Mathematics and Computation 219 (2013) 4655
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4387
abstract: We introduce various optimization schemes for highly accurate calculation of the eigenvalues and the eigenfunctions of the one-dimensional anharmonic oscillators. We present several methods of analytically fixing the nonlinear variational parameter specified by the domain of the trigonometric basis functions. We show that the optimized parameter enables us to determine the energy spectrum to an arbitrary accuracy. Also, using the harmonic oscillator basis functions, we indicate that the resulting optimal frequency agrees with the one obtained by the principle of the minimal sensitivity.

id: 1010.4391
title: Hysteresis and intermittency in a nano-bridge based suspended DC-SQUID
authors: Eran Segev, Oren Suchoi, Oleg Shtempluck, Fei Xue, Eyal Buks
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4391
abstract: We study voltage response of nano-bridge based DC-SQUID fabricated on a Si\_{3}N\_{4} membrane. Such a configuration may help in reducing 1/f noise, which originates from substrate fluctuating defects. We find that the poor thermal coupling between the DC-SQUID and the substrate leads to strong hysteretic response of the SQUID, even though it is biased by an alternating current. In addition, when the DC-SQUID is biased near a threshold of spontaneous oscillations, the measured voltage has an intermittent pattern, which depends on the applied magnetic flux through the SQUID.

id: 1010.4523
title: Tailored particle current in an optical lattice by a weak time-symmetric harmonic potential
authors: Julio Santos, Rafael A. Molina, Juan Ortigoso, Mirta Rodr¨ªguez
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 023614 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4523
abstract: Quantum ratchets exhibit asymptotic currents when driven by a time-periodic potential of zero mean if the proper spatio-temporal symmetries are broken. There has been recent debate on whether directed currents may arise for potentials which do not break these symmetries. We show here that, in the presence of degeneracies in the quasienergy spectrum, long-lasting directed currents can be induced, even if the time reversal symmetry is not broken. Our model can be realized with ultracold atoms in optical lattices in the tight-binding regime, and we show that the time scale of the average current can be controlled by extremely weak fields.

id: 1010.4673
title: An alternative to the conventional micro-canonical ensemble
authors: Boris V. Fine, Frank Hantschel
comments: 25 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physica Scripta T151, 014078 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4673
abstract: Usual approach to the foundations of quantum statistical physics is based on conventional micro-canonical ensemble as a starting point for deriving Boltzmann-Gibbs (BG) equilibrium. It leaves, however, a number of conceptual and practical questions unanswered. Here we discuss these questions, thereby motivating the study of a natural alternative known as Quantum Micro-Canonical (QMC) ensemble. We present a detailed numerical study of the properties of the QMC ensemble for finite quantum systems revealing a good agreement with the existing analytical results for large quantum systems. We also propose the way to introduce analytical corrections accounting for finite-size effects. With the above corrections, the agreement between the analytical and the numerical results becomes very accurate. The QMC ensemble leads to an unconventional kind of equilibrium, which may be realizable after strong perturbations in small isolated quantum systems having large number of levels. We demonstrate that the variance of energy fluctuations can be used to discriminate the QMC equilibrium from the BG equilibrium. We further suggest that the reason, why BG equilibrium commonly occurs in nature rather than the QMC-type equilibrium, has something to do with the notion of quantum collapse.

id: 1010.4717
title: Comparison of Thermodynamic Characteristics in Ordinary Quantum and Classical Approaches and Game Theory
authors: Lev Sakhnovich
comments: An improved and slighly corrected version
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4717
abstract: We fix the temperature $T$ and consider mean energy and Boltzmann-Gibbs-Shannon entropy as two players of a game. As a result, basic formulas for the ordinary quantum mean energy and the Boltzmann-Gibbs-Shannon entropy are derived. We compare also the quantum and classical approaches without a demand for Plank's constant being small. Important inequalities for statistical sum, quantum energy, quantum entropy, and their classical analogs follow.

id: 1010.4933
title: One dimensional scattering of a two body interacting system by an infinite wall
authors: A.M. Moro, J.A. Caballero, J. Gomez-Camacho
comments: 37 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4933
abstract: The one-dimensional scattering of a two body interacting system by an infinite wall is studied in a quantum-mechanical framework. This problem contains some of the dynamical features present in the collision of atomic, molecular and nuclear systems. The scattering problem is solved exactly, for the case of a harmonic interaction between the fragments. The exact result is used to assess the validity of two different approximations to the scattering process. The adiabatic approximation, which considers that the relative co-ordinate is frozen during the scattering process, is found to be inadequate for this problem. The uncorrelated scattering approximation, which neglects the correlation between the fragments, gives results in accordance with the exact calculations when the scattering energy is high compared to the oscillator parameter.

id: 1010.4942
title: From permanence to total availability: a quantum conceptual upgrade
authors: Massimiliano Sassoli de Bianchi
comments: 
journal: Foundations of Science: Volume 17, Issue 3 (2012), Page 223-244
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4942
abstract: We consider the classical concept of time of permanence and observe that its quantum equivalent is described by a bona fide self-adjoint operator. Its interpretation, by means of the spectral theorem, reveals that we have to abandon not only the idea that quantum entities would be characterizable in terms of spatial trajectories but, more generally, that they would possess the very attribute of spatiality. Consequently, a permanence time shouldn't be interpreted as a "time" in quantum mechanics, but as a measure of the total availability of a quantum entity in participating to a process of creation of a spatial localization.

id: 1010.4979
title: Universal model for exoergic bimolecular reactions and inelastic processes
authors: Bo Gao
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review Letters 105, 263203 (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4979
abstract: From a rigorous multichannel quantum-defect formulation of bimolecular processes, we derive a fully quantal and analytic model for the total rate of exoergic bimolecular reactions and/or inelastic processes that is applicable over a wide range of temperatures including the ultracold regime. The theory establishes a connection between the ultracold chemistry and the regular chemistry by showing that the same theory that gives the quantum threshold behavior agrees with the classical Gorin model at higher temperatures. In between, it predicts that the rates for identical bosonic molecules and distinguishable molecules would first decrease with temperature outside of the Wigner threshold region, before rising after a minimum is reached.

id: 1010.5004
title: The string of variable density: further results
authors: Paolo Amore
comments: 54 pages, 11 figures, 7 tables
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5004
abstract: We analyze the problem of calculating the solutions and the spectrum of a string with arbitrary density and fixed ends. We build a perturbative scheme which uses a basis of WKB-type functions and obtain explicit expressions for the eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of the string. Using this approach we show that it is possible to derive the asymptotic (high energy) behavior of the string, obtaining explicit expressions for the first three coefficients (the first two can also be obtained with the WKB method). Finally using an iterative approach we also obtain analytical expressions for the low energy behavior of the eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of a string with rapidly oscillating density, recovering (in a simpler way) results in the literature.

id: 1010.5048
title: Entanglement of two qubits mediated by one-dimensional plasmonic waveguides
authors: A. Gonzalez-Tudela, D. Martin-Cano, E. Moreno, L. Martin-Moreno, C. Tejedor, F.J. Garcia-Vidal
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Minor Changes. Journal Reference added. Highlighted in Physics
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 020501 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5048
abstract: We investigate qubit-qubit entanglement mediated by plasmons supported by one-dimensional waveguides. We explore both the situation of spontaneous formation of entanglement from an unentangled state and the emergence of driven steady-state entanglement under continuous pumping. In both cases, we show that large values for the concurrence are attainable for qubit-qubit distances larger than the operating wavelength by using plasmonic waveguides that are currently available.

id: 1010.5134
title: Coherent control of the cooperative branching ratio for nuclear x-ray pumping
authors: Adriana P¨¢lffy, Christoph H. Keitel, J?rg Evers
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures; updated to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 155103 (2011)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5134
abstract: Coherent control of nuclear pumping in a three level system driven by x-ray light is investigated. In single nuclei, the pumping performance is determined by the branching ratio of the excited state populated by the x-ray pulse. Our results are based on the observation that in ensembles of nuclei, cooperative excitation and decay leads to a greatly modified nuclear dynamics, which we characterize by a time-dependent cooperative branching ratio. We discuss prospects of steering the x-ray pumping by coherently controlling the cooperative decay. First, we study an ideal case with purely superradiant decay and perfect control of the cooperative emission. A numerical analysis of x-ray pumping in nuclear forward scattering with coherent control of the cooperative decay via externally applied magnetic fields is presented. Next, we provide an extended survey of nuclei suitable for our scheme, and propose proof-of-principle implementations already possible with typical M\"ossbauer nuclear systems such as $^{57}\mathrm{Fe}$. Finally, we discuss the application of such control techniques to the population or depletion of long-lived nuclear states.

id: 1010.5185
title: The Fractionary Schr?dinger Equation, Green Functions and Ultradistributions
authors: A. L. De Paoli, M. C. Rocca
comments: 32 pages. No figures
journal: Physica A:392, 111-122, 2013
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5185
abstract: In this work, we generalize previous results about the Fractionary Schr\"{o}dinger Equation within the formalism of the theory of Tempered Ultradistributions. Several examples of the use of this theory are given. In particular we evaluate the Green's function for a free particle in the general case, for an arbitrary order of the derivative index.

id: 1010.5220
title: Summing free unitary random matrices
authors: Andrzej Jarosz
comments: 17 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5220
abstract: I use quaternion free probability calculus - an extension of free probability to non-Hermitian matrices (which is introduced in a succinct but self-contained way) - to derive in the large-size limit the mean densities of the eigenvalues and singular values of sums of independent unitary random matrices, weighted by complex numbers. In the case of CUE summands, I write them in terms of two "master equations," which I then solve and numerically test in four specific cases. I conjecture a finite-size extension of these results, exploiting the complementary error function. I prove a central limit theorem, and its first sub-leading correction, for independent identically-distributed zero-drift unitary random matrices.

id: 1010.5331
title: Cosmological Constant from Decoherence
authors: Claus Kiefer, Friedemann Queisser, Alexei A. Starobinsky
comments: 39 pages, 2 figures, final version
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 28 (2011) 125022 (26pp)
subjects: Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5331
abstract: We address the issue why a cosmological constant (dark energy) possesses a small positive value instead of being zero. Motivated by the cosmic landscape picture, we mimic the dark energy by a scalar field with potential wells and show that other degrees of freedom interacting with it can localize this field by decoherence in one of the wells. Dark energy can then acquire a small positive value. We also show that the additional degrees of freedom enhance the tunneling rate between the wells. The consideration is performed in detail for the case of two wells and then extended to a large number of wells.

id: 1010.5388
title: Helstrom's Theory on Quantum Binary Decision Revisited
authors: Gianfranco Cariolaro, Alberto Vigato
comments: 5 pages, 0 figures, submitted to conference ISIT2011
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5388
abstract: For a binary system specified by the density operators r0 and r1 and by the prior probabilities q0 and q1, Helstrom's theory permits the evaluation of the optimal measurement operators and of the corresponding maximum correct detection probability. The theory is based on the eigendecomposition (EID) of the operator, given by the difference of the weighted density operators, namely D = q1r1-q0r0. In general, this EID is obtained explicitly only with pure states, whereas with mixed states it must be carried out numerically. In this letter we show that the same evaluation can be performed on the basis of a modified version of the Gram matrix. The advantage is due to the fact that the outer products of density operators are replaced by inner product, with a considerable dimensionality reduction. At the limit, in quantum optical communications the density operators have infinite dimensions, whereas the inner products are simply scalar quantities. The Gram matrix approach permits the explicit (not numerical) evaluation of a binary system performance in cases not previously developed.

id: 1010.5732
title: Observation of slow light in the noise spectrum of a vertical external cavity surface emitting laser
authors: A. El Amili, B.-X. Miranda, F. Goldfarb, G. Baili, G. Beaudoin, I. Sagnes, F. Bretenaker, M. Alouini
comments: accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 223902 (2010)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5732
abstract: The role of coherent population oscillations is evidenced in the noise spectrum of an ultra-low noise lasers. This effect is isolated in the intensity noise spectrum of an optimized single-frequency vertical external cavity surface emitting laser. The coherent population oscillations induced by the lasing mode manifest themselves through their associated dispersion that leads to slow light effects probed by the spontaneous emission present in the non-lasing side modes.

id: 1010.5760
title: Optical properties of a two-nanospheroid cluster: analytical approach
authors: D.V. Guzatov, V.V. Klimov
comments: 45 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5760
abstract: Optical properties of a plasmonic nano-antenna made of two metallic nanospheroids (prolate or oblate) are investigated analytically in quasistatic approximation. It is shown that in clusters of two nanospheroids, three types of plasmonic modes can be present. Two of them can be effectively excited by a plane electromagnetic wave, while the third one can be effectively excited only by a nanolocalized light source (an atom, a molecule, a quantum dot) placed in the gap between the nanoparticles. Analytical expressions for absorption and scattering cross-sections, enhancement of a local field, and radiative decay rate of a dipole source placed near such a nano-antenna are presented and analyzed.

id: 1010.5796
title: Universal parity effects in the entanglement entropy of XX chains with open boundary conditions
authors: Maurizio Fagotti, Pasquale Calabrese
comments: 24 pages, 9 figures
journal: J.Stat.Mech.1101:P01017,2011
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5796
abstract: We consider the Renyi entanglement entropies in the one-dimensional XX spin-chains with open boundary conditions in the presence of a magnetic field. In the case of a semi-infinite system and a block starting from the boundary, we derive rigorously the asymptotic behavior for large block sizes on the basis of a recent mathematical theorem for the determinant of Toeplitz plus Hankel matrices. We conjecture a generalized Fisher-Hartwig form for the corrections to the asymptotic behavior of this determinant that allows the exact characterization of the corrections to the scaling at order o(1/l) for any n. By combining these results with conformal field theory arguments, we derive exact expressions also in finite chains with open boundary conditions and in the case when the block is detached from the boundary.

id: 1010.5797
title: Generalized Dirac bracket and the role of the Poincar¨¦ symmetry in the program of canonical quantization of fields 1
authors: Marcin Ka?mierczak
comments: 20 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5797
abstract: An elementary presentation of the methods for the canonical quantization of constraint systems with Fermi variables is given. The emphasis is on the subtleties of the construction of an appropriate classical bracket that could be consistently replaced by commutators or anti--commutators of operators, as required by canonical quantization procedure for bosonic and fermionic degrees of freedom respectively. I present a consequent canonical quantization of the Dirac field, in which the role of Poincar\'e invariance is made marginal. This simple example provides an introduction to the Poincar\'e--free quantization of spinor electrodynamics in the second part of the paper.

id: 1010.5832
title: Knotting and higher order linking in physical systems
authors: Roman V. Buniy, Martha J. Holmes, Thomas W. Kephart
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: published in Proceedings of Quantum Theory and Symmetries 6, University of Kentucky, July 2009
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5832
abstract: We discuss physical systems with topologies more complicated than simple gaussian linking. Our examples of these higher topologies are in non-relativistic quantum mechanics and in QCD.

id: 1010.5862
title: Interface Between Topological and Superconducting Qubits
authors: Liang Jiang, Charles L. Kane, John Preskill
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures. V2: Final version as published in Phys. Rev. Lett, with detailed clarifications in the Appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 130504 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5862
abstract: We propose and analyze an interface between a topological qubit and a superconducting flux qubit. In our scheme, the interaction between Majorana fermions in a topological insulator is coherently controlled by a superconducting phase that depends on the quantum state of the flux qubit. A controlled phase gate, achieved by pulsing this interaction on and off, can transfer quantum information between the topological qubit and the superconducting qubit.

id: 1010.5897
title: Landau-Zener-St¨¹ckelberg Interference of Microwave Dressed States of a Superconducting Phase Qubit
authors: Guozhu Sun, Xueda Wen, Bo Mao, Yang Yu, Jian Chen, Weiwei Xu, Lin Kang, Peiheng Wu, Siyuan Han
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures To appear in Physical Review B(R)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5897
abstract: We present the first observation of Landau-Zener-St\"{u}ckelberg (LZS) interference of the dressed states arising from an artificial atom, a superconducting phase qubit, interacting with a microwave field. The dependence of LZS interference fringes on various external parameters and the initial state of the qubit agrees quantitatively very well with the theoretical prediction. Such LZS interferometry between the dressed states enables us to control the quantum states of a tetrapartite solid-state system with ease, demonstrating the feasibility of implementing efficient multipartite quantum logic gates with this unique approach.

id: 1010.5923
title: Revivals in the attractive BEC in a double-well potential and their decoherence
authors: Krzysztof Pawlowski, Pawel Zin, Kazimierz Rzazewski, Marek Trippenbach
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 033606 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5923
abstract: We study the dynamics of ultracold attractive atoms in a weakly linked two potential wells. We consider an unbalanced initial state and monitor dynamics of the population difference between the two wells. The average imbalance between wells undergoes damped oscillations, like in a classical counterpart, but then it revives almost to the initial value. We explain in details the whole behavior using three different models of the system. Furthermore we investigate the sensitivity of the revivals on the decoherence caused by one- and three-body losses. We include the dissipative processes using appropriate master equations and solve them using the stochastic wave approximation method.

id: 1010.5981
title: Dirac Equation with Spin Symmetry for the Modified P?schl-Teller Potential in $D$-dimensions
authors: D. Agboola
comments: 9 pages and 1table
journal: Pramana J. Phys. 76 (2011) 875
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5981
abstract: We present solutions of the Dirac equation with spin symmetry for vector and scalar modified P\"oschl-Teller potential within framework of an approximation of the centrifugal term. The relativistic energy spectrum is obtained using the Nikiforov-Uvarov method and the two-component spinor wavefunctions are obtain are in terms of the Jacobi polynomials. It is found that there exist only positive-energy states for bound states under spin symmetry, and the energy levels increase with the dimension and the potential range parameter $\alpha$.

id: 1010.6037
title: Quantitative evaluation of defect-models in superconducting phase qubits
authors: J. H. Cole, C. M¨¹ller, P. Bushev, G. J. Grabovskij, J. Lisenfeld, A. Lukashenko, A. V. Ustinov, A. Shnirman
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures. Supplementary material, lclimits_supp.pdf
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 97, 252501 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.6037
abstract: We use high-precision spectroscopy and detailed theoretical modelling to determine the form of the coupling between a superconducting phase qubit and a two-level defect. Fitting the experimental data with our theoretical model allows us to determine all relevant system parameters. A strong qubit-defect coupling is observed, with a nearly vanishing longitudinal component. Using these estimates, we quantitatively compare several existing theoretical models for the microscopic origin of two-level defects.

id: 1010.6054
title: Spectral properties of two-body random matrix ensembles for boson systems with spin
authors: Manan Vyas, N.D. Chavda, V.K.B. Kota, V. Potbhare
comments: 44 pages, 10 figures, 1 table, enlarged version with additional results
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.6054
abstract: For $m$ number of bosons, carrying spin ($\cs=\spin$) degree of freedom, in $\Omega$ number of single particle orbitals, each doubly degenerate, we introduce and analyze embedded Gaussian orthogonal ensemble of random matrices generated by random two-body interactions that are spin ($S$) scalar [BEGOE(2)-$\cs$]. Embedding algebra for the BEGOE(2)-$\cs$ ensemble and also for BEGOE(1+2)-$\cs$ that includes the mean-field one-body part is $U(2\Omega) \supset U(\Omega) \otimes SU(2)$ with SU(2) generating spin. A method for constructing the ensembles in fixed-($m,S$) spaces has been developed. Numerical calculations show that for BEGOE(2)-$\cs$, the fixed-$(m,S)$ density of states is close to Gaussian and level fluctuations follow GOE in the dense limit. For BEGOE(1+2)-$\cs$, generically there is Poisson to GOE transition in level fluctuations as the interaction strength (measured in the units of the average spacing of the single particle levels defining the mean-field) is increased. The interaction strength needed for the onset of the transition is found to decrease with increasing $S$. Covariances in energy centroids and spectral variances are analyzed. Propagation formula is derived for the variance propagator for the fixed-$(m,S)$ ensemble averaged spectral variances. Variance propagator clearly shows, by applying the Jacquod and Stone prescription, that the BEGOE(2)-$\cs$ ensemble generates ground states with spin $S=S_{max}$. This is further corroborated by analyzing the structure of the ground states in the presence of the exchange interaction $\hat{S}^2$ in BEGOE(1+2)-$\cs$. Natural spin ordering is also observed with random interactions. Going beyond these, we also introduce pairing symmetry in the space defined by BEGOE(2)-$\cs$. Expectation values of the pairing Hamiltonian show that random interactions exhibit pairing correlations in the ground state region.

id: 1010.6065
title: Dynamical Casimir effect on surface waves
authors: A.A. Saharian
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, Talk presented at the International Conference "Electrons, Positrons, Neutrons and X-rays Scattering Under External Influences", Yerevan-Meghri, Armenia, October 26-30, 2009
journal: Proceedings of the International Conference "Electrons, Positrons, Neutrons and X-rays Scattering Under External Influences", Yerevan-Meghri, Armenia, October 26-30, 2009, pp. 63-67, ISBN 978-99941-2-486-2
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.6065
abstract: We consider the quantum radiation of scalar particles from a surface wave excited on a plane surface of a mirror. It is assumed that the field obeys Dirichlet condition on the boundary of the mirror. In both cases of running and standing surface waves the expression is given for the spectral-angular distribution of the number of the radiated quanta.

id: 1010.6154
title: Tripartite Entanglement in Noninertial Frame
authors: Mi-Ra Hwang, DaeKil Park, Eylee Jung
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A83:012111,2001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.6154
abstract: The tripartite entanglement is examined when one of the three parties moves with a uniform acceleration with respect to other parties. As Unruh effect indicates, the tripartite entanglement exhibits a decreasing behavior with increasing the acceleration. Unlike the bipartite entanglement, however, the tripartite entanglement does not completely vanish in the infinite acceleration limit. If the three parties, for example, share the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger or W-state initially, the corresponding $\pi$-tangle, one of the measures for tripartite entanglement, is shown to be $\pi/6 \sim 0.524$ or 0.176 in this limit, respectively. This fact indicates that the tripartite quantum information processing may be possible even if one of the parties approaches to the Rindler horizon. The physical implications of this striking result are discussed in the context of black hole physics.

id: 1010.6190
title: Inhomogeneous Kibble-Zurek mechanism: vortex nucleation during Bose-Einstein condensation
authors: A. del Campo, A. Retzker, M. B. Plenio
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 083022 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.6190
abstract: The Kibble-Zurek mechanism is applied to the spontaneous formation of vortices in a harmonically trapped thermal gas following a temperature quench through the critical value for Bose-Einstein condensation. While in the homogeneous scenario vortex nucleation is always expected, we show that it can be completely suppressed in the presence of the confinement potential, whenever the speed of the spatial front undergoing condensation is lower than a threshold velocity. Otherwise, the interplay between the geometry and causality leads to different scaling laws for the density of vortices as a function of the quench rate, as we also illustrate for the case of a toroidal trapping potential.

id: 1010.6229
title: Logarithmic Integrals, Polylogarithmic Integrals and Euler sums
authors: Bernard J. Laurenzi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.6229
abstract: Relations among integrals of logarithms, polylogarithms and Euler sums are presented. A unifying element being the introduction of Nielsen's generalized polylogarithms.

id: 1010.6248
title: Circuit QED with a Nonlinear Resonator : ac-Stark Shift and Dephasing
authors: F. R. Ong, M. Boissonneault, F. Mallet, A. Palacios-Laloy, A. Dewes, A. C. Doherty, A. Blais, P. Bertet, D. Vion, D. Esteve
comments: Paper : 4 pages, 3 figures; Supplementary material : 1 page, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 167002 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.6248
abstract: We have performed spectroscopic measurements of a superconducting qubit dispersively coupled to a nonlinear resonator driven by a pump microwave field. Measurements of the qubit frequency shift provide a sensitive probe of the intracavity field, yielding a precise characterization of the resonator nonlinearity. The qubit linewidth has a complex dependence on the pump frequency and amplitude, which is correlated with the gain of the nonlinear resonator operated as a small-signal amplifier. The corresponding dephasing rate is found to be close to the quantum limit in the low-gain limit of the amplifier.

id: 1010.4723
title: Coulomb Oscillations of Indium-doped ZnO Nanowire Transistors in a Magnetic Field
authors: Xiulai Xu, Andrew C. Irvine, Yang Yang, Xitian Zhang, David A. Williams
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review B 82, 195309 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4723
abstract: We report on the observation of Coulomb oscillations from localized quantum dots superimposed on the normal hopping current in ZnO nanowire transistors. The Coulomb oscillations can be resolved up to 20 K. Positive anisotropic magnetoresistance has been observed due to the Lorentz force on the carrier motion. Magnetic field-induced tunneling barrier transparency results in an increase of oscillation amplitude with increasing magnetic field. The energy shift as a function of magnetic field indicates electron wavefunction modification in the quantum dots.

id: 1010.2930
title: Bianchi I model in terms of nonstandard loop quantum cosmology: Quantum dynamics
authors: Przemyslaw Malkiewicz, Wlodzimierz Piechocki, Piotr Dzierzak
comments: 18 pages, version accepted for publication by Class. Quant. Grav
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.28:085020,2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2930
abstract: We analyze the quantum Bianchi I model in the setting of the nonstandard loop quantum cosmology. Elementary observables are used to quantize the volume operator. The spectrum of the volume operator is bounded from below and discrete. The discreteness may imply a foamy structure of spacetime at semiclassical level. The results are described in terms of a free parameter specifying loop geometry to be determined in astro-cosmo observations. An evolution of the quantum model is generated by the so-called true Hamiltonian, which enables an introduction of a time parameter valued in the set of all real numbers.

id: 1010.3114
title: Generation of wakefields by whistlers in spin quantum magnetoplasmas
authors: A. P. Misra, G. Brodin, M. Marklund, P. K. Shukla
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures; Revised version to appear in Physics of Plasmas (Dec. 2010 issue)
journal: Phys. Plasmas 17, 122306 (2010)
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3114
abstract: The excitation of electrostatic wakefields in a magnetized spin quantum plasma by the classical as well as the spin-induced ponderomotive force (CPF and SPF, respectively) due to whistler waves is reported. The nonlinear dynamics of the whistlers and the wakefields is shown to be governed by a coupled set of nonlinear Schr\"{o}dinger (NLS) and driven Boussinesq-like equations. It is found that the quantum force associated with the Bohm potential introduces two characteristic length scales, which lead to the excitation of multiple wakefields in a strongly magnetized dense plasma (with a typical magnetic field strength $B_{0}\gtrsim10^{9}$ T and particle density $n_{0}\gtrsim10^{36}$ m$^{-3}$), where the SPF strongly dominates over the CPF. In other regimes, namely $B_{0}\lesssim10^{8}$ T and $\ n_{0}\lesssim10^{35}$ m$^{-3}$, where the SPF is comparable to the CPF, a plasma wakefield can also be excited self-consistently with one characteristic length scale. Numerical results reveal that the wakefield amplitude is enhanced by the quantum tunneling effect, however it is lowered by the external magnetic field. Under appropriate conditions, the wakefields can maintain high coherence over multiple plasma wavelengths and thereby accelerate electrons to extremely high energies. The results could be useful for particle acceleration at short scales, i.e. at nano- and micrometer scales, in magnetized dense plasmas where the driver is the whistler wave instead of a laser or a particle beam.

id: 1010.1148
title: Thermodynamics of photons on fractals
authors: Eric Akkermans, Gerald V. Dunne, Alexander Teplyaev
comments: 5 pages, 2 figs; v2 refs added, to appear in PRL
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.105:230407,2010
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.1148
abstract: A thermodynamical treatment of a massless scalar field (a "photon") confined to a fractal spatial manifold leads to an equation of state relating pressure to internal energy, $P V_s=U/d_s$, where $d_s$ is the spectral dimension and $V_s$ defines the "spectral volume". For regular manifolds, $V_s$ coincides with the usual geometric spatial volume, but on a fractal this is not necessarily the case. This is further evidence that on a fractal, momentum space can have a different dimension than position space. Our analysis also provides a natural definition of the vacuum (Casimir) energy of a fractal. We suggest ways that these unusual properties might be probed experimentally.

id: 1010.3631
title: Towards a complete treatment of the cosmological recombination problem
authors: J. Chluba, R.M. Thomas
comments: 17 pages, 8 figures, minor typos corrected, accepted by MNRAS, CosmoRec available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.3631
abstract: A new approach to the cosmological recombination problem is presented, which completes our previous analysis on the effects of two-photon processes during the epoch of cosmological hydrogen recombination, accounting for ns-1s and nd-1s Raman events and two-photon transitions from levels with n>=2. The recombination problem for hydrogen is described using an effective 400-shell multi-level approach, to which we subsequently add all important recombination corrections discussed in the literature thus far. We explicitly solve the radiative transfer equation of the Lyman-series photon field to obtain the required modifications to the rate equations of the resolved levels. In agreement with earlier computations we find that 2s-1s Raman scattering leads to a delay in recombination by DN_e/N_e~0.9% at z~920. Two-photon decay and Raman scattering from higher levels (n>3) result in a small additional modifications, and precise results can be obtained when including their effect for the first 3-5 shells. This work is a major step towards a new cosmological recombination code (CosmoRec) that supersedes the physical model included in Recfast, and which, owing to its short runtime, can be used in the analysis of future CMB data from the Planck Surveyor.

id: 1010.0641
title: A Family of Exactly Solvable Radial Quantum Systems on Space of Non-Constant Curvature with Accidental Degeneracy in the Spectrum
authors: Orlando Ragnisco, Danilo Riglioni
comments: Proceedings of the Workshop Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics and Spectral Design 2010, July 18 - July 30, Benasque, Spain
journal: SIGMA 6 (2010), 097, 10 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0641
abstract: A novel family of exactly solvable quantum systems on curved space is presented. The family is the quantum version of the classical Perlick family, which comprises all maximally superintegrable 3-dimensional Hamiltonian systems with spherical symmetry. The high number of symmetries (both geometrical and dynamical) exhibited by the classical systems has a counterpart in the accidental degeneracy in the spectrum of the quantum systems. This family of quantum problem is completely solved with the techniques of the SUSYQM (supersymmetric quantum mechanics). We also analyze in detail the ordering problem arising in the quantization of the kinetic term of the classical Hamiltonian, stressing the link existing between two physically meaningful quantizations: the geometrical quantization and the position dependent mass quantization.

id: 1010.4446
title: Oscillating fidelity susceptibility near a quantum multicritical point
authors: Victor Mukherjee, Anatoli Polkovnikov, Amit Dutta
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 075118 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4446
abstract: We study scaling behavior of the geometric tensor $\chi_{\alpha,\beta}(\lambda_1,\lambda_2)$ and the fidelity susceptibility $(\chi_{\rm F})$ in the vicinity of a quantum multicritical point (MCP) using the example of a transverse XY model. We show that the behavior of the geometric tensor (and thus of $\chi_{\rm F}$) is drastically different from that seen near a critical point. In particular, we find that is highly non-monotonic function of $\lambda$ along the generic direction $\lambda_1\sim\lambda_2 = \lambda$ when the system size $L$ is bounded between the shorter and longer correlation lengths characterizing the MCP: $1/|\lambda|^{\nu_1}\ll L\ll 1/|\lambda|^{\nu_2}$, where $\nu_1<\nu_2$ are the two correlation length exponents characterizing the system. We find that the scaling of the maxima of the components of $\chi_{\alpha\beta}$ is associated with emergence of quasi-critical points at $\lambda\sim 1/L^{1/\nu_1}$, related to the proximity to the critical line of finite momentum anisotropic transition. This scaling is different from that in the thermodynamic limit $L\gg 1/|\lambda|^{\nu_2}$, which is determined by the conventional critical exponents. We use our results to calculate the defect density following a rapid quench starting from the MCP and show that it exerts a step-like behavior for small quench amplitudes. Study of heat density and diagonal entropy density also show signatures of quasi-critical points.

id: 1010.0164
title: Efficient C-Phase gate for single-spin qubits in quantum dots
authors: T. Meunier, V. E. Calado, L. M. K. Vandersypen
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 121403(R) (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0164
abstract: Two-qubit interactions are at the heart of quantum information processing. For single-spin qubits in semiconductor quantum dots, the exchange gate has always been considered the natural two-qubit gate. The recent integration of magnetic field or g-factor gradients in coupled quantum dot systems allows for a one-step, robust realization of the controlled phase (C-Phase) gate instead. We analyze the C-Phase gate durations and fidelities that can be obtained under realistic conditions, including the effects of charge and nuclear field fluctuations, and find gate error probabilities of below 10-4, possibly allowing fault-tolerant quantum computation.

id: 1010.4721
title: Perfect state transfer in cubelike graphs
authors: Wang-Chi Cheung, Chris Godsil
comments: 10 pages, minor revisions
journal: Linear Algebra and its Applications, 435(10) 2011, 2468-2474
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.4721
abstract: Suppose $C$ is a subset of non-zero vectors from the vector space $\mathbb{Z}_2^d$. The cubelike graph $X(C)$ has $\mathbb{Z}_2^d$ as its vertex set, and two elements of $\mathbb{Z}_2^d$ are adjacent if their difference is in $C$. If $M$ is the $d\times |C|$ matrix with the elements of $C$ as its columns, we call the row space of $M$ the code of $X$. We use this code to study perfect state transfer on cubelike graphs. Bernasconi et al have shown that perfect state transfer occurs on $X(C)$ at time $\pi/2$ if and only if the sum of the elements of $C$ is not zero. Here we consider what happens when this sum is zero. We prove that if perfect state transfer occurs on a cubelike graph, then it must take place at time $\tau=\pi/2D$, where $D$ is the greatest common divisor of the weights of the code words. We show that perfect state transfer occurs at time $\pi/4$ if and only if D=2 and the code is self-orthogonal.

id: 1010.5029
title: Phase diagram of the SO(n) bilinear-biquadratic chain from many-body entanglement
authors: Roman Orus, Tzu-Chieh Wei, Hong-Hao Tu
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. Revised version. To appear in PRB
journal: Physical Review B 84, 064409 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.5029
abstract: Here we investigate the phase diagram of the SO(n) bilinear-biquadratic quantum spin chain by studying the global quantum correlations of the ground state. We consider the cases of n=3,4 and 5 and focus on the geometric entanglement in the thermodynamic limit. Apart from capturing all the known phase transitions, our analysis shows a number of novel distinctive behaviors in the phase diagrams which we conjecture to be general and valid for arbitrary n. In particular, we provide an intuitive argument in favor of an infinite entanglement length in the system at a purely-biquadratic point. Our results are also compared to other methods, such as fidelity diagrams.

id: 1010.2166
title: Single electron quantum tomography in quantum Hall edge channels
authors: Charles Grenier, R¨¦my Herv¨¦, Erwann Bocquillon, Fran?ois D. Parmentier, Bernard Pla?ais, Jean-Marc Berroir, Gwendal F¨¨ve, Pascal Degiovanni
comments: Version 3: long version (7 figures): corrections performed and references have been added. Figures reprocessed for better readability
journal: New Journal of Physics 13, 093007 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2166
abstract: We propose a quantum tomography protocol to measure single electron coherence in quantum Hall edge channels and therefore access for the first time the wave function of single electron excitations propagating in ballistic quantum conductors. Its implementation would open the way to quantitative studies of single electron decoherence and would provide a quantitative tool for analyzing single to few electron sources. We show how this protocol could be implemented using ultrahigh sensitivity noise measurement schemes.

id: 1010.0112
title: Surface morphology and magnetic anisotropy in (Ga,Mn)As
authors: S. Piano, X. Marti, A. W. Rushforth, K. W. Edmonds, R. P. Campion, O. Caha, T. U. Schulli, V. Holy, B. L. Gallagher
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures, 1 table. Replaced with published version
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 98, 152503 (2011)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.0112
abstract: Atomic Force Microscopy and Grazing incidence X-ray diffraction measurements have revealed the presence of ripples aligned along the $[1\bar{1}0]$ direction on the surface of (Ga,Mn)As layers grown on GaAs(001) substrates and buffer layers, with periodicity of about 50 nm in all samples that have been studied. These samples show the strong symmetry breaking uniaxial magnetic anisotropy normally observed in such materials. We observe a clear correlation between the amplitude of the surface ripples and the strength of the uniaxial magnetic anisotropy component suggesting that these ripples might be the source of such anisotropy.

id: 1010.2854
title: Fast frictionless dynamics as a toolbox for low-dimensional Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: A. del Campo
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, title changed, substantially rewritten version accepted in EPL
journal: EPL 96, 60005 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1010.2854
abstract: A method is proposed to implement a fast frictionless dynamics in a low-dimensional Bose-Einstein condensate by engineering the time-dependence of the transverse confining potential in a highly anisotropic trap. The method exploits the inversion of the dynamical self-similar scaling law in the radial degrees of freedom. We discuss the application of the method to preserve short-range correlations in time of flight experiments, the implementation of nearly-sudden quenches of non-linear interactions, and its power to assist self-similar dynamics in quasi-one dimensional condensates.

