id: 1011.0059
title: A reservoir for inverse power law decoherence of a qubit
authors: Filippo Giraldi, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 83,012107 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0059
abstract: The exact dynamics of a Jaynes-Cummings model for a qubit interacting with a continuous distribution of bosons, characterized by a special form of the spectral density, is evaluated analytically. The special reservoir is designed to induce anomalous decoherence, resulting in an inverse power law relaxation, of power 3/2, over an evaluated long time scale. If compared to the exponential-like relaxation obtained from the original Jaynes-Cummings model for Lorentzian-type spectral density functions, decoherence is strongly suppressed. The special reservoir exhibits an upper band edge frequency coinciding with the qubit transition frequency. Known theoretical models of photonic band gap media suitable for the realization of the designed reservoir are proposed.

id: 1011.0066
title: Thomson scattering in high intensity regime
authors: Madalina Boca, Andreea Oprea
comments: 
journal: Physica Scripta 83, 055404 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0066
abstract: The subject of this paper is the scattering of a very intense laser pulse (intensity $I\sim10^{21}\;{\mathrm{W/cm^2}}$) on relativistic electrons with Lorentz factor between 10 and 45. The laser pulse is modeled by a plane wave with finite length and the calculations are performed within the framework of the classical electrodynamics, which is valid for the field intensity and range of electron energies we consider. For a pulse with the central wavelength $\lambda=1060\;{\mathrm{nm}}$ and circular polarization, we study systematically the angular distribution of the emitted radiation, $dW/d\Omega$, in its dependence on the electron energy for two collision geometries: the head-on collision (counterpropagating electron and laser pulse), and the 90 degrees collision (the initial electron momentum orthogonal to the laser propagation direction). We investigate the relation between $dW/d\Omega$ and the trajectory followed by the electron velocity during the laser pulse and, for the case of a short laser pulse, we discuss the carrier-envelope phase effects. We also present, for the two mentioned geometries, an analysis of the polarization of the emitted radiation and a comparison of the results predicted by the exact classical formula with a high-energy approximation of it.

id: 1011.0084
title: Supersymmetry and PT-Symmetric Spectral Bifurcation
authors: Kumar Abhinav, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 9 pages
journal: "Photonics and Quantum Structures", Narosa Publishing House, pp 151-156 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0084
abstract: Dynamical systems exhibiting both PT and Supersymmetry are analyzed in a general scenario. It is found that, in an appropriate parameter domain, the ground state may or may not respect PT-symmetry. Interestingly, in the domain where PT-symmetry is not respected, two superpotentials give rise to one potential; whereas when the ground state respects PT, this correspondence is unique. In both scenarios, supersymmetry and shape-invariance are intact, through which one can obtain eigenfunctions and eigenstates exactly. Our procedure enables one to generate a host of complex potentials which are not PT-symmetric, and can be exactly solved.

id: 1011.0089
title: Detecting genuine multipartite quantum non-locality -- a simple approach and generalization to arbitrary dimension
authors: Jean-Daniel Bancal, Nicolas Brunner, Nicolas Gisin, Yeong-Cherng Liang
comments: v3: corrected the sentence after equation 5
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett.106, 020405 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0089
abstract: The structure of Bell-type inequalities detecting genuine multipartite non-locality, and hence detecting genuine multipartite entanglement, is investigated. We first present a simple and intuitive approach to Svetlichny's original inequality, which provides a clear understanding of its structure and of its violation in quantum mechanics. Based on this approach, we then derive a family of Bell-type inequalities for detecting genuine multipartite non-locality in scenarios involving an arbitrary number of parties and systems of arbitrary dimension. Finally we discuss the thightness and quantum mechanical violations of these inequalities.

id: 1011.0105
title: Full-field implementation of a perfect eavesdropper on a quantum cryptography system
authors: Ilja Gerhardt, Qin Liu, Antia Lamas-Linares, Johannes Skaar, Christian Kurtsiefer, Vadim Makarov
comments: Revised after editorial and peer-review feedback. This version is published in Nat. Commun. 8 pages, 6 figures, 1 table
journal: Nat. Commun. 2, 349 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0105
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) allows two remote parties to grow a shared secret key. Its security is founded on the principles of quantum mechanics, but in reality it significantly relies on the physical implementation. Technological imperfections of QKD systems have been previously explored, but no attack on an established QKD connection has been realized so far. Here we show the first full-field implementation of a complete attack on a running QKD connection. An installed eavesdropper obtains the entire 'secret' key, while none of the parameters monitored by the legitimate parties indicate a security breach. This confirms that non-idealities in physical implementations of QKD can be fully practically exploitable, and must be given increased scrutiny if quantum cryptography is to become highly secure.

id: 1011.0131
title: Entanglement transitions in random definite particle states
authors: Vikram S Vijayaraghavan, Udaysinh T. Bhosale, Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: Substantially added content (now 24 pages, 5 figures) with a discussion of the possible mechanism for the transition. One additional author in this version that is accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, vol. 032306 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0131
abstract: Entanglement within qubits are studied for the subspace of definite particle states or definite number of up spins. A transition from an algebraic decay of entanglement within two qubits with the total number $N$ of qubits, to an exponential one when the number of particles is increased from two to three is studied in detail. In particular the probability that the concurrence is non-zero is calculated using statistical methods and shown to agree with numerical simulations. Further entanglement within a block of $m$ qubits is studied using the log-negativity measure which indicates that a transition from algebraic to exponential decay occurs when the number of particles exceeds $m$. Several algebraic exponents for the decay of the log-negativity are analytically calculated. The transition is shown to be possibly connected with the changes in the density of states of the reduced density matrix, which has a divergence at the zero eigenvalue when the entanglement decays algebraically.

id: 1011.0150
title: Optimal Quantum State Estimation with Use of the No-Signaling Principle
authors: Yeong-Deok Han, Joonwoo Bae, Xiang-Bin Wang, Won-Young Hwang
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 82, 062318 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0150
abstract: A simple derivation of the optimal state estimation of a quantum bit was obtained by using the no-signaling principle. In particular, the no-signaling principle determines a unique form of the guessing probability independently of figures of merit, such as the fidelity or information gain. This proves that the optimal estimation for a quantum bit can be achieved by the same measurement for almost all figures of merit.

id: 1011.0168
title: Ultimate crack and lack of any security in the statistical key exchange protocol with random signals and feedback
authors: Zoltan Gingl, Laszlo B. Kish
comments: We have to withdraw our earlier claim because errors have been identified in the calculation and computer simulations. However, we do believe that the protocol can be cracked in a similar fashion that needs only a few measurement, no statistics. Thus we hope that this new family of attacks can be developed into some efficient tool. However, the "how" is still an open question thus the Liu-protocol should be considered secure until such solution is found
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0168
abstract: We deterministically crack the secure, statistical key exchange protocol based on feedback proposed by Pao-Lo Liu [ J. Lightwave Techology 27 (2009) pp. 5230-34]. The crack is ultimate and absolute because it works under idealized conditions, and produces much higher data visibility for the eavesdropper than the protocol provides for Alice and Bob. Even with the most idealistic driving noise spectrum stated by Liu, during the most secure phase of the protocol, far away from the transients, where the system is already in its most secure steady-state, the eavesdropper has 100% success rate in identifying the key bits, at the same time when Alice and Bob have less than 100% success rate while using the Liu protocol. No statistics is needed, Eve can extract the secure bit from two samples of the signal in the two direction. Thus the Liu-protocol offers no security against the attack described in this paper.

id: 1011.0246
title: Quantum Bell Inequalities from Macroscopic Locality
authors: Tzyh Haur Yang, Miguel Navascu¨¦s, Lana Sheridan, Valerio Scarani
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. (Divided into sections, following the style of article.)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022105 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0246
abstract: We propose a method to generate analytical quantum Bell inequalities based on the principle of Macroscopic Locality. By imposing locality over binary processings of virtual macroscopic intensities, we establish a correspondence between Bell inequalities and quantum Bell inequalities in bipartite scenarios with dichotomic observables. We discuss how to improve the latter approximation and how to extend our ideas to scenarios with more than two outcomes per setting.

id: 1011.0252
title: Quantum electrodynamics in a whispering-gallery microcavity coated with a polymer nanolayer
authors: Yun-Feng Xiao, Chang-Ling Zou, Peng Xue, Lixin Xiao, Yan Li, Chun-Hua Dong, Zheng-Fu Han, Qihuang Gong
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 81, 053807 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0252
abstract: Quasi-transverse-electric and -transverse-magnetic fundamental whispering gallery modes in a polymer-coated silica microtoroid are theoretically investigated and demonstrated to possess very high-quality factors. The existence of a nanometer-thickness layer not only evidently reduces the cavity mode volume but also draws the maximal electric field's position of the mode to the outside of the silica toroid, where single quantum dots or nanocrystals are located. Both effects result in a strongly enhanced coherent interaction between a single dipole (for example, a single defect center in a diamond crystal) and the quantized cavity mode. Since the coated microtoroid is highly feasible and robust in experiments, it may offer an excellent platform to study strong-coupling cavity quantum electrodynamics, quantum information, and quantum computation.

id: 1011.0263
title: The influence of temporal coherence on the dynamical Casimir effect
authors: J.T. Mendonca, G. Brodin, M. Marklund
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0263
abstract: We study the dynamical Casimir effect in the presence of a finite coherence time, which is associated with a finite quality factor of the optical cavity. We use the time refraction model, where a fixed cavity with a modulated optical medium, replaces the empty cavity with a vibrating mirror. Temporal coherence is described with the help of cavity quasi-mode operators. Asymptotic expressions for the number of photon pairs generated from vacuum are derived.

id: 1011.0273
title: Communicating with a wave packet using quantum superarrival
authors: Dipankar Home, A. S. Majumdar, A. Matzkin
comments: 4 pages, latex, 3 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0273
abstract: An analytical treatment of a propagating wave packet incident on a transient barrier reveals a counterintuitive quantum mechanical effect in which, for a particular time interval, the time-varying transmission probability {\it exceeds} (`superarrival') that for the free propagation of the wave packet. It is found that the speed with which the information about the barrier perturbation propagates across the wave packet can exceed the group velocity of the wave packet. An interesting implication of this effect regarding information transfer is analyzed by showing one-to-one correspondence between the strength of the barrier and the magnitude of `superarrival'.

id: 1011.0290
title: Optomechanical sideband cooling of a micromechanical oscillator close to the quantum ground state
authors: Remi Riviere, Samuel Deleglise, Stefan Weis, Emanuel Gavartin, Olivier Arcizet, Albert Schliesser, Tobias J. Kippenberg
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0290
abstract: Cooling a mesoscopic mechanical oscillator to its quantum ground state is elementary for the preparation and control of low entropy quantum states of large scale objects. Here, we pre-cool a 70-MHz micromechanical silica oscillator to an occupancy below 200 quanta by thermalizing it with a 600-mK cold 3He gas. Two-level system induced damping via structural defect states is shown to be strongly reduced, and simultaneously serves as novel thermometry method to independently quantify excess heating due to the cooling laser. We demonstrate that dynamical backaction sideband cooling can reduce the average occupancy to 9+-1 quanta, implying that the mechanical oscillator can be found (10+- 1)% of the time in its quantum ground state.

id: 1011.0303
title: Entanglement dynamics of two-bipartite system under the influence of dissipative environments
authors: Smail Bougouffa
comments: 21 pages, 13 figures
journal: Optics Communications 283 (2010) 2989-2996
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0303
abstract: An experimental scheme is suggested that permits a direct measure of entanglement in a two-qubit cavity system. It is realized in the cavity-QED technology utilizing atoms as flying qubits. With this scheme we generate two different measures of entanglement, namely logarithmic negativity and concurrence. The phenomenon of sudden death entanglement (ESD) in a bipartite system subjected to dissipative environment is examined. We show that the sudden death time of the entangled states depends on the initial preparation of the entangled state and the temperature of the reservoir.

id: 1011.0304
title: Continuous variable quantum key distribution in non-Markovian channels
authors: Ruggero Vasile, Stefano Olivares, Matteo G A Paris, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042321 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0304
abstract: We address continuous variable quantum key distribution (QKD) in non-Markovian lossy channels and show how the non-Markovian features may be exploited to enhance security and/or to detect the presence and the position of an eavesdropper along the transmission line. In particular, we suggest a coherent states QKD protocol which is secure against individual attacks for arbitrarily low values of the overall transmission line. Our scheme relies on specific non-Markovian properties, and cannot be implemented in ordinary Markovian channels characterized by uniform losses.

id: 1011.0308
title: Entanglement dynamics of bipartite system in squeezed vacuum reservoirs
authors: Smail Bougouffa, Awatif Hindi
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, CEWQO17(St Andrews)
journal: Phys. Scr. T143 (2011) 014012 (6pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0308
abstract: Entanglement plays a crucial role in quantum information protocols, thus the dynamical behavior of entangled states is of a great importance. In this paper we suggest a useful scheme that permits a direct measure of entanglement in a two-qubit cavity system. It is realized in the cavity-QED technology utilizing atoms as fying qubits. To quantify entanglement we use the concurrence. We derive the conditions, which assure that the state remains entangled in spite of the interaction with the reservoir. The phenomenon of sudden death entanglement (ESD) in a bipartite system subjected to squeezed vacuum reservoir is examined. We show that the sudden death time of the entangled states depends on the initial preparation of the entangled state and the parameters of the squeezed vacuum reservoir.

id: 1011.0380
title: Universality and robustness of revivals in the transverse field XY model
authors: Juho H?pp?l?, G¨¢bor B. Hal¨¢sz, Alioscia Hamma
comments: completely overhauled version including results on non integrable models
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032114 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0380
abstract: We study the structure of the revivals in an integrable quantum many-body system, the transverse field XY spin chain, after a quantum quench. The time evolutions of the Loschmidt echo, the magnetization, and the single spin entanglement entropy are calculated. We find that the revival times for all of these observables are given by integer multiples of T_rev \sim L / v_max where L is the linear size of the system and v_max is the maximal group velocity of quasiparticles. This revival structure is universal in the sense that it does not depend on the initial state and the size of the quench. Applying non-integrable perturbations to the XY model, we observe that the revivals are robust against such perturbations: they are still visible at time scales much larger than the quasiparticle lifetime. We therefore propose a generic connection between the revival structure and the locality of the dynamics, where the quasiparticle speed v_max generalizes into the Lieb$-$Robinson speed v_LR.

id: 1011.0384
title: Conditional phase shift from a quantum dot in a pillar microcavity
authors: A.B. Young, R. Oulton, C.Y. Hu, A.C.T. Thijssen, C. Schneider, S. Reitzenstein, M. Kamp, S. Hoefling, L. Worschech, A. Forchel, J.G. Rarity
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0384
abstract: Large conditional phase shifts from coupled atom-cavity systems are a key requirement for building a spin photon interface. This in turn would allow the realisation of hybrid quantum information schemes using spin and photonic qubits. Here we perform high resolution reflection spectroscopy of a quantum dot resonantly coupled to a pillar microcavity. We show both the change in reflectivity as the quantum dot is tuned through the cavity resonance, and measure the conditional phase shift induced by the quantum dot using an ultra stable interferometer. These techniques could be extended to the study of charged quantum dots, where it would be possible to realise a spin photon interface.

id: 1011.0455
title: Laser phase noise effects on the dynamics of optomechanical resonators
authors: Gregory A. Phelps, Pierre Meystre
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0455
abstract: We investigate theoretically the influence of laser phase noise on the cooling and heating of a generic cavity optomechanical system. We derive the back-action damping and heating rates and the mechanical frequency shift of the radiation pressure-driven oscillating mirror, and derive the minimum phonon occupation number for small laser linewidths. We find that in practice laser phase noise does not pose serious limitations to ground state cooling. We then consider the effects of laser phase noise in a parametric cavity driving scheme that minimizes the back-action heating of one of the quadratures of the mechanical oscillator motion. Laser linewidths narrow compared to the decay rate of the cavity field will not pose any problems in an experimental setting, but broader linewidths limit the practicality of this back-action evasion method.

id: 1011.0473
title: Coupled quantized mechanical oscillators
authors: K. R. Brown, C. Ospelkaus, Y. Colombe, A. C. Wilson, D. Leibfried, D. J. Wineland
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature 471, 196-199 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0473
abstract: The harmonic oscillator is one of the simplest physical systems but also one of the most fundamental. It is ubiquitous in nature, often serving as an approximation for a more complicated system or as a building block in larger models. Realizations of harmonic oscillators in the quantum regime include electromagnetic fields in a cavity [1-3] and the mechanical modes of a trapped atom [4] or macroscopic solid [5]. Quantized interaction between two motional modes of an individual trapped ion has been achieved by coupling through optical fields [6], and entangled motion of two ions in separate locations has been accomplished indirectly through their internal states [7]. However, direct controllable coupling between quantized mechanical oscillators held in separate locations has not been realized previously. Here we implement such coupling through the mutual Coulomb interaction of two ions held in trapping potentials separated by 40 um (similar work is reported in a related paper [8]). By tuning the confining wells into resonance, energy is exchanged between the ions at the quantum level, establishing that direct coherent motional coupling is possible for separately trapped ions. The system demonstrates a building block for quantum information processing and quantum simulation. More broadly, this work is a natural precursor to experiments in hybrid quantum systems, such as coupling a trapped ion to a quantized macroscopic mechanical or electrical oscillator [9-13].

id: 1011.0482
title: Quantum Incompressibility of a Freely Falling Hydrogen Atom in a Circular Rydberg State, and a Gravitationally-Induced Charge Separation Effect in Superconducting Systems
authors: R.Y. Chiao, S.J. Minter, K. Wegter-McNelly, L.A. Martinez
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0482
abstract: Freely falling point-like objects converge toward the center of the Earth. Hence the gravitational field of the Earth is inhomogeneous, and possesses a tidal component. The free fall of an extended quantum mechanical object such as a hydrogen atom prepared in a high principal-quantum-number state, i.e. a circular Rydberg atom, is predicted to fall more slowly than a classical point-like object, when both objects are dropped from the same height above the Earth's surface. This indicates that, apart from transitions between quantum states, the atom exhibits a kind of quantum mechanical incompressibility during free fall in inhomogeneous, tidal gravitational fields like those of the Earth. A superconducting ring-like system with a persistent current circulating around it behaves like the circular Rydberg atom during free fall. Like the electronic wavefunction of the freely falling atom, the Cooper-pair wavefunction is quantum mechanically incompressible. The ions in the lattice of the superconductor, however, are not incompressible, since they do not possess a globally coherent quantum phase. The resulting difference during free fall in the response of the nonlocalizable Cooper pairs of electrons and the localizable ions to inhomogeneous gravitational fields is predicted to lead to a charge separation effect, which in turn leads to a large Coulomb force that opposes the convergence caused by the tidal gravitational force on the superconducting system. A "Cavendish-like" experiment is proposed for observing the charge separation effect induced by inhomogeneous gravitational fields in a superconducting circuit. The charge separation effect is determined to be limited by a pair-breaking process that occurs when low frequency gravitational perturbations are present.

id: 1011.0501
title: Geometric phase for nonlinear coherent and squeezed state
authors: Da-Bao Yang, Ying Chen, Fu-Lin Zhang, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 075502 (7pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0501
abstract: The geometric phases for standard coherent states which are widely used in quantum optics have attracted a large amount of attention. Nevertheless, few physicists consider about the counterparts of non-linear coherent states, which are useful in the description of the motion of a trapped ion. In this paper, the non-unitary and non-cyclic geometric phases for two nonlinear coherent and one squeezed states are formulated respectively. Moreover, some of their common properties are discussed respectively, such as gauge invariance, non-locality and non-linear effects. The non-linear functions have dramatic impacts on the evolution of the corresponding geometric phases. They speed the evolution up or down. So this property may have application in controlling or measuring geometric phase. For the squeezed case, when the squeezed parameter r -> \infinity, the limiting value of the geometric phase is also determined by non-linear function at a given time and angular velocity. In addition, the geometric phases for standard coherent and squeezed states are obtained under a particular condition. When the time evolution undergoes a period, their corresponding cyclic geometric phases are achieved as well. And the distinction between the geometric phases of the two coherent states maybe regarded as a geometric criterion.

id: 1011.0515
title: Bell diagonal states with maximal abelian symmetry
authors: Dariusz Chruscinski, Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 064301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0515
abstract: We provide a simple class of 2-qudit states for which one is able to formulate necessary and sufficient conditions for separability. As a byproduct we generalize well known construction provided by Horodecki et al. for d=3. It is hoped that these states with known separability/entanglement properties may be used to test various notions in entanglement theory.

id: 1011.0561
title: Effect of quasi-bound states on coherent electron transport in twisted nanowires
authors: Giampaolo Cuoghi, Andrea Bertoni, Andrea Sacchetti
comments: 8 pages, 9 color figures, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0561
abstract: Quantum transmission spectra of a twisted electron waveguide expose the coupling between traveling and quasi-bound states. Through a direct numerical solution of the open-boundary Schr\"odinger equation we single out the effects of the twist and show how the presence of a localized state leads to a Breit-Wigner or a Fano resonance in the transmission. We also find that the energy of quasi-bound states is increased by the twist, in spite of the constant section area along the waveguide. While the mixing of different transmission channels is expected to reduce the conductance, the shift of localized levels into the traveling-states energy range can reduce their detrimental effects on coherent transport.

id: 1011.0621
title: Open system quantum dynamics with correlated initial states, not completely positive maps and non-Markovianity
authors: A. R. Usha Devi, A. K. Rajagopl, Sudha
comments: 8 pages, RevTeX, 6 figures, slightly extended version; Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 83, 022109 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0621
abstract: Dynamical A and B maps have been employed extensively by Sudarshan and co-workers to investigate open system evolution of quantum systems. A canonical structure of the A-map is introduced here. It is shown that this canonical A-map enables us to investigate if the dynamics is completely positive (CP) or non-completely positive (NCP) in an elegant way and hence, it subsumes the basic results on open system dynamics. Identifying memory effects in open system evolution is gaining increasing importance recently and here, a criterion of non-Markovianity, based on the relative entropy of the dynamical state is proposed. The relative entropy difference of the dynamical system serves as a complementary characterization - though not related directly - to the fidelity difference criterion proposed recently. Three typical examples of open system evolution of a qubit, prepared initially in a correlated state with another qubit (environment), and evolving jointly under a specific unitary dynamics - which corresponds to a NCP dynamical map - are investigated by employing both the relative entropy difference and fidelity difference tests of non-Markovianity. The two qubit initial states are chosen to be (i) a pure entangled state, (ii) theWerner state, which exemplifies both entangled and separable states of qubits, depending on a real parameter, and (3) a separable mixed state. Both the relative entropy and fidelity criteria offer a nice display of how non-Markovianity manifests in all the three examples.

id: 1011.0625
title: Third quantization
authors: Thomas H. Seligman, Tomaz Prosen
comments: To appear in the Proceedings of Symposium Symmetries in Nature in memoriam Marcos Moshinsky. this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0625
abstract: The basic ideas of second quantization and Fock space are extended to density operator states, used in treatments of open many-body systems. This can be done for fermions and bosons. While the former only requires the use of a non-orthogonal basis, the latter requires the introduction of a dual set of spaces. In both cases an operator algebra closely resembling the canonical one is developed and used to define the dual sets of bases. We here concentrated on the bosonic case where the unboundedness of the operators requires the definitions of dual spaces to support the pair of bases. Some applications, mainly to non-equilibrium steady states, will be mentioned.

id: 1011.0645
title: The role of exceptional points in quantum systems
authors: Ingrid Rotter
comments: 27 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0645
abstract: In the present paper, first the mathematical basic properties of the exceptional points are discussed. Then, their role in the description of real physical quantum systems is considered. Most interesting value is the phase rigidity of the eigenfunctions which varies between 1 (for distant non-overlapping states) and 0 (at the exceptional point where the resonance states completely overlap). This variation allows the system to incorporate environmentally induced effects. In the very neighborhood of an exceptional point, the system can be described well by a conventional nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation. In the regime of overlapping resonances, a dynamical phase transition takes place to which all states of the system contribute: a few short-lived resonance states are aligned to the scattering states of the environment by trapping the other states. The trapped resonance states show chaotic features. Due to the alignment of a few states with the states of the environment, observable values may be enhanced. The dynamical phase transition allows us to understand some experimental results which remained puzzling in the framework of conventional Hermitian quantum physics. The effects caused by the exceptional points in physical systems allow us to manipulate them for many different applications.

id: 1011.0684
title: Fidelity decay of the two-level bosonic embedded ensembles of Random Matrices
authors: Luis Benet, Sa¨²l Hern¨¢ndez-Quiroz, Thomas H. Seligman
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, some in color
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1323, 6 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0684
abstract: We study the fidelity decay of the $k$-body embedded ensembles of random matrices for bosons distributed over two single-particle states. Fidelity is defined in terms of a reference Hamiltonian, which is a purely diagonal matrix consisting of a fixed one-body term and includes the diagonal of the perturbing $k$-body embedded ensemble matrix, and the perturbed Hamiltonian which includes the residual off-diagonal elements of the $k$-body interaction. This choice mimics the typical mean-field basis used in many calculations. We study separately the cases $k=2$ and $3$. We compute the ensemble-averaged fidelity decay as well as the fidelity of typical members with respect to an initial random state. Average fidelity displays a revival at the Heisenberg time, $t=t_H=1$, and a freeze in the fidelity decay, during which periodic revivals of period $t_H$ are observed. We obtain the relevant scaling properties with respect to the number of bosons and the strength of the perturbation. For certain members of the ensemble, we find that the period of the revivals during the freeze of fidelity occurs at fractional times of $t_H$. These fractional periodic revivals are related to the dominance of specific $k$-body terms in the perturbation.

id: 1011.0694
title: Conformal Mapping and Bound States in Bent Waveguides
authors: Emerson Sadurni, Wolfgang P. Schleich
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures. To appear in the Proceedings of the Symposium "Symmetries in Nature, in memoriam Marcos Moshinsky"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0694
abstract: Is it possible to trap a quantum particle in an open geometry? In this work we deal with the boundary value problem of the stationary Schroedinger (or Helmholtz) equation within a waveguide with straight segments and a rectangular bending. The problem can be reduced to a one dimensional matrix Schroedinger equation using two descriptions: oblique modes and conformal coordinates. We use a corner-corrected WKB formalism to find the energies of the one dimensional problem. It is shown that the presence of bound states is an effect due to the boundary alone, with no classical counterpart for this geometry. The conformal description proves to be simpler, as the coupling of transversal modes is not essential in this case.

id: 1011.0697
title: Wireless adiabatic power transfer
authors: A. A. Rangelov, H. Suchowski, Y. Silberberg, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Annals of Physics, Volume 326, Issue 3, March 2011, Pages 626-633
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0697
abstract: We propose a technique for efficient mid-range wireless power transfer between two coils, by adapting the process of adiabatic passage for a coherently driven two-state quantum system to the realm of wireless energy transfer. The proposed technique is shown to be robust to noise, resonant constraints, and other interferences that exist in the neighborhood of the coils.

id: 1011.0716
title: Short Multi-Prover Quantum Proofs for SAT without Entangled Measurements
authors: Jing Chen, Andrew Drucker
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0716
abstract: BellQMA protocols are a subclass of multi-prover quantum Merlin-Arthur protocols in which the verifier is restricted to perform nonadaptive,unentangled measurements on the quantum states received from each Merlin. In this paper, we prove that m-clause 3-SAT instances have BellQMA proofs of satisfiability with constant soundness gap, in which O(sqrt(m)polylog(m)) Merlins each send O(log m) qubits to Arthur. Our result answers a question of Aaronson et al., who gave a protocol with similar parameters that used entangled measurements; the analysis of our protocol is significantly simpler than that of Aaronson et al. Our result also complements recent work of Brandao, Christandl, and Yard, who showed upper bounds on the power of multiprover quantum proofs with unentangled but adaptive (LOCC) measurements.

id: 1011.0736
title: Coherent state transfer via highly mixed quantum spin chains
authors: Paola Cappellaro, Lorenza Viola, Chandrasekhar Ramanathan
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032304 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0736
abstract: Spin chains have been proposed as quantum wires in many quantum information processing architectures. Coherent transmission of quantum information over short distances is enabled by their internal dynamics, which drives the transport of single-spin excitations in perfectly polarized chains. Given the practical challenge of preparing the chain in a pure state, we propose to use a chain that is initially in the maximally mixed state. We compare the transport properties of pure and mixed-state chains, finding similarities that enable the experimental study of pure-state transfer by its simulation via mixed-state chains, and demonstrate protocols for the perfect transfer of quantum information in these chains. Remarkably, mixed-state chains allow the use of Hamiltonians which do not preserve the total number of excitations, and which are more readily obtainable from the naturally occurring magnetic dipolar interaction. We propose experimental implementations using solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance and defect centers in diamond.

id: 1011.0740
title: Strong Interactions of Single Atoms and Photons near a Dielectric Boundary
authors: D. J. Alton, N. P. Stern, Takao Aoki, H. Lee, E. Ostby, K. J. Vahala, H. J. Kimble
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, Supplemental Information included as ancillary file
journal: Nature Physics 7, 159-165 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0740
abstract: Modern research in optical physics has achieved quantum control of strong interactions between a single atom and one photon within the setting of cavity quantum electrodynamics (cQED). However, to move beyond current proof-of-principle experiments involving one or two conventional optical cavities to more complex scalable systems that employ N >> 1 microscopic resonators requires the localization of individual atoms on distance scales < 100 nm from a resonator's surface. In this regime an atom can be strongly coupled to a single intracavity photon while at the same time experiencing significant radiative interactions with the dielectric boundaries of the resonator. Here, we report an initial step into this new regime of cQED by way of real-time detection and high-bandwidth feedback to select and monitor single Cesium atoms localized ~100 nm from the surface of a micro-toroidal optical resonator. We employ strong radiative interactions of atom and cavity field to probe atomic motion through the evanescent field of the resonator. Direct temporal and spectral measurements reveal both the significant role of Casimir-Polder attraction and the manifestly quantum nature of the atom-cavity dynamics. Our work sets the stage for trapping atoms near micro- and nano-scopic optical resonators for applications in quantum information science, including the creation of scalable quantum networks composed of many atom-cavity systems that coherently interact via coherent exchanges of single photons.

id: 1011.0746
title: Entropic Time
authors: Ariel Caticha
comments: Presented at MaxEnt 2010, the 30th International Workshop on Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods in Science and Engineering (July 4-9, 2010, Chamonix, France)
journal: AIP Conf.Proc.1305:200-207,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0746
abstract: The formulation of quantum mechanics within the framework of entropic dynamics includes several new elements. In this paper we concentrate on one of them: the implications for the theory of time. Entropic time is introduced as a book-keeping device to keep track of the accumulation of changes. One new feature is that, unlike other concepts of time appearing in the so-called fundamental laws of physics, entropic time incorporates a natural distinction between past and future.

id: 1011.0772
title: Teleportation-based realization of an optical quantum two-qubit entangling gate
authors: Wei-Bo Gao, Alexander M. Goebel, Chao-Yang Lu, Han-Ning Dai, Claudia Wagenknecht, Qiang Zhang, Bo Zhao, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Zeng-Bing Chen, Yu-Ao Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0772
abstract: In recent years, there has been heightened interest in quantum teleportation, which allows for the transfer of unknown quantum states over arbitrary distances. Quantum teleportation not only serves as an essential ingredient in long-distance quantum communication, but also provides enabling technologies for practical quantum computation. Of particular interest is the scheme proposed by Gottesman and Chuang [Nature \textbf{402}, 390 (1999)], showing that quantum gates can be implemented by teleporting qubits with the help of some special entangled states. Therefore, the construction of a quantum computer can be simply based on some multi-particle entangled states, Bell state measurements and single-qubit operations. The feasibility of this scheme relaxes experimental constraints on realizing universal quantum computation. Using two different methods we demonstrate the smallest non-trivial module in such a scheme---a teleportation-based quantum entangling gate for two different photonic qubits. One uses a high-fidelity six-photon interferometer to realize controlled-NOT gates and the other uses four-photon hyper-entanglement to realize controlled-Phase gates. The results clearly demonstrate the working principles and the entangling capability of the gates. Our experiment represents an important step towards the realization of practical quantum computers and could lead to many further applications in linear optics quantum information processing.

id: 1011.0815
title: A Coupled Quantum Otto Cycle
authors: George Thomas, Ramandeep S. Johal
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, (2011) 031135
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0815
abstract: We study the 1-d isotropic Heisenberg model of two spin-1/2 systems as a quantum heat engine. The engine undergoes a four-step Otto cycle where the two adiabatic branches involve changing the external magnetic field at a fixed value of the coupling constant. We find conditions for the engine efficiency to be higher than the uncoupled model; in particular, we find an upper bound which is tighter than the Carnot bound. A new domain of parameter values is pointed out which was not feasible in the interaction-free model. Locally, each spin seems to effect the flow of heat in a direction opposite to the global temperature gradient. This seeming contradiction to the second law can be resolved in terms of local effective temperature of the spins.

id: 1011.0824
title: Distillation and purification of symmetric entangled Gaussian states
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, REVTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042331 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0824
abstract: We propose an entanglement distillation and purification scheme for symmetric two-mode entangled Gaussian states that allows to asymptotically extract a pure entangled Gaussian state from any input entangled symmetric Gaussian state. The proposed scheme is a modified and extended version of the entanglement distillation protocol originally developed by [Browne et al., Phys. Rev. A 67, 062320 (2003)]. A key feature of the present protocol is that it utilizes a two-copy de-Gaussification procedure that involves a Mach-Zehnder interferometer with single-mode non-Gaussian filters inserted in its two arms. The required non-Gaussian filtering operations can be implemented by coherently combining two sequences of single-photon addition and subtraction operations.

id: 1011.0830
title: Comparison of analytical and numerical methods and the effect of bath coupling on the quantum decoherence
authors: Peihao Huang, Hang Zheng, Keiichiro Nasu
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0830
abstract: The dynamics of a qubit in a structured environment is investigated theoretically. One point of view of the model is the spin-boson model with a Lorentz shaped spectral density. An alternative view is a qubit coupled to harmonic oscillator (HO), which in turn coupled to a Ohmic environment. Two different methods are applied and compared for this problem. One is a perturbation method based on a unitary transformation. Since the transformed hamiltonian is of rotating wave approximation (RWA) form, we call it the transformed rotating wave approximation (TRWA) method. And the other one is the numerically exact method of the quasi-adiabatic propagator path-integral (QUAPI) method. TRWA method can be applied from the first point of view. And the QUAPI method can applied from both points of views. We find that from the 1st point of view QUAPI only works well for large $\Gamma$. Since the memory time is too long for the practical evaluation of QUAPI when $\Gamma$ is small. We call this treatment as QUAPI1. And from the 2nd point of view, QUAPI works well for small $\Gamma$, since the non-adiabatic effect become more important as $\Gamma$ increases, one need smaller time-step and more steps to obtain accurate result which also quickly runs out the computational resources. This treatment is called QUAPI2. We find that the TRWA method works well for the whole parameter range of $\Gamma$ and show good agreement with QUAPI1 and QUAPI2. On the other hand, we find that the decoherence of the qubit can be reduced with increasing coupling between HO and bath. This result may be relevant to the design of quantum computer.

id: 1011.0844
title: Spatial entanglement in optical parametric oscillators with photonic crystals
authors: Maria M. de Castro, Miguel Angel Garcia March, Damia Gomila, Roberta Zambrini
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0844
abstract: The effects of an intracavity photonic crystal in a multimode optical parametric oscillator are studied, with a special focus on quantum fluctuations. The capability to either stimulate or inhibit the spatial instability, lowering or increasing the parametric threshold, allows to control the intensity fluctuations and correlations. A significative quantum noise reduction and an increase of the range of squeezed quadratures are found above threshold where spatial Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen entanglement and inseparability are found.

id: 1011.0879
title: Pulsed quantum optomechanics
authors: M. R. Vanner, I. Pikovski, G. D. Cole, M. S. Kim, C. Brukner, K. Hammerer, G. J. Milburn, M. Aspelmeyer
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 108, 16182 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0879
abstract: Studying mechanical resonators via radiation pressure offers a rich avenue for the exploration of quantum mechanical behavior in a macroscopic regime. However, quantum state preparation and especially quantum state reconstruction of mechanical oscillators remains a significant challenge. Here we propose a scheme to realize quantum state tomography, squeezing and state purification of a mechanical resonator using short optical pulses. The scheme presented allows observation of mechanical quantum features despite preparation from a thermal state and is shown to be experimentally feasible using optical microcavities. Our framework thus provides a promising means to explore the quantum nature of massive mechanical oscillators and can be applied to other systems such as trapped ions.

id: 1011.0938
title: Designing reservoirs for 1/t decoherence of a qubit
authors: Filippo Giraldi, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0938
abstract: Anomalous decoherence in the Jaynes-Cummings model emerges for a certain class of bosonic reservoirs, described by spectral densities with a band edge frequency coinciding with the qubit transition frequency. The special reservoirs are piecewise similar to those usually adopted in Quantum Optics, i.e., sub-ohmic at low frequencies and inverse power laws at high frequencies. The exact dynamics of the qubit is described analytically through Fox $H$-functions. Over estimated long time scales, decoherence results in inverse power laws with powers decreasing continuously to unity, according to the particular choice of the special reservoir. The engineering reservoir approach is a new way of strongly delaying the decoherence process with possible applications to Quantum Technologies, due to the simple form of the designed reservoirs.

id: 1011.0977
title: Metal-coated nano-cylinder cavity for broadband nonclassical light emission
authors: I. Maksymov, Mondher Besbes, Jean-Paul Hugonin, J. Yang, Alexios Beveratos, Isabelle Sagnes, Isabelle Robert-Philip, Philippe Lalanne
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 105 (2010) 180502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0977
abstract: A novel metal-coated nanocylinder-cavity architecture fully compatible with III-V GaInAs technology and benefiting from a broad spectral range enhancement of the localdensity- of-states is proposed as an integrated source of non-classical light. Due to a judicious selection of the mode volume, the cavity combines good collection efficiency (\gg 45%), large Purcell factors (\gg 15) over a 80-nm spectral range, and a low sensitivity to inevitable spatial mismatches between the single emitter and the cavity mode. This represents a decisive step towards the implementation of reliable solid-state devices for the generation of entangled photon pairs at infrared wavelengths.

id: 1011.0987
title: Two Local Observables are Sufficient to Characterize Maximally Entangled States of N Qubits
authors: Fengli Yan, Ting Gao, Eric Chitambar
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 83, 022319 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0987
abstract: Maximally entangled states (MES) represent a valuable resource in quantum information processing. In $N$-qubit systems the MES are $N$-GHZ states, i.e. the collection of $\ket{GHZ_N}=\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}(\ket{00...0}+\ket{11...1})$ and its local unitary (LU) equivalences. While it is well-known that such states are uniquely stabilized by $N$ commuting observables, in this Letter we consider the minimum number of non-commuting observables needed to characterize an $N$-qubit MES as the unique common eigenstate. Here, we prove that in this general case, any $N$-GHZ state can be uniquely stabilized by only two observables. Thus, for the task of MES certification, only two correlated measurements are required with each party observing the spin of his/her system along one of two directions.

id: 1011.1020
title: Thermodynamics of quantum measurements
authors: Noam Erez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1020
abstract: Quantum measurement of a system can change its mean energy, as well as entropy. A selective measurement (classical or quantum) can be used as a "Maxwell's demon" to power a single-temperature heat engine, by decreasing the entropy. Quantum mechanically, so can a non-selective measurement, despite increasing the entropy of a thermal state. The maximal amount of work extractable following the measurement is given by the change in free energy: $W_{max}^{(non-)sel.}=\Delta E_{meas}-T_{Bath}\Delta S_{meas}^{(non-)sel.}$. This follows from the "generalized 2nd law for nonequilibrium initial state" [Hasegawa et. al, PLA (2010)], of which an elementary reduction to the standard law is given here. It is shown that $W_{max}^{sel.}-W_{max}^{non-sel.}$ equals the work required to reset the memory of the measuring device, and that no such resetting is needed in the non-selective case. Consequently, a single-bath engine powered by either kind of measurement works at a net loss of $T_{Bath}\Delta S_{meas}^{non-sel}$ per cycle. By replacing the measurement by a reversible "premeasurement" and allowing a work source to couple to the system and memory, the cycle can be made completely reversible.

id: 1011.1114
title: Quantum-noise quenching in atomic tweezers
authors: Stefano Zippilli, Bernd Mohring, Eric Lutz, Giovanna Morigi, Wolfgang Schleich
comments: 4+ pages, 3 figures, revised version. To appear in Phys. Rev. A (Rapid)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 051602(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1114
abstract: The efficiency of extracting single atoms or molecules from an ultracold bosonic reservoir is theoretically investigated for a protocol based on lasers, coupling the hyperfine state in which the atoms form a condensate to another stable state, in which the atom experiences a tight potential in the regime of collisional blockade, the quantum tweezers. The transfer efficiency into the single-atom ground state of the tight trap is fundamentally limited by the collective modes of the condensate, which are thermally and dynamically excited. The noise due to these excitations can be quenched for sufficiently long laser pulses, thereby achieving high efficiencies. These results show that this protocol can be applied for initializing a quantum register based on tweezer traps for neutral atoms.

id: 1011.1138
title: Dynamics of a Bose-Einstein condensate in a symmetric triple-well trap
authors: T. F. Viscondi, K. Furuya
comments: 22 pages, 10 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 175301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1138
abstract: We present a complete analysis of the dynamics of a Bose-Einstein condensate trapped in a symmetric triple-well potential. Our classical analogue treatment, based on a time-dependent variational method using SU(3) coherent states, includes the parameter dependence analysis of the equilibrium points and their local stability, which is closely related to the condensate collective behaviour. We also consider the effects of off-site interactions, and how these "cross-collisions" may become relevant for a large number of trapped bosons. Besides, we have shown analytically, by means of a simple basis transformation in the single-particle space, that an integrable sub-regime, known as twin-condensate dynamics, corresponds in the classical phase space to invariant surfaces isomorphic to the unit sphere. However, the quantum dynamics preserves the twin-condensate defining characteristics only partially, thus breaking the invariance of the associated quantum subspace. Moreover, the periodic geometry of the trapping potential allowed us to investigate the dynamics of finite angular momentum collective excitations, which can be suppressed by the emergence of chaos. Finally, using the generalized purity associated to the su(3) algebra, we were able to quantify the dynamical classicality of a quantum evolved system, as compared to the corresponding classical trajectory.

id: 1011.1163
title: Preparation of Schr?dinger cat states with cold ions in a cavity beyond the Lamb-Dicke limit
authors: Dagoberto S Freitas, Jairo R Rocha
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1163
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of a cold trapped ion coupled to the quantized field inside a high-finesse cavity. We have used an approach for preparing the SC states of motion of ion. This approach, based on unitary transformating the Hamiltonian, allows its exact diagonalization without performing the Lamb-Dicke aproximation. We show that is possible to generate a SC states having rather simple initial state preparation, e.g., the vacuum sate for both cavity field and the ion motion.

id: 1011.1190
title: Min-entropy and quantum key distribution: non-zero key rates for "small" numbers of signals
authors: Sylvia Bratzik, Markus Mertz, Hermann Kampermann, Dagmar Bru?
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, changed plots due to the erratum of L. Sheridan and V. Scarani, Phys. Rev. A 83, 039901 (2011)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022330 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1190
abstract: We calculate an achievable secret key rate for quantum key distribution with a finite number of signals, by evaluating the min-entropy explicitly. The min-entropy can be expressed in terms of the guessing probability, which we calculate for d-dimensional systems. We compare these key rates to previous approaches using the von Neumann entropy and find non-zero key rates for a smaller number of signals. Furthermore, we improve the secret key rates by modifying the parameter estimation step. Both improvements taken together lead to non-zero key rates for only 10^4-10^5 signals. An interesting conclusion can also be drawn from the additivity of the min-entropy and its relation to the guessing probability: for a set of symmetric tensor product states the optimal minimum-error discrimination (MED) measurement is the optimal MED measurement on each subsystem.

id: 1011.1217
title: Rapid and robust spin state amplification
authors: Tom Close, Femi Fadugba, Simon C. Benjamin, Joseph Fitzsimons, Brendon W. Lovett
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1217
abstract: Electron and nuclear spins have been employed in many of the early demonstrations of quantum technology (QT). However applications in real world QT are limited by the difficulty of measuring single spins. Here we show that it is possible to rapidly and robustly amplify a spin state using a lattice of ancillary spins. The model we employ corresponds to an extremely simple experimental system: a homogenous Ising-coupled spin lattice in one, two or three dimensions, driven by a continuous microwave field. We establish that the process can operate at finite temperature (imperfect initial polarisation) and under the effects of various forms of decoherence.

id: 1011.1238
title: Open system approach to the internal dynamics of a model multilevel molecule
authors: Filippo Giraldi, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 19, 1250011 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1238
abstract: A model multilevel molecule described by two sets of rotational internal energy levels of different parity and degenerate ground states, coupled by a constant interaction, is considered, by assuming that the random collisions in a gas of identical molecules, provoke transitions between adjacent energy levels of the same parity. The prescriptions of the continuous time quantum random walk are applied to the single molecule, interpreted as an open quantum system, and the master equation driving its internal dynamics is built for a general distribution of the waiting times between two consecutive collisions. The coherence terms and the populations of the energy levels relax to the asymptotics with inverse power laws for relevant classes of non-Poissonian distributions of the collision times. The stable asymptotic equilibrium configuration is independent of the distribution. The long time dynamics may be hindered by increasing the tail of the distribution density. This effect may be interpreted as the appearance of the quantum Zeno effect over long time scales.

id: 1011.1243
title: Operational Entanglement Families of Symmetric Mixed N-Qubit States
authors: T. Bastin, P. Mathonet, E. Solano
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, published version, Phys. Rev. A, in press
journal: Phys. Rev. A 91, 022310 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1243
abstract: We introduce an operational entanglement classification of symmetric mixed states for an arbitrary number of qubits based on stochastic local operations assisted with classical communication (SLOCC operations). We define families of SLOCC entanglement classes successively embedded into each other, we prove that they are of non-zero measure, and we construct witness operators to distinguish them. Moreover, we discuss how arbitrary symmetric mixed states can be realized in the lab via a one-to-one correspondence between well-defined sets of controllable parameters and the corresponding entanglement families.

id: 1011.1269
title: Unified analysis of terminal-time control in classical and quantum systems
authors: Alexander Pechen, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 10 pages
journal: Europhysics Letters 91, 60005 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1269
abstract: Many phenomena in physics, chemistry, and biology involve seeking an optimal control to maximize an objective for a classical or quantum system which is open and interacting with its environment. The complexity of finding an optimal control for maximizing an objective is strongly affected by the possible existence of sub-optimal maxima. Within a unified framework under specified conditions, control objectives for maximizing at a terminal time physical observables of open classical and quantum systems are shown to be inherently free of sub-optimal maxima. This attractive feature is of central importance for enabling the discovery of controls in a seamless fashion in a wide range of phenomena transcending the quantum and classical regimes.

id: 1011.1304
title: Hardy's paradox and violation of a state-independent Bell inequality in time
authors: Alessandro Fedrizzi, Marcelo P. Almeida, Matthew A. Broome, Andrew G. White, Marco Barbieri
comments: Published Version, 4 pages, 3 figures. New, more boring title
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 200402 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1304
abstract: Tests such as Bell's inequality and Hardy's paradox show that joint probabilities and correlations between distant particles in quantum mechanics are inconsistent with local realistic theories. Here we experimentally demonstrate these concepts in the time domain, using a photonic entangling gate to perform nondestructive measurements on a single photon at different times. We show that Hardy's paradox is much stronger in time and demonstrate the violation of a temporal Bell inequality independent of the quantum state, including for fully mixed states.

id: 1011.1308
title: Kinetic formulation of irreversible evolution of the two-nucleus spin systems
authors: S.Eh. Shirmovsky
comments: 26 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physica A 390 (2011) 3164-3177 (with the insignificant changes)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1308
abstract: The time irreversible evolution of the two-nucleus spin systems interacting with a magnetic field is analyzed in the framework of the subdynamics theory. The spin systems are determined by the H(1) and C(13) nuclei. The investigation is based on the complex spectral representation of the Liouvillian which gives a rigorous description of irreversibility. The evolution of the density matrix is analyzed for the short and long time region. Quantum Zeno effect is discussed.

id: 1011.1339
title: Fourier's Law for Quasi One--Dimensional Chaotic Quantum Systems
authors: Thomas H. Seligman, Hans A. Weidenmueller
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 205302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1339
abstract: We derive Fourier's law for a completely coherent quasi one--dimensional chaotic quantum system coupled locally to two heat baths at different temperatures. We solve the master equation to first order in the temperature difference. We show that the heat conductance can be expressed as a thermodynamic equilibrium coefficient taken at some intermediate temperature. We use that expression to show that for temperatures large compared to the mean level spacing of the system, the heat conductance is inversely proportional to the level density and, thus, inversely proportional to the length of the system.

id: 1011.1382
title: Quantum Computing with NMR
authors: Jonathan A. Jones
comments: Commissioned by Progress in NMR Spectroscopy (95 pages, no figures)
journal: Prog. NMR Spectrosc. 59, 91-120 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1382
abstract: A review of progress in NMR quantum computing and a brief survey of the literature

id: 1011.1385
title: Universal routes to spontaneous PT-symmetry breaking in non-hermitian quantum systems
authors: Henning Schomerus
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 030101(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1385
abstract: PT-symmetric systems can have a real spectrum even when their Hamiltonian is non-hermitian, but develop a complex spectrum when the degree of non-hermiticity increases. Here we utilize random-matrix theory to show that this spontaneous PT-symmetry breaking can occur via two distinct mechanisms, whose predominance is associated to different universality classes. Present optical experiments fall into the orthogonal class, where symmetry-induced level crossings render the characteristic absorption rate independent of the coupling strength between the symmetry-related parts of the system.

id: 1011.1402
title: Huygens-Fresnel principle for N-photon states of light
authors: E. Brainis
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1402
abstract: We show that the propagation of a N-photon field in space and time can be described by a generalized Huygens-Fresnel integral. Using two examples, we then demonstrate how familiar Fourier optics techniques applied to a N-photon wave function can be used to engineer the propagation of entanglement and to design the way the detection of one photon shapes the state of the others.

id: 1011.1441
title: Dissipative preparation of entanglement in optical cavities
authors: M. J. Kastoryano, F. Reiter, A. S. S?rensen
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 090502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1441
abstract: We propose a novel scheme for the preparation of a maximally entangled state of two atoms in an optical cavity. Starting from an arbitrary initial state, a singlet state is prepared as the unique fixed point of a dissipative quantum dynamical process. In our scheme, cavity decay is no longer undesirable, but plays an integral part in the dynamics. As a result, we get a qualitative improvement in the scaling of the fidelity with the cavity parameters. Our analysis indicates that dissipative state preparation is more than just a new conceptual approach, but can allow for significant improvement as compared to preparation protocols based on coherent unitary dynamics.

id: 1011.1443
title: Quantum query complexity of minor-closed graph properties
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Robin Kothari
comments: v1: 25 pages, 2 figures. v2: 26 pages
journal: Proc. 28th Symposium on Theoretical Aspects of Computer Science (STACS 2011), Leibniz International Proceedings in Informatics 9, pp. 661-672
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1443
abstract: We study the quantum query complexity of minor-closed graph properties, which include such problems as determining whether an $n$-vertex graph is planar, is a forest, or does not contain a path of a given length. We show that most minor-closed properties---those that cannot be characterized by a finite set of forbidden subgraphs---have quantum query complexity \Theta(n^{3/2}). To establish this, we prove an adversary lower bound using a detailed analysis of the structure of minor-closed properties with respect to forbidden topological minors and forbidden subgraphs. On the other hand, we show that minor-closed properties (and more generally, sparse graph properties) that can be characterized by finitely many forbidden subgraphs can be solved strictly faster, in o(n^{3/2}) queries. Our algorithms are a novel application of the quantum walk search framework and give improved upper bounds for several subgraph-finding problems.

id: 1011.1446
title: Pseudo-Entanglement Evaluated in Noninertial Frames
authors: Hossein Mehri-Dehnavi, Behrouz Mirza, Hosein Mohammadzadeh, Robabeh Rahimi
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures, published version
journal: Annals of Physics 326 (2011) 1320-1333
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1446
abstract: We study quantum discord, in addition to entanglement, of bipartite pseudo-entanglement in noninertial frames. It is shown that the entanglement degrades from its maximum value in a stationary frame to a minimum value in an infinite accelerating frame. There is a critical region found in which, for particular cases, entanglement of states vanishes for certain accelerations. The quantum discord of pseudo-entanglement decreases by increasing the acceleration. Also, for a physically inaccessible region, entanglement and nonclassical correlation are evaluated and shown to match the corresponding values of the physically accessible region for an infinite acceleration.

id: 1011.1468
title: A Quantum-Quantum Metropolis Algorithm
authors: Man-Hong Yung, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 7 pages
journal: Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 109, 754-759 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1468
abstract: Recently, the idea of classical Metropolis sampling through Markov chains has been generalized for quantum Hamiltonians. However, the underlying Markov chain of this algorithm is still classical in nature. Due to Szegedy's method, the Markov chains of classical Hamiltonians can achieve a quadratic quantum speedup in the eigenvalue gap of the corresponding transition matrix. A natural question to ask is whether Szegedy's quantum speedup is merely a consequence of employing classical Hamiltonians, where the eigenstates simply coincide with the computational basis, making cloning of the classical information possible. We solve this problem by introducing a quantum version of the method of Markov-chain quantization combined with the quantum simulated annealing (QSA) procedure, and describe explicitly a novel quantum Metropolis algorithm, which exhibits a quadratic quantum speedup in the eigenvalue gap of the corresponding Metropolis Markov chain for any quantum Hamiltonian. This result provides a complete generalization of the classical Metropolis method to the quantum domain.

id: 1011.1542
title: The effect of measurements, randomly distributed in time, on quantum systems. Stochastic quantum Zeno effect
authors: A. I. Shushin
comments: 31 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1542
abstract: The manifestation of measurements, randomly distributed in time, on the evolution of quantum systems are analyzed in detail. The set of randomly distributed measurements (RDM) is modeled within the renewal theory, in which the distribution is characterized by the probability density function (PDF) W(t) of times t between successive events (measurements). The evolution of the quantum system affected by the RDM is shown to be described by the density matrix satisfying the stochastic Liouville equation. This equation is applied to the analysis of the RDM effect on the evolution of a two level systems for different types of RDM statistics, corresponding to different PDFs W(t). Obtained general results are illustrated as applied to the cases of the Poissonian [W(t) ~ e^{-w_r t}] and anomalous [W(t) ~ 1/t^{1+\alpha}, (\alpha is smaller or equal to 1)], RDM statistics. In particular, specific features of the quantum and inverse Zeno effects, resulting from the RDM, are thoroughly discussed.

id: 1011.1577
title: Three-photon states in nonlinear crystal superlattices
authors: Diana A. Antonosyan, Tigran V. Gevorgyan, Gagik Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 043807, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1577
abstract: It has been a longstanding goal in quantum optics to realize controllable sources generating joint multiphoton states, particularly, photon triplet with arbitrary spectral characteristics. We demonstrate that such sources can be realized via cascaded parametric down-conversion (PDC) in superlattice structures of nonlinear and linear segments. We consider scheme that involves two parametric processes: $\omega_{0}\rightarrow\omega_{1}+\omega_{2}$, $\omega_{2}\rightarrow\omega_{1}+\omega_{1}$ under pulsed pump and investigate spontaneous creation of photon triplet as well as generation of high-intensity mode in intracavity three-photon splitting. We show preparation of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger polarization entangled states in cascaded type-II and type-I PDC in framework of consideration dual-grid structure that involves two periodically-poled crystals. We demonstrate the method of compensation of the dispersive effects in non-linear segments by appropriately chosen linear dispersive segments of superlattice for preparation heralded joint states of two polarized photons. In the case of intracavity three-photon splitting, we concentrate on investigation of photon-number distributions, third-order photon-number correlation function as well as the Wigner functions. These quantities are observed both for short interaction time intervals and in over transient regime, when dissipative effects are essential.

id: 1011.1585
title: Singular value decomposition and matrix reorderings in quantum information theory
authors: J. A. Miszczak
comments: 11 pages, no figures, see this http URL for related software
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. C, Vol. 22, No. 9 (2011), pp. 897-918
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1585
abstract: We review Schmidt and Kraus decompositions in the form of singular value decomposition using operations of reshaping, vectorization and reshuffling. We use the introduced notation to analyse the correspondence between quantum states and operations with the help of Jamiolkowski isomorphism. The presented matrix reorderings allow us to obtain simple formulae for the composition of quantum channels and partial operations used in quantum information theory. To provide examples of the discussed operations we utilize a package for the Mathematica computing system implementing basic functions used in the calculations related to quantum information theory.

id: 1011.1612
title: Locking classical information
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Dupuis, Jan Florjanczyk, Patrick Hayden, Debbie Leung
comments: 32 pages, 2 figures
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 8 November 2013 vol. 469 no. 2159
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1612
abstract: It is known that the maximum classical mutual information that can be achieved between measurements on a pair of quantum systems can drastically underestimate the quantum mutual information between those systems. In this article, we quantify this distinction between classical and quantum information by demonstrating that after removing a logarithmic-sized quantum system from one half of a pair of perfectly correlated bitstrings, even the most sensitive pair of measurements might only yield outcomes essentially independent of each other. This effect is a form of information locking but the definition we use is strictly stronger than those used previously. Moreover, we find that this property is generic, in the sense that it occurs when removing a random subsystem. As such, the effect might be relevant to statistical mechanics or black hole physics. Previous work on information locking had always assumed a uniform message. In this article, we assume only a min-entropy bound on the message and also explore the effect of entanglement. We find that classical information is strongly locked almost until it can be completely decoded. As a cryptographic application of these results, we exhibit a quantum key distribution protocol that is "secure" if the eavesdropper's information about the secret key is measured using the accessible information but in which leakage of even a logarithmic number of key bits compromises the secrecy of all the others.

id: 1011.1688
title: Generation of correlated photon pairs in a chalcogenide As2S3 waveguide
authors: C. Xiong, G. D. Marshall, A. Peruzzo, M. Lobino, A. S. Clark, D.-Y. Choi, S. J. Madden, C. M. Natarajan, M. G. Tanner, R. H. Hadfield, S. N. Dorenbos, T. Zijlstra, V. Zwiller, M. G. Thompson, J. G. Rarity, M. J. Steel, B. Luther-Davies, B. J. Eggleton, J. L. O'Brien
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 98, 051101 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1688
abstract: We demonstrate the first 1550 nm correlated photon-pair source in an integrated glass platform-a chalcogenide As2S3 waveguide. A measured pair coincidence rate of 80 per second was achieved using 57 mW of continuous-wave pump. The coincidence to accidental ratio was shown to be limited by spontaneous Raman scattering effects that are expected to be mitigated by using a pulsed pump source.

id: 1011.1694
title: Hilbert Space Representations of Decoherence Functionals and Quantum Measures
authors: Stan Gudder
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1694
abstract: We show that any decoherence functional $D$ can be represented by a spanning vector-valued measure on a complex Hilbert space. Moreover, this representation is unique up to an isomorphism when the system is finite. We consider the natural map $U$ from the history Hilbert space $K$ to the standard Hilbert space $H$ of the usual quantum formulation. We show that $U$ is an isomorphism from $K$ onto a closed subspace of $H$ and that $U$ is an isomorphism from $K$ onto $H$ if and only if the representation is spanning. We then apply this work to show that a quantum measure has a Hilbert space representation if and only if it is strongly positive. We also discuss classical decoherence functionals, operator-valued measures and quantum operator measures.

id: 1011.1704
title: Establishment of the conserved operators using variational principle
authors: Nikolay Dementev
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1704
abstract: Operators play a substantial role in mathematical formalism of quantum mechanics. However, explicit forms of the operators are usually postulated, based on the intuitive assumptions. In this study, variational principle was applied to the basic equation for expectation value to vary a generalized form of operator while keeping psi-function invariable. A restriction of being expectation value invariable, allowed one to derive all possible forms of the operators corresponding to the conserved physical entities. As a result, it was found that only three distinctive forms of the conserved operators are possible, tentatively assigned to be angular momentum-like, momentum-like and total energy-like operators. Surprisingly, all operators included constant, the same one for each of the operators, therefore, making operators the quantum ones. Absence of the quantization in original assumptions suggests that quantum character of the operators and, therefore, the physical entities, is a direct consequence of the existence of the conservation laws.

id: 1011.1732
title: A new approach to quantum measurement problem: cluster separability
authors: Petr Hajicek
comments: 15 pages, no figures. Rule 2 generalized, some references corrected. Based on the talk at Fifth International Workshop DICE2010, Castiglioncello (Tuscany), September 13--17, 2010
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 306 012035 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1732
abstract: The paper describes a solution to the problem of quantum measurement that has been proposed recently. The literal understanding of the basic rule of quantum mechanics on identical particles violates the cluster separation principle and so leads to difficulties. A proposal due to Peres of how such difficulties could be removed is reformulated and extended. Cluster separability leads to a locality requirement on observables and to the key notion of separation status. Separation status of a microsystem is shown to change in preparation and registration processes. The indispensability of detectors plays an important role. Changes of separation status are alterations of kinematic description rather than some parts of dynamical trajectories and so more radical than 'collapse of the wave function'. Textbook quantum mechanics does not provide any information of how separation status changes run, hence new rules must be formulated. This enables to satisfy the objectification requirement for registrations. To show how the ideas work, a simplified model of registration apparatus is constructed.

id: 1011.1736
title: Analytical Bound of Concurrence
authors: Zhihao Ma, Zhi-Hua Chen
comments: there is a small error, make the bound too big
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1736
abstract: We give an analytical lower bound of concurrence for both bipartite and multipartite quantum states.

id: 1011.1751
title: The Rayleigh-Schr?dinger perturbation series of quasi-degenerate systems
authors: Christian Brouder, G¨¦rard H. E. Duchamp, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Patras, Gabor Zsolt Toth
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Chemistry 112, 10 (2012) 2256-2266
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1751
abstract: We present the first representation of the general term of the Rayleigh-Schr\"odinger series for quasidegenerate systems. Each term of the series is represented by a tree and there is a straightforward relation between the tree and the analytical expression of the corresponding term. The combinatorial and graphical techniques used in the proof of the series expansion allow us to derive various resummation formulas of the series. The relation with several combinatorial objects used for special cases (degenerate or non-degenerate systems) is established.

id: 1011.1784
title: Topological quantum buses: coherent quantum information transfer between topological and conventional qubits
authors: Parsa Bonderson, Roman M. Lutchyn
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; v2: minor revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 130505 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1784
abstract: We propose computing bus devices that enable quantum information to be coherently transferred between topological and conventional qubits. We describe a concrete realization of such a topological quantum bus acting between a topological qubit in a Majorana wire network and a conventional semiconductor double quantum dot qubit. Specifically, this device measures the joint (fermion) parity of these two different qubits by using the Aharonov-Casher effect in conjunction with an ancilliary superconducting flux qubit that facilitates the measurement. Such a parity measurement, together with the ability to apply Hadamard gates to the two qubits, allows one to produce states in which the topological and conventional qubits are maximally entangled and to teleport quantum states between the topological and conventional quantum systems.

id: 1011.1795
title: Realism and single-quanta nonlocality
authors: G. S. Paraoanu
comments: 10 pages
journal: Found. Phys. 41, 734 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1795
abstract: We show that local realism applied to states characterized by a single quanta equally and coherently shared between a number of qubits (so-called W states) produces predictions incompatible with quantum theory. The origin of this incompatibility is shown to originate from the destructive interference of amplitude probabilities associated with nonlocal states, a phenomenon that has no classical analog.

id: 1011.1819
title: Dynamic diffusion as approximation of quantum behavior
authors: Yuri Ozhigov
comments: 19 pages, LaTex
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1819
abstract: The approximation of quantum unitary dynamics of a particle by a swarm of point wise classical samples of this particle is proposed. Quantum mechanism of speedup rests on the creation and annihilation of absolutely rigid bons, which join samples in dot wise symplexes so that the density of swarm approximate the quantum probability. This mechanism does not require differentiation of a density that is adventage of this method over Bohm's quantum hydrodynamics: our method is applicable to many particles in entangled states. In multi particle case the limitation of total number of samples gives the natural model of decoherence, e.g. the divergency from the exact solution of Shredinger equation. Intensity of creation - annihilation of bonds between samples substantially depends on the grain of spatial resolution, which makes impossible to pass to the limits as in a classical substance; this is the price for the scalability of a model to many particles.

id: 1011.1833
title: A Review of Derivations of the Space-Time Foam Formulas
authors: Andor Frenkel
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1833
abstract: The space-time foam formulas, quoted below in Eqs (1) and (3), express the minimal amount of quantum uncertainty to be introduced into the structure of the Einsteinian space-time in order to make that structure compatible with quantum mechanics. In addition to their theoretical significance, the formulas lead to far reaching observable consequences shortly recalled below in the last section. The main purpose of the present note is the examination of the reliability and the comparison of various derivations of the said formulas.

id: 1011.1840
title: Macroscopic Pure State of Light Free of Polarization Noise
authors: Timur Sh. Iskhakov, Maria V. Chekhova, Georgy O. Rytikov, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 113602 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1840
abstract: The preparation of completely non-polarized light is seemingly easy: an everyday example is sunlight. The task is much more difficult if light has to be in a pure quantum state, as required by most quantum-technology applications. The pure quantum states of light obtained so far are either polarized or, in rare cases, manifest hidden polarization: even if their intensities are invariant to polarization transformations, higher-order moments are not. We experimentally demonstrate the preparation of the macroscopic singlet Bell state, which is pure, completely non-polarized, and has no polarization noise. Simultaneous fluctuation suppression in three Stokes observables below the shot-noise limit is demonstrated, opening perspectives for noiseless polarization measurements. The state is shown to be invariant to polarization transformations. This robust highly entangled isotropic state promises to fuel important applications in photonic quantum technologies.

id: 1011.1903
title: Dynamical Decoupling in the Presence of Realistic Pulse Errors
authors: A. M. Tyryshkin, Zhi-Hui Wang, Wenxian Zhang, E. E. Haller, J. W. Ager, V. V. Dobrovitski, S. A. Lyon
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1903
abstract: One of the most significant hurdles to be overcome on the path to practical quantum information processors is dealing with quantum errors. Dynamical decoupling is a particularly promising approach that complements conventional quantum error correction by eliminating some correlated errors without the overhead of additional qubits. In practice, the control pulses used for decoupling are imperfect and thus introduce errors which can accumulate after many pulses. These instrumental errors can destroy the quantum state. Here we examine several dynamical decoupling sequences, and their concatenated variants, using electron spin resonance of donor electron spins in a $^{28}$Si crystal. All of the sequences cancel phase noise arising from slowly fluctuating magnetic fields in our spectrometer, but only those sequences based upon alternating $\pi$-rotations about the X- and Y-axes in the rotating frame (XYXY sequences) demonstrate the ability to store an arbitrary quantum state. By comparing the experimental results with a detailed theoretical analysis we demonstrate that the superior performance of XYXY sequences arises from the fact that they are self-correcting for the dominant instrumental pulse errors in magnetic resonance experiments. We further find that concatenated sequences perform better than the periodic variants, maintaining near 100% fidelities for spin states even after several hundred control pulses. Intuitively, one would expect the instrumental error to increase with the number of pulses in the sequence but we show that the dominant first-order error does not increase when concatenating the XYXY sequence.

id: 1011.1934
title: Photon echo quantum memory with complete use of natural inhomogeneous broadening
authors: Sergey A. Moiseev
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1934
abstract: The photon echo quantum memory is based on a controlled rephasing of the atomic coherence excited by signal light field in the inhomogeneously broadened resonant line. Here, we propose a novel active mechanism of the atomic rephasing which provides a perfect retrieval of the stored light field in the photon echo quantum memory for arbitrary initial inhomogeneous broadening of the resonant line. It is shown that the rephasing mechanism can exploit all resonant atoms which maximally increases an optical depth of the resonant transition that is one of the critical parameters for realization of highly efficient quantum memory. We also demonstrate that the rephasing mechanism can be used for various realizations of the photon echo quantum memory that opens a wide road for its practical realization.

id: 1011.1942
title: Toric codes and quantum doubles from two-body Hamiltonians
authors: Courtney G. Brell, Steven T. Flammia, Stephen D. Bartlett, Andrew C. Doherty
comments: 10 pages of ideas plus 26 pages of calculations; 8 figures. v2, improved discussion of perturbation theory and relation to other topological subsystem codes; refs added. v3, v4, minor corrections and clarifications; published version
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 053039 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1942
abstract: We present a procedure to obtain the Hamiltonians of the toric code and Kitaev quantum double models as the low-energy limits of entirely two-body Hamiltonians. Our construction makes use of a new type of perturbation gadget based on error-detecting subsystem codes. The procedure is motivated by a PEPS description of the target models, and reproduces the target models' behavior using only couplings which are natural in terms of the original Hamiltonians. This allows our construction to exactly capture the symmetries of the target models.

id: 1011.1949
title: Analytic control methods for high fidelity unitary operations in a weakly nonlinear oscillator
authors: J. M. Gambetta, F. Motzoi, S. T. Merkel, F. K. Wilhelm
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures, small changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012308 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1949
abstract: In qubits made from a weakly anharmonic oscillator the leading source of error at short gate times is leakage of population out of the two dimensional Hilbert space that forms the qubit. In this paper we develop a general scheme based on an adiabatic expansion to find pulse shapes that correct this type of error. We find a family of solutions that allows tailoring to what is practical to implement for a specific application. Our result contains and improves the previously developed DRAG technique [F. Motzoi, et. al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 110501 (2009)] and allows a generalization to other non-linear oscillators with more than one leakage transition.

id: 1011.1972
title: Assisted Entanglement Distillation
authors: Nicolas Dutil, Patrick Hayden
comments: 25 pages, 4 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol 11, No 5&6, (2011) 0496-0520
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1972
abstract: Motivated by the problem of designing quantum repeaters, we study entanglement distillation between two parties, Alice and Bob, starting from a mixed state and with the help of "repeater" stations. To treat the case of a single repeater, we extend the notion of entanglement of assistance to arbitrary mixed tripartite states and exhibit a protocol, based on a random coding strategy, for extracting pure entanglement. The rates achievable by this protocol formally resemble those achievable if the repeater station could merge its state to one of Alice and Bob even when such merging is impossible. This rate is provably better than the hashing bound for sufficiently pure tripartite states. We also compare our assisted distillation protocol to a hierarchical strategy consisting of entanglement distillation followed by entanglement swapping. We demonstrate by the use of a simple example that our random measurement strategy outperforms hierarchical distillation strategies when the individual helper stations' states fail to individually factorize into portions associated specifically with Alice and Bob. Finally, we use these results to find achievable rates for the more general scenario, where many spatially separated repeaters help two recipients distill entanglement.

id: 1011.1974
title: One-shot Multiparty State Merging
authors: Nicolas Dutil, Patrick Hayden
comments: 41 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1974
abstract: We present a protocol for performing state merging when multiple parties share a single copy of a mixed state, and analyze the entanglement cost in terms of min- and max-entropies. Our protocol allows for interpolation between corner points of the rate region without the need for time-sharing, a primitive which is not available in the one-shot setting. We also compare our protocol to the more naive strategy of repeatedly applying a single-party merging protocol one party at a time, by performing a detailed analysis of the rates required to merge variants of the embezzling states. Finally, we analyze a variation of multiparty merging, which we call split-transfer, by considering two receivers and many additional helpers sharing a mixed state. We give a protocol for performing a split-transfer and apply it to the problem of assisted entanglement distillation.

id: 1011.1985
title: Tomography of the two-electron spin qubits in semiconductors
authors: Zhan Su, Tao Tu, Gang Cao, Guang-Can Guo, Guo-Ping Guo
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors. 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1985
abstract: We propose an approach to reconstruct two-electron spin qubit states in semiconductor quantum dots by employing tomographic techniques. This procedure exploits the combination of fast gate operations on electron spins trapped in dots and dynamical nuclear polarization of the underlying Ga and As nuclei. The presented method can be an important tool in solid state quantum computation for complete characterization of qubit states and theirs correlations.

id: 1011.2003
title: Generation and Analysis of Hidden Optical-Polarization States
authors: Ravi S. Singh, Gyaneshwar K. Gupta
comments: 16 Pages, 4 Figures (Comments on this work are invited)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2003
abstract: A hybrid Optical-Device (Phase-Conjugating Mirror Michelson Interferometer), made up of Phase-conjugate mirror along with ordinary mirror and Polarization Beam-splitter, is formally designed and investigated for the generation of an unusual Optical-Polarization States. This weird yet 'essentially single-mode' optical-polarization state has non-random 'ratio of amplitudes' and non-random 'sum of phases' in orthogonal bases-modes contrary to usual 'truly single-mode' optical-polarization states of which non-random 'ratio of amplitudes' and non-random 'difference of phases' serves as optical-polarization characteristic parameters. Since it is seen not to be characterized by Stokes parameters, one may, therefore, assign the name 'Hidden Optical-Polarization States (HOPS)'. HOPS are characterized by a set of parameters, namely, Hidden Optical-Polarization parameters. Formal experimental schemes are presented to experimentally measure these parameters and, thus, offering characterization of HOPS.

id: 1011.2014
title: Fundamental quantum limits for practical devices
authors: Ryo Namiki
comments: 4 pages, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A.83 040302(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2014
abstract: We present experimentally testable quantum limitations on the phase-insensitive linear amplification and phase conjugation with respect to the transformation of a Gaussian distributed set of coherent states following the footing to assess the success of continuous-variable quantum teleportation and quantum memory devices. The results enable us to compare the real device with the quantum limited device via feasible input of coherent states.

id: 1011.2027
title: Commutativity of the adiabatic elimination limit of fast oscillatory components and the instantaneous feedback limit in quantum feedback networks
authors: John E. Gough, Hendra I. Nurdin, Sebastian Wildfeuer
comments: 38 pages, 10 figures, minor typos corrected and minor editorial changes. Published in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, 51(12), pp. 123518-1--123518-25 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2027
abstract: We show that, for arbitrary quantum feedback networks consisting of several quantum mechanical components connected by quantum fields, the limit of adiabatic elimination of fast oscillator modes in the components and the limit of instantaneous transmission along internal quantum field connections commute. The underlying technique is to show that both limits involve a Schur complement procedure. The result shows that the frequently used approximations, for instance to eliminate strongly coupled optical cavities, are mathematically consistent.

id: 1011.2066
title: Full-revivals in 2-D Quantum Walks
authors: M. Stefanak, B. Kollar, T. Kiss, I. Jex
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scr. T140, 014035 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2066
abstract: Recurrence of a random walk is described by the Polya number. For quantum walks, recurrence is understood as the return of the walker to the origin, rather than the full-revival of its quantum state. Localization for two dimensional quantum walks is known to exist in the sense of non-vanishing probability distribution in the asymptotic limit. We show on the example of the 2-D Grover walk that one can exploit the effect of localization to construct stationary solutions. Moreover, we find full-revivals of a quantum state with a period of two steps. We prove that there cannot be longer cycles for a four-state quantum walk. Stationary states and revivals result from interference which has no counterpart in classical random walks.

id: 1011.2102
title: Lower bound for the mean square distance between classical and quantum spin correlations
authors: Gebhard Gruebl, Lukas Wurzer
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: A slightly revised version has been published in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 095307
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2102
abstract: Bell's theorem prevents local Kolmogorov-simulations of the singlet state of two spin-1/2 particles. We derive a positive lower bound for the $L^{2}% $-distance between the quantum mechanical spin singlet anticorrelation function $\cos$ and any of its classical approximants $C$ formed by the stationary autocorrelation functions of mean-square-continuous, $2\pi $-periodic, $\pm1$-valued, stochastic processes. This bound is given by $\Vert C-\cos\Vert \geq(1-\frac{8}{\pi^{2}}) /\sqrt{2}\approx0.133\,95.$

id: 1011.2110
title: Efficient Phase-Encoding Quantum Key Generation with Narrow-Band Single Photons
authors: Hui Yan, Shi-Liang Zhu, Shengwang Du
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 28, 070307(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2110
abstract: We propose an efficient phase-encoding quantum secret key generation scheme with heralded narrow-band single photons. The key information is carried by the phase modulation directly on the single-photon temporal waveform without using any passive beam splitters or optical switches. We show that, when the technique is applied to the conventional fiber-based phase-encoding BB84 and differential phase shift (DPS) quantum key distribution schemes, the key generation efficiencies can be improved by a factor of 2 and 3, respectively. For N(>3)-period DPS systems, the key generation efficiency can be improved by a factor of N. The technique is suitable for quantum memory-based long-distance fiber communication system.

id: 1011.2120
title: Superactivation, unlockability, and secrecy distribution of bound information
authors: Giuseppe Prettico, Joonwoo Bae
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042336 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2120
abstract: Bound information, a cryptographic classical analogue of bound entanglement, is defined as classical secret correlations from which no secret key can be extracted. Its existence was conjectured and shown in a multipartite case. In this work, we provide a new example of bound information in a four-partite scenario. Later, using this example, we prove that bound information can be superactivated in a finite-copy scenario and unlockable. We also show that bound entangled states (bound information) can be used to distribute multipartite pure-state entanglement (secret key).

id: 1011.2159
title: Block-based quantum-logic synthesis
authors: Mehdi Saeedi, Mona Arabzadeh, Morteza Saheb Zamani, Mehdi Sedighi
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures, 5 tables, Quantum Information and Computation (QIC) Journal
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2159
abstract: In this paper, the problem of constructing an efficient quantum circuit for the implementation of an arbitrary quantum computation is addressed. To this end, a basic block based on the cosine-sine decomposition method is suggested which contains $l$ qubits. In addition, a previously proposed quantum-logic synthesis method based on quantum Shannon decomposition is recursively applied to reach unitary gates over $l$ qubits. Then, the basic block is used and some optimizations are applied to remove redundant gates. It is shown that the exact value of $l$ affects the number of one-qubit and CNOT gates in the proposed method. In comparison to the previous synthesis methods, the value of $l$ is examined consequently to improve either the number of CNOT gates or the total number of gates. The proposed approach is further analyzed by considering the nearest neighbor limitation. According to our evaluation, the number of CNOT gates is increased by at most a factor of $\frac{5}{3}$ if the nearest neighbor interaction is applied.

id: 1011.2162
title: The Fermionic Projector, Entanglement, and the Collapse of the Wave Function
authors: Felix Finster
comments: 17 pages, LaTeX, 2 figures, minor changes (published version)
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.306:012024,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2162
abstract: After a brief introduction to the fermionic projector approach, we review how entanglement and second quantized bosonic and fermionic fields can be described in this framework. The constructions are discussed with regard to decoherence phenomena and the measurement problem. We propose a mechanism leading to the collapse of the wave function in the quantum mechanical measurement process.

id: 1011.2164
title: Effect Of Weak Magnetic Field ($\sim $\,300 Gs) On the Intensity of Terahertz Emission of Hot Electrons in $n$-Ge at Helium Temperatures
authors: V.M. Bondar, P.M. Tomchuk, G.A. Shepel'skii
comments: 
journal: Ukrainian Journal of Physics, 2010, Vol. 55, no. 9, pp. 1023-1028 (www.ujp.bitp.kiev.ua)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2164
abstract: Experimental results of studying the effect of a weak magnetic field ($\sim $300 Gs) on the intensity of the terahertz emission ($\lambda \approx $100 $\mu $m) of hot electrons in $n$-Ge (crystallographic orientation $< 1,0,0 >)$ at helium temperatures ($T\sim $5 K) are presented and discussed. It is shown that the strong influence of this field (decrease of the emission intensity by 500$\div $1000{%}) is related to a decrease of the carrier concentration at weak electric fields and the appearance of the magnetoresistance at stronger fields. The longitudinal magnetoresistance becomes significant due to the anisotropy of the energy dispersion law of electrons and a strong deformation of the electron velocity distribution function by the electric field (which is beyond the framework of the diffusion approximation).

id: 1011.2215
title: Capacities of Grassmann channels
authors: Kamil Bradler, Tomas Jochym-O'Connor, Rocio Jauregui
comments: 33 pages, Accepted in Journal of Mathematical Physics; The role of the (fermionic) braided tensor product for quantum Shannon theory, namely capacity formulas, elucidated; The conclusion on the equivalence of Unruh effect for bosons and fermions for quantum communication purposes made clear and even more precise
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52: 062202,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2215
abstract: A new class of quantum channels called Grassmann channels is introduced and their classical and quantum capacity is calculated. The channel class appears in a study of the two-mode squeezing operator constructed from operators satisfying the fermionic algebra. We compare Grassmann channels with the channels induced by the bosonic two-mode squeezing operator. Among other results, we challenge the relevance of calculating entanglement measures to assess or compare the ability of bosonic and fermionic states to send quantum information to uniformly accelerated frames.

id: 1011.2252
title: Quantum coherence versus quantum discord in two coupled semiconductor double-dot molecules via a transmission line resonator
authors: Pei Pei, Chong Li, Jia-Sen Jin, He-Shan Song
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 035501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2252
abstract: We study the dynamics of quantum coherence and quantum correlations in two semiconductor double-dot molecules separated by a distance and indirectly coupled via a transmission line resonator. Dominant dissipation processes are considered. The numerical results show the sudden death of entanglement and the robustness of quantum discord to sudden death. Furthermore, the results indicate the dephasing processes in our model can lead in the revival and decay of coherence and discord with the absence of entanglement for certain initial states. By observing the dynamics of coherence versus discord for different initial states, we find that the similarities and differences of coherence and discord are not only related to the dependance of discord on optimizing the measurement set, but more importantly to the coherences in individual qubits which are captured by the adopted coherence measure.

id: 1011.2260
title: Further analysis of the connected moments expansion
authors: Paolo Amore, Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez, Martin Rodriguez
comments: 19 pages; 2 tables; 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2260
abstract: We apply the connected moments expansion to simple quantum--mechanical examples and show that under some conditions the main equations of the approach are no longer valid. In particular we consider two--level systems, the harmonic oscillator and the pure quartic oscillator.

id: 1011.2277
title: Photon creation in a resonant cavity with a nonstationary plasma mirror and its detection with Rydberg atoms
authors: Toru Kawakubo, Katsuji Yamamoto
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 013819 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2277
abstract: We investigate the dynamical Casimir effect and its detection with Rydberg atoms. The photons are created in a resonant cavity with a plasma mirror of a semiconductor slab which is irradiated by periodic laser pulses. The canonical Hamiltonian is derived for the creation and annihilation operators showing the explicit time-variation in the couplings, which originates from the external configuration such as a nonstationary plasma mirror. The number of created photons is evaluated as squeezing from the Heisenberg equations with the Hamiltonian. Then, the detection of the photons as the atomic excitations is examined through the atom-field interaction. Some consideration is made for a feasible experimental realization with a semiconductor plasma mirror.

id: 1011.2287
title: Causal Symmetry and the Transactional Interpretation
authors: Peter W. Evans
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2287
abstract: Cramer's (1986) transactional interpretation of quantum mechanics posits retrocausal influences in quantum processes in an attempt to alleviate some of the interpretational difficulties of the Copenhagen interpretation. In response to Cramer's theory, Maudlin (2002) has levelled a significant objection against any retrocausal model of quantum mechanics. I present here an examination of the transactional interpretation of quantum mechanics and an analysis of Maudlin's critique. I claim that, although Maudlin correctly isolates the weaknesses of Cramer's theory, his justification for this weakness is off the mark. The cardinal vice of the transactional interpretation is its failure to provide a sufficient causal structure to constrain uniquely the behaviour of quantum systems and I contend that this is due to a lack of causal symmetry in the theory. In contrast, Maudlin attributes this shortcoming to retrocausality itself and emphasises an apparently fundamental incongruence between retrocausality and his own metaphysical picture of reality. I conclude by arguing that the problematic aspect of this incongruence is Maudlin's assumptions about what is appropriate for such a metaphysical picture.

id: 1011.2421
title: Multicasting Homogeneous and Heterogeneous Quantum States in Quantum Networks
authors: Yi-Chang Shih, Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Hung-Yu Wei
comments: 24 pages, 9 figures
journal: Nano Communication Networks, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2421
abstract: In this paper, we target the practical implementation issues of quantum multicast networks. First, we design a recursive lossless compression that allows us to control the trade-off between the circuit complexity and the dimension of the compressed quantum state. We give a formula that describes the trade-off, and further analyze how the formula is affected by the controlling parameter of the recursive procedure. Our recursive lossless compression can be applied in a quantum multicast network where the source outputs homogeneous quantum states (many copies of a quantum state) to a set of destinations through a bottleneck. Such a recursive lossless compression is extremely useful in the current situation where the technology of producing large-scale quantum circuits is limited. Second, we develop two lossless compression schemes that work for heterogeneous quantum states (many copies of a set of quantum states) when the set of quantum states satisfies a certain structure. The heterogeneous compression schemes provide extra compressing power over the homogeneous compression scheme. Finally, we realize our heterogeneous compression schemes in several quantum multicast networks, including the single-source multi-terminal model, the multi-source multi-terminal model, and the ring networks. We then analyze the bandwidth requirements for these network models.

id: 1011.2464
title: Efimov Trimers : Analytic Solution Via Separable Potentials
authors: A. N. Mitra
comments: 6 pages on pdf; Keywords: Efimov states, separable potentials, dimer resonances, effective range, short-range limit
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2464
abstract: The exact dynamical equation for Efimov trimers in the short range limit of dimer resonances is derived via Yamaguchi separable potentials. This equation which overcomes the non-uniqueness problem of zero-range potentials, closely resembles one derived recently by Gogolin et al, with no further assumptions, and hence enjoys all the benefits of the latter results.

id: 1011.2475
title: Irreducible Many-Body Casimir Energies of Intersecting Objects
authors: Martin Schaden
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Europhys.Lett.94:41001,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2475
abstract: The vacuum energy of a bosonic field interacting locally with objects is decomposed into irreducible $N$-body parts. The irreducible $N$-body contribution to the vacuum energy is finite if the common intersection $O_1\cap O_2...\cap O_N$ of all $N$ objects $O_i,i=1,..., N$ is empty. I prove that the perturbative expansion of the corresponding irreducible $N$-body spectral function $\tphi^{(N)}(\beta)$ for $\beta\sim 0$ vanishes to all orders even if some of the objects intersect. These irreducible spectral functions and their associated Casimir energies in principle can be computed numerically or approximated semiclassically without regularization or implicit knowledge of the spectrum. They are analytic in the parameters describing the relative orientation and position of the individual objects and remain finite when some, but not all, of the $N$ objects overlap. The Feynman-Kac theorem is used to compute Casimir energies of a massless scalar field with potential scattering and the finiteness of $N$-body Casimir energies is shown explicitly in this case. The irreducible $N$-body contributions to the vacuum energy of a massless scalar field with potential interactions is shown to be negative for an even- and positive for an odd- number of objects. Some simple examples are used to illustrate the analyticity of the $N$-body Casimir energy and its sign. A multiple scattering representation of the irreducible three-body Casimir energy is given. It remains finite when any two of the three objects overlap.

id: 1011.2484
title: Nondistillability of distillable qutrit-qutrit states under depolarizing noise
authors: Salman Khan, M.K. Khan
comments: pages 16, figures 5
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 58, 918, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2484
abstract: We study the effects of decoherence on some particular bipartite qutrit states under the influence of global, collective, local and multilocal depolarizing noise. We show that certain free entangled distillable qutrit density matrices become bound entangled or separable and hence convert into nondistillable density matrices in global noise. The collective noise increases the degree of entanglement of the qutrit bipartite states. Furthermore, we show that some particular local operation cannot avoid the Nondistillability of the distillable states.

id: 1011.2497
title: Noise Thresholds for Higher Dimensional Systems using the Discrete Wigner Function
authors: Wim van Dam, Mark Howard
comments: 14 pages, 1 table; Minor changes vs. version 1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032310 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2497
abstract: For a quantum computer acting on d-dimensional systems, we analyze the computational power of circuits wherein stabilizer operations are perfect and we allow access to imperfect non-stabilizer states or operations. If the noise rate affecting the non-stabilizer resource is sufficiently high, then these states and operations can become simulable in the sense of the Gottesman-Knill theorem, reducing the overall power of the circuit to no better than classical. In this paper we find the depolarizing noise rate at which this happens, and consequently the most robust non-stabilizer states and non-Clifford gates. In doing so, we make use of the discrete Wigner function and derive facets of the so-called qudit Clifford polytope i.e. the inequalities defining the convex hull of all qudit Clifford gates. Our results for robust states are provably optimal. For robust gates we find a critical noise rate that, as dimension increases, rapidly approaches the the theoretical optimum of 100%. Some connections with the question of qudit magic state distillation are discussed.

id: 1011.2544
title: Elementary Quantum Mechanics in a Space-time Lattice
authors: Manjit Bhatia, P. Narayana Swamy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2544
abstract: Studies of quantum fields and gravity suggest the existence of a minimal length, such as Planck length \cite{Floratos,Kempf}. It is natural to ask how the existence of a minimal length may modify the results in elementary quantum mechanics (QM) problems familiar to us \cite{Gasiorowicz}. In this paper we address a simple problem from elementary non-relativistic quantum mechanics, called "particle in a box", where the usual continuum (1+1)-space-time is supplanted by a space-time lattice. Our lattice consists of a grid of $\lambda_0 \times \tau_0 $ rectangles, where $\lambda_0$, the lattice parameter, is a fundamental length (say Planck length) and, we take $\tau_0$ to be equal to $\lambda_0/c$. The corresponding Schrodinger equation becomes a difference equation, the solution of which yields the $q$-eigenfunctions and $q$-eigenvalues of the energy operator as a function of $\lambda_0 $. The $q$-eigenfunctions form an orthonormal set and both $q$-eigenfunctions and $q$-eigenvalues reduce to continuum solutions as $ \lambda_0 \rightarrow 0 .$ The corrections to eigenvalues because of the assumed lattice is shown to be $O(\lambda_0^2).$ We then compute the uncertainties in position and momentum, $\Delta x, \Delta p$ for the box problem and study the consequent modification of Heisenberg uncertainty relation due to the assumption of space-time lattice, in contrast to modifications suggested by other investigations such as \cite{Floratos}.

id: 1011.2546
title: Phase estimation with photon number constraint
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: Several typos are fixed. New section "ANALYSIS ON NOON STATE" is added
journal: Progress of Informatics, No.8, 81-87,(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2546
abstract: Many researches proposed the use of the noon state as the input state for phase estimation, which is one topic of quantum metrology. This is because the input noon state provides the maximum Fisher information at the specific point. However, the Fisher information does not necessarily give the attainable bound for estimation error. In this paper, we adopt the local asymptotic mini-max criterion as well as the mini-max criterion, and show that the maximum Fisher information does not give the attainable bound for estimation error under these criteria in the phase estimation. We also propose the optimal input state under the constraints for photon number of the input state instead of the noon state.

id: 1011.2562
title: Laser control of complete vibrational transfer in Na$_2$ using resonance coalescence
authors: Osman Atabek, Roland Lefebvre, M. Lepers, Amine Jaouadi, Olivier Dulieu, V. Kokoouline
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2562
abstract: With a specific choice of laser parameters resulting into a so-called exceptional point in the wavelength-intensity plane, it is possible to produce the coalescence of two Floquet resonances describing the photodissociation of the molecule Na$_2$, which is one of the candidates for molecular cooling. Appropriately tuning laser parameters, following a contour around the exceptional point, the resonances exchange their labels. This represents a laser control of the vibrational transfer from one field-free state to another, through an adiabatic transport involving these resonances. The proportion of undissociated molecules at the end of the pulse is checked through Floquet adiabatic theory. A vibrational cooling scenario can be proposed based on a complete vibrational transfer which is predicted, with only 20 percent of molecules undergoing dissociation.

id: 1011.2563
title: Triplet-singlet conversion in ultracold Cs$_2$ and production of ground state molecules
authors: Nadia Bouloufa, Marin Pichler, Mireille Aymar, Olivier Dulieu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2563
abstract: We propose a process to convert ultracold metastable Cs$_2$ molecules in their lowest triplet state into (singlet) ground state molecules in their lowest vibrational levels. Molecules are first pumped into an excited triplet state, and the triplet-singlet conversion is facilitated by a two-step spontaneous decay through the coupled $A^{1}\Sigma_{u}^{+} \sim b ^{3}\Pi_{u}$ states. Using spectroscopic data and accurate quantum chemistry calculations for Cs$_2$ potential curves and transition dipole moments, we show that this process has a high rate and competes favorably with the single-photon decay back to the lowest triplet state. In addition, we demonstrate that this conversion process represents a loss channel for vibrational cooling of metastable triplet molecules, preventing an efficient optical pumping cycle down to low vibrational levels.

id: 1011.2609
title: The dynamics of a qubit in a spin-boson environment: a comparison between analytical and numerical method
authors: Peihao Huang, Hang Zheng, Keiichiro Nasu
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2609
abstract: The dynamics of a qubit under the decoherence of a two level fluctuator (TLF) in addition to its coupling to a bosonic bath is investigated theoretically. Two different methods are applied and compared for this problem. One is a perturbation method based on a unitary transformation. With the merit of our unitary transformation, non-adiabatic effect can be taken into account efficiently. And the other one is the numerically exact method, namely the quasi-adiabatic path-integral (QUAPI) propagator technique. We find that the analytical method works well for a wide parameter range and show good agreement with QUAPI. On the other hand, The enhancement and the reduction of quantum decoherence of the qubit is checked with varying bath temperature $T$ and TLF-bath coupling.

id: 1011.2628
title: Shor's quantum algorithm using electrons in semiconductor nanostructures
authors: Fabrizio Buscemi
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2628
abstract: Shor's factoring algorithm illustrates the potential power of quantum computation. Here we present and numerically investigate a proposal for a compiled version of such an algorithm based on a quantum-wire network exploiting the potentialities of fully coherent electron transport assisted by the surface acoustic waves. Specifically, a non standard approach is used to implement, in a simple form, the quantum circuits of the modular exponentiation execution for the simplest instance of the Shor's algorithm, that is the factorization of $N$=15. The numerical procedure is based on a time-dependent solution of the multi-particle Schr\"odinger equation. The near-ideal algorithm performance and the large estimated fidelity indicate the efficiency of the protocol implemented, which also results to be almost unsensitive to small destabilizing effects during quantum computation.

id: 1011.2641
title: All-electrical coherent control of the exciton states in a single quantum dot
authors: A. Boyer de la Giroday, A.J. Bennett, M.A. Pooley, R.M. Stevenson, N. Skold, R.B. Patel, I. Farrer, D.A. Ritchie, A.J. Shields
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 241301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2641
abstract: We demonstrate high-fidelity reversible transfer of quantum information from the polarisation of photons into the spin-state of an electron-hole pair in a semiconductor quantum dot. Moreover, spins are electrically manipulated on a sub-nanosecond timescale, allowing us to coherently control their evolution. By varying the area of the electrical pulse, we demonstrate phase-shift and spin-flip gate operations with near-unity fidelities. Our system constitutes a controllable quantum interface between flying and stationary qubits, an enabling technology for quantum logic in the solid-state.

id: 1011.2682
title: Stroboscopic back-action evasion in a dense alkali-metal vapor
authors: G. Vasilakis, V. Shah, M.V. Romalis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2682
abstract: We explore experimentally quantum non-demolition (QND) measurements of atomic spin in a hot potassium vapor in the presence of spin-exchange relaxation. We demonstrate a new technique for back-action evasion by stroboscopic modulation of the probe light. With this technique we study spin noise as a function of polarization for atoms with spin greater than 1/2 and obtain good agreement with a simple theoretical model. We point that in a system with fast spin-exchange, where the spin relaxation rate is changing with time, it is possible to improve the long-term sensitivity of atomic magnetometry by using QND measurements.

id: 1011.2702
title: Correlated photon pairs generated from a warm atomic ensemble
authors: R. T. Willis, F. E. Becerra, L. A. Orozco, S. L. Rolston
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2702
abstract: We present measurements of the cross-correlation function of photon pairs at 780 nm and 1367 nm, generated in a hot rubidium vapor cell. The temporal character of the biphoton is determined by the dispersive properties of the medium where the pair generation takes place. We show that short correlation times occur for optically thick samples, which can be understood in terms of off-resonant pair generation. By modifying the linear response of the sample, we produce near-resonant photon pairs, which could in principle be used for entanglement distribution.

id: 1011.2709
title: Criteria for reliable entanglement quantification with finite data
authors: Jun O. S. Yin, Steven J. van Enk
comments: >42
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2709
abstract: We propose one and a half criteria for determining how many measurements are needed to quantify entanglement reliably. We base these criteria on Bayesian analysis of measurement results, and apply our methods to four-qubit entanglement, but generalizations to more qubits are straightforward.

id: 1011.2734
title: Interaction between hopping and static spins in a discrete network
authors: Francesco Ciccarello
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures. Title changed
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375, 2538 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2734
abstract: We consider a process where a spin hops across a discrete network and at certain sites couples to static spins. While this setting is implementable in various scenarios (e.g quantum dots or coupled cavities) the physics of such processes is still basically unknown. Here, we take a first step along this line by scrutinizing a two-site and a three-site lattices, each with two static spins. Despite a generally complex dynamics occurs, we show a regime such that the spin dynamics is described by an effective three-spin chain. Tasks such as entanglement generation and quantum state transfer can be achieved accordingly.

id: 1011.2751
title: A quasipolynomial-time algorithm for the quantum separability problem
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Matthias Christandl, Jon Yard
comments: 9 pages, no figures; to appear in proceedings STOC '11
journal: Proceedings of ACM Symposium on Theory of Computation (STOC'11), June 2011, p. 343-351
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2751
abstract: We present a quasipolynomial-time algorithm for solving the weak membership problem for the convex set of separable, i.e. non-entangled, bipartite density matrices. The algorithm decides whether a density matrix is separable or whether it is eps-away from the set of the separable states in time exp(O(eps^-2 log |A| log |B|)), where |A| and |B| are the local dimensions, and the distance is measured with either the Euclidean norm, or with the so-called LOCC norm. The latter is an operationally motivated norm giving the optimal probability of distinguishing two bipartite quantum states, each shared by two parties, using any protocol formed by quantum local operations and classical communication (LOCC) between the parties. We also obtain improved algorithms for optimizing over the set of separable states and for computing the ground-state energy of mean-field Hamiltonians. The techniques we develop are also applied to quantum Merlin-Arthur games, where we show that multiple provers are not more powerful than a single prover when the verifier is restricted to LOCC protocols, or when the verification procedure is formed by a measurement of small Euclidean norm. This answers a question posed by Aaronson et al (Theory of Computing 5, 1, 2009) and provides two new characterizations of the complexity class QMA, a quantum analog of NP. Our algorithm uses semidefinite programming to search for a symmetric extension, as first proposed by Doherty, Parrilo and Spedialieri (Phys. Rev. A, 69, 022308, 2004). The bound on the runtime follows from an improved de Finetti-type bound quantifying the monogamy of quantum entanglement, proved in (arXiv:1010.1750). This result, in turn, follows from a new lower bound on the quantum conditional mutual information and the entanglement measure squashed entanglement.

id: 1011.2762
title: Robust Quantum State Transfer in Random Unpolarized Spin Chains
authors: Norman Y. Yao, Liang Jiang, Alexey V. Gorshkov, Zhe-Xuan Gong, Alex Zhai, L.-M. Duan, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. V2: Modified discussion of disorder, added references - final version as published in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 040505 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2762
abstract: We propose and analyze a new approach for quantum state transfer between remote spin qubits. Specifically, we demonstrate that coherent quantum coupling between remote qubits can be achieved via certain classes of random, unpolarized (infinite temperature) spin chains. Our method is robust to coupling strength disorder and does not require manipulation or control over individual spins. In principle, it can be used to attain perfect state transfer over arbitrarily long range via purely Hamiltonian evolution and may be particularly applicable in a solid-state quantum information processor. As an example, we demonstrate that it can be used to attain strong coherent coupling between Nitrogen-Vacancy centers separated by micrometer distances at room temperature. Realistic imperfections and decoherence effects are analyzed.

id: 1011.2785
title: Optimal detection of losses by thermal probes
authors: Carmen Invernizzi, Matteo G. A. Paris, Stefano Pirandola
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures. Revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022334 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2785
abstract: We consider the discrimination of lossy bosonic channels and focus to the case when one of the values for the loss parameter is zero, i.e., we address the detection of a possible loss against the alternative hypothesis of an ideal lossless channel. This discrimination is performed by inputting one-mode or two-mode squeezed thermal states with fixed total energy. By optimizing over this class of states, we find that the optimal inputs are pure, thus corresponding to single- and two-mode squeezed vacuum states. In particular, we show that for any value of the damping rate smaller than a critical value there is a threshold on the energy that makes the two-mode squeezed vacuum state more convenient than the corresponding single-mode state, whereas for damping larger than this critical value two-mode squeezed vacua are always better. We then consider the discrimination in realistic conditions, where it is unlikely to have pure squeezing. Thus by fixing both input energy and squeezing, we show that two-mode squeezed thermal states are always better than their single- mode counterpart when all the thermal photons are directed into the dissipative channel. Besides, this result also holds approximately for unbalanced distribution of the thermal photons. Finally, we also investigate the role of correlations in the improvement of detection. For fixed input squeezing (single-mode or two-mode), we find that the reduction of the quantum Chernoff bound is a monotone function of the two-mode entanglement as well as the quantum mutual information and the quantum discord. We thus verify that employing squeezing in the form of correlations (quantum or classical) is always a resource for loss detection whenever squeezed thermal states are taken as input.

id: 1011.2787
title: Parallel approximation of min-max problems
authors: Gus Gutoski, Xiaodi Wu
comments: 28 pages. Final version, compiled in letterpaper with reasonable margins
journal: Computational Complexity: Volume 22, Issue 2 (2013), Page 385-428
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2787
abstract: This paper presents an efficient parallel approximation scheme for a new class of min-max problems. The algorithm is derived from the matrix multiplicative weights update method and can be used to find near-optimal strategies for competitive two-party classical or quantum interactions in which a referee exchanges any number of messages with one party followed by any number of additional messages with the other. It considerably extends the class of interactions which admit parallel solutions, demonstrating for the first time the existence of a parallel algorithm for an interaction in which one party reacts adaptively to the other. As a consequence, we prove that several competing-provers complexity classes collapse to PSPACE such as QRG(2), SQG and two new classes called DIP and DQIP. A special case of our result is a parallel approximation scheme for a specific class of semidefinite programs whose feasible region consists of lists of semidefinite matrices that satisfy a transcript-like consistency condition. Applied to this special case, our algorithm yields a direct polynomial-space simulation of multi-message quantum interactive proofs resulting in a first-principles proof of QIP=PSPACE.

id: 1011.2814
title: Observation of the ground-state-geometric phase in a Heisenberg XY model
authors: Xinhua Peng, Sanfeng Wu, Jun Li, Dieter Suter, Jiangfeng Du
comments: manuscript (4 pages, 3 figures) + supporting online material (6 pages + 7 figures), to be published in Phys. Rev. Lett. (2010)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2814
abstract: Geometric phases play a central role in a variety of quantum phenomena, especially in condensed matter physics. Recently, it was shown that this fundamental concept exhibits a connection to quantum phase transitions where the system undergoes a qualitative change in the ground state when a control parameter in its Hamiltonian is varied. Here we report the first experimental study using the geometric phase as a topological test of quantum transitions of the ground state in a Heisenberg XY spin model. Using NMR interferometry, we measure the geometric phase for different adiabatic circuits that do not pass through points of degeneracy.

id: 1011.2833
title: Supersensitive measurement of angular displacements using entangled photons
authors: Anand Kumar Jha, Girish S. Agarwal, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2833
abstract: We show that the use of entangled photons having non-zero orbital angular momentum (OAM) increases the resolution and sensitivity of angular-displacement measurements performed using an interferometer. By employing a 4$\times$4 matrix formulation to study the propagation of entangled OAM modes, we analyze measurement schemes for two and four entangled photons and obtain explicit expressions for the resolution and sensitivity in these schemes. We find that the resolution of angular-displacement measurements scales as $Nl$ while the angular sensitivity increases as $1/(2Nl)$, where $N$ is the number of entangled photons and $l$ the magnitude of the orbital-angular-momentum mode index. These results are an improvement over what could be obtained with $N$ non-entangled photons carrying an orbital angular momentum of $l\hbar$ per photon

id: 1011.2852
title: Non-differentiable Bohmian trajectories
authors: Gebhard Gruebl, Markus Penz
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures; published in the monography 'Quantum Trajectories', Editor P K Chattaraj , Taylor & Francis, Boca Raton, November 1st, 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2852
abstract: A solution $\psi $ to Schr\"odinger's equation needs some degree of regularity in order to allow the construction of a Bohmian mechanics from the integral curves of the velocity field $\hbar \Im \left( \bigtriangledown \psi /m\psi \right) .$ In the case of one specific non-differentiable weak solution $\Psi $ we show how Bohmian trajectories can be obtained for $\Psi $ from the trajectories of a sequence $\Psi_{n}\rightarrow \Psi.$ (For any real $t$ the sequence $\Psi_{n}\left( t,\cdot \right) $ converges strongly.) The limiting trajectories no longer need to be differentiable. This suggests a way how Bohmian mechanics might work for arbitrary initial vectors $\Psi $ in the Hilbert space on which the Schr\"{o}dinger evolution $% \Psi \mapsto e^{-iht}\Psi $ acts.

id: 1011.2862
title: Deterministic entanglement of photons in two superconducting microwave resonators
authors: H. Wang, Matteo Mariantoni, Radoslaw C. Bialczak, M. Lenander, Erik Lucero, M. Neeley, A. O'Connell, D. Sank, M. Weides, J. Wenner, T. Yamamoto, Y. Yin, J. Zhao, John M. Martinis, A. N. Cleland
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures, and 3 tables including supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 060401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2862
abstract: Quantum entanglement, one of the defining features of quantum mechanics, has been demonstrated in a variety of nonlinear spin-like systems. Quantum entanglement in linear systems has proven significantly more challenging, as the intrinsic energy level degeneracy associated with linearity makes quantum control more difficult. Here we demonstrate the quantum entanglement of photon states in two independent linear microwave resonators, creating N-photon NOON states as a benchmark demonstration. We use a superconducting quantum circuit that includes Josephson qubits to control and measure the two resonators, and we completely characterize the entangled states with bipartite Wigner tomography. These results demonstrate a significant advance in the quantum control of linear resonators in superconducting circuits.

id: 1011.2868
title: Quantum secret sharing with two qubit bipartite mixed states
authors: Satyabrata Adhikari
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2868
abstract: Quantum secret sharing is one of the most important and interesting quantum information processing task. In quantum secret sharing, information is split among several parties such that only one of them is able to recover the qubit exactly provided all the other parties agree to cooperate. To achieve this task, all the parties need to share entangled state. As far as my knowledge, all the previous quantum secret sharing protocol used either pure tripartite or pure bipartite entangled state. In this work we use for the first time bipartite two qubit mixed state (formed due to noisy environment) in quantum secret sharing scheme. We further show that one party cannot extract the information without the collaboration of other party. We also study the property of the shared mixed state used in the quantum secret sharing scheme.

id: 1011.2959
title: Robustness of Entanglement as a Resource
authors: Rafael Chaves, Luiz Davidovich
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052308 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2959
abstract: The robustness of multipartite entanglement of systems undergoing decoherence is of central importance to the area of quantum information. Its characterization depends however on the measure used to quantify entanglement and on how one partitions the system. Here we show that the unambiguous assessment of the robustness of multipartite entanglement is obtained by considering the loss of functionality in terms of two communication tasks, namely the splitting of information between many parties and the teleportation of states.

id: 1011.2978
title: Quantum spin squeezing
authors: Jian Ma, Xiaoguang Wang, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 99 pages, 25 figures
journal: Physics Reports 509 (2011) 89-165
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2978
abstract: This paper reviews quantum spin squeezing, which characterizes the sensitivity of a state with respect to an SU(2) rotation, and is significant for both entanglement detection and high-precision metrology. We first present various definitions of spin squeezing parameters, explain their origin and properties for typical states, and then discuss spin-squeezed states produced with the Ising and the nonlinear twisting Hamiltonians. Afterwards, we explain correlations and entanglement in spin-squeezed states, as well as the relations between spin squeezing and quantum Fisher information, where the latter plays a central role in quantum metrology. We also review the applications of spin squeezing for detecting quantum chaos and quantum phase transitions, as well as the influence of decoherence on spin-squeezed states. Finally, several experiments are discussed including: producing spin squeezed states via particle collisions in Bose-Einstein condensates, mapping photon squeezing onto atomic ensembles, and quantum non-demolition measurements.

id: 1011.2982
title: Universal Squash Model For Optical Communications Using Linear Optics And Threshold Detectors
authors: Chi-Hang Fred Fung, H. F. Chau, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 14 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 020303(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2982
abstract: The transmission of photons through open-air or an optical fiber is an important primitive in quantum information processing. Theoretical description of such a transmission process often considers only a single photon as the information carrier and thus fails to accurately describe experimental optical implementations where any number of photons may enter a detector. It is important to bridge this big gap between experimental implementations and the theoretical description. One powerful method that emerges from recent efforts to achieve this goal is to consider a squash model that conceptually converts multi-photon states to single-photon states, thereby justifying the equivalence between theory and experiments. However, up to now, only a limited number of protocols admit a squash model; furthermore, a no-go theorem has been proven which appears to rule out the existence of a universal squash model. Here, we observe that an apparently necessary condition demanded by all existing squash models to preserve measurement statistics is too stringent a requirement for many protocols. By chopping this requirement, we show that rather surprisingly, a universal squash model actually exists for a wide range of protocols including quantum key distribution protocols, quantum state tomography, the testing of Bell's inequalities, and entanglement verification, despite the standard no-go theorem.

id: 1011.2984
title: Ancilla-based quantum simulation
authors: Katherine L. Brown, Suvabrata De, Vivien M. Kendon, William J. Munro
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures: V2 added section on phase estimation and performing controlled unitaries, V3 corrected minor typos
journal: New J. Phys. 13 095007 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2984
abstract: We consider simulating the BCS Hamiltonian, a model of low temperature superconductivity, on a quantum computer. In particular we consider conducting the simulation on the qubus quantum computer, which uses a continuous variable ancilla to generate interactions between qubits. We demonstrate an O(N^3) improvement over previous work conducted on an NMR computer [PRL 89 057904 (2002) & PRL 97 050504 (2006)] for the nearest neighbour and completely general cases. We then go on to show methods to minimise the number of operations needed per time step using the qubus in three cases; a completely general case, a case of exponentially decaying interactions and the case of fixed range interactions. We make these results controlled on an ancilla qubit so that we can apply the phase estimation algorithm, and hence show that when N \geq 5, our qubus simulation requires significantly less operations that a similar simulation conducted on an NMR computer.

id: 1011.3014
title: Anomalous decay of an atom in structured band gap reservoirs
authors: Filippo Giraldi, Francesco Petruccione
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Revista Mexicana De Fisica S 57 (3), 99-106 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3014
abstract: We analyze the spontaneous emission of a two-level atom interacting with a special class of structured reservoirs of field modes with band gap edge coinciding with the atomic transition frequency. The exact time evolution of the population of the excited level is evaluated analytically through series of Fox-$H$ functions. Over estimated long time scales, inverse power law relaxations emerge, with powers decreasing continuously to 2 according to the choice of the special reservoir. No trapping of the population of the excited level emerges. The same results are recovered in presence of $N-1$ atoms, each one in the ground state, described by the Dicke model. The power of the inverse power law decay results to be independent of $N$. A critical number $N_{\alpha}^{(\star)}$ is evaluated, such that, for $N \gg N_{\alpha}^{(\star)}$, the inverse power law decay vanishes.

id: 1011.3020
title: Quantum query complexity of state conversion
authors: Troy Lee, Rajat Mittal, Ben W. Reichardt, Robert Spalek, Mario Szegedy
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures; heavily revised with new results and simpler proofs
journal: Proc. 52nd IEEE Symp. on Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS), 2011, pages 344-353
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3020
abstract: State conversion generalizes query complexity to the problem of converting between two input-dependent quantum states by making queries to the input. We characterize the complexity of this problem by introducing a natural information-theoretic norm that extends the Schur product operator norm. The complexity of converting between two systems of states is given by the distance between them, as measured by this norm. In the special case of function evaluation, the norm is closely related to the general adversary bound, a semi-definite program that lower-bounds the number of input queries needed by a quantum algorithm to evaluate a function. We thus obtain that the general adversary bound characterizes the quantum query complexity of any function whatsoever. This generalizes and simplifies the proof of the same result in the case of boolean input and output. Also in the case of function evaluation, we show that our norm satisfies a remarkable composition property, implying that the quantum query complexity of the composition of two functions is at most the product of the query complexities of the functions, up to a constant. Finally, our result implies that discrete and continuous-time query models are equivalent in the bounded-error setting, even for the general state-conversion problem.

id: 1011.3067
title: Circuit cavity electromechanics in the strong coupling regime
authors: J. D. Teufel, D. Li, M. S. Allman, K. Cicak, A. J. Sirois, J. D. Whittaker, R. W. Simmonds
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature 471, 204-208 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3067
abstract: Demonstrating and exploiting the quantum nature of larger, more macroscopic mechanical objects would help us to directly investigate the limitations of quantum-based measurements and quantum information protocols, as well as test long standing questions about macroscopic quantum coherence. The field of cavity opto- and electro-mechanics, in which a mechanical oscillator is parametrically coupled to an electromagnetic resonance, provides a practical architecture for the manipulation and detection of motion at the quantum level. Reaching this quantum level requires strong coupling, interaction timescales between the two systems that are faster than the time it takes for energy to be dissipated. By incorporating a free-standing, flexible aluminum membrane into a lumped-element superconducting resonant cavity, we have increased the single photon coupling strength between radio-frequency mechanical motion and resonant microwave photons by more than two orders of magnitude beyond the current state-of-the-art. A parametric drive tone at the difference frequency between the two resonant systems dramatically increases the overall coupling strength. This has allowed us to completely enter the strong coupling regime. This is evidenced by a maximum normal mode splitting of nearly six bare cavity line-widths. Spectroscopic measurements of these 'dressed states' are in excellent quantitative agreement with recent theoretical predictions. The basic architecture presented here provides a feasible path to ground-state cooling and subsequent coherent control and measurement of the quantum states of mechanical motion.

id: 1011.3075
title: Path integral approach to the full Dicke model
authors: M. Aparicio Alcalde, B. M. Pimentel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3075
abstract: The full Dicke model describes a system of $N$ identical two level-atoms coupled to a single-mode quantized bosonic field. The model considers rotating and counter-rotating coupling terms between the atoms and the bosonic field, with coupling constants $g_1$ and $g_2$, for each one of the coupling terms, respectively. We study finite temperature properties of the model using the path integral approach and functional methods. In the thermodynamic limit, $N\rightarrow\infty$, the system exhibits phase transition from normal to superradiant phase, at some critical values of temperature and coupling constants. We distinguish between three particular cases, the first one corresponds to the case of rotating wave approximation, which $g_1\neq 0$ and $g_2=0$, the second one corresponds to the case of $g_1=0$ and $g_2\neq 0$, in these two cases the model has a continuous symmetry. The last one, corresponds to the case of $g_1\neq 0$ and $g_2\neq 0$, which the model has a discrete symmetry. The phase transition in each case is related to the spontaneous breaking of its respective symmetry. For each one of these three particular cases, we find the asymptotic behaviour of the partition function in the thermodynamic limit, and the collective spectrum of the system in the normal and the superradiat phase. For the case of rotating wave approximation, and also the case of $g_1=0$ and $g_2\neq 0$, in the superradiant phase, the collective spectrum has a zero energy value, corresponding to the Goldstone mode associated to the continuous symmetry breaking of the model. Our analyse and results are valid in the limit of zero temperature, $\beta\rightarrow\infty$, in which, the model exhibits a quantum phase transition.

id: 1011.3078
title: Quantum Nonlocality: Not Eliminated by the Heisenberg Picture
authors: R. E. Kastner
comments: Final version; to appear in Foundations of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3078
abstract: It is argued that the Heisenberg picture of standard quantum mechanics does not save Einstein locality as claimed in Deutsch and Hayden (2000). In particular, the EPR-type correlations that DH obtain by comparing two qubits in a local manner are shown to exist before that comparison. In view of this result, the local comparison argument would appear to ineffective in supporting their locality claim.

id: 1011.3127
title: Entropy reduction of quantum measurements
authors: M.E.Shirokov
comments: 21 pages, minor corrections have been made
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics, 52:5 (2011), 052202
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3127
abstract: It is observed that the entropy reduction (the information gain in the initial terminology) of an efficient (ideal or pure) quantum measurement coincides with the generalized quantum mutual information of a q-c channel mapping an a priori state to the corresponding posteriori probability distribution of the outcomes of the measurement. This observation makes it possible to define the entropy reduction for arbitrary a priori states (not only for states with finite von Neumann entropy) and to study its analytical properties by using general properties of the quantum mutual information. By using this approach one can show that the entropy reduction of an efficient quantum measurement is a nonnegative lower semicontinuous concave function on the set of all a priori states having continuous restrictions to subsets on which the von Neumann entropy is continuous. Monotonicity and subadditivity of the entropy reduction are also easily proved by this method. A simple continuity condition for the entropy reduction and for the mean posteriori entropy considered as functions of a pair (a priori state, measurement) is obtained. A characterization of an irreducible measurement (in the Ozawa sense) which is not efficient is considered in the Appendix.

id: 1011.3135
title: On the Capability of Measurement-Based Quantum Feedback
authors: Bo Qi, Hao Pan, Lei Guo
comments: 27 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3135
abstract: As a key method in dealing with uncertainties, feedback has been understood fairly well in classical control theory. But for quantum control systems, the capability of measurement-based feedback control (MFC) has not been investigated systematically. In contrast to the control of classical systems where the measurement effect is negligible, the quantum measurement will cause a quantum state to collapse, which will inevitably introduce additional uncertainties besides the system initial uncertainty. Therefore, there is a complicated tradeoff between the uncertainty introduced and the information gained by the measurement, and thus a theoretical investigation of the capability of MFC is of fundamental importance. In this paper, inspired by both the Heisenberg uncertainty principle for quantum systems and the investigation of the feedback capability for classical systems, we try to answer the following three basic questions: (i) How to choose the measurement channel appropriately? (ii) Is the MFC still superior to the open loop control in dealing with the system information uncertainties? and (iii) What is the maximum capability or limitation of the MFC? These questions will be answered theoretically by establishing several theorems concerning the asymptotic reachability of eigenstates of a typical class of Hamiltonian control mode.

id: 1011.3187
title: Symplectic space and orthogonal space of n qubits
authors: Jian-Wei Xu
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3187
abstract: In the Hilbert space of n qubits, we introduce the symplectic space (n odd) and the orthogonal space (n even) via the spin-flip operator. Under this mathematical structure we discuss some properties of n qubits, including homomorphically mapping the local operations of n qubits into the symplectic group or orthogonal group, and prove that the generalized ``magic basis'' is just the bi-orthonormal basis (that is, the orthonormal basis of both Hilbert space and the orthogonal space ). Finally, an example is given to discuss the application in physics of this mathematical structure.

id: 1011.3194
title: Time-dependent approach to transport and scattering in atomic and mesoscopic physics
authors: Tobias Kramer
comments: Based on the course presented at the XL Latin American School of Physics - Marcos Moshinsky, Symmetries in Physics, 2010 in Mexico D.F
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings, Volume 1334, pp. 142-165 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3194
abstract: Transport and scattering phenomena in open quantum-systems with a continuous energy spectrum are conveniently solved using the time-dependent Schrodinger equation. In the time-dependent picture, the evolution of an initially localized wave-packet reveals the eigenstates and eigenvalues of the system under consideration. We discuss applications of the wave-packet method in atomic, molecular, and mesoscopic systems and point out specific advantages of the time-dependent approach. In connection with the familiar initial value formulation of classical mechanics, an intuitive interpretation of transport emerges. For interacting many-particle systems, we discuss the efficient calculation of the self-consistent classical transport in the presence of a magnetic field.

id: 1011.3197
title: Quantum-limited metrology in the presence of collisional dephasing
authors: Y. C. Liu, G. R. Jin, L. You
comments: 3.2 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82,045601(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3197
abstract: Including collisional decoherence explicitly, phase sensitivity for estimating effective scattering strength $\chi$ of a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate is derived analytically. With a measurement of spin operator $\hat{J}_{x}$, we find that the optimal sensitivity depends on initial coherent spin state. It degrades by a factor of $(2\gamma)^{1/3}$ below super-Heisenberg limit $\propto 1/N^{3/2}$ for particle number $N$ and the dephasing rate $1<\!<\gamma<N^{3/4}$. With a $\hat{J}_y$ measurement, our analytical results confirm that the phase $\phi=\chi t\sim 0$ can be detected at the limit even in the presence of the dephasing.

id: 1011.3245
title: The Computational Complexity of Linear Optics
authors: Scott Aaronson, Alex Arkhipov
comments: 94 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3245
abstract: We give new evidence that quantum computers -- moreover, rudimentary quantum computers built entirely out of linear-optical elements -- cannot be efficiently simulated by classical computers. In particular, we define a model of computation in which identical photons are generated, sent through a linear-optical network, then nonadaptively measured to count the number of photons in each mode. This model is not known or believed to be universal for quantum computation, and indeed, we discuss the prospects for realizing the model using current technology. On the other hand, we prove that the model is able to solve sampling problems and search problems that are classically intractable under plausible assumptions. Our first result says that, if there exists a polynomial-time classical algorithm that samples from the same probability distribution as a linear-optical network, then P^#P=BPP^NP, and hence the polynomial hierarchy collapses to the third level. Unfortunately, this result assumes an extremely accurate simulation. Our main result suggests that even an approximate or noisy classical simulation would already imply a collapse of the polynomial hierarchy. For this, we need two unproven conjectures: the "Permanent-of-Gaussians Conjecture", which says that it is #P-hard to approximate the permanent of a matrix A of independent N(0,1) Gaussian entries, with high probability over A; and the "Permanent Anti-Concentration Conjecture", which says that |Per(A)|>=sqrt(n!)/poly(n) with high probability over A. We present evidence for these conjectures, both of which seem interesting even apart from our application. This paper does not assume knowledge of quantum optics. Indeed, part of its goal is to develop the beautiful theory of noninteracting bosons underlying our model, and its connection to the permanent function, in a self-contained way accessible to theoretical computer scientists.

id: 1011.3280
title: Solutions to the Jaynes-Cummings model without the rotating-wave approximation
authors: Qing-Hu Chen, Tao Liu, Yu-Yu Zhang, Ke-Lin Wang
comments: 6 pages,3 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 96, 14003 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3280
abstract: By using extended bosonic coherent states, the solution to the Jaynes-Cummings model without the rotating-wave approximation can be mapped to that of a polynomial equation with a single variable. The solutions to this polynomial equation can give all eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of this model with all values of the coupling strength and the detuning exactly, which can be readily applied to recent circuit quantum electrodynamic systems operating in the ultra-strong coupling regime.

id: 1011.3286
title: Decoherence Strength of Multiple Non-Markovian Environments
authors: C. H. Fleming, B. L. Hu, Albert Roura
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, v3 included figure, appendix, and clarification of results
journal: Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications 391 (2012), pp. 4206-4214
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3286
abstract: It is known that one can characterize the decoherence strength of a Markovian environment by the product of its temperature and induced damping, and order the decoherence strength of multiple environments by this quantity. We show that for non-Markovian environments in the weak coupling regime there also exists a natural (albeit partial) ordering of environment-induced irreversibility within a perturbative treatment. This measure can be applied to both low-temperature and non-equilibrium environments.

id: 1011.3296
title: Input-Output Formalism For Few-Photon Transport in One-Dimensional Nanophotonic Waveguides Coupled to a Qubit
authors: Shanhui Fan, ?¨¹kr¨¹ Ekin Kocaba?, Jung-Tsung Shen
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 063821 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3296
abstract: We extend the input-output formalism of quantum optics to analyze few-photon transport in waveguides with an embedded qubit. We provide explicit analytical derivations for one and two-photon scattering matrix elements based on operator equations in the Heisenberg picture.

id: 1011.3297
title: Approximate quantum state sharing via two private quantum channels
authors: Dong Pyo Chi, Kabgyun Jeong
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Quant. Info. Sci. 4, 64 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3297
abstract: We investigate the approximate quantum state sharing protocol based on random unitary channels, which is secure against any exterior or interior attackers in principle. Although the protocol leaks small information for a security parameter $\epsilon$, the scheme still preserves its information-theoretic secrecy, and reduces some pre-shared classical secret keys for a private quantum channel between a sender and two receivers. The approximate private quantum channels constructed via random unitary channels play a crucial role in the proposed quantum state sharing protocol.

id: 1011.3311
title: Collisionally Induced Atomic Clock Shifts and Correlations
authors: Y. B. Band, I. Osherov
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures. Physical Review A (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3311
abstract: We develop a formalism to incorporate exchange symmetry considerations into the calculation of collisional frequency shifts and blackbody radiation effects for atomic clock transitions using a density matrix formalism. The formalism is developed for both fermionic and bosonic atomic clocks. Results for a finite temperature ${}^{87}$Sr ${}^1S_0$ ($F = 9/2$) atomic clock in a magic wavelength optical lattice are presented.

id: 1011.3374
title: Lorentz invariance of entanglement classes in multipartite systems
authors: Marcus Huber, Nicolai Friis, Andreas Gabriel, Christoph Spengler, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: v2: 5 pages, 4 figures, minor changes to main body, journal references updated
journal: EPL 95, Number 2, 20002 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3374
abstract: We analyze multipartite entanglement in systems of spin-1/2 particles from a relativistic perspective. General conditions which have to be met for any classification of multipartite entanglement to be Lorentz invariant are derived, which contributes to a physical understanding of entanglement classification. We show that quantum information in a relativistic setting requires the partition of the Hilbert space into particles to be taken seriously. Furthermore, we study exemplary cases and show how the spin and momentum entanglement transforms relativistically in a multipartite setting.

id: 1011.3440
title: Are There Quantum Effects Coming from Outside Space-time? Nonlocality, free will and "no many-worlds"
authors: Nicolas Gisin
comments: Talk presented at the meeting "Is Science Compatible with Our Desire for Freedom?" organised by the Social Trends Institute at the IESE Business School in Barcelona, Octobre 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3440
abstract: Observing the violation of Bell's inequality tells us something about all possible future theories: they must all predict nonlocal correlations. Hence Nature is nonlocal. After an elementary introduction to nonlocality and a brief review of some recent experiments, I argue that Nature's nonlocality together with the existence of free will is incompatible with the many-worlds view of quantum physics.

id: 1011.3445
title: Quantum Hamiltonian complexity and the detectability lemma
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Itai Arad, Zeph Landau, Umesh Vazirani
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures. Minor corrections to Lemmas 5.3 and 5.4, and a small modification to the statement of the Detectability Lemma
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3445
abstract: Quantum Hamiltonian complexity studies computational complexity aspects of local Hamiltonians and ground states; these questions can be viewed as generalizations of classical computational complexity problems related to local constraint satisfaction (such as SAT), with the additional ingredient of multi-particle entanglement. This additional ingredient of course makes generalizations of celebrated theorems such as the PCP theorem from classical to the quantum domain highly non-trivial; it also raises entirely new questions such as bounds on entanglement and correlations in ground states, and in particular area laws. We propose a simple combinatorial tool that helps to handle such questions: it is a simplified, yet more general version of the detectability lemma introduced by us in the more restricted context on quantum gap amplification a year ago. Here, we argue that this lemma is applicable in much more general contexts. We use it to provide a simplified and more combinatorial proof of Hastings' 1D area law, together with a less than 1 page proof of the decay of correlations in gapped local Hamiltonian systems in any constant dimension. We explain how the detectability lemma can replace the Lieb-Robinson bound in various other contexts, and argue that it constitutes a basic tool for the study of local Hamiltonians and their ground states in relation to various questions in quantum Hamiltonian complexity.

id: 1011.3460
title: Protecting Two-Qubit Quantum States by $¦Ð$-Phase Pulses
authors: Jia-Zhong Hu, Xiang-Bin Wang, LC Kwek
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3460
abstract: We study the state decay of two qubits interacted with a common harmonic oscillator reservoir. There are both decoherence error and the error caused by the amplitude change of the superradiant state. We show that frequent $\pi$-phase pulses can eliminate both typpes of errors therefore protect a two-qubit odd-parity state more effectively than the frequent measurement method. This shows that the the methods using dynamical decoupling and the quantum Zeno effects actually can give rather {\em different} results when the operation frequency is finite.

id: 1011.3489
title: Simulating Quantum Dynamics On A Quantum Computer
authors: Nathan Wiebe, Dominic W. Berry, Peter Hoyer, Barry C. Sanders
comments: Paper modified from previous version to enhance clarity. Comments are welcome
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 445308 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3489
abstract: We present efficient quantum algorithms for simulating time-dependent Hamiltonian evolution of general input states using an oracular model of a quantum computer. Our algorithms use either constant or adaptively chosen time steps and are significant because they are the first to have time-complexities that are comparable to the best known methods for simulating time-independent Hamiltonian evolution, given appropriate smoothness criteria on the Hamiltonian are satisfied. We provide a thorough cost analysis of these algorithms that considers discretizion errors in both the time and the representation of the Hamiltonian. In addition, we provide the first upper bounds for the error in Lie-Trotter-Suzuki approximations to unitary evolution operators, that use adaptively chosen time steps.

id: 1011.3504
title: Measurement strategy for spatially encoded photonic qubits
authors: M. A. Sol¨ªs-Prosser, L. Neves
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Published version
journal: Physical Review A 82, 055801 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3504
abstract: We propose a measurement strategy which can, probabilistically, reproduce the statistics of any observable for spatially encoded photonic qubits. It comprises the implementation of a two-outcome positive operator-valued measure followed by a detection in a fixed transverse position, making the displacement of the detection system unnecessary, unlike previous methods. This strategy generalizes a scheme recently demonstrated by one of us and co-workers restricted to measurement of observables with equatorial eigenvectors only. The method presented here can be implemented with the current technology of programmable multipixel liquid-crystal displays. In addition, it can be straightforwardly extended to high-dimensional qudits and may be a valuable tool in optical implementations of quantum information protocols with spatial qubits and qudits.

id: 1011.3529
title: Logical operator tradeoff for local quantum codes
authors: Jeongwan Haah, John Preskill
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure. (v3): Weaker conclusions about self correction in two dimensions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032308 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3529
abstract: We study the structure of logical operators in local D-dimensional quantum codes, considering both subsystem codes with geometrically local gauge generators and codes defined by geometrically local commuting projectors. We show that if the code distance is d, then any logical operator can be supported on a set of specified geometry containing \tilde d qubits, where \tilde d d^{1/(D-1)} = O(n) and n is the code length. Our results place limitations on partially self-correcting quantum memories, in which at least some logical operators are protected by energy barriers that grow with system size. We also show that for any two-dimensional local commuting projector code there is a nontrivial logical "string" operator supported on a narrow strip, where the operator is only slightly entangling across any cut through the strip.

id: 1011.3560
title: Comment on "Connection between entanglement and the speed of quantum evolution"
authors: H. F. Chau
comments: 2 pages in Revtex4.1, accepted by Phys.Rev.A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3560
abstract: Batle et al. [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 72}, 032337 (2005)] and Borr\'{a}s et al. [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 74}, 022326 (2006)] studied the connection between entanglement and speed of quantum evolution for certain low-dimensional bipartite quantum states. However, their studies did not cover all possible cases. And the relation between entanglement and the maximum possible quantum evolution speed for these uncovered cases can very different from the ones that they have studied.

id: 1011.3593
title: Quantum theory of light diffraction
authors: Xiang-Yao Wu, Bai-Jun Zhang, Jing-Hai Yang, Li-Xin Chi, Xiao-Jing Liu, Yi-Heng Wu, Qing-Cai Wang, Yan Wang, Jing-Wu Li, Yi-Qing Guo
comments: 10 pages
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, Vol. 57, No. 20, 20 November 2010, 2082-2091
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3593
abstract: At present, the theory of light diffraction only has the simple wave-optical approach. In this paper, we study light diffraction with the approach of relativistic quantum theory. We find that the slit length, slit width, slit thickness and wave-length of light have affected to the diffraction intensity and form of diffraction pattern. However, the effect of slit thickness on the diffraction pattern can not be explained by wave-optical approach, and it can be explained in quantum theory. We compare the theoretical results with single and multiple slits experiment data, and find the theoretical results are accordance with the experiment data. Otherwise, we give some theory prediction. We think all the new prediction will be tested by the light diffraction experiment.

id: 1011.3605
title: On a general formalism of nonlinear charge coherent states, their quantum statistics and nonclassical properties
authors: F. Eftekhari, M. K. Tavassoly
comments: 22 pages,12 figures
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics A: Vol. 25, No. 17 (2010) 3481-3504
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3605
abstract: In this paper, we will present a general formalism for constructing the nonlinear charge coherent states which in special case lead to the standard charge coher- ent states. The suQ(1;1) algebra as a nonlinear deformed algebra realization of the introduced states is established. In addition, the corresponding even and odd nonlinear charge coherent states have been also introduced. The formalism has the potentiality to be applied to systems either with known "nonlinearity function" f(n) or solvable quantum system with known "discrete non-degenerate spectrum" en. As some physical appearances, a few known physical systems in the two mentioned cat- egories have been considered. Finally, since the construction of nonclassical states is a central topic of quantum optics, nonclassical features and quantum statisti- cal properties of the introduced states have been investigated by evaluating single- and two-mode squeezing, su(1;1)-squeezing, Mandel parameter and antibunching effect (via g-correlation function) as well as some of their generalized forms we have introduced in the present paper.

id: 1011.3609
title: On the non-classicality features of new classes of nonlinear coherent states
authors: M. K. Tavassoly
comments: 22 pages, 19 figures
journal: Opt. Commun. 283 (2010) 5081
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3609
abstract: In this paper, using an exponential function of intensity of radiation field, two new classes of nonlinear coherent states will be constructed. For the first class, we choose the nonlinearity function as f(n) = exp(\beta n), where \beta characterizes the strength of the nonlinearity of the quantum system. We show that, the corresponding \beta-states possess a collection of non-classicality features, only for the particular values of \beta and z. But, interestingly there exists finite (threshold) values of \beta, for which all of the non-classicality signs will disappear, in appropriate regions around the origin of the complex plane (z < |Z|). It is then illustrated that, using this threshold (or greater) value of \beta, the corresponding \beta-states behave very similar to canonical coherent states, as the most classical quantum states, in approximately whole of the space. In the continuation, we motivate to find another class of nonlinear coherent states, limited to a unit disk centered at the origin, looking like the canonical coherent states in behavior, in exactly the whole range of |z| < 1. This purpose also will be achieved by considering the nonlinearity function as f(n)= exp(\lambda/n)/\sqrt{n}, where \lambda is a tunable nonlinearity parameter. The canonical coherent state's aspects of the corresponding \lambda-states will be refreshed, in particular cases, working with a threshold (or greater) value of \lambda.

id: 1011.3610
title: A theoretical scheme for generation of Gazeau-Klauder coherent states via intensity-dependent degenerate Raman interaction
authors: F. Yadollahi, M. K. Tavassoly
comments: 12 pages, 1 figures, Optics Communications, Article in Press
journal: Optics Communications 284 (2011) 608--612
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3610
abstract: A theoretical scheme is presented for generating Gazeau-Klauder coherent states(GKCSs) via the generalization of degenerate Raman interaction with coupling constant to intensity-dependent coupling. Firstly, we prove that in the intensity-dependent degenerate Raman interaction, under particular conditions, the modified efective Hamiltonian can be used instead of Hamiltonian in the interaction picture, for describing the atom-field interaction. We suppose that the cavity field is initially prepared in a nonlinear CS, which is not temporally stable. As we will observe, after the occurrence of the interaction between atom and field, the generated state involves a superposition of GKCSs which are temporally stable and initial nonlinear CS. Under specific conditions which may be prepared, the generated state just includes GKCS. So, in this way we produced the GKCS, successfully.

id: 1011.3617
title: Optical bistability in nonlinear system with two loops of feedback
authors: George P. Miroshnichenko, Alexander I. Trifanov
comments: 7 pages, 14 figures, conference ICONO/LAT 2010, Kazan, Russia
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3617
abstract: A model of nonlinear optical system surrounded by two loops of feedback is investigated. The cell with the vapor of rubidium - type atoms is taken in the capacity of nonlinear element. Two modes of near-resonant electromagnetic field interacting with the cell are involved in the feedback. Two-dimensional optical bistability domain in location of input field intensities is obtained and dependence of its form and magnitude from the system parameters (photon detunings, feedback factor etc.) is investigated. "Input - output" relations corresponding to different trajectories in the bistability domain are obtained. Cross-hysteresis is studied.

id: 1011.3637
title: The quantum Gaussian well
authors: Saikat Nandi
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, To be published in American Journal of Physics
journal: American Journal of Physics, Volume 78, Issue 12, pp. 1341-1345 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3637
abstract: Different features of a potential in the form of a Gaussian well have been discussed extensively. Although the details of the calculation are involved, the general approach uses a variational method and WKB approximation, techniques which should be familiar to advanced undergraduates. A numerical solution of the Schr\"odinger equation through diagonalization has been developed in a self-contained way, and physical applications of the potential are mentioned.

id: 1011.3639
title: Trapped-ion antennae for the transmission of quantum information
authors: Maximilian Harlander, Regina Lechner, Michael Brownnutt, Rainer Blatt, Wolfgang H?nsel
comments: 5 pages 4 figures
journal: Nature 471 (2011) 200
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3639
abstract: More than one hundred years ago Heinrich Hertz succeeded in transmitting signals over a few meters to a receiving antenna using an electromagnetic oscillator and thus proving the electromagnetic theory developed by James C. Maxwell[1]. Since then, technology has developed, and today a variety of oscillators is available at the quantum mechanical level. For quantized electromagnetic oscillations atoms in cavities can be used to couple electric fields[2, 3]. For mechanical oscillators realized, for example, with cantilevers[4, 5] or vibrational modes of trapped atoms[6] or ions[7, 8], a quantum mechanical link between two such oscillators has, to date, been demonstrated in very few cases and has only been achieved in indirect ways. Examples of this include the mechanical transport of atoms carrying the quantum information[9] or the use of spontaneously emitted photons[10]. In this work, direct coupling between the motional dipoles of separately trapped ions is achieved over a distance of 54 {\mu}m, using the dipole-dipole interaction as a quantum-mechanical transmission line[11]. This interaction is small between single trapped ions, but the coupling is amplified by using additional trapped ions as antennae. With three ions in each well the interaction is increased by a factor of seven as compared to the singleion case. This enhancement facilitates bridging of larger distances and relaxes the constraints on the miniaturization of trap electrodes. This represents a new building block for quantum computation and also offers new opportunities to couple quantum systems of different natures.

id: 1011.3673
title: Dependence of the evolution of the cavity radiation of a coherently pumped correlated emission laser on dephasing and phase fluctuation
authors: Sintayehu Tesfa
comments: 10 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3673
abstract: Analysis of the dynamics of the cavity radiation of a coherently pumped correlated emission laser is presented. The phase fluctuation and dephasing are found to affect the time evolution of the two-mode squeezing and intensity of the cavity radiation significantly. The intensity and degree of the two-mode squeezing increase at early stages of the process with time, but this trend changes rapidly afterwards. It is also shown that they increase with phase fluctuation and dephasing in the strong driving limit, however the situation appears to be opposite in the weak driving limit. This essentially suggests that the phase fluctuation and dephasing weaken the coherence induced by a strong driving mechanism so that the spontaneous emission gets a chance. The other important aspect of the phase fluctuation, in this regard, is the relaxation of the time at which the maximum squeezing is manifested as well as the time in which the radiation remains in a squeezed state.

id: 1011.3709
title: Conceptual Problems Related to Time and Mass in Quantum Theory
authors: Daniel M. Greenberger
comments: 9 pp. This mss. was prepared for a conference in Sept. 2010 at Oxford to commemorate the 80th birthday of John Polkinghorne. There is also a companion piece, titled "The Disconnect between Quantum Theory and Gravity"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3709
abstract: The concept of proper time cannot be just taken over from classical theory and applied to quantum theory. There are a number of serious ambiguities related to it. Similarly, the concept of mass has some inconsistencies attached to it. We argue that both of these concepts only make sense if they are included in the theory as dynamical variables, and subsequently as conjugate operators. We discuss the necessary uncertainty principle between them.

id: 1011.3719
title: The Disconnect Between Quantum Mechanics and Gravity
authors: Daniel M. Greenberger
comments: 12 pp. This paper is a companion piece to the article "Conceptual Problems Related to Time and Mass in Quantum Theory", which was submitted as a contribution to a conference in honor of John Polkinghorne's 80th birthday, Oxford, Sept. 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3719
abstract: There is a serious disconnect between quantum theory and gravity. It occurs at the level of the very foundations of quantum theory, and is far deeper than just the matter of trying to quantize a non-linear theory. We shall examine some of the physical reasons for this disconnect and show how it manifests itself at the beginning, at the level of the equivalence principle.

id: 1011.3732
title: Multi-mode mediated exchange coupling in cavity QED
authors: S. Filipp, M. G?ppl, J. M. Fink, M. Baur, R. Bianchetti, L. Steffen, A. Wallraff
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 063827 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3732
abstract: Microwave cavities with high quality factors enable coherent coupling of distant quantum systems. Virtual photons lead to a transverse exchange interaction between qubits, when they are non-resonant with the cavity but resonant with each other. We experimentally probe the inverse scaling of the inter-qubit coupling with the detuning from a cavity mode and its proportionality to the qubit-cavity interaction strength. We demonstrate that the enhanced coupling at higher frequencies is mediated by multiple higher-harmonic cavity modes. Moreover, in the case of resonant qubits, the symmetry properties of the system lead to an allowed two-photon transition to the doubly excited qubit state and the formation of a dark state.

id: 1011.3743
title: Teleportation of a quantum state of a spatial mode with a single massive particle
authors: Libby Heaney
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure, this paper was presented at TQC 2010 and extends the work of Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 200502 (2009)
journal: LNCS 6519, 175 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3743
abstract: Mode entanglement exists naturally between regions of space in ultra-cold atomic gases. It has, however, been debated whether this type of entanglement is useful for quantum protocols. This is due to a particle number superselection rule that restricts the operations that can be performed on the modes. In this paper, we show how to exploit the mode entanglement of just a single particle for the teleportation of an unknown quantum state of a spatial mode. We detail how to overcome the superselection rule to create any initial quantum state and how to perform Bell state analysis on two of the modes. We show that two of the four Bell states can always be reliably distinguished, while the other two have to be grouped together due to an unsatisfied phase matching condition. The teleportation of an unknown state of a quantum mode thus only succeeds half of the time.

id: 1011.3767
title: Breaking quantum linearity: constraints from human perception and cosmological implications
authors: Angelo Bassi, Dirk-Andre' Deckert, Luca Ferialdi
comments: 13 pages, LaTeX, 3 figures
journal: Europhys.Lett.92:50006,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3767
abstract: Resolving the tension between quantum superpositions and the uniqueness of the classical world is a major open problem. One possibility, which is extensively explored both theoretically and experimentally, is that quantum linearity breaks above a given scale. Theoretically, this possibility is predicted by collapse models. They provide quantitative information on where violations of the superposition principle become manifest. Here we show that the lower bound on the collapse parameter lambda, coming from the analysis of the human visual process, is ~ 7 +/- 2 orders of magnitude stronger than the original bound, in agreement with more recent analysis. This implies that the collapse becomes effective with systems containing ~ 10^4 - 10^5 nucleons, and thus falls within the range of testability with present-day technology. We also compare the spectrum of the collapsing field with those of known cosmological fields, showing that a typical cosmological random field can yield an efficient wave function collapse.

id: 1011.3803
title: Quantum Master Equations for Non-linear Optical Response of Molecular Systems
authors: Tomas Mancal, Frantisek Sanda
comments: 6 pages, 2 figure; one figure added, references added, title changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3803
abstract: Generalized master equations valid for the third order response of an optically driven multi-level electronic system are derived within Zwanzig projection formalism. Each of three time intervals of the response function is found to require specific master equation and projection operator. Exact cumulant response functions for the harmonic profiles of the potential energy surfaces leading to Gaussian spectral diffusion are reproduced. The proposed method accounts for the nonequilibrium state of bath at the border of intervals, and can be used to improve calculations of ultrafast non-linear spectra of energy transferring systems

id: 1011.3806
title: Entanglement-fidelity relations for inaccurate ancilla-driven quantum computation
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae, Jonas Kahn
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052314 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3806
abstract: It was shown in [T. Morimae, Phys. Rev. A {\bf81}, 060307(R) (2010)] that the gate fidelity of an inaccurate one-way quantum computation is upper bounded by a decreasing function of the amount of entanglement in the register. This means that a strong entanglement causes the low gate fidelity in the one-way quantum computation with inaccurate measurements. In this paper, we derive similar entanglement-fidelity relations for the inaccurate ancilla-driven quantum computation. These relations again imply that a strong entanglement in the register causes the low gate fidelity in the ancilla-driven quantum computation if the measurements on the ancilla are inaccurate.

id: 1011.3809
title: Exciton-phonon information flow in the energy transfer process of photosynthetic complexes
authors: Patrick Rebentrost, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Journal of Chemical Physics 134, 101103 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3809
abstract: Non-Markovian and non-equilibrium phonon effects are believed to be key ingredients in the energy transfer in photosynthetic complexes, especially in complexes which exhibit a regime of intermediate exciton-phonon coupling. In this work, we utilize a recently-developed measure for non-Markovianity to elucidate the exciton-phonon dynamics in terms of the information flow between electronic and vibrational degrees of freedom. We study the measure in the hierarchical equation of motion approach which captures strong system-bath coupling effects and non-equilibrium molecular reorganization. We propose an additional trace-distance measure for the information flow that could be extended to other master equations. We find that for a model dimer system and the Fenna-Matthews-Olson complex that non-Markovianity is significant under physiological conditions.

id: 1011.3821
title: Beyond the Dirac phase factor
authors: Konstantinos Moulopoulos
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3821
abstract: We report on previously overlooked solutions of the usual gauge transformation equations that exhibit a new form of nonlocal quantal behavior with the well-known Relativistic Causality of classical fields affecting directly the phases of wavefunctions. The new nonlocalities compete with Aharonov-Bohm behaviors and they provide: a correction to a number of erroneous results in the literature, a new interpretation of semiclassical observations and further extensions to delocalized states, a natural remedy of earlier "paradoxes", and a new formulation in the study of time-dependent slit-experiments.

id: 1011.3851
title: "Modes of the universe" study of two-photon deterministic, passive quantum logical gates
authors: Julio Gea-Banacloche, Leno M. Pedrotti
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3851
abstract: We use the "modes of the universe" approach to study a cavity-mediated two-photon logical gate recently proposed by Koshino, Ishizaka and Nakamura. We clarify the relationship between the more commonly used input-output formalism, and that of Koshino et al., and show that some elements of this gate had been anticipated by other authors. We conclude that their proposed gate can work both in the good and bad cavity limits, provided only that the pulses are long enough. Our formalism allows us to estimate analytically the size of the various error terms, and to follow the spectral evolution of the field + cavity system in the course of the interaction.

id: 1011.3862
title: The transition from Quantum Zeno to anti-Zeno effects for a qubit in a cavity by modulating the cavity frequency
authors: Xiufeng Cao, Qing Ai, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 376, Issue 4, 9 January 2012, Pages 349-357
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3862
abstract: We propose a strategy to demonstrate the transition from the quantum Zeno effect (QZE) to the anti-Zeno effect (AZE) by modulating the central frequency of the cavity mode. Our results are obtained without using the rotating wave approximation (RWA), and the initial state (a dressed state) is easy to prepare. When the central frequency of the cavity mode is resonant with the qubit energy level spacing, the normalized decay rate of the qubit is lower than 1, which manifests the QZE. However, when the cavity frequency is detuned from resonance, the normalized decay rate becomes larger than 1, which corresponds to the AZE. The change from the QZE to the AZE, by just varying the central frequency of the cavity mode, should allow to distinguish these two different effects. Moreover, we find that in the presence of both qubit's intrinsic bath and the cavity bath, the emergence of the QZE and the AZE behaviors relies not only on the match between the qubit energy level spacing and the central frequency of the cavity mode, but also on the coupling strength between the qubit and the cavity mode.

id: 1011.3898
title: Transients with time-independent currents
authors: Er'el Granot, Avi Marchewka
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3898
abstract: It is shown that when the initial particles probability density is discontinuous the emerging currents appear instantaneously, and although the density beyond the discontinuity is initially negligible the currents there have a finite value. It is shown that this non-equilibrium effect can be measured in real experiments (such as cooled Rubidium atoms), where the discontinuity is replaced with finite width (hundreds of nanometers) gradient.

id: 1011.3900
title: Quantum filtering for systems driven by fermion fields
authors: J.E. Gough, M.I. Guta, M.R. James, H.I. Nurdin
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures. To appear in Communications in Information and Systems (this http URL) - Special issue for Brian Anderson's 70th birthday
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3900
abstract: Recent developments in quantum technology mean that is it now possible to manipulate systems and measure fermion fields (e.g. reservoirs of electrons) at the quantum level. This progress has motivated some recent work on filtering theory for quantum systems driven by fermion fields by Korotkov, Milburn and others. The purpose of this paper is to develop fermion filtering theory using the fermion quantum stochastic calculus. We explain that this approach has close connections to the classical filtering theory that is a fundamental part of the systems and control theory that has developed over the past 50 years.

id: 1011.3911
title: Classical and Quantum Theory of Photothermal Cavity Cooling of a Mechanical Oscillator
authors: Juan Restrepo, Julien Gabelli, Cristiano Ciuti, Ivan Favero
comments: 27 pages, 3 figures
journal: C. R. Physique 12, 860-870 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3911
abstract: Photothermal effects allow very efficient optomechanical coupling between mechanical degrees of freedom and photons. In the context of cavity cooling of a mechanical oscillator, the question of if the quantum ground state of the oscillator can be reached using photothermal back-action has been debated and remains an open question. Here we address this problem by complementary classical and quantum calculations. Both lead us to conclude that: first, the ground-state can indeed be reached using photothermal cavity cooling, second, it can be reached in a regime where the cavity detuning is small allowing a large amount of photons to enter the cavity.

id: 1011.3915
title: Communication via entangled coherent quantum network
authors: A. El Allati, Y. Hassouni, N. Metwally
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scr. 83 (2011) 065002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3915
abstract: A quantum network is constructed via maximum entangled coherent states. The possibility of using this network to achieve communication between multi-participants is investigated. We showed that the probability of teleported unknown state successfully, depends on the size the used network. As the numbers of participants increases, the successful probability does not depend on the intensity of the field. The problem of implementing quantum teleportation protocol via a noise quantum network is discussed. We show one can send information perfectly with small values of the field intensity and larger values of the noise strength. The successful probability of this suggested protocol increases abruptly for larger values of the noise strength and gradually for small values. We show that for small size of the used quantum network, the fidelity of the teleported state decreases smoothly, while it decreases abruptly for larger size of network.

id: 1011.3941
title: On spontaneous photon emission in collapse models
authors: Stephen L. Adler, Angelo Bassi, Sandro Donadi
comments: 23 pages, LaTex. Minor changes with respect to previous version
journal: Journ. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 245304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3941
abstract: We reanalyze the problem of spontaneous photon emission in collapse models. We show that the extra term found by Bassi and Duerr is present for non-white (colored) noise, but its coefficient is proportional to the zero frequency Fourier component of the noise. This leads one to suspect that the extra term is an artifact. When the calculation is repeated with the final electron in a wave packet and with the noise confined to a bounded region, the extra term vanishes in the limit of continuum state normalization. The result obtained by Fu and by Adler and Ramazanoglu from application of the Golden Rule is then recovered.

id: 1011.3961
title: Addendum: Behavior of a bipartite system in a cavity
authors: C. A. Linhares, A. P. C. Malbouisson, J. M. C. Malbouisson
comments: Revtex, 04 pages no figures, Version as accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3961
abstract: This note is an Addendum to our previous article [Phys. Rev. A \textbf{81}, 053820 (2010)]. We show that under the assumption of a Bose-Einstein distribution for the thermal reservoir, zero-temperature properties of the entangled states considered there are not changed by heating, for temperatures up to the order of room temperatures. In this case, the system is dissipative in free space and presents stability for a small cavity, both for T=0 and for finite temperature.

id: 1011.3984
title: Formal similarity between mathematical structures of electrodynamics and quantum mechanics
authors: A. A. Deriglazov
comments: 12 pages
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, 50 (2011) 654
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3984
abstract: Electromagnetic phenomena can be described by Maxwell equations written for the vectors of electric and magnetic field. Equivalently, electrodynamics can be reformulated in terms of an electromagnetic vector potential. We demonstrate that the Schr\"odinger equation admits an analogous treatment. We present a Lagrangian theory of a real scalar field $\phi$ whose equation of motion turns out to be equivalent to the Schr\"odinger equation with time independent potential. After introduction the field into the formalism, its mathematical structure becomes analogous to those of electrodynamics. The field $\phi$ is in the same relation to the real and imaginary part of a wave function as the vector potential is in respect to electric and magnetic fields. Preservation of quantum-mechanics probability is just an energy conservation law of the field $\phi$.

id: 1011.4003
title: Generation of paired photons in a quantum separable state in Bragg reflection waveguides
authors: Ji?¨ª Svozil¨ªk, Martin Hendrych, Amr S. Helmy, Juan P. Torres
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Opt. Express 19, 3115 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4003
abstract: This work proposes and analyses a novel approach for the generation of separable (quantum uncorrelated) photon pairs based on spontaneous parametric down-conversion in Bragg reflection waveguides composed of semiconductor AlGaN layers. This platform allows the removal of any spectral correlation between paired photons that propagate in different spatial modes. The photons can be designed to show equal or different spectra by tuning the structural parameters and hence the dispersion of the waveguide.

id: 1011.4055
title: The Casimir Effect in Spheroidal Geometries
authors: A. R. Kitson, A. I. Signal
comments: 24 pages, 3 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4055
abstract: We study the zero point energy of massless scalar and vector fields subject to spheroidal boundary conditions. For massless scalar fields and small ellipticity the zero-point energy can be found using both zeta function and Green's function methods. The result agrees with the conjecture that the zero point energy for a boundary remains constant under small deformations of the boundary that preserve volume (the boundary deformation conjecture), formulated in the case of an elliptic-cylindrical boundary. In the case of massless vector fields, an exact solution is not possible. We show that a zonal approximation disagrees with the result of the boundary deformation conjecture. Applying our results to the MIT bag model, we find that the zero point energy of the bag should stabilize the bag against deformations from a spherical shape.

id: 1011.4087
title: Experimentally implementable criteria revealing substructures of genuine multipartite entanglement
authors: Marcus Huber, Hans Schimpf, Andreas Gabriel, Christoph Spengler, Dagmar Bru?, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022328 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4087
abstract: We present a general framework that reveals substructures of genuine multipartite entanglement. Via simple inequalities it is possible to discriminate different sets of multipartite qubit states. These inequalities are beneficial regarding experimental examinations as only local measurements are required. Furthermore, the number of observables scales favorably with system size. In exemplary cases we demonstrate the noise resistance and discuss implementations.

id: 1011.4115
title: Entanglement distillation by dissipation and continuous quantum repeaters
authors: Karl Gerd H. Vollbrecht, Christine A. Muschik, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 120502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4115
abstract: Even though entanglement is very vulnerable to interactions with the environment, it can be created by purely dissipative processes. Yet, the attainable degree of entanglement is profoundly limited in the presence of noise sources. We show that distillation can also be realized dissipatively, such that a highly entanglement steady state is obtained. The schemes put forward here display counterintuitive phenomena, such as improved performance if noise is added to the system. We also show how dissipative distillation can be employed in a continuous quantum repeater architecture, in which the resources scale polynomially with the distance.

id: 1011.4117
title: Information Flow, Non-Markovianity and Geometric Phases
authors: S. L. Wu, X. L. Huang, L. C. Wang, X. X. Yi
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052111 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4117
abstract: Geometric phases and information flows of a two-level system coupled to its environment are calculated and analyzed. The information flow is defined as a cumulant of changes in trace distance between two quantum states, which is similar to the measure for non-Markovianity given by Breuer. We obtain an analytic relation between the geometric phase and the information flow for pure initial states, and a numerical result for mixed initial states. The geometric phase behaves differently depending on whether there are information flows back to the two-level system from its environment.

id: 1011.4118
title: Gaussian capacity of the quantum bosonic channel with additive correlated Gaussian noise
authors: Joachim Sch?fer, Evgueni Karpov, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 12+6 pages, 9 figures. Errors corrected, figures were made clearer, appendix improved and extended
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032318 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4118
abstract: We present an algorithm for calculation of the Gaussian classical capacity of a quantum bosonic memory channel with additive Gaussian noise. The algorithm, restricted to Gaussian input states, is applicable to all channels with noise correlations obeying certain conditions and works in the full input energy domain, beyond previous treatments of this problem. As an illustration, we study the optimal input states and capacity of a quantum memory channel with Gauss-Markov noise [J. Sch\"afer, Phys. Rev. A 80, 062313 (2009)]. We evaluate the enhancement of the transmission rate when using these optimal entangled input states by comparison with a product coherent-state encoding and find out that such a simple coherent-state encoding achieves not less than 90% of the capacity.

id: 1011.4138
title: Quantum Algorithms for Tree Isomorphism and State Symmetrization
authors: David Rosenbaum
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4138
abstract: The graph isomorphism problem is theoretically interesting and also has many practical applications. The best known classical algorithms for graph isomorphism all run in time super-polynomial in the size of the graph in the worst case. An interesting open problem is whether quantum computers can solve the graph isomorphism problem in polynomial time. In this paper, an algorithm is shown which can decide if two rooted trees are isomorphic in polynomial time. Although this problem is easy to solve efficiently on a classical computer, the techniques developed may be useful as a basis for quantum algorithms for deciding isomorphism of more interesting types of graphs. The related problem of quantum state symmetrization is also studied. A polynomial time algorithm for the problem of symmetrizing a set of orthonormal states over an arbitrary permutation group is shown.

id: 1011.4162
title: Time-dependent Kohn-Sham approach to quantum electrodynamics
authors: M.Ruggenthaler, F. Mackenroth, D. Bauer
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042107 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4162
abstract: We prove a generalization of the van Leeuwen theorem towards quantum electrodynamics, providing the formal foundations of a time-dependent Kohn-Sham construction for coupled quantized matter and electromagnetic fields. Thereby we circumvent the symmetry-causality problems associated with the action-functional approach to Kohn-Sham systems. We show that the effective external four-potential and four-current of the Kohn-Sham system are uniquely defined and that the effective four-current takes a very simple form. Further we rederive the Runge-Gross theorem for quantum electrodynamics.

id: 1011.4165
title: Entanglement Entropy Fluctuations in Quantum Ising Chains
authors: M.A.Yurishchev
comments: pdf, 9 pages
journal: Zh.Eksp.Teor.Fiz.(ZhETF)138(2010)595-604(in Russian); J.Exp.Theor.Phys.(JETP)111(2010)525-533(in English)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4165
abstract: The Ising chains in a transverse magnetic field of constant strength (h=1) and with the spin interaction value \lambda are considered. In the case of infinitely long chain, exact analytical expressions are found for the second central moment (dispersion) of the entropy operator S^\hat=-ln\rho with reduced density matrix \rho which corresponds to a semi-infinite part of the model in the ground state. It is shown that in the vicinity of a critical point \lambda_c=1, the entanglement entropy fluctuation \Delta S (square root of dispersion) diverges as \Delts S\sim[ln(1/|1-\lambda|)]^{1/2}. Taking into account the known behavior of the entanglement entropy S, this leads to that the value of relative entanglement fluctuation \delta S=(\Delta S)/S vanishes at the critical point, i.e. in fact a state with nonfluctuating entanglement is realized.

id: 1011.4219
title: Interaction Driven Interband Tunneling of Bosons in the Triple Well
authors: Lushuai Cao, Ioannis Brouzos, Sascha Z?llner, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 033032 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4219
abstract: We study the tunneling of a small ensemble of strongly repulsive bosons in a one-dimensional triple-well potential. The usual treatment within the single-band approximation suggests suppression of tunneling in the strong interaction regime. However, we show that several windows of enhanced tunneling are opened in this regime. This enhanced tunneling results from higher band contributions, and has the character of interband tunneling. It can give rise to various tunneling processes, such as single-boson tunneling and two-boson correlated tunneling of the ensemble of bosons, and is robust against deformations of the triple well potential. We introduce a basis of generalized number states including all contributing bands to explain the interband tunneling, and demonstrate various processes of interband tunneling and its robustness by numerically exact calculation.

id: 1011.4252
title: Are right angles special? The optimal primitive reference frame
authors: David Jennings
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, v2 has minor corrections and elaborations, including an extra appendix. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012306 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4252
abstract: We consider the smallest possible directional reference frames allowed and determine the best one can ever do in preserving quantum information in various scenarios. We find that for the preservation of a single spin state, two orthogonal spins are optimal primitive reference frames, and in a product state do approximately 22% as well as an infinite-sized classical frame. By adding a small amount of entanglement to the reference frame this can be raised to 2(2/3)^5 = 26%. Under the different criterion of entanglement-preservation a very similar optimal reference frame is found, however this time for spins aligned at an optimal angle of 87 degrees. In this case 24% of the negativity is preserved. The classical limit is considered numerically, and indicates under the criterion of entanglement preservation, that 90 degrees is selected out non-monotonically, with a peak optimal angle of 96.5 degrees for L = 3 spins.

id: 1011.4278
title: Explanation and observability of diffraction in time
authors: E. Torrontegui, J. Mu?oz, Yue Ban, J. G. Muga
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys Rev A 83, 043608 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4278
abstract: Diffraction in time (DIT) is a fundamental phenomenon in quantum dynamics due to time-dependent obstacles and slits. It is formally analogous to diffraction of light, and is expected to play an increasing role to design coherent matter wave sources, as in the atom laser, to analyze time-of-flight information and emission from ultrafast pulsed excitations, and in applications of coherent matter waves in integrated atom-optical circuits. We demonstrate that DIT emerges robustly in quantum waves emitted by an exponentially decaying source and provide a simple explanation of the phenomenon, as an interference of two characteristic velocities. This allows for its controllability and optimization.

id: 1011.4304
title: Eigenstate Estimation for the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) Hamiltonian
authors: S.Y. Ho, D.J. Rowe, S. De Baerdemacker
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4304
abstract: We show how multi-level BCS Hamiltonians of finite systems in the strong pairing interaction regime can be accurately approximated using multi-dimensional shifted harmonic oscillator Hamiltonians. In the Shifted Harmonic Approximation (SHA), discrete quantum state variables are approximated as continuous ones and algebraic Hamiltonians are replaced by differential operators. Using the SHA, the results of the BCS theory, such as the gap equations, can be easily derived without the BCS approximation. In addition, the SHA preserves the symmetries associated with the BCS Hamiltonians. Lastly, for all interaction strengths, the SHA can be used to identify the most important basis states -- allowing accurate computation of low-lying eigenstates by diagonalizing BCS Hamiltonians in small subspaces of what may otherwise be vastly larger Hilbert spaces.

id: 1011.4331
title: Fidelity susceptibility and geometric phase in critical phenomenon
authors: Li-Jun Tian, Chang-Qing Zhu, Hong-Biao Zhang, Li-Guo Qin
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. B 20, 040302(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4331
abstract: Motivated by recent development in quantum fidelity and fidelity susceptibility, we study relations among Lie algebra, fidelity susceptibility and quantum phase transition for a two-state system and the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model. We get the fidelity susceptibility for SU(2) and SU(1,1) algebraic structure models. From this relation, the validity of the fidelity susceptibility to signal for the quantum phase transition is also verified in these two systems. At the same time, we obtain the geometric phase in these two systems in the process of calculating the fidelity susceptibility. In addition, the new method of calculating fidelity susceptibility has been applied to explore the two-dimensional XXZ model and the Bose-Einstein condensate(BEC).

id: 1011.4333
title: Revised Definitions of Quantum Dissonance and Quantum Discord
authors: Zhan-jun Zhang
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4333
abstract: We show that all the correlations defined by K. Modi et al [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 104}, 080501 (2010)] except for the total mutual information should be redefined so that some physical quantities (e.g., the accessible maximal classical correlation and the resultant exact quantum discord) are right.

id: 1011.4338
title: Polarization-Sensitive Quantum Optical Coherence Tomography: Experiment
authors: Mark C. Booth, Bahaa E. A. Saleh, Malvin Carl Teich
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4338
abstract: Polarization-sensitive quantum optical coherence tomography (PS-QOCT) makes use of a Type-II twin-photon light source for carrying out optical sectioning with polarization sensitivity. A BBO nonlinear optical crystal pumped by a Ti:sapphire psec-pulsed laser is used to confirm the theoretical underpinnings of this imaging paradigm. PS-QOCT offers even-order dispersion cancellation with simultaneous access to the group-velocity dispersion characteristics of the interstitial medium between the reflecting surfaces of the sample.

id: 1011.4345
title: Bound Eigenstate dynamics under a sudden shift of the well's wall
authors: Er'el Granot, Avi Marchewka
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 81032125 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4345
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of the eigenstate of an infinite well under an abrupt shift of the well's wall. It is shown that when the shift is small compared to the initial well's dimensions, the short time behavior changes from the well known t^(3/2) behavior to t^(1/2) . It is also shown that the complete dynamical picture converges to a universal function, which has fractal structure with dimensionality D=1.25.

id: 1011.4402
title: A new quantum mechanical photon counting distribution formula
authors: Hong-yi Fan, Hong-chun Yuan, Li-yun Hu
comments: 6 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4402
abstract: By virtue of density operator's P-representation in the coherent state representation, we derive a new quantum mechanical photon counting distribution formula. As its application, we find the photon counting distribution for the pure squeezed state relates to the Legendre function, which seems a new result.

id: 1011.4423
title: Nuclear coherent population transfer with x-ray laser pulses
authors: Wen-Te Liao, Adriana P¨¢lffy, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: extended argument about experimental feasibility, added references, results unchanged; v3 updated to the published version
journal: Phys. Lett. B 705 (2011) 134-138
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4423
abstract: Coherent population transfer between nuclear states using x-ray laser pulses is studied. The laser pulses drive two nuclear transitions between three nuclear states in a setup reminding of stimulated Raman adiabatic passage used for atomic coherent population transfer. To compensate for the lack of $\gamma$-ray laser sources, we envisage accelerated nuclei interacting with two copropagating or crossed x-ray laser pulses. The parameter regime for nuclear coherent population transfer using fully coherent light generated by future X-Ray Free-Electron Laser facilities and moderate or strong acceleration of nuclei is determined. We find that the most promising case requires laser intensities of $10^{17}$-$10^{19}$ W/cm$^{2}$ for complete nuclear population transfer. As relevant application, the controlled pumping or release of energy stored in long-lived nuclear states is discussed.

id: 1011.4452
title: Quantifying entanglement when measurements are imperfect or restricted
authors: Sebastian Meznaric
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4452
abstract: Motivated by the increasing ability of experimentalists to perform detector tomography, we consider how to incorporate the imperfections and restrictions of available measurements directly into the quantification of entanglement. Exploiting the idea that the recently introduced semiquantum nonlocal games as the gauge of the amount of entanglement in a state, we define an effective entanglement functional giving us effective entanglement when the measurement operators one has at their disposal are restricted by either fundamental considerations, such as superselection rules, or practical inability to conduct precise measurements. We show that effective entanglement is always reduced by restricting measurements. We define effective entanglement as the least amount of entanglement necessary to play all semiquantum nonlocal games at least as well with unrestricted measurements as with the more entangled original state and restricted measurements. We show that simple linear relationship between effective and conventional G-concurrence, generalization of concurrence, can be obtained when completely positive maps are used to describe measurement restrictions. We consider how typical measurement errors like photon loss and phase damping degrade effective entanglement in quantum optical experiments, as well as the impact of mass superselection rules on entanglement of massive indistinguishable particles. The flexibility of the effective entanglement formalism allows this single-particle entanglement to be calculated in the presence of a local Bose Einstein condensate reference frame with varying phase uncertainty, thereby interpolating between the complete breaking or strict application of the super-selection rule.

id: 1011.4463
title: Control-free control: manipulating a quantum system using only a limited set of measurements
authors: S. Ashhab, Franco Nori
comments: 6 pages (two-column), 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062103 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4463
abstract: We present and discuss different protocols for preparing an arbitrary quantum state of a qubit using only a restricted set of measurements, with no unitary operations at all. We show that an arbitrary state can indeed be prepared, provided that the available measurements satisfy certain requirements. Our results shed light on the role that measurement-induced back-action plays in quantum feedback control and the extent to which this back-action can be exploited in quantum-control protocols.

id: 1011.4474
title: Private Randomness Expansion With Untrusted Devices
authors: Roger Colbeck, Adrian Kent
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 44(9), 095305 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4474
abstract: Randomness is an important resource for many applications, from gambling to secure communication. However, guaranteeing that the output from a candidate random source could not have been predicted by an outside party is a challenging task, and many supposedly random sources used today provide no such guarantee. Quantum solutions to this problem exist, for example a device which internally sends a photon through a beam-splitter and observes on which side it emerges, but, presently, such solutions require the user to trust the internal workings of the device. Here we seek to go beyond this limitation by asking whether randomness can be generated using untrusted devices---even ones created by an adversarial agent---while providing a guarantee that no outside party (including the agent) can predict it. Since this is easily seen to be impossible unless the user has an initially private random string, the task we investigate here is private randomness expansion. We introduce a protocol for private randomness expansion with untrusted devices which is designed to take as input an initially private random string and produce as output a longer private random string. We point out that private randomness expansion protocols are generally vulnerable to attacks that can render the initial string partially insecure, even though that string is used only inside a secure laboratory; our protocol is designed to remove this previously unconsidered vulnerability by privacy amplification. We also discuss extensions of our protocol designed to generate an arbitrarily long random string from a finite initially private random string. The security of these protocols against the most general attacks is left as an open question.

id: 1011.4479
title: Is the Quantum World Composed of Propensitons?
authors: Nicholas Maxwell
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4479
abstract: In this paper I outline my propensiton version of quantum theory (PQT). PQT is a fully micro-realistic version of quantum theory that provides us with a very natural possible solution to the fundamental wave/particle problem, and is free of the severe defects of orthodox quantum theory (OQT) as a result. PQT makes sense of the quantum world. PQT recovers all the empirical success of OQT and is, furthermore, empirically testable (although not as yet tested). I argue that Einstein almost put forward this version of quantum theory in 1916/17 in his papers on spontaneous and induced radiative transitions, but retreated from doing so because he disliked the probabilistic character of the idea. Subsequently, the idea was overlooked because debates about quantum theory polarised into the Bohr/Heisenberg camp, which argued for the abandonment of realism and determinism, and the Einstein/Schr\"odinger camp, which argued for the retention of realism and determinism, no one, as a result, pursuing the most obvious option of retaining realism but abandoning determinism. It is this third, overlooked option that leads to PQT. PQT has implications for quantum field theory, the standard model, string theory, and cosmology. The really important point, however, is that it is experimentally testable. I indicate two experiments in principle capable of deciding between PQT and OQT.

id: 1011.4533
title: Feedback-assisted ponderomotive squeezing
authors: David Vitali, Paolo Tombesi
comments: 24 pages, 3 figures
journal: C. R. Physique 12, 848-859 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4533
abstract: We analyze how the radiation pressure interaction between a mechanical element and an intensely driven optical cavity mode can be exploited for generating squeezed light. We study in particular how the performance of the optomechanical device can be improved when a homodyne-based feedback loop is added to control the motion of the mechanical element of the system. We show that, when driving the cavity at resonance, an appropriate proportional feedback control is able to improve the generation of ponderomotive squeezing, which should be detectable with state-of-the-art apparatuses.

id: 1011.4570
title: Quantum Transport Theory for Photonic Networks
authors: Chan U Lei, Wei-Min Zhang
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures (the paper is extended, more references are added)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4570
abstract: In this paper, we develop a quantum transport theory to describe photonic transport in photonic networks. The photonic networks concerned in the paper consist of all-optical circuits incorporating photonic bandgap waveguides and driven resonators. The photonic transport flowing through waveguides are entirely determined from the exact master equation of the driven resonators. The master equation of the driven resonators is obtained by explicitly eliminating all the waveguide degrees of freedom while the back-reactions between resonators and waveguides are fully taken into account. The relations between the driven photonic dynamics and photocurrents are obtained. The non-Markovian memory structure and quantum coherence and decoherence effects in photonic transport are also fully included. This quantum transport theory unifies two fundamental nonequilibrium approaches, the Keldysh's nonequilibrium Green function technique and the Feynman-Vernon influence functional approach, together to make the investigation of the transient quantum photonic transport become more powerful. As an illustration, the theory is applied to the transport phenomena of a driven nanocavity coupled to two waveguides in photonic crystals. The controllability of photonic transport through the driven resonator is demonstrated.

id: 1011.4579
title: Experimentally feasible set of criteria detecting genuine multipartite entanglement in n-qubit Dicke states and in higher dimensional systems
authors: Marcus Huber, Paul Erker, Hans Schimpf, Andreas Gabriel, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 040301(R) (2011); Phys. Rev. A 84, 039906(E) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4579
abstract: We construct a set of criteria detecting genuine multipartite entanglement in arbitrary dimensional multipartite systems. These criteria are optimally suited for detecting multipartite entanglement in n-qubit Dicke states with m-excitations. In a detailed analysis we show that the criteria are also more robust to noise than any other criterion known so far, especially with increasing system size. Furthermore it is shown that the number of required local observables scales only polynomially with size, thus making the criteria experimentally feasible.

id: 1011.4659
title: A Dispersion Relation for the Density of States With Application to the Casimir Effect
authors: S. G. Rajeev
comments: 
journal: Annals Phys.326:1536-1547,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4659
abstract: The trace of a function of a Schrodinger operator minus the same for the Laplacian can be expressed in terms of the determinant of its scattering matrix. The naive formula for this determinant is divergent. Using a dispersion relation, we find another expression for it which is convergent, but needs one piece of information beyond the scattering matrix. Except for this `anomaly', we can express the Casimir energy of a compact body in terms of its optical scattering matrix, without assuming any rotational symmetry for its shape.

id: 1011.4663
title: Weaving independently generated photons into an arbitrary graph state
authors: Qing Lin, Bing He
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures. Accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062312 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4663
abstract: The controlled Z (CZ) operations acting separately on pairs of qubits are commonly adopted in the schemes of generating graph states, the multi-partite entangled states for the one-way quantum computing. For this purpose, we propose a setup of cascade CZ operation on a whole group of qubits in sequence. The operation of the setup starts with entangling an ancilla photon to the first photon as qubit, and this ancilla automatically moves from one entanglement link to another in assisting the formation of a string in graph states. The generation of some special types of graph states, such as the three-dimensional ones, can be greatly simplified in this approach. The setup presented uses weak nonlinearities, but an implementation using probabilistic linear optics is also possible.

id: 1011.4667
title: Quench dynamics of topological quantum phase transition in Wen-plaquette model
authors: Long Zhang, Su-Peng Kou, Youjin Deng
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures,add new content
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062113 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4667
abstract: We study the quench dynamics of the topological quantum phase transition in the two-dimensional transverse Wen-plaquette model, which has a phase transition from a Z2 topologically ordered to a spin-polarized state. By mapping the Wen-plaquette model onto a one-dimensional quantum Ising model, we calculate the expectation value of the plaquette operator Fi during a slowly quenching process from a topologically ordered state. A logarithmic scaling law of quench dynamics near the quantum phase transition is found, which is analogous to the well-known static critical behavior of the specific heat in the one-dimensional quantum Ising model.

id: 1011.4713
title: Optically trapped atom interferometry using the clock transition of large Rb-87 Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: P.A. Altin, G. McDonald, D. D?ring, J.E. Debs, T. Barter, N.P. Robins, J.D. Close, S.A. Haine, T.M. Hanna, R.P. Anderson
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures Addendum: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 065020 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4713
abstract: We present a Ramsey-type atom interferometer operating with an optically trapped sample of 10^6 Bose-condensed Rb-87 atoms. The optical trap allows us to couple the |F =1, mF =0>\rightarrow |F =2, mF =0> clock states using a single photon 6.8GHz microwave transition, while state selective readout is achieved with absorption imaging. Interference fringes with contrast approaching 100% are observed for short evolution times. We analyse the process of absorption imaging and show that it is possible to observe atom number variance directly, with a signal-to-noise ratio ten times better than the atomic projection noise limit on 10^6 condensate atoms. We discuss the technical and fundamental noise sources that limit our current system, and outline the improvements that can be made. Our results indicate that, with further experimental refinements, it will be possible to produce and measure the output of a sub-shot-noise limited, large atom number BEC-based interferometer. In an addendum to the original paper, we attribute our inability to observe quantum projection noise to the stability of our microwave oscillator and background magnetic field. Numerical simulations of the Gross-Pitaevskii equations for our system show that dephasing due to spatial dynamics driven by interparticle interactions account for much of the observed decay in fringe visibility at long interrogation times. The simulations show good agreement with the experimental data when additional technical decoherence is accounted for, and suggest that the clock states are indeed immiscible. With smaller samples of 5 \times 10^4 atoms, we observe a coherence time of {\tau} = (1.0+0.5-0.3) s.

id: 1011.4727
title: Calculation of nonzero-temperature Casimir forces in the time domain
authors: Kai Pan, Alexander P. McCauley, Alejandro W. Rodriguez, M. T. Homer Reid, Jacob K. White, Steven G. Johnson
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, submitted to Physical Review A Rapid Communication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4727
abstract: We show how to compute Casimir forces at nonzero temperatures with time-domain electromagnetic simulations, for example using a finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) method. Compared to our previous zero-temperature time-domain method, only a small modification is required, but we explain that some care is required to properly capture the zero-frequency contribution. We validate the method against analytical and numerical frequency-domain calculations, and show a surprising high-temperature disappearance of a non-monotonic behavior previously demonstrated in a piston-like geometry.

id: 1011.4740
title: Violation of Bell Inequalities with a Mixture of Separable States in a Multiple-Photon Absorption Attack on Ekert Protocol
authors: Guillaume Adenier, Noboru Watanabe, Andrei Khrennikov, Irina Basieva
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4740
abstract: We propose a new type of attack on Ekert protocol in which, rather surprisingly, Eve drives a violation of Bell inequalities in Alice's and Bob's detectors with a mixture of separable states. She does so by sending correlated pulses containing several photons at frequencies where only multiple-photon absorptions are possible in their detectors. Whenever the photons stemming from a same pulse are dispatched in such a way that the number of photons is insufficient to trigger a multiple-photon absorption in either channel, the pulse remains undetected. We show that this simple feature leads to violations of Bell inequalities that can match closely those predicted for entangled states, even in the simplest cases of two-photon and three-photon absorptions.

id: 1011.4755
title: EIT-Based Quantum Memory for Single Photons from Cavity-QED
authors: Matt Himsworth, Peter Nisbet, Jerome Dilley, Gunnar Langfahl-Klabes, Axel Kuhn
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. B, 103:579-589, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4755
abstract: We investigate the feasibility of implementing an elementary building block for quantum information processing. The combination of a deterministic single photon source based on vacuum stimulated adiabatic rapid passage, and a quantum memory based on electromagnetically induced transparency in atomic vapour is outlined. Both systems are able to produce and process temporally shaped wavepackets which provides a way to maintain the indistinguishability of retrieved and original photons. We also propose an efficient and robust `repeat-until-success' quantum computation scheme based on this hybrid architecture.

id: 1011.4761
title: Quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno effects on quantum and classical correlations
authors: F. Francica, F. Plastina, S. Maniscalco
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 052118 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4761
abstract: In this paper we study the possibility of modifying the dynamics of both quantum correlations, such as entanglement and discord, and classical correlations of an open bi-partite system by means of the quantum Zeno effect. We consider two qubits coupled to a common boson reservoir at zero temperature. This model describes, for example, two atoms interacting with a quantized mode of a lossy cavity. We show that, when the frequencies of the two atoms are symmetrically detuned from that of the cavity mode, oscillations between Zeno and anti-Zeno regimes occur. We also calculate analytically the time evolution of both classical correlations and quantum discord, and we compare the Zeno dynamics of entanglement with the Zeno dynamics of classical correlations and discord.

id: 1011.4773
title: Zeno effect and ergodicity in finite-time quantum measurements
authors: D.Sokolovski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4773
abstract: We demonstrate that an attempt to measure a non-local in time quantity, such as the time average $\la A\ra_T$ of a dynamical variable $A$, by separating Feynman paths into ever narrower exclusive classes traps the system in eigensubspaces of the corresponding operator $\a$. Conversely, in a long measurement of $\la A\ra_T$ to a finite accuracy, the system explores its Hilbert space and is driven to a universal steady state in which von Neumann ensemble average of $\a$ coincides with $\la A\ra_T$. Both effects are conveniently analysed in terms of singularities and critical points of the corresponding amplitude distribution and the Zeno-like behaviour is shown to be a consequence of conservation of probability.

id: 1011.4803
title: Gegenbauer-solvable quantum chain model
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 29 pp., 1 fig
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82 (2010) 052113
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4803
abstract: In an innovative inverse-problem construction the measured, experimental energies $E_1$, $E_2$, ...$E_N$ of a quantum bound-state system are assumed fitted by an N-plet of zeros of a classical orthogonal polynomial $f_N(E)$. We reconstruct the underlying Hamiltonian $H$ (in the most elementary nearest-neighbor-interaction form) and the underlying Hilbert space ${\cal H}$ of states (the rich menu of non-equivalent inner products is offered). The Gegenbauer's ultraspherical polynomials $f_n(x)=C_n^\alpha(x)$ are chosen for the detailed illustration of technicalities.

id: 1011.4806
title: CPT-symmetric discrete square well
authors: Miloslav Znojil, Milo? Tater
comments: 12 pp., presented to conference PHHQP IX (this http URL)
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.50:982-990,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4806
abstract: A new version of an elementary PT-symmetric square well quantum model is proposed in which a certain Hermiticity-violating end-point interaction leaves the spectrum real in a large domain of couplings $\lambda\in (-1,1)$. Within this interval we employ the usual coupling-independent operator P of parity and construct, in a systematic Runge-Kutta discrete approximation, a coupling-dependent operator of charge C which enables us to classify our P-asymmetric model as CPT-symmetric or, equivalently, hiddenly Hermitian alias cryptohermitian.

id: 1011.4814
title: Addendum to "Single photon logic gates using minimum resources"
authors: Qing Lin, Bing He
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 064303 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4814
abstract: The authors call attention to a previous work [Qing Lin and Bing He, Phys. Rev. A 80, 042310 (2009)] on the realization of multi-qubit logic gates with controlled-path and merging gate. We supplement the work by showing how to efficiently build realistic quantum circuits in this approach and giving the guiding rules for the task.

id: 1011.4824
title: Modulation of breathers in the three-dimensional nonlinear Gross-Pitaevskii equation
authors: A. T. Avelar, D. Bazeia, W. B. Cardoso
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 82, 057601 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4824
abstract: In this paper we present analytical breather solutions of the three-dimensional nonlinear generalized Gross-Pitaevskii equation. We use an Ansatz to reduce the three-dimensional equation with space- and time-dependent coefficients into an one-dimensional equation with constant coefficients. The key point is to show that both the space- and time-dependent coefficients of the nonlinear equation can contribute to modulate the breather excitations. We briefly discuss the experimental feasibility of the results in Bose-Einstein condensates.

id: 1011.4838
title: Entanglement Dynamics in Harmonic Oscillator Chains
authors: R. G. Unanyan, M. Fleischhauer
comments: Introduction modified: new references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4838
abstract: We study the long-time evolution of the bipartite entanglement in translationally invariant gapped harmonic lattice systems with finite-range interactions. A lower bound for the von Neumann entropy is derived in terms of the purity of the reduced density matrix. It is shown that starting from an initially Gaussian state the entanglement entropy increases at least linearly in time. This implies that the dynamics of gapped (non-critical) harmonic lattice systems cannot be efficiently simulated by algorithms based on matrix-product decompositions of the quantum state.

id: 1011.4862
title: Entanglement Dynamics of Two Independent Cavity-Embedded Quantum Dots
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Giuseppe Compagno, Rosario Lo Franco, Alessandro Ridolfo, Salvatore Savasta
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Topical Issue of Physica Scripta on proceedings of CEWQO 2010
journal: Physica Scripta T143, 014004 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4862
abstract: We investigate the dynamical behavior of entanglement in a system made by two solid-state emitters, as two quantum dots, embedded in two separated micro-cavities. In these solid-state systems, in addition to the coupling with the cavity mode, the emitter is coupled to a continuum of leaky modes providing additional losses and it is also subject to a phonon-induced pure dephasing mechanism. We model this physical configuration as a multipartite system composed by two independent parts each containing a qubit embedded in a single-mode cavity, exposed to cavity losses, spontaneous emission and pure dephasing. We study the time evolution of entanglement of this multipartite open system finally applying this theoretical framework to the case of currently available solid-state quantum dots in micro-cavities.

id: 1011.4874
title: Comparing, Optimising and Benchmarking Quantum Control Algorithms in a Unifying Programming Framework
authors: S. Machnes, U. Sander, S.J. Glaser, P. de Fouquieres, A. Gruslys, S. Schirmer, T. Schulte-Herbrueggen
comments: update incl. 3 new figures, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84 (2011) 022305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4874
abstract: For paving the way to novel applications in quantum simulation, computation, and technology, increasingly large quantum systems have to be steered with high precision. It is a typical task amenable to numerical optimal control to turn the time course of pulses, i.e. piecewise constant control amplitudes, iteratively into an optimised shape. Here, we present the first comparative study of optimal control algorithms for a wide range of finite-dimensional applications. We focus on the most commonly used algorithms: GRAPE methods which update all controls concurrently, and KROTOV-type methods which do so sequentially. Guidelines for their use are given and open research questions are pointed out. --- Moreover we introduce a novel unifying algorithmic framework, DYNAMO (dynamic optimisation platform) designed to provide the quantum-technology community with a convenient MATLAB-based toolset for optimal control. In addition, it gives researchers in optimal-control techniques a framework for benchmarking and comparing new proposed algorithms to the state-of-the-art. It allows for a mix-and-match approach with various types of gradients, update and step-size methods as well as subspace choices. Open-source code including examples is made available at this http URL

id: 1011.4898
title: Quantum randomness and free will
authors: Chetan S. Mandayam Nayakar, R. Srikanth
comments: 11 pages, LATeX2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4898
abstract: Both deterministic and indeterministic physical laws are incompatible with control by genuine (non-illusory) free will. We propose that an indeterministic dynamics can be $weakly$ compatible with free will (FW), whereby the latter acts by altering the probability distribution over allowed outcomes. In the quantum physical world, such a FW can collapse the wave function, introducing deviations from the Born rule. In principle, this deviation would stand in conflict with both special relativity and (a variant of) the Strong Church-Turing thesis, implying that the brain may be an arena of exotic, non-standard physics. However, in practice, these deviations would not be directly or easily observable, because they occur in sub-neuronal superpositions in the brain, where they would be shrouded in random measurement errors, noise and statistical fluctuations. Our result elucidates the difference between the FW of human observers and that of observed particles in the Free Will Theorem. This difference is a basic reason for why FW (and, in general, consciousness) cannot be recreated by standard artificial intelligence (AI) technology. We propose various neurobiological experiments to test our proposed theory. We speculate that for observers to be aware of a physical theory such as quantum mechanics, FW is necessary and that the theory must therefore not be universal. We suggest that FW may be regarded as a primitive principle in Nature for explaining quantum indeterminism.

id: 1011.4900
title: Entanglement Evolution in a Five Qubit Error Correction Code
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein
comments: 6 pages, 3 composite figures, accepted for publication Quant. Inf. Proc
journal: Quantum Information Processing 10, 533 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4900
abstract: In this paper I explore the entanglement evolution of qubits that are part of a five qubit quantum error correction code subject to various decohering environments. Specifically, I look for possible parallels between the entanglement degradation and the fidelity of the logical qubit of quantum information stored in the physical qubits. In addition, I note the possible exhibition of entanglement sudden death (ESD) due to decoherence and question whether ESD is actually a roadblock to successful quantum computation.

id: 1011.4954
title: From Hardy Spaces to Quantum Jumps: A Quantum Mechanical Beginning of Time
authors: Arno Bohm, Peter W. Bryant
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, contribution for Recent Advances in Time-Asymmetric Quantum Mechanics, Quantization and Related Topics, Valladolid, Spain, 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4954
abstract: In quantum mechanical experiments one distinguishes between the state of an experimental system and an observable measured in it. Heuristically, the distinction between states and observables is also suggested in scattering theory or when one expresses causality. We explain how this distinction can be made also mathematically. The result is a theory with asymmetric time evolution and for which decaying states are exactly unified with resonances. A consequence of the asymmetric time evolution is a beginning of time. The meaning of this beginning of time can be understood by identifying it in data from quantum jumps experiments.

id: 1011.4971
title: The Logic behind Feynman's Paths
authors: Edgardo T. Garcia Alvarez
comments: 15 pages, contribution to Mario Castagnino Festschrift
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4971
abstract: The classical notions of continuity and mechanical causality are left in order to refor- mulate the Quantum Theory starting from two principles: I) the intrinsic randomness of quantum process at microphysical level, II) the projective representations of sym- metries of the system. The second principle determines the geometry and then a new logic for describing the history of events (Feynman's paths) that modifies the rules of classical probabilistic calculus. The notion of classical trajectory is replaced by a history of spontaneous, random an discontinuous events. So the theory is reduced to determin- ing the probability distribution for such histories according with the symmetries of the system. The representation of the logic in terms of amplitudes leads to Feynman rules and, alternatively, its representation in terms of projectors results in the Schwinger trace formula.

id: 1011.5012
title: Verifying Genuine High-Order Entanglement
authors: Che-Ming Li, Kai Chen, Andreas Reingruber, Yueh-Nan Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 210504 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5012
abstract: High-order entanglement embedded in multipartite multilevel quantum systems (qudits) with many degrees of freedom (DOFs) plays an important role in quantum foundation and quantum engineering. Verifying high-order entanglement without the restriction of system complexity is a critical need in any experiments on general entanglement. Here, we introduce a scheme to efficiently detect genuine high-order entanglement, such as states close to genuine qudit Bell, Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger, and cluster states as well as multilevel multi-DOF hyperentanglement. All of them can be identified with two local measurement settings per DOF regardless of the qudit or DOF number. The proposed verifications together with further utilities such as fidelity estimation could pave the way for experiments by reducing dramatically the measurement overhead.

id: 1011.5039
title: Information and Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Marcin Ostrowski
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5039
abstract: This work is a discussion on the concept of information. We define here information as an abstraction that is able to be copied. We consider the connection between the process of copying information in quantum systems and the emergence of the so-called classical realism. The problem of interpretation of quantum mechanics in this context is discussed as well.

id: 1011.5048
title: Recent progress towards acoustically mediated carrier injection into individual nanostructures for single photon generation
authors: Stefan V?lk, Florian J. R. Sch¨¹lein, Florian Knall, Achim Wixforth, Hubert. J. Krenner, Arne Laucht, Jonathan J. Finley, Juha Riikonen, Marco Mattila, Markku Sopanen, Harri Lipsanen, Jun He, Tuan A. Truong, Hyochul Kim, Pierre M. Petroff
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Proc. SPIE, Vol. 7610, 76100J (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5048
abstract: We report on recent progress towards single photon sources based on quantum dot and quantum post nanostructures which are manipulated using surface acoustic waves. For this concept acoustic charge conveyance in a quantum well is used to spatially separate electron and hole pairs and transport these in the plane of the quantum well. When conveyed to the location of a quantum dot or quantum post these carriers are sequentially captured into the confined levels. Their radiative decays gives rise to the emission of a train of single photons. Three different approaches using (i) strain- induced and (ii) self-assembled quantum dots, and (iii) self-assembled quantum posts are discussed and their application potential is discussed. First devices and initial experiments towards the realization of such an acoustically driven single photon source are presented and remote acoustically triggered injection into few individual emitters is demonstrated.

id: 1011.5057
title: Non-classical field state stabilization in a cavity by reservoir engineering
authors: Alain Sarlette, Jean-Michel Raimond, Michel Brune, Pierre Rouchon
comments: submitted to Phys.Rev.Lett
journal: Physical Review Letters vol. 107, pp. 010402 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5057
abstract: We propose an engineered reservoir inducing the relaxation of a cavity field towards non-classical states. It is made up of two-level atoms crossing the cavity one at a time. Each atom-cavity interaction is first dispersive, then resonant, then dispersive again. The reservoir pointer states are those produced by an effective Kerr Hamiltonian acting on a coherent field. We thereby stabilize squeezed states and quantum superpositions of multiple coherent components in a cavity having a finite damping time. This robust method could be implemented in state-of-the-art experiments and lead to interesting insights into mesoscopic quantum state superpositions and into their protection against decoherence.

id: 1011.5099
title: Qubit-string-based bit commitment protocols with physical security
authors: Li Yang, Chong Xiang, Bao Li
comments: 23 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5099
abstract: Several kinds of qubit-string-based(QS-based) bit commitment protocols are presented, and a definition of information-theoretic concealing is given. All the protocols presented here are proved to be secure under this definition. We suggest an attack algorithm to obtain the local unitary transformation introduced in no-go theorem, which is used to attack the binding condition, then study the security of our QS-based bit commitment protocols under this attack via introducing a new concept "physical security of protocol". At last we present a practical QS-based bit commitment scheme against channel loss and error.

id: 1011.5103
title: How the Hawking effect and prepared states affect Entanglement distillability of Dirac fields
authors: Junfeng Deng, Jieci Wang, Jiliang Jing
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in PLB
journal: Phys.Lett.B695:495-500,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5103
abstract: How the Hawking effect and the prepared states influence the entanglement distillability of Dirac fields in the Schwarzschild spacetime is studied by using the Werner states which are composed of the maximum or generic entangled states. It is found that the states are entangled when the parameter of the Werner states, $F$, satisfies $\tau<F\leq 1$ in which $\tau$ is influenced both by the Hawking temperature of the black hole and energy of the fields. It is also shown that although the parameter of the generic entangled states, $\alpha$, affects the entanglement, it does not change the range of the parameter, $F$, where the states are entangled for the case of generic entangled states.

id: 1011.5114
title: Non-Markovian Dynamics of Quantum and Classical Correlations in the Presence of System-Bath Coherence
authors: Chuan-Feng Li, Hao-Tian Wang, Hong-Yuan Yuan, Rong-Chun Ge, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5114
abstract: We present a detailed study of the dynamics of correlations in non-Markovian environments, applying the hierarchy equations approach. This theoretical treatment is able to take the system-bath interaction into consideration carefully. It is shown that crosses and sudden changes of classical and quantum correlations can happen if we gradually reduce the strength of the interactions between qubits. For some special initial states, sudden transitions between classical and quantum correlations even occur.

id: 1011.5146
title: The extended coupled cluster method and the pairing problem
authors: Chris Snape, Niels R. Walet
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5146
abstract: We study the application of various forms of the coupled cluster method to systems with paired fermions. The novel element of the analysis is the study of the breaking and eventual restoration of particle number in the CCM variants. We specifically include Arponen's extended coupled cluster method, which describes the normal Hartree-Fock-Bogoliubov mean field at lowest level of truncation. We show that all methods converge to the exact results as we increase the order of truncation, but that the breaking of particle number at an intermediate level means that this convergence occurs in a surprising way. We argue that the most straightforward form of the method seems to be the most stable approach to implement for realistic (large number of particles) pairing problems

id: 1011.5182
title: Correlation induced non-Abelian quantum holonomies
authors: Markus Johansson, Marie Ericsson, Kuldip Singh, Erik Sj?qvist, Mark S. Williamson
comments: Minor corrections; journal reference added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 145301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5182
abstract: In the context of two-particle interferometry, we construct a parallel transport condition that is based on the maximization of coincidence intensity with respect to local unitary operations on one of the subsystems. The dependence on correlation is investigated and it is found that the holonomy group is generally non-Abelian, but Abelian for uncorrelated systems. It is found that our framework contains the L\'{e}vay geometric phase [2004 {\it J. Phys. A: Math. Gen.} {\bf 37} 1821] in the case of two-qubit systems undergoing local SU(2) evolutions.

id: 1011.5195
title: Causality in quantum physics, the ensemble of beginnings of time, and the dispersion relations of wave function
authors: Yoshihiro Sato, Arno R. Bohm
comments: 25 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5195
abstract: In quantum physics, disturbance due to a measurement is not negligible. This requires the time parameter $t$ in the Schr\"odinger or Heisenberg equation to be considered differently from a time continuum of experimenter's clock $T$ on which physical events are recorded. It will be shown that $t$ represents an ensemble of time intervals on $T$ during which a microsystem travels undisturbed. In particular $t=0$ represents the ensemble of preparation events that we refer to as the ensemble of beginnings of time. This restricts $t$ to be $0\leq t<\infty$. But such a time evolution of quantum states cannot be achieved in the Hilbert space $L^2$ functions because due to the Stone-von Neumann theorem this time evolution is given by the unitary group with $t$ extending $-\infty<t<\infty$. Hence one needs solutions of the Schr\"odinger (and Heisenberg) equation under time asymmetric boundary condition in which only the semigroup time evolution is allowed. This boundary condition is fulfilled by the energy wave functions for quantum states (and as well as for observables) which are smooth Hardy function satisfying the Hilbert transform, called the dispersion relation in physics.

id: 1011.5205
title: Entanglement and chaos in the kicked top
authors: Maurice Lombardi, Alex Matzkin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 016207, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5205
abstract: The standard kicked top involves a periodically kicked angular momentum. By considering this angular momentum as a collection of entangled spins, we compute the bipartite entanglement dynamics as a function of the dynamics of the classical counterpart. Our numerical results indicate that the entanglement of the quantum top depends on the specific details of the dynamics of the classical top rather than depending universally on the global properties of the classical regime. These results are grounded on linking the entanglement rate to averages involving the classical angular momentum, thereby explaining why regular dynamics can entangle as efficiently as the classically chaotic regime. The findings are in line with previous results obtained with a 2-particle top model, and we show here that the standard kicked top can be obtained as a limiting case of the 2-particle top.

id: 1011.5206
title: More non-locality with less entanglement
authors: Thomas Vidick, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 9 pages; Added reference to arXiv:1012.1513
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052310 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5206
abstract: We provide an explicit example of a Bell inequality with 3 settings and 2 outcomes per site for which the largest violation is not obtained by the maximally entangled state, even if its dimension is allowed to be arbitrarily large. This complements recent results by Junge and Palazuelos (arXiv:1007.3042) who show, employing tools from operator space theory, that such inequalities do exist. Our elementary example provides arguably the simplest setting in which it can be demonstrated that even an infinite supply of EPR pairs is not the strongest possible nonlocal resource.

id: 1011.5210
title: Efficient quantum tomography needs complementary and symmetric measurements
authors: Denes Petz, Laszlo Ruppert
comments: 19 pages without figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5210
abstract: In this study the determinant of the average quadratic error matrix is used as the measure of state estimation efficiency. This quantity is easily computable in some cases, so it gives us a reasonable tool to find optimal measurement setup for different quantum tomography problems. We present numerous applications for a single qubit when von Neumann measurements or a single POVM is used and a part of the parameters of the state is given. Under some restriction the optimality is found for $n$-level system as well. The optimal measurements have some complementary relation to each other or to the known datas, moreover, symmetric informationally complete systems appear, the conditional version seems to be new.

id: 1011.5219
title: Observation of the thermal Casimir force
authors: A. O. Sushkov, W. J. Kim, D. A. R. Dalvit, S. K. Lamoreaux
comments: 6 pages
journal: Nature Phys. 7:230-233,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5219
abstract: Quantum theory predicts the existence of the Casimir force between macroscopic bodies, due to the zero-point energy of electromagnetic field modes around them. This quantum fluctuation-induced force has been experimentally observed for metallic and semiconducting bodies, although the measurements to date have been unable to clearly settle the question of the correct low-frequency form of the dielectric constant dispersion (the Drude model or the plasma model) to be used for calculating the Casimir forces. At finite temperature a thermal Casimir force, due to thermal, rather than quantum, fluctuations of the electromagnetic field, has been theoretically predicted long ago. Here we report the experimental observation of the thermal Casimir force between two gold plates. We measured the attractive force between a flat and a spherical plate for separations between 0.7 $\mu$m and 7 $\mu$m. An electrostatic force caused by potential patches on the plates' surfaces is included in the analysis. The experimental results are in excellent agreement (reduced $\chi^2$ of 1.04) with the Casimir force calculated using the Drude model, including the T=300 K thermal force, which dominates over the quantum fluctuation-induced force at separations greater than 3 $\mu$m. The plasma model result is excluded in the measured separation range.

id: 1011.5229
title: Local unitary group stabilizers and entanglement for multiqubit symmetric states
authors: Curt D. Cenci, David W. Lyons, Scott N. Walck
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5229
abstract: We refine recent local unitary entanglement classification for symmetric pure states of $n$ qubits (that is, states invariant under permutations of qubits) using local unitary stabilizer subgroups and Majorana configurations. Stabilizer subgroups carry more entanglement distinguishing power than do the stabilizer subalgebras used in our previous work. We extend to mixed states recent results about local operations on pure symmetric states by showing that if two symmetric density operators are equivalent by a local unitary operation, then they are equivalent via a local unitary operation that is the {\em same} in each qubit. A geometric consequence, used in our entanglement classification, is that two symmetric pure states are local unitary equivalent if and only if their Majorana configurations can be interchanged by a rotation of the Bloch sphere.

id: 1011.5258
title: Understanding quantum interference in General Nonlocality
authors: Hai-Jhun Wanng
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures; Replaced to be compatible with the published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 033510 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5258
abstract: In this paper we attempt to give a new understanding of quantum double-slit interference of fermions in the framework of General Nonlocality (GN) [J. Math. Phys. 49, 033513 (2008)] by studying the self-(inter)action of matter wave. From the metric of the GN, we derive a special formalism to interpret the interference contrast when the self-action is perturbative. According to the formalism, the characteristic of interference pattern is in agreement with experiment qualitatively. As examples, we apply the formalism to the cases governed by Schr\"odinger current and Dirac current respectively, both of which are relevant to topology. The gap between these two cases corresponds to the fermion magnetic moment, which is possible to test in the near future. In addition, a general interference formalism for both perturbative and non-perturbative self-actions is presented. By analyzing the general formalism we predict that in the nonperturbative limit there is no interference at all. And by comparison with the special formalism of Schr\"odinger current, the coupling strength of self-action in the limit is found to be $\infty$. In the perturbative case, the interference from self-action turns out to be the same as that from standard approach of quantum theory. Then comparing the corresponding coefficients quantitatively we conclude that the coupling strength of self-action in this case falls in the interval $[0,1]$.

id: 1011.5259
title: A microfabricated surface ion trap on a high-finesse optical mirror
authors: Peter F. Herskind, Shannon X. Wang, Molu Shi, Yufei Ge, Marko Cetina, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 36, Issue 16, pp. 3045-3047 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5259
abstract: A novel approach to optics integration in ion traps is demonstrated based on a surface electrode ion trap that is microfabricated on top of a dielectric mirror. Additional optical losses due to fabrication are found to be as low as 80 ppm for light at 422 nm. The integrated mirror is used to demonstrate light collection from, and imaging of, a single 88 Sr+ ion trapped $169\pm4 \mu$m above the mirror.

id: 1011.5296
title: Quantum kinetic theory model of a continuous atom laser
authors: G.R. Dennis, Matthew J. Davis, J.J. Hope
comments: 28 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5296
abstract: We investigate the feasible limits for realising a continuously evaporated atom laser with high-temperature sources. A plausible scheme for realising a truly continuous atom laser is to outcouple atoms from a partially condensed Bose gas, whilst continuously reloading the system with non-condensed thermal atoms and performing evaporative cooling. Here we use quantum kinetic theory to model this system and estimate feasible limits for the operation of such a scheme. For sufficiently high temperatures, the figure of merit for the source is shown to be the phase-space flux. The dominant process limiting the usage of sources with low phase-space flux is the three-body loss of the condensed gas. We conclude that certain double-magneto-optical trap (MOT) sources may produce substantial mean condensate numbers through continuous evaporation, and provide an atom laser source with a narrow linewidth and reasonable flux.

id: 1011.5309
title: Quantum Discord Surge Heralds Entanglement Revival in an Infinite Spin Chain
authors: Himadri Shekhar Dhar, Rupamanjari Ghosh, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: v1: 8 pages, 6 figures, RevTeX4; v2: 6 pages,5 figures, EPL draft. Results unchanged
journal: EPL, 98 (2012) 30013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5309
abstract: A measure of quantum correlation defined from an information-theoretic perspective, namely, quantum discord, is applied to study the time-evolved nonequilibrium state of the infinite anisotropic quantum XY spin chain in a transverse time-dependent field. In particular, we probe whether the collapse and revival of nearest-neighbor entanglement of the state seen with a varying initial applied field strength, at a fixed evolution time, may be predicted from the behavior of the quantum correlation measure. For this quantum many-body system, realizable with currently available technology, we find that the revival of entanglement of the evolved state occurs if there is an increase in quantum discord in the vicinity of entanglement collapse.

id: 1011.5322
title: Three attempts at two axioms for quantum mechanics
authors: Daniel Rohrlich
comments: to appear in Probability in Physics, dedicated to the memory of Prof. Itamar Pitowsky, eds. Y. Ben-Menahem and M. Hemmo, Springer, Frontiers Collection, in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5322
abstract: The axioms of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics lack clear physical meaning. In particular, they say nothing about nonlocality. Yet quantum mechanics is not only nonlocal, it is twice nonlocal: there are nonlocal quantum correlations, and there is the Aharonov-Bohm effect, which implies that an electric or magnetic field h e r e may act on an electron t h e r e. Can we invert the logical hierarchy? That is, can we adopt nonlocality as an axiom for quantum mechanics and derive quantum mechanics from this axiom and an additional axiom of causality? Three versions of these two axioms lead to three different theories, characterized by "maximal nonlocal correlations", "jamming" and "modular energy". Where is quantum mechanics in these theories?

id: 1011.5328
title: Comparing different non-Markovianity measures: A case study
authors: Pinja Haikka, James. D. Cresser, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 5 pages, no figures. Published version with minor modifications
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012112 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5328
abstract: We consider two recently proposed measures of non-Markovianity applied to a particular quantum process describing the dynamics of a driven qubit in a structured reservoir. The motivation of this study is twofold: on one hand, we study the differences and analogies of the non-Markovianity measures and on the other hand, we investigate the effect of the driving force on the dissipative dynamics of the qubit. In particular we ask if the drive introduces new channels for energy and/or information transfer between the system and the environment, or amplifies existing ones. We show under which conditions the presence of the drive slows down the inevitable loss of quantum properties of the qubit.

id: 1011.5348
title: Evolution equation of entanglement for multi-qubit systems
authors: Michael Siomau, Stephan Fritzsche
comments: 3 figures, 28 references
journal: M.Siomau and S.Fritzsche, Phys. Rev. A 82, 062327 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5348
abstract: We discuss entanglement evolution of a multi-qubit system when one of its qubits is subjected to a general noisy channel. For such a system, an evolution equation of entanglement for a lower bound for multi-qubit concurrence is derived. Using this evolution equation, the entanglement dynamics of an initially mixed three-qubit state composed of a GHZ and a W state is analyzed if one of the qubits is affected by a phase, an amplitude or a generalized amplitude damping channel.

id: 1011.5352
title: Quantum Entanglement transfer between spin-pairs
authors: Qing-You Meng, Fu-Lin Zhang, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 6 pages; 4 figs. Accepted for publication in International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information (IJQI) Volume: 8, Issue: 7(2010) pp. 1111-1120
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5352
abstract: We investigate the transfer of entanglement from source particles (SP) to target particles (TP) in the Heisenberg interaction $ H=\vec s_{1} \cdot \vec s_{2}$. In our research, TP are two qubits and SP are two qubits or qutrits. When TP are two qubits, we find that no matter what state the TP is initially prepared in, at the specific time $t=\pi$, the entanglement of TP can attain to 1 after interaction with SP which stay on the maximally entangled state. For the TP are two qutrits, we find that the maximal entanglement of TP after interaction is relative to the initial state of TP and always cannot attain to 1 to almost all of initial states of TP. But we discuss an iterated operation which can make the TP to the maximal entangled state.

id: 1011.5359
title: About dual one-dimensional oscillator and Coulomb-like theories
authors: I.V. Tyutin, G.V. Grigoryan, R.P. Grigoryan
comments: 27 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5359
abstract: We present a mathematically rigorous quantum-mechanical treatment of a one-dimensional nonrelativistic quantum dual theories (with oscillator and Coulomb-like potentials) and compare their spectra and the sets of eigenfunctions. We construct all self-adjoint Schrodinger operators for these theories and represent rigorous solutions of the corresponding spectral problems. Solving the first part of the problem, we use a method of specifying s.a. extensions by (asymptotic) s.a. boundary conditions. Solving spectral problems, we follow the Krein's method of guiding functionals. We show, that there is one to one correspondence between the spectral points of dual theories in the planes energy-coupling constants not only for discrete, but also for continuous spectra.

id: 1011.5433
title: Lifshitz theory of van der Waals pressure in dissipative media
authors: Yi Zheng, Arvind Narayanaswamy
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5433
abstract: We derive a first--principles method of determining the van der Waals or Casimir pressure in a dissipative and dispersive planar multilayered system by calculating the Maxwell stress tensor in a fictitious layer of vacuum, that is eventually made to vanish, introduced in the structure. This is illustrated by calculating the van der Waals pressure in a thin film with dissipative properties embedded between two semi--infinite media.

id: 1011.5464
title: Optimal preparation of graph states
authors: Adan Cabello, Lars Eirik Danielsen, Antonio J. Lopez-Tarrida, Jose R. Portillo
comments: REVTeX4-1, 8 pages, 5 figures, 336 MB of data, 1 computer program
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83 (2011) 042314
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5464
abstract: We show how to prepare any graph state of up to 12 qubits with: (a) the minimum number of controlled-Z gates, and (b) the minimum preparation depth. We assume only one-qubit and controlled-Z gates. The method exploits the fact that any graph state belongs to an equivalence class under local Clifford operations. We extend up to 12 qubits the classification of graph states according to their entanglement properties, and identify each class using only a reduced set of invariants. For any state, we provide a circuit with both properties (a) and (b), if it does exist, or, if it does not, one circuit with property (a) and one with property (b), including the explicit one-qubit gates needed.

id: 1011.5535
title: Examples of minimal-memory, non-catastrophic quantum convolutional encoders
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Monireh Houshmand, Saied Hosseini-Khayat
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, Accepted for the International Symposium on Information Theory 2011 (ISIT 2011), St. Petersburg, Russia; v2 has minor changes
journal: Proceedings of the International Symposium on Information Theory 2011 (ISIT 2011), pp. 450--454, St. Petersburg, Russia
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5535
abstract: One of the most important open questions in the theory of quantum convolutional coding is to determine a minimal-memory, non-catastrophic, polynomial-depth convolutional encoder for an arbitrary quantum convolutional code. Here, we present a technique that finds quantum convolutional encoders with such desirable properties for several example quantum convolutional codes (an exposition of our technique in full generality will appear elsewhere). We first show how to encode the well-studied Forney-Grassl-Guha (FGG) code with an encoder that exploits just one memory qubit (the former Grassl-Roetteler encoder requires 15 memory qubits). We then show how our technique can find an online decoder corresponding to this encoder, and we also detail the operation of our technique on a different example of a quantum convolutional code. Finally, the reduction in memory for the FGG encoder makes it feasible to simulate the performance of a quantum turbo code employing it, and we present the results of such simulations.

id: 1011.5557
title: Using nonlocal coherence to quantify quantum correlation
authors: Pei Pei, Wei Wang, Chong Li, He-Shan Song
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5557
abstract: We reexamine quantum correlation from the fundamental perspective of its consanguineous quantum property, the coherence. We emphasize the importance of specifying the tensor product structure of the total state space before discussing quantum correlation. A measure of quantum correlation for arbitrary dimension bipartite states using nonlocal coherence is proposed, and it can be easily generalized to the multipartite case. The quantification of non-entangled component within quantum correlation is investigated for certain states.

id: 1011.5569
title: Indeterminisme Quantique et Impredictibilite Classique
authors: Thierry Paul
comments: to appear in "Noesis"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5569
abstract: We present in an informal way some recent results concerning a possible overlapping between classical unpredictability and quantum indeterminism.

id: 1011.5590
title: Role of seeding the cavity of a two-photon correlated emission laser with thermal light
authors: Sintayehu Tesfa
comments: 12 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5590
abstract: A study of the evolution of two-mode squeezing, entanglement and intensity of the cavity radiation of a two-photon correlated emission laser initially seeded with a thermal light is presented. The dependence of the degree of two-mode squeezing and entanglement on the intensity of the thermal light and time is found to have more or less a similar nature, although the actual values differ specially in the early stages of the process and when the atoms are initially prepared in nearly 50:50 probability to be in the upper and lower energy levels. Particularly, seeding the cavity turns out to spoil the nonclassical features significantly in the vicinity of $t=0$. It is also shown that the mean photon number in a wider time span has a dip when mode $b$ is seeded, but a peak when mode $a$ is seeded. Moreover, this study asserts that the effect of the seeded light on the nonclassical features and intensity of the cavity radiation is eroded with time by the pertinent emission-absorption mechanism which can be taken as an encouraging sign in practical utilization of this quantum system as a source of bright entangled light.

id: 1011.5614
title: Parity-relevant Zitterbewegung and quantum simulation by a single trapped ion
authors: Kunling Wang, Tao Liu, Mang Feng, Wanli Yang, Kelin Wang
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phy. Rev. A 82 (2010) 064501-1
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5614
abstract: Zitterbewegung (ZB), the trembling of free relativistic electrons in a vacuum could be simulated by a single trapped ion. We focus on the variations of ZB under different parity conditions and find no ZB in the case of odd or even parity. ZB occurs only for admixture of the odd and even parity states. We also show the similar role played by the parity operator for the trapped ion in Fock-state representation and the space inversion operator for a realistic relativistic electron. Although the ZB effect is invisible in a relativistic electron, preparation of the trapped ion in different parity states is a sophisticated job, which makes it possible to observe the parity relevant ZB effects with currently available techniques.

id: 1011.5616
title: Fast and robust quantum computation with ionic Wigner crystals
authors: J. D. Baltrusch, A. Negretti, J. M. Taylor, T. Calarco
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042319 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5616
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of the modulated-carrier quantum phase gate implemented with Wigner crystals of ions confined in Penning traps. We elaborate on a recent scheme, proposed by two of the authors, to engineer two-body interactions between ions in such crystals. We analyze for the first time the situation in which the cyclotron (w_c) and the crystal rotation (w_r) frequencies do not fulfill the condition w_c=2w_r. It is shown that even in the presence of the magnetic field in the rotating frame the many-body (classical) Hamiltonian describing small oscillations from the ion equilibrium positions can be recast in canonical form. As a consequence, we are able to demonstrate that fast and robust two-qubit gates are achievable within the current experimental limitations. Moreover, we describe a realization of the state-dependent sign-changing dipole forces needed to realize the investigated quantum computing scheme.

id: 1011.5621
title: Controllable coupling and quantum correlation dynamics of two double quantum dots coupled via a transmission line resonator
authors: Qin-Qin Wu, Qing-Shou Tan, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5621
abstract: We propose a theoretical scheme to generate a controllable and switchable coupling between two double-quantum-dot (DQD) spin qubits by using a transmission line resonator (TLR) as a bus system. We study dynamical behaviors of quantum correlations described by entanglement correlation (EC) and discord correlation (DC) between two DQD spin qubits when the two spin qubits and the TLR are initially prepared in $X$-type quantum states and a coherent state, respectively. We demonstrate that in the EC death regions there exist DC stationary states in which the stable DC amplification or degradation can be generated during the dynamical evolution. It is shown that these DC stationary states can be controlled by initial-state parameters, the coupling, and detuning between qubits and the TLR. We reveal the full synchronization and anti-synchronization phenomena in the EC and DC time evolution, and show that the EC and DC synchronization and anti-synchronization depends on the initial-state parameters of the two DQD spin qubits. These results shed new light on dynamics of quantum correlations.

id: 1011.5630
title: Limited path entanglement percolation in quantum complex networks
authors: Mart¨ª Cuquet, John Calsamiglia
comments: 15 pages, 18 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032319 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5630
abstract: We study entanglement distribution in quantum complex networks where nodes are connected by bipartite entangled states. These networks are characterized by a complex structure, which dramatically affects how information is transmitted through them. For pure quantum state links, quantum networks exhibit a remarkable feature absent in classical networks: it is possible to effectively rewire the network by performing local operations on the nodes. We propose a family of such quantum operations that decrease the entanglement percolation threshold of the network and increase the size of the giant connected component. We provide analytic results for complex networks with arbitrary (uncorrelated) degree distribution. These results are in good agreement with numerical simulations, which also show enhancement in correlated and real world networks. The proposed quantum preprocessing strategies are not robust in the presence of noise. However, even when the links consist of (noisy) mixed state links, one can send quantum information through a connecting path with a fidelity that decreases with the path length. In this noisy scenario, complex networks offer a clear advantage over regular lattices, namely the fact that two arbitrary nodes can be connected through a relatively small number of steps, known as the small world effect. We calculate the probability that two arbitrary nodes in the network can successfully communicate with a fidelity above a given threshold. This amounts to working out the classical problem of percolation with limited path length. We find that this probability can be significant even for paths limited to few connections, and that the results for standard (unlimited) percolation are soon recovered if the path length exceeds by a finite amount the average path length, which in complex networks generally scales logarithmically with the size of the network.

id: 1011.5653
title: Memory-keeping effects and forgetfulness in the dynamics of a qubit coupled to a spin chain
authors: T. J. G. Apollaro, C. Di Franco, F. Plastina, M. Paternostro
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032103 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5653
abstract: Using recently proposed measures for non-Markovianity [H. P. Breuer, E. M. Laine, and J. Piilo, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 103}, 210401 (2009)], we study the dynamics of a qubit coupled to a spin environment via an energy-exchange mechanism. We show the existence of a point, in the parameter space of the system, where the qubit dynamics is effectively Markovian and that such a point separates two regions with completely different dynamical behaviors. Indeed, our study demonstrates that the qubit evolution can in principle be tuned from a perfectly forgetful one to a deep non-Markovian regime where the qubit is strongly affected by the dynamical back-action of the environmental spins. By means of quantum process tomography, we provide a complete and intuitive characterization of the qubit channel.

id: 1011.5690
title: Coupling slot-waveguide cavities for large-scale quantum optical devices
authors: Chun-Hsu Su, Mark P. Hiscocks, Brant C. Gibson, Andrew D. Greentree, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg, Fran?ois Ladouceur
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5690
abstract: By offering effective modal volumes significantly less than a cubic wavelength, slot-waveguide cavities offer a new in-road into strong atom-photon coupling in the visible regime. Here we explore two-dimensional arrays of coupled slot cavities which underpin designs for novel quantum emulators and polaritonic quantum phase transition devices. Specifically, we investigate the lateral coupling characteristics of diamond-air and GaP-air slot waveguides using numerically-assisted coupled-mode theory, and the longitudinal coupling properties via distributed Bragg reflectors using mode-propagation simulations. We find that slot-waveguide cavities in the Fabry-Perot arrangement can be coupled and effectively treated with a tight-binding description, and are a suitable platform for realizing Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard physics.

id: 1011.5700
title: Dependence of entanglement on initial states under amplitude damping channel in non-inertial frames
authors: Wenpin Zhang, Junfeng Deng, Jiliang Jing
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Journal of Quantum information science, 2 (2012) 23
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5700
abstract: Under amplitude damping channel, the dependence of the entanglement on the initial states $|\Theta>_{1}$ and $|\Theta>_{2}$, which reduce to four orthogonal Bell states if we take the parameter of states $\alpha=\pm 1/\sqrt{2}$ are investigated. We find that the entanglements for different initial states will decay along different curves even with the same acceleration and parameter of the states. We note that, in an inertial frame, the sudden death of the entanglement for $|\Theta>_{1}$ will occur if $\alpha>1/\sqrt{2}$, while it will not take place for $|\Theta>_{2}$ for any $\alpha$. We also show that the possible range of the sudden death of the entanglement for $|\Theta>_{1}$ is larger than that for $|\Theta>_{2}$. There exist two groups of Bell state here we can't distinguish only by concurrence.

id: 1011.5766
title: Two Color Entanglement
authors: Aiko Samblowski, Christina E. Lauk?tter, Nicolai Grosse, Ping Koy Lam, Roman Schnabel
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5766
abstract: We report on the generation of entangled states of light between the wavelengths 810 and 1550 nm in the continuous variable regime. The fields were produced by type I optical parametric oscillation in a standing-wave cavity build around a periodically poled potassium titanyl phosphate crystal, operated above threshold. Balanced homodyne detection was used to detect the non-classical noise properties, while filter cavities provided the local oscillators by separating carrier fields from the entangled sidebands. We were able to obtain an inseparability of I=0.82, corresponding to about -0.86 dB of non-classical quadrature correlation.

id: 1011.5804
title: Cold atom gravimetry with a Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: J. E. Debs, P. A. Altin, T. H. Barter, D. D?ring, G. R. Dennis, G. McDonald, R. P. Anderson, J. D. Close, N. P. Robins
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures. Final version, published PRA
journal: J. E. Debs, et al., Phys. Rev. A, 84, 033610 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5804
abstract: We present a cold atom gravimeter operating with a sample of Bose-condensed Rubidium-87 atoms. Using a Mach-Zehnder configuration with the two arms separated by a two-photon Bragg transition, we observe interference fringes with a visibility of 83% at T=3 ms. We exploit large momentum transfer (LMT) beam splitting to increase the enclosed space-time area of the interferometer using higher-order Bragg transitions and Bloch oscillations. We also compare fringes from condensed and thermal sources, and observe a reduced visibility of 58% for the thermal source. We suspect the loss in visibility is caused partly by wavefront aberrations, to which the thermal source is more susceptible due to its larger transverse momentum spread. Finally, we discuss briefly the potential advantages of using a coherent atomic source for LMT, and present a simple mean-field model to demonstrate that with currently available experimental parameters, interaction-induced dephasing will not limit the sensitivity of inertial measurements using freely-falling, coherent atomic sources.

id: 1011.5880
title: Relativistic Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlations for vector and tensor states
authors: Pawe? Caban, Jakub Rembieli¨½ski, Marta W?odarczyk
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5880
abstract: We calculate and investigate the relativistic correlation function for bipartite systems of spin-1/2 in vector and spin-1 particles in tensor states. We show that the relativistic correlation function, which depends on particles momenta, may have local extrema. What is more, the momentum dependance of the correlation functions for two choices of relativistic spin operator may be significantly different.

id: 1011.5885
title: Sharp phase transitions in a small frustrated network of trapped ion spins
authors: G.-D. Lin, C. Monroe, L.-M. Duan
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 230402 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5885
abstract: Sharp quantum phase transitions typically require a large system with many particles. Here we show that for a frustrated fully-connected Ising spin network represented by trapped atomic ions, the competition between different spin orders leads to rich phase transitions whose sharpness scales exponentially with the number of spins. This unusual finite-size scaling behavior opens up the possibility of observing sharp quantum phase transitions in a system of just a few trapped ion spins.

id: 1011.5887
title: Alternative scheme to generate a supersinglet state of three-level atoms
authors: W.-C. Qiang, W. B. Cardoso, A. T. Avelar, B. Baseia
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, 4 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5887
abstract: In this paper we propose an alternative scheme to generate a supersinglet state of three three-level atoms via a single-mode of a cavity QED based on the two-photon transitions described by the 'full microscopical Hamiltonian approach'. In it, three three-level atoms prepared in suitable initial states are sequentially sent through the cavity originally prepared in its vacuum state. After an appropriate choice of the atom-cavity interaction times plus a field detection the state that describes the whole atom-field system is projected in the desired supersinglet state. The fidelity and success probability of the state as well as the practical feasibility of the scheme are discussed.

id: 1011.5901
title: Quantum Zeno effect on Quantum Discord
authors: A. Thilagam
comments: Section on highly precise quantum measurements and exceptional points, typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5901
abstract: We examine the quantum Zeno effect on the dynamics of quantum discord in two initially entangled qubits which are subjected to frequent measurements via decoherent coupling with independent reservoirs. The links between characteristic parameters such as system bias, measurement time duration, strength of initial entanglement between the two qubit systems and the dynamics of quantum discord are examined in the case of two initial state configurations. For weak or unsharp measurements, the quantum discord, which is an intrinsically distinct entity from concurrence, serves as a reliable indicator of the crossover point in Zeno to anti-Zeno transitions. However at highly precise quantum measurements, the monitoring device interferes significantly with the evolution dynamics of the monitored system, and the quantum discord yields indeterminate values in a reference frame where the observer is not an active constituent of the subsystems.

id: 1011.5919
title: Parallel decoherence in composite quantum systems
authors: M. Dugic, J. Jeknic-Dugic
comments: the version to be published in Pramana J Phys
journal: Pramana 79 (2012) 199-211
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5919
abstract: For the standard Quantum Brownian Motion (QBM) model, we point out the occurrence of simultaneous (parallel), mutually irreducible and autonomous decoherence processes. Besides the standard, one Brownian particle, we show there is at least another one system undergoing the dynamics described by the QBM effect. We do this by selecting the two mutually irreducible, global structures (decompositions into subsystems) of the composite system of the QBM model. A generalization of this observation is a new, challenging task in the foundations of the decoherence theory. We do not place our findings in any interpretational context.

id: 1011.5928
title: Loss of polarization entanglement in a fiber-optic system with polarization mode dispersion in one optical path
authors: Misha Brodsky, Elizabeth C. George, Cristian Antonelli, Mark Shtaif
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 36, Issue 1, pp. 43-45 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5928
abstract: We characterize theoretically and experimentally the degradation of polarization entanglement in a fiber-optic entanglement distribution system where one of the optical fibers is exposed to the effects of polarization mode dispersion (PMD). We show gradual reduction of entanglement with increasing PMD and find that the highest PMD tolerance is achieved when the bandwidth of the pump used to generate the entangled photons in a $\chi^{(3)}$ process is approximately half the bandwidth of the quantum channels.

id: 1011.5943
title: Entangled state representation for deriving new operator identities regarding to two-variable Hermite polynomial
authors: Hong-yi Fan, Hong-chun Yuan
comments: 7 pages, Submitted to JMP
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5943
abstract: In this paper, by virtue of the entangled state representation we concisely derive some new operator identities regarding to two-variable Hermite polynomial (TVHP). By them and the technique of integration within an ordered product (IWOP) of operators we further derive new generating function formulas of TVHP. They are useful in quantum optical theoretical calculations. It is seen from this work that by combining the IWOP technique and quantum mechanical representations one can derive some new integration formulas even without really performing the integration.

id: 1011.5970
title: Full characterisation of the quantum spiral bandwidth of entangled biphotons
authors: Filippo M. Miatto, Alison M. Yao, Stephen M. Barnett
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 033816 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5970
abstract: Spontaneous parametric down conversion has been shown to be a reliable source of entangled photons. Amongst the wide range of properties that have been shown to be entangled, it is the orbital angular momentum that is the focus of our study. We investigate, in particular, the bi-photon state generated using a Gaussian pump beam. We derive an expression for the simultaneous correlations in the orbital angular momentum and radial momentum of the down-converted Laguerre-Gaussian beams. Our result allows us, for example, to calculate the spiral bandwidth with no restriction on the geometry of the beams: $\ell$, $p$ and the beam widths are all free parameters. Moreover, we show that, with the usual paraxial and collinear approximations, a fully analytic expression for the correlations can be derived.

id: 1011.6009
title: An unconventional geometric phase gate with two nonresonant quantum dots trapped in a photonic crystal cavity
authors: Jian-Qi Zhang, Ya-Fei Yu, Zhi-Ming Zhang
comments: 14 pages, 3 figure
journal: JOSA B, Vol. 28, Issue 8, pp. 1959-1963 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6009
abstract: We propose a scheme for realizing a two-qubit controlled phase gate via an unconventional geometric phase with two nonresonant quantum dots trapped in a photonic crystal cavity. In this system, the quantum dots simultaneously interact with a large detuned cavity mode and strong driving classical light fields. During the gate operation, the quantum dots undergo no transitions, while the cavity mode is displaced along a closed path in the phase space. In this way, the system can acquire geometric phases conditional upon the states of the quantum dots. After implementing single-qubit operations, a two-qubit controlled phase gate can be constructed.

id: 1011.6023
title: Maximal entanglement from quantum random walks
authors: B. Alles, S. Gunduc, Y. Gunduc
comments: Latex source, 9 pages, 6 figures (revised version, identical to published one)
journal: Quantum Information Processing: Volume 11, Issue 1 (2012), Page 211-227
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6023
abstract: The conditions under which entanglement becomes maximal are sought in the general one--dimensional quantum random walk with two walkers. Moreover, a one--dimensional shift operator for the two walkers is introduced and its performance in generating entanglement is analyzed as a function of several free parameters, some of them coming from the shift operator itself and some others from the coin operator. To simplify the investigation an averaged entanglement is defined.

id: 1011.6084
title: On the Time-Dependent Analysis of Gamow Decay
authors: Detlef D¨¹rr, Robert Grummt, Martin Kolb
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures; heuristic argument simplified, different example discussed, calculation of decay rate added
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 32 (2011) 1311
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6084
abstract: Gamow's explanation of the exponential decay law uses complex "eigenvalues" and exponentially growing "eigenfunctions". This raises the question, how Gamow's description fits into the quantum mechanical description of nature, which is based on real eigenvalues and square integrable wave functions. Observing that the time evolution of any wave function is given by its expansion in generalized eigenfunctions, we shall answer this question in the most straightforward manner, which at the same time is accessible to graduate students and specialists. Moreover the presentation can well be used in physics lectures to students.

id: 1011.6123
title: H*-algebras and nonunital Frobenius algebras: first steps in infinite-dimensional categorical quantum mechanics
authors: Samson Abramsky, Chris Heunen
comments: 29 pages. Final version
journal: Clifford Lectures, AMS Proceedings of Symposia in Applied Mathematics 71:1--24, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6123
abstract: A certain class of Frobenius algebras has been used to characterize orthonormal bases and observables on finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces. The presence of units in these algebras means that they can only be realized finite-dimensionally. We seek a suitable generalization, which will allow arbitrary bases and observables to be described within categorical axiomatizations of quantum mechanics. We develop a definition of H*-algebra that can be interpreted in any symmetric monoidal dagger category, reduces to the classical notion from functional analysis in the category of (possibly infinite-dimensional) Hilbert spaces, and hence provides a categorical way to speak about orthonormal bases and quantum observables in arbitrary dimension. Moreover, these algebras reduce to the usual notion of Frobenius algebra in compact categories. We then investigate the relations between nonunital Frobenius algebras and H*-algebras. We give a number of equivalent conditions to characterize when they coincide in the category of Hilbert spaces. We also show that they always coincide in categories of generalized relations and positive matrices.

id: 1011.6138
title: Operational approach to open dynamics and quantifying initial correlations
authors: Kavan Modi
comments: Completely re-written for clarity of presentation. 15 pages and 2 figures
journal: Nature Scientific Reports 2, 581 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6138
abstract: A central aim of physics is to describe the dynamics of physical systems. Schrodinger's equation does this for isolated quantum systems. Describing the time evolution of a quantum system that interacts with its environment, in its most general form, has proved to be difficult because the dynamics is dependent on the state of the environment and the correlations with it. For discrete processes, such as quantum gates or chemical reactions, quantum process tomography provides the complete description of the dynamics, provided that the initial states of the system and the environment are independent of each other. However, many physical systems are correlated with the environment at the beginning of the experiment. Here, we give a prescription of quantum process tomography that yields the complete description of the dynamics of the system even when the initial correlations are present. Surprisingly, our method also gives quantitative expressions for the initial correlation.

id: 1011.6152
title: Indistinguishable near infra-red single photons from an individual organic molecule
authors: Jean-Baptiste Trebbia, Philippe Tamarat, Brahim Lounis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6152
abstract: By using the zero-phonon line emission of an individual organic molecule, we realized a source of indistinguishable single photons in the near infrared. A Hong-Ou-Mandel interference experiment is performed and a two-photon coalescence probability of higher than 50% at 2 K is obtained. The contribution of the temperature-dependent dephasing processes to the two-photon interference contrast is studied. We show that the molecule delivers nearly ideal indistinguishable single photons at the lowest temperatures when the dephasing is nearly lifetime limited. This source is used to generate post-selected polarization-entangled photon pairs, as a test-bench for applications in quantum information.

id: 1011.6153
title: Efficient generation of near infra-red single photons from the zero-phonon line of a single molecule
authors: Jean-Baptiste Trebbia, Hartmut Ruf, Philippe Tamarat, Brahim Lounis
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6153
abstract: Using the zero-phonon line (ZPL) emission of a single molecule, we realized a triggered source of near-infra-red (lambda=785 nm) single photons at a high repetition rate. A Weierstrass solid immersion lens is used to image single molecules with an optical resolution of 300 nm (~0.4*lambda) and a high collection efficiency. Because dephasing of the transition dipole due to phonons vanishes at liquid helium temperatures, our source is attractive for the efficient generation of single indistinguishable photons.

id: 1011.6184
title: Orbital angular momentum in phase space
authors: I. Rigas, L. L. Sanchez-Soto, A. B. Klimov, J. Rehacek, Z. Hradil
comments: 15 pages, 2 color figures. To appear in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals of Physics 326, 426 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6184
abstract: A comprehensive theory of the Weyl-Wigner formalism for the canonical pair angle-angular momentum is presented. Special attention is paid to the problems linked to rotational periodicity and angular-momentum discreteness.

id: 1011.6202
title: Projection of two biphoton qutrits onto a maximally entangled state
authors: A. Halevy, E. Megidish, T. Shacham, L. Dovrat, H.S. Eisenberg
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 130502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6202
abstract: Bell state measurements, in which two quantum bits are projected onto a maximally entangled state, are an essential component of quantum information science. We propose and experimentally demonstrate the projection of two quantum systems with three states (qutrits) onto a generalized maximally entangled state. Each qutrit is represented by the polarization of a pair of indistinguishable photons - a biphoton. The projection is a joint measurement on both biphotons using standard linear optics elements. This demonstration enables the realization of quantum information protocols with qutrits, such as teleportation and entanglement swapping.

id: 1011.6229
title: Quantum entanglement, unitary braid representation and Temperley-Lieb algebra
authors: C.-L. Ho, A.I. Solomon, C.-H.Oh
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: EPL 92 (2010) 30002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6229
abstract: Important developments in fault-tolerant quantum computation using the braiding of anyons have placed the theory of braid groups at the very foundation of topological quantum computing. Furthermore, the realization by Kauffman and Lomonaco that a specific braiding operator from the solution of the Yang-Baxter equation, namely the Bell matrix, is universal implies that in principle all quantum gates can be constructed from braiding operators together with single qubit gates. In this paper we present a new class of braiding operators from the Temperley-Lieb algebra that generalizes the Bell matrix to multi-qubit systems, thus unifying the Hadamard and Bell matrices within the same framework. Unlike previous braiding operators, these new operators generate {\it directly}, from separable basis states, important entangled states such as the generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states, cluster-like states, and other states with varying degrees of entanglement.

id: 1011.6236
title: Energy transfer among distant quantum systems in spatially shaped laser fields: Two H atoms with the internuclear separation of 5.29 nm (100 a.u.)
authors: Guennaddi K. Paramonov, Oliver K¨¹hn, Andre D. Bandrauk
comments: to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6236
abstract: The quantum dynamics of two distant H atoms excited by ultrashort and spatially shaped laser pulses is studied by the numerical solution of the non-Born-Oppenheimer time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation within a three-dimensional (3D) model, including the internuclear distance R and the two z coordinates of the electrons, z1 and z2. The two 1D hydrogen atoms, A and B, are assumed to be initially in their ground states with a large (but otherwise arbitrary) internuclear separation of R = 100 a.u. (5.29 nm). Two types of a spatial envelope of a laser field linearly po- larized along the z-axis are considered: (i) a broad Gaussian envelope, such that atom A is excited by the laser field predominantly, and (ii) a narrow envelope, such that practically only atom A is excited by the laser field. With the laser carrier frequency {\omega} = 1.0 a.u. and the pulse duration tp = 5 fs, in both cases an efficient energy transfer from atom A to atom B has been found. The ionization of atom B achieved mostly after the end of the laser pulse is close to or even higher than that of atom A. It is shown that with a narrow spatial envelope of the laser field, the underlying mechanisms of the energy transfer from A to B and the ionization of B are the Coulomb attraction of the laser driven electron by the proton of atom B and a short-range Coulomb repulsion of the two electrons when their wave functions significantly overlap in the domain of atom B. In the case of a broad Gaussian spatial envelope of the laser field, the opposite process also occurs, but with smaller probability: the energy is transferred from the weakly excited atom B to atom A, and the ionization of atom A is also induced by the electron-electron repulsion in the domain of atom A due to a strong overlap of the electronic wave functions.

id: 1011.6243
title: Optimal pulse spacing for dynamical decoupling in the presence of a purely-dephasing spin-bath
authors: Ashok Ajoy, Gonzalo A. Alvarez, Dieter Suter
comments: To be published in Phys. Rev. A. 15 pages, 16 figures. Presentation of the work was improved. One Figure and some Refs. were added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6243
abstract: Maintaining quantum coherence is a crucial requirement for quantum computation; hence protecting quantum systems against their irreversible corruption due to environmental noise is an important open problem. Dynamical decoupling (DD) is an effective method for reducing decoherence with a low control overhead. It also plays an important role in quantum metrology, where for instance it is employed in multiparameter estimation. While a sequence of equidistant control pulses (CPMG) has been ubiquitously used for decoupling, Uhrig recently proposed that a non-equidistant pulse sequence (UDD) may enhance DD performance, especially for systems where the spectral density of the environment has a sharp frequency cutoff. On the other hand, equidistant sequences outperform UDD for soft cutoffs. The relative advantage provided by UDD for intermediate regimes is not clear. In this paper, we analyze the relative DD performance in this regime experimentally, using solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance. Our system-qubits are 13C nuclear spins and the environment consists of a 1H nuclear spin-bath whose spectral density is close to a normal (Gaussian) distribution. We find that in the presence of such a bath, the CPMG sequence outperforms the UDD sequence. An analogy between dynamical decoupling and interference effects in optics provides an intuitive explanation as to why the CPMG sequence performs superior to any non-equidistant DD sequence in the presence of this kind of environmental noise.

id: 1011.6245
title: Biased nonlocal quantum games
authors: Thomas Lawson, Noah Linden, Sandu Popescu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6245
abstract: We address the question of when quantum entanglement is a useful resource for information processing tasks by presenting a new class of nonlocal games that are simple, direct, generalizations of the Clauser Horne Shimony Holt game. For some ranges of the parameters that specify the games, quantum mechanics offers an advantage, while, surprisingly, for others quantum mechanics is no more powerful than classical mechanics in performing the nonlocal task. This sheds new light on the difference between classical, quantum and super-quantum correlations.

id: 1011.6258
title: Design and application of robust rf pulses for toroid cavity NMR spectroscopy
authors: Thomas E. Skinner, Michael Braun, Klaus Woelk, Naum I. Gershenzon, Steffen J. Glaser
comments: 32 pages, 8 figures pdfeTeX, Version 3.141592-1.21a-2.2 (Web2C 7.5.4) submitted to Journal of Magnetic Resonance
journal: J. Magn. Reson. 209 (2011) 282-290
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6258
abstract: We present robust radio frequency (rf) pulses that tolerate a factor of six inhomogeneity in the B1 field, significantly enhancing the potential of toroid cavity resonators for NMR spectroscopic applications. Both point-to-point (PP) and unitary rotation (UR) pulses were optimized for excitation, inversion, and refocusing using the gradient ascent pulse engineering (GRAPE) algorithm based on optimal control theory. In addition, the optimized parameterization (OP) algorithm applied to the adiabatic BIR-4 UR pulse scheme enabled ultra-short (50 microsec) pulses with acceptable performance compared to standard implementations. OP also discovered a new class of non-adiabatic pulse shapes with improved performance within the BIR-4 framework. However, none of the OP-BIR4 pulses are competitive with the more generally optimized UR pulses. The advantages of the new pulses are demonstrated in simulations and experiments. In particular, the DQF COSY result presented here represents the first implementation of 2D NMR spectroscopy using a toroid probe.

id: 1011.6270
title: Quantum Mechanical Aspects of Cell Microtubules: Science Fiction or Realistic Possibility?
authors: Nick E. Mavromatos
comments: 31 pages latex, 11 pdf figures, uses special macros, Invited Plenary Talk at DICE2010, Castello Pasquini, Castiglioncello (Italy), September 13-18 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6270
abstract: Recent experimental research with marine algae points towards quantum entanglement at ambient temperature, with correlations between essential biological units separated by distances as long as 20 Angstr\"oms. The associated decoherence times, due to environmental influences, are found to be of order 400 fs. This prompted some authors to connect such findings with the possibility of some kind of quantum computation taking place in these biological entities: within the decoherence time scales, the cell "quantum calculates" the optimal "path" along which energy and signal would be transported more efficiently. Prompted by these experimental results, in this talk I remind the audience of a related topic proposed several years ago in connection with the possible r\^ole of quantum mechanics and/or field theory on dissipation-free energy transfer in microtubules (MT), which constitute fundamental cell substructures. Quantum entanglement between tubulin dimers was argued to be possible, provided there exists sufficient isolation from other environmental cell effects. The model was based on certain ferroelectric aspects of MT. In the talk I review the model and the associated experimental tests so far and discuss future directions, especially in view of the algae photo-experiments.

id: 1011.6275
title: Cancelation of dispersion and temporal modulation with non-entangled frequency-correlated photons
authors: Victor Torres-Company, Alejandra Valencia, Martin Hendrych, Juan P. Torres
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6275
abstract: The observation of the so-called dispersion cancelation (Opt. Express 17, 19244, 2009) and temporal phase modulation (Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 163601, 2009) of paired photons is generally attributed to the presence of frequency entanglement between two frequency anticorrelated photons. In this paper, it is shown that by introducing the appropriate amount of chromatic dispersion or phase modulation between non-entangled photons, it is also possible to observe these effects. Indeed, it is found that the relevant characteristic for the observation of dispersion cancelation or the cancelation of temporal phase modulation is the presence of certain frequency correlations between the photons.

id: 1011.6295
title: Quantum limit of photothermal cooling
authors: Simone De Liberato, Neill Lambert, Franco Nori
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 033809 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6295
abstract: We study the problem of cooling a mechanical oscillator using the photothermal (bolometric) force. Contrary to previous attempts to model this system, we take into account the noise effects due to the granular nature of photon absorption. This allows us to tackle the cooling problem down to the noise dominated regime and to find reasonable estimates for the lowest achievable phonon occupation in the cantilever.

id: 1011.6331
title: A detailed interpretation of probability, and its link with quantum mechanics
authors: Louis Vervoort
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6331
abstract: In the following we revisit the frequency interpretation of probability of Richard von Mises, in order to bring the essential implicit notions in focus. Following von Mises, we argue that probability can only be defined for events that can be repeated in similar conditions, and that exhibit 'frequency stabilization'. The central idea of the present article is that the mentioned 'conditions' should be well-defined and 'partitioned'. More precisely, we will divide probabilistic systems into object, environment, and probing subsystem, and show that such partitioning allows to solve a wide variety of classic paradoxes of probability theory. As a corollary, we arrive at the surprising conclusion that at least one central idea of the orthodox interpretation of quantum mechanics is a direct consequence of the meaning of probability. More precisely, the idea that the "observer influences the quantum system" is obvious if one realizes that quantum systems are probabilistic systems; it holds for all probabilistic systems, whether quantum or classical.

id: 1011.6334
title: Poincare recurrence and intermittent loss of quantum Kelvin wave cascades in quantum turbulence
authors: George Vahala, Jeffrey Yepez, Linda Vahala, Min Soe, Bo Zhang, Sean Ziegeler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6334
abstract: The evolution of the ground state wave function of a zero-temperature Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) is well described by the Hamiltonian Gross-Pitaevskii (GP) equation. Using a set of appropriately interleaved unitary collision-streaming operators, a quantum lattice gas algorithm is devised which on taking moments recovers the Gross-Pitaevskii (GP) equation in diffusion ordering (time scales as square of length). Unexpectedly, there is a class of initial conditions in which their Poincare recurrence is extremely short. Further it is shown that the Poincare recurrence time scales with diffusion ordering as the the grid is increased. The spectral results of Yepez et.al. [1] for quantum turbulence are corrected and it is found that it is the compressible kinetic energy spectrum that exhibits the 3 cascade regions: a small k classical Kolmogorov k^(-5/3) spectrum, a steep semi-classical cascade region, and a large k quantum Kelvin wave cascade k^(-3) spectrum. The incompressible kinetic energy spectrum exhibits basically a single cascade power law of k^(-3). For winding number 1 linear vortices it is also shown that there is an intermittent loss of Kelvin wave cascade with its signature seen in the time evolution of the kinetic energy, the loss of the k^(-3) spectrum in the incompressible kinetic energy spectrum as well as the minimization of the vortex core isosurfaces that inhibits the Kelvin wave cascade.

id: 1011.6336
title: Superoperator Analysis of Entanglement in a Four-Qubit Cluster State
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein, Jay Feldman, Jacob Robins, Jason Zukus, Gerald Gilbert
comments: 9 pages, 9 composite figures, presentation of results completely rewritten
journal: PRA 85, 032324 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6336
abstract: In this paper we utilize superoperator formalism to explore the entanglement evolution of four-qubit cluster states in a number of decohering environments. A four-qubit cluster state is a resource for the performance of an arbitrary single logical qubit rotation via measurement based cluster state quantum computation. We are specifically interested in the relationship between entanglement evolution and the fidelity with which the arbitrary single logical qubit rotation can be implemented in the presence of decoherence as this will have important experimental ramifications. We also note the exhibition of entanglement sudden death (ESD) and ask how severely its onset affects the utilization of the cluster state as a means of implementing an arbitrary single logical qubit rotation.

id: 1011.6416
title: High-precision metrology of highly charged ions via relativistic resonance fluorescence
authors: O. Postavaru, Z. Harman, C. H. Keitel
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6416
abstract: Resonance fluorescence of laser-driven highly charged ions is studied in the relativistic regime by solving the time-dependent master equation in a multi-level model. Our ab initio approach based on the Dirac equation allows for investigating highly relativistic ions, and, consequently, provides a sensitive means to test correlated relativistic dynamics, bound-state quantum electrodynamic phenomena and nuclear effects by applying coherent light with x-ray frequencies. Atomic dipole or multipole moments may be determined to unprecedented accuracy by measuring the interference-narrowed fluorescence spectrum.

id: 1011.6417
title: Effect of pulse error accumulation on dynamical decoupling of the electron spins of phosphorus donors in silicon
authors: Zhi-Hui Wang, Wenxian Zhang, A. M. Tyryshkin, S. A. Lyon, J. W. Ager, E. E. Haller, V. V. Dobrovitski
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 085206 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6417
abstract: Dynamical decoupling (DD) is an efficient tool for preserving quantum coherence in solid-state spin systems. However, the imperfections of real pulses can ruin the performance of long DD sequences. We investigate the accumulation and compensation of different pulse errors in DD using the electron spins of phosphorus donors in silicon as a test system. We study periodic DD sequences (PDD) based on spin rotations about two perpendicular axes, and their concatenated and symmetrized versions. We show that pulse errors may quickly destroy some spin states, but maintain other states with high fidelity over long times. Pulse sequences based on spin rotations about $x$ and $y$ axes outperform those based on $x$ and $z$ axes due to the accumulation of pulse errors. Concatenation provides an efficient way to suppress the impact of pulse errors, and can maintain high fidelity for all spin components: pulse errors do not accumulate (to first order) as the concatenation level increases, despite the exponential increase in the number of pulses. Our theoretical model gives a clear qualitative picture of the error accumulation, and produces results in quantitative agreement with the experiments.

id: 1011.6443
title: Economical standard quantum process tomography
authors: Xiaohua Wu, Ke Xu
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the athour due to a more general but simple version of this topic can be constructed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6443
abstract: Recently, Bendersky \emph{et al.} developed a method to complete the task of characterizing an arbitrary $\chi$ matrix element in a scalable way, Phys. Rev. Lett. Vol. \textbf{100}, 190403(2008), where an auxiliary system was needed. In present work, we shall show that the same task can also be completed within the scheme of standard quantum process tomography (SQPT) where there is no requirement for ancilla. Our method depends on two observations: With the elaborately chosen operators basis, the SQPT may have an economical form where a single run of experiment, in which we measure the expectation value of a chosen operator in the outport of the quantum channel with a known input, is sufficient to characterize a selected $\chi$ matrix element; With the progress recently achieved in quantum entanglement detection, we also find that the number of the experimental settings to realize the experiment for the selected $\chi$ matrix element does not exceed 2N for the N-qubits system. For practice, our scheme can be applied for the cases where the controlled two-body interaction is neither available nor desirable.

id: 1011.6445
title: Deterministic generation of multiparticle entanglement in a coupled cavity-fiber system
authors: Peng-Bo Li, Fu-Li Li
comments: Accepted by Opt. Express
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 19, pp. 1207-1216 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6445
abstract: We develop a one-step scheme for generating multiparticle entangled states between two cold atomic clouds in distant cavities coupled by an optical fiber. We show that, through suitably choosing the intensities and detunings of the fields and precisely tuning the time evolution of the system, multiparticle entanglement between the separated atomic clouds can be engineered deterministically, in which quantum manipulations are insensitive to the states of the cavity and losses of the fiber. The experimental feasibility of this scheme is analyzed based on recent experimental advances in the realization of strong coupling between cold $^{87}$Rb clouds and fiber-based cavity. This scheme may open up promising perspectives for implementing quantum communication and networking with coupled cavities connected by optical fibers.

id: 1011.6448
title: Does ignorance of the whole imply ignorance of the parts? - Large violations of non-contextuality in quantum theory
authors: Thomas Vidick, Stephanie Wehner
comments: v2: Removed claim about most general NC-HV models, improved explanations
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 030402 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6448
abstract: A central question in our understanding of the physical world is how our knowledge of the whole relates to our knowledge of the individual parts. One aspect of this question is the following: to what extent does ignorance about a whole preclude knowledge of at least one of its parts? Relying purely on classical intuition, one would certainly be inclined to conjecture that a strong ignorance of the whole cannot come without significant ignorance of at least one of its parts. Indeed, we show that this reasoning holds in any non-contextual hidden variable model (NC-HV). Curiously, however, such a conjecture is \emph{false} in quantum theory: we provide an explicit example where a large ignorance about the whole can coexist with an almost perfect knowledge of each of its parts. More specifically, we provide a simple information-theoretic inequality satisfied in any NC-HV, but which can be \emph{arbitrarily} violated by quantum mechanics. Our inequality has interesting implications for quantum cryptography.

id: 1011.6451
title: Informational derivation of Quantum Theory
authors: G. Chiribella, G. M. D'Ariano, P. Perinotti
comments: 47 pages, published version + table of contents
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012311 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6451
abstract: Quantum theory can be derived from purely informational principles. Five elementary axioms-causality, perfect distinguishability, ideal compression, local distinguishability, and pure conditioning-define a broad class of theories of information-processing that can be regarded as a standard. One postulate-purification-singles out quantum theory within this class. The main structures of quantum theory, such as the representation of mixed states as convex combinations of perfectly distinguishable pure states, are derived directly from the principles without using the Hilbert space framework.

id: 1011.6540
title: The entangling side of the Unruh-Hawking effect
authors: M. Montero, E. Martin-Martinez
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Added Journal reference
journal: J. High Energy Phys. 07 (2011) 006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6540
abstract: We show that the Unruh effect can create net quantum entanglement between inertial and accelerated observers depending on the choice of the inertial state. This striking result banishes the extended belief that the Unruh effect can only destroy entanglement and furthermore provides a new and unexpected source for finding experimental evidence of the Unruh and Hawking effects.

id: 1011.6595
title: Time separation as a hidden variable to the Copenhagen school of quantum mechanics
authors: Y. S. Kim, Marilyn E. Noz
comments: LaTex 10 pages with 5 figure. Invited paper presented at the Conference on Advances in Quantum Theory (Vaxjo, Sweden, June 2010), to be published in one of the AIP Conference Proceedings series
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6595
abstract: The Bohr radius is a space-like separation between the proton and electron in the hydrogen atom. According to the Copenhagen school of quantum mechanics, the proton is sitting in the absolute Lorentz frame. If this hydrogen atom is observed from a different Lorentz frame, there is a time-like separation linearly mixed with the Bohr radius. Indeed, the time-separation is one of the essential variables in high-energy hadronic physics where the hadron is a bound state of the quarks, while thoroughly hidden in the present form of quantum mechanics. It will be concluded that this variable is hidden in Feynman's rest of the universe. It is noted first that Feynman's Lorentz-invariant differential equation for the bound-state quarks has a set of solutions which describe all essential features of hadronic physics. These solutions explicitly depend on the time separation between the quarks. This set also forms the mathematical basis for two-mode squeezed states in quantum optics, where both photons are observable, but one of them can be treated a variable hidden in the rest of the universe. The physics of this two-mode state can then be translated into the time-separation variable in the quark model. As in the case of the un-observed photon, the hidden time-separation variable manifests itself as an increase in entropy and uncertainty.

id: 1011.6613
title: Detecting ground state qubit self-excitations in circuit QED: slow quantum anti-Zeno effect
authors: C. Sab¨ªn, J. Le¨®n, J. J. Garc¨ªa-Ripoll
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures. v2: extended published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 024516 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6613
abstract: In this work we study an ultrastrong coupled qubit-cavity system subjected to slow repeated measurements. We demonstrate that even under a few imperfect measurements it is possible to detect transitions of the qubit from its free ground state to the excited state. The excitation probability grows exponentially fast in analogy with the quantum anti-Zeno effect. The dynamics and physics described in this paper is accessible to current superconducting circuit technology.

id: 1011.6668
title: Experimental Tomographic State Reconstruction of Itinerant Microwave Photons
authors: C. Eichler, D. Bozyigit, C. Lang, L. Steffen, J. Fink, A. Wallraff
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 220503 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6668
abstract: A wide range of experiments studying microwave photons localized in superconducting cavities have made important contributions to our understanding of the quantum properties of radiation. Propagating microwave photons, however, have so far been studied much less intensely. Here we present measurements in which we reconstruct the Wigner function of itinerant single photon Fock states and their superposition with the vacuum using linear amplifiers and quadrature amplitude detectors. We have developed efficient methods to separate the detected single photon signal from the noise added by the amplifier by analyzing the moments of the measured amplitude distribution up to 4th order. This work is expected to enable studies of propagating microwaves in the context of linear quantum optics.

id: 1011.0032
title: High temperature thermodynamics of fermionic alkaline earth atoms in optical lattices
authors: Kaden R. A. Hazzard, Victor Gurarie, Michael Hermele, Ana Maria Rey
comments: 4+ pages main text, 2 figures. 3 pages supplementary information, 2 figures. v2: added citation
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 041604(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0032
abstract: We calculate experimentally relevant properties of trapped fermionic alkaline earth atoms in an optical lattice, modeled by the SU(N) Hubbard model. Our calculation is accurate when the temperature is much larger than the tunneling rate, similar to current regimes in ultracold atom experiments. In addition to exploring the Mott insulator-metal crossover, we calculate final temperatures achieved by the standard experimental protocol of adiabatically ramping from a non-interacting gas, as a function of initial gas temperature and final state lattice parameters. Of particular experimental interest, we find that increasing $N$ gives substantially \textit{colder} Mott insulators, up to more than a factor of five for relevant parameters. This cooling happens for all $N$, fixing the initial entropy, or for all $N \lsim 20$ (the exact value depends on dimensionality), fixing the initial temperature.

id: 1011.0033
title: Confinement-induced p-wave resonances from s-wave interactions
authors: Yusuke Nishida, Shina Tan
comments: 19 pages, 8 figures; published version
journal: Phys.Rev.A82:062713,2010
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0033
abstract: We show that a purely s-wave interaction in three dimensions (3D) can induce higher partial-wave resonances in mixed dimensions. We develop two-body scattering theories in all three cases of 0D-3D, 1D-3D, and 2D-3D mixtures and determine the positions of higher partial-wave resonances in terms of the 3D s-wave scattering length assuming a harmonic confinement potential. We also compute the low-energy scattering parameters in the p-wave channel (scattering volume and effective momentum) that are necessary for the low-energy effective theory of the p-wave resonance. We point out that some of the resonances observed in the Florence group experiment [Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 153202 (2010)] can be interpreted as the p-wave resonances in the 2D-3D mixed dimensions. Our study paves the way for a variety of physics, such as Anderson localization of matter waves under p-wave resonant scatterers.

id: 1011.0121
title: Quantum tunneling as a classical anomaly
authors: Carl M. Bender, Daniel W. Hook
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0121
abstract: Classical mechanics is a singular theory in that real-energy classical particles can never enter classically forbidden regions. However, if one regulates classical mechanics by allowing the energy E of a particle to be complex, the particle exhibits quantum-like behavior: Complex-energy classical particles can travel between classically allowed regions separated by potential barriers. When Im(E) -> 0, the classical tunneling probabilities persist. Hence, one can interpret quantum tunneling as an anomaly. A numerical comparison of complex classical tunneling probabilities with quantum tunneling probabilities leads to the conjecture that as ReE increases, complex classical tunneling probabilities approach the corresponding quantum probabilities. Thus, this work attempts to generalize the Bohr correspondence principle from classically allowed to classically forbidden regions.

id: 1011.0155
title: Linearized Tensor Renormalization Group Algorithm for Thermodynamics of Quantum Lattice Models
authors: Wei Li, Shi-Ju Ran, Shou-Shu Gong, Yang Zhao, Bin Xi, Fei Ye, Gang Su
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 127202 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0155
abstract: A linearized tensor renormalization group (LTRG) algorithm is proposed to calculate the thermodynamic properties of one-dimensional quantum lattice models, that is incorporated with the infinite time-evolving block decimation technique, and allows for treating directly the two-dimensional transfer-matrix tensor network. To illustrate its feasibility, the thermodynamic quantities of the quantum XY spin chain are calculated accurately by the LTRG, and the precision is shown to be comparable with (even better than) the transfer matrix renormalization group (TMRG) method. Unlike the TMRG scheme that can only deal with the infinite chains, the present LTRG algorithm could treat both finite and infinite systems, and may be readily extended to boson and fermion quantum lattice models.

id: 1011.0182
title: Protecting clean critical points by local disorder correlations
authors: J. A. Hoyos, Nicolas Laflorencie, A. P. Vieira, Thomas Vojta
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; published version
journal: Europhys. Lett. 93, 30004 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0182
abstract: We show that a broad class of quantum critical points can be stable against locally correlated disorder even if they are unstable against uncorrelated disorder. Although this result seemingly contradicts the Harris criterion, it follows naturally from the absence of a random-mass term in the associated order-parameter field theory. We illustrate the general concept with explicit calculations for quantum spin-chain models. Instead of the infinite-randomness physics induced by uncorrelated disorder, we find that weak locally correlated disorder is irrelevant. For larger disorder, we find a line of critical points with unusual properties such as an increase of the entanglement entropy with the disorder strength. We also propose experimental realizations in the context of quantum magnetism and cold-atom physics.

id: 1011.0205
title: Reply to Comment by Wolfgang Ketterle on "Electromagnetic Wave Dynamics in Matter-Wave Superradiant Scattering" (see arXiv:1010.3915)
authors: L. Deng, E.W. Hagley, M.G. Payne
comments: Original Comment and Reply are currently under review at Physical Review Letters. We are posting our Reply because we recently learned that the Comment had already been posted here
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0205
abstract: The Comment by Wolfgang Ketterle (Ref.[1]) purports to present a viable model of superradiance in condensates. However, Ref.[1] is not able to explain the red/blue pump detuning asymmetry that was first observed recently by us (Ref.[2]). It is clear from our original paper (Ref.[3]) that the rate-equation-based theories of Ref.[1] are incomplete since they only model the final growth stage of the process when a red-detuned pump is used. Our theoretical framework (Ref.[3]), on the other hand, also treats the initial growth stage of superradiance and is therefore also capable of explaining the genesis of the red/blue detuning asymmetry (Ref.[2]). This is the key message of our response, which we frame in terms of reference to the specific points raised in Ref. [1].

id: 1011.0231
title: When can perfect state transfer occur?
authors: Chris Godsil
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0231
abstract: Let $X$ be a graph on $n$ vertices with with adjacency matrix $A$ and let $H(t)$ denote the matrix-valued function $\exp(iAt)$. If $u$ and $v$ are distinct vertices in $X$, we say perfect state transfer from $u$ to $v$ occurs if there is a time $\tau$ such that $|H({\tau})_{u,v}| = 1$. Our chief problem is to characterize the cases where perfect state transfer occurs. We show that if perfect state transfer does occur in a graph, then the spectral radius is an integer or a quadratic irrational; using this we prove that there are only finitely many graphs with perfect state transfer and with maximum valency at most 4K4. We also show that if perfect state transfer from $u$ to $v$ occurs, then the graphs $X\setminus u$ and $X\setminus v$ are cospectral and any automorphism of $X$ that fixes $u$ must fix $v$ (and conversely).

id: 1011.0242
title: Dynamical tunnelling with ultracold atoms in magnetic microtraps
authors: Martin Lenz, Sebastian W¨¹ster, Christopher J. Vale, Norman R. Heckenberg, Halina Rubinsztein-Dunlop, C. A. Holmes, G. J. Milburn, Matthew J. Davis
comments: V1: 12 pages, 10 figures. V2: 14 pages, 12 figures, significantly updated in response to referee report. Some figures are lower quality to reduce file sizes, please contact submitter for high quality versions. V3: Introduction rewritten, but mostly unchanged; updated to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 013635 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0242
abstract: The study of dynamical tunnelling in a periodically driven anharmonic potential probes the quantum-classical transition via the experimental control of the effective Planck's constant for the system. In this paper we consider the prospects for observing dynamical tunnelling with ultracold atoms in magnetic microtraps on atom chips. We outline the driven anharmonic potentials that are possible using standard magnetic traps, and find the Floquet spectrum for one of these as a function of the potential strength, modulation, and effective Planck's constant. We develop an integrable approximation to the non-integrable Hamiltonian and find that it can explain the behaviour of the tunnelling rate as a function of the effective Planck's constant in the regular region of parameter space. In the chaotic region we compare our results with the predictions of models that describe chaos-assisted tunnelling. Finally we examine the practicality of performing these experiments in the laboratory with Bose-Einstein condensates.

id: 1011.0251
title: High-Q exterior whispering gallery modes in a metal-coated microresonator
authors: Yun-Feng Xiao, Chang-Ling Zou, Bei-Bei Li, Yan Li, Chun-Hua Dong, Zheng-Fu Han, Qihuang Gong
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 153902 (2010)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0251
abstract: We propose a kind of plasmonic whispering gallery modes highly localized on the exterior surface of a metal-coated microresonator. This exterior (EX) surface mode possesses high quality factors at room temperature, and can be efficiently excited by a tapered fiber. The EX mode can couple to an interior (IN) mode and this coupling produces a strong anti-crossing behavior, which not only allows conversion of IN to EX modes, but also forms a long-lived anti-symmetric mode. As a potential application, the EX mode could be used for a biosensor with a sensitivity high up to 500 nm per refraction index unit, a large figure of merit, and a wide detection range.

id: 1011.0275
title: Partial transposition of random states and non-centered semicircular distributions
authors: Guillaume Aubrun
comments: 24 pages. V2 : includes the convergence of extreme eigenvalues. V3 : includes probability estimates showing that p=4d^2 is a sharp threshold
journal: 
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0275
abstract: Let W be a Wishart random matrix of size d^2 times d^2, considered as a block matrix with d times d blocks. Let Y be the matrix obtained by transposing each block of W. We prove that the empirical eigenvalue distribution of Y approaches a non-centered semicircular distribution when d tends to infinity. We also show the convergence of extreme eigenvalues towards the edge of the expected spectrum. The proofs are based on the moments method. This matrix model is relevant to Quantum Information Theory and corresponds to the partial transposition of a random induced state. A natural question is: "When does a random state have a positive partial transpose (PPT)?". We answer this question and exhibit a strong threshold when the parameter from the Wishart distribution equals 4. When d gets large, a random state on C^d tensor C^d obtained after partial tracing a random pure state over some ancilla of dimension alpha.d^2 is typically PPT when alpha>4 and typically non-PPT when alpha<4.

id: 1011.0313
title: The fractal structure of cellular automata on Abelian groups
authors: Johannes G¨¹tschow, Vincent Nesme, Reinhard F. Werner
comments: 29 pages, 15 figures, preprint of a journal version
journal: 
subjects: Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0313
abstract: It is well-known that the spacetime diagrams of some cellular automata have a fractal structure: for instance Pascal's triangle modulo 2 generates a Sierpinski triangle. Explaining the fractal structure of the spacetime diagrams of cellular automata is a much explored topic, but virtually all of the results revolve around a special class of automata, whose typical features include irreversibility, an alphabet with a ring structure, a global evolution that is a ring homomorphism, and a property known as (weakly) p-Fermat. The class of automata that we study in this article has none of these properties. Their cell structure is weaker, as it does not come with a multiplication, and they are far from being p-Fermat, even weakly. However, they do produce fractal spacetime diagrams, and we explain why and how.

id: 1011.0394
title: Multi-stability in an optomechanical system with two-component Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Ying Dong, Jinwu Ye, Han Pu
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 031608(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0394
abstract: We investigate a system consisting of a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate interacting dispersively with a Fabry-Perot optical cavity where the two components of the condensate are resonantly coupled to each other by another classical field. The key feature of this system is that the atomic motional degrees of freedom and the internal pseudo-spin degrees of freedom are coupled to the cavity field simultaneously, hence an effective spin-orbital coupling within the condensate is induced by the cavity. The interplay among the atomic center- of-mass motion, the atomic collective spin and the cavity field leads to a strong nonlinearity, resulting in multi- stable behavior in both matter wave and light wave at the few-photon level.

id: 1011.0448
title: Corrections to scaling in entanglement entropy from boundary perturbations
authors: Erik Eriksson, Henrik Johannesson
comments: 8 pages. Minor improvements and updated references. Published version
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2011) P02008
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0448
abstract: We investigate the corrections to scaling of the Renyi entropies of a region of size l at the end of a semi-infinite one-dimensional system described by a conformal field theory when the corrections come from irrelevant boundary operators. The corrections from irrelevant bulk operators with scaling dimension x have been studied by Cardy and Calabrese (2010), and they found not only the expected corrections of the form l^(4-2x) but also unusual corrections that could not have been anticipated by finite-size scaling arguments alone. However, for the case of perturbations from irrelevant boundary operators we find that the only corrections that can occur to leading order are of the form l^(2-2x_b) for boundary operators with scaling dimension x_b < 3/2, and l^(-1) when x_b > 3/2. When x_b=3/2 they are of the form l^(-1)log(l). A marginally irrelevant boundary perturbation will give leading corrections going as log(l)^(-3). No unusual corrections occur when perturbing with a boundary operator.

id: 1011.0463
title: Inertial forces and dissipation on accelerated boundaries
authors: C.D. Fosco, F.C. Lombardo, F.D. Mazzitelli
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:125039,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0463
abstract: We study dissipative effects due to inertial forces acting on matter fields confined to accelerated boundaries in $1+1$, $2+1$, and $3+1$ dimensions. These matter fields describe the internal degrees of freedom of `mirrors' and impose, on the surfaces where they are defined, boundary conditions on a fluctuating `vacuum' field. We construct different models, involving either scalar or Dirac matter fields coupled to a vacuum scalar field, and use effective action techniques to calculate the strength of dissipation. In the case of massless Dirac fields, the results could be used to describe the inertial forces on an accelerated graphene sheet.

id: 1011.0514
title: Charged basal stacking fault (BSF) scattering in nitride semiconductors
authors: Aniruddha Konar, Tian Fang, Nan Sun, Debdeep Jena
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Applied Physics Letters, 98, 022109 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0514
abstract: A theory of charge transport in semiconductors in the presence of basal stacking faults is developed. It is shown that the presence of basal stacking faults leads to anisotropy in carrier transport. The theory is applied to carrier transport in non-polar GaN films consisting of a large number BSFs, and the result is compared with experimental data.

id: 1011.0576
title: Uniform Matrix Product State in the Thermodynamic Limit
authors: Hiroshi Ueda, Isao Maruyama, Kouichi Okunishi
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 80 (2011) 023001
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0576
abstract: We study a uniform matrix product state as a variational state for classical and quantum spin chains in the thermodynamic limit. Under a careful treatment of the translational symmetry, eigen values of the transfer matrix defined in the calculation of expectation values can reflect the periodicity of the ground state and indicate optimum periodicity of the matrix product state. We discuss the relation between the periodicity and accuracy of magnetization curves. This approach is free from the error due to finite system size, which works well especially for the magnetic plateau problem.

id: 1011.0599
title: Bound states of two bosons in an optical lattice near an association resonance
authors: Jerome C. Sanders, Otim Odong, Juha Javanainen, Matt Mackie
comments: This version is very close to the published version. 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 031607(R) (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0599
abstract: We model two bosons in an optical lattice near a Feshbach or photoassociation resonance, focusing on the Bose-Hubbard model in one dimension. Whereas the usual atoms-only theory with a tunable scattering length yields one bound state for a molecular dimer for either attractive or repulsive atom-atom interaction, an atom-molecule theory gives two bound states that may represent attractively and repulsively bound dimers occurring simultaneously. Such unusual molecular physics should be observable for an atom-molecule coupling strength comparable to the width of the dissociation continuum of the lattice dimer, for example, using narrow Feshbach resonances in Na, $^{87}$Rb, and $^{133}$Cs or low-intensity photoassociation in $^{174}$Yb.

id: 1011.0693
title: Entangled states of light in classical polarization theory
authors: X. F. Qian, J. H. Eberly
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 36, Issue 20, pp. 4110-4112 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0693
abstract: We formulate the classical polarization theory for light by using entanglement analysis. We demonstrate a route to a systematic and consistent measure of ordinary light polarization that extends automatically to a new understanding of the degree of polarization at a point, when a distinct beam direction is absent. We have drawn on recent work [Qian and Eberly, arXiv 1009.5622] dealing with the conservation of quantum information.

id: 1011.0781
title: Dynamical critical scaling and effective thermalization in quantum quenches: the role of the initial state
authors: Shusa Deng, Gerardo Ortiz, Lorenza Viola
comments: 18 pages, 13 eps color figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 094304 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0781
abstract: We explore the robustness of universal dynamical scaling behavior in a quantum system near criticality with respect to initialization in a large class of states with finite energy. By focusing on a homogeneous XY quantum spin chain in a transverse field, we characterize the non-equilibrium response under adiabatic and sudden quench processes originating from a pure as well as a mixed excited initial state, and involving either a regular quantum critical or a multicritical point. We find that the critical exponents of the ground-state quantum phase transition can be encoded in the dynamical scaling exponents despite the finite energy of the initial state. In particular, we identify conditions on the initial distribution of quasi-particle excitation which ensure Kibble-Zurek scaling to persist. The emergence of effective thermal equilibrium behavior following a sudden quench towards criticality is also investigated, with focus on the long-time dynamics of the quasi-particle excitation. For a quench to a regular quantum critical point, this observable is found to behave thermally provided that the system is prepared at sufficiently high temperature, whereas thermalization fails to occur in quenches taking the system towards a multi-critical point. We argue that the observed lack of thermalization originates in this case in the asymmetry of the impulse region that is also responsible for anomalous multicritical dynamical scaling.

id: 1011.0998
title: Solvable quantum nonequilibrium model exhibiting a phase transition and a matrix product representation
authors: Marko Znidaric
comments: 11 pages; v.2: minor changes, published version
journal: Phys.Rev.E 83, 011108 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.0998
abstract: We study a 1-dimensional XX chain under nonequilibrium driving and local dephasing described by the Lindblad master equation. The analytical solution for the nonequilibrium steady state found for particular parameters in [J.Stat.Mech., L05002 (2010)] is extended to arbitrary coupling constants, driving and homogeneous magnetic field. All one, two and three-point correlation functions are explicitly evaluated. It is shown that the nonequilibrium stationary state is not gaussian. Nevertheless, in the thermodynamic and weak-driving limit it is only weakly correlated and can be described by a matrix product operator ansatz with matrices of fixed dimension 4. A nonequilibrium phase transition at zero dephasing is also discussed. It is suggested that the scaling of the relaxation time with the system size can serve as a signature of a nonequilibrium phase transition.

id: 1011.1004
title: High-resolution imaging of ultracold fermions in microscopically tailored optical potentials
authors: Bruno Zimmermann, Torben Mueller, Jakob Meineke, Tilman Esslinger, Henning Moritz
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 13 (2011) 043007
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1004
abstract: We report on the local probing and preparation of an ultracold Fermi gas on the length scale of one micrometer, i.e. of the order of the Fermi wavelength. The essential tool of our experimental setup is a pair of identical, high-resolution microscope objectives. One of the microscope objectives allows local imaging of the trapped Fermi gas of 6Li atoms with a maximum resolution of 660 nm, while the other enables the generation of arbitrary optical dipole potentials on the same length scale. Employing a 2D acousto-optical deflector, we demonstrate the formation of several trapping geometries including a tightly focussed single optical dipole trap, a 4x4-site two-dimensional optical lattice and a 8-site ring lattice configuration. Furthermore, we show the ability to load and detect a small number of atoms in these trapping potentials. A site separation of down to one micrometer in combination with the low mass of 6Li results in tunneling rates which are sufficiently large for the implementation of Hubbard-models with the designed geometries.

id: 1011.1201
title: Quantum computation with devices whose contents are never read
authors: Abuzer Yakaryilmaz, Rusins Freivalds, A. C. Cem Say, Ruben Agadzanyan
comments: 32 pages, a preliminary version of this work was presented in the 9th International Conference on Unconventional Computation (UC2010)
journal: Natural Computing, March 2012, Volume 11, Issue 1, pp 81-94
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1201
abstract: In classical computation, a "write-only memory" (WOM) is little more than an oxymoron, and the addition of WOM to a (deterministic or probabilistic) classical computer brings no advantage. We prove that quantum computers that are augmented with WOM can solve problems that neither a classical computer with WOM nor a quantum computer without WOM can solve, when all other resource bounds are equal. We focus on realtime quantum finite automata, and examine the increase in their power effected by the addition of WOMs with different access modes and capacities. Some problems that are unsolvable by two-way probabilistic Turing machines using sublogarithmic amounts of read/write memory are shown to be solvable by these enhanced automata.

id: 1011.1281
title: Scaling approach for the time-dependent Kondo model
authors: C. Tomaras, S. Kehrein
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1281
abstract: We present a new nonperturbative method to deal with the time-dependent quantum many-body problem, which is an extension of Wegner's flow equations to time-dependent Hamiltonians. The formalism provides a scaling procedure for the set of time-dependent interaction constants. We apply these ideas to a Kondo model with a ferromagnetic exchange coupling switched on over a time scale $\tau$. We show that the asymptotic expectation value of the impurity spin interpolates continuously between its quenched and adiabatic value.

id: 1011.1295
title: A Markovian Model for Joint Observations, Bell's Inequality and Hidden States
authors: Ulrich Faigle, Alexander Sch?nhuth
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1295
abstract: While the standard approach to quantum systems studies length preserving linear transformations of wave functions, the Markov picture focuses on trace preserving operators on the space of Hermitian (self-adjoint) matrices. The Markov approach extends the standard one and provides a refined analysis of measurements and quantum Markov chains. In particular, Bell's inequality becomes structurally clear. It turns out that hidden state models are natural in the Markov context. In particular, a violation of Bell's inequality is seen to be compatible with the existence of hidden states. The Markov model moreover clarifies the role of the "negative probabilities" in Feynman's analysis of the EPR paradox.

id: 1011.1325
title: Figure "8" gravitational-wave antenna using a superconducting-core coaxial cable: Continuity equation and its superluminal consequences
authors: R. Y. Chiao
comments: White paper, 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1325
abstract: A novel gravitational-wave antenna is proposed based on the prediction that supercurrents induced by gravitational waves in a superconductor that is bent into the shape of a figure "8" will couple efficiently to such waves.

id: 1011.1333
title: Relevance of Bose-Einstein Condensation to the Interference of Two Independent Bose Gases
authors: Mauro Iazzi, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 033611 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1333
abstract: Interference of two independently prepared ideal Bose gases is discussed, on the basis of the idea of measurement-induced interference: even if the number of each gas is individually fixed finite and the symmetry of the system is not broken, an interference pattern is observed on each single snapshot. The key role is played by the Hanbury Brown and Twiss effect, which leads to an oscillating pattern of the cloud of identical atoms. Then, how essential is the Bose-Einstein condensation to the interference? We describe the ideal Bose gases trapped respectively in two spatially separated 3D harmonic traps at a finite temperature as canonical ensembles with fixed numbers of atoms, and compute the full statistics of the snapshot profiles of the expanding and overlapping gases released from the traps. We obtain a simple formula, which shows that the average fringe spectrum (average fringe contrast) is given by the purity of each gas. The purity is known to be a good measure of condensation, and this result clarifies the relevance of the condensation to the interference. The fluctuation of the interference spectrum is also studied, and it is shown that the fluctuation is vanishingly small below the critical temperature, while it is nonvanishing above. This implies that interference pattern is certainly observed on every snapshot below the critical temperature. The fact that the number of atoms is fixed in the canonical ensemble is crucial to this vanishing fluctuation.

id: 1011.1473
title: A simplified quantum theoretical derivation of the Unruh and Hawking temperature
authors: Vladan Pankovic, Darko Kapor
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1473
abstract: In this work we suggest a sufficiently simple for understanding "without knowing the details of the quantum gravity" and quite correct deduction of the Unruh temperature (but not whole Unruh radiation process!). Firstly, we shall directly apply usual consequences of the Unruh radiation and temperature at surface gravity of a large spherical physical system and we shall show that corresponding thermal energy can be formally quite correctly presented as the potential energy absolute value of the classical gravitational interaction between this large and a small quantum system with well defined characteristics. Secondly, we shall inversely "postulate" small quantum system with necessary well defined characteristics and then, after "supposition" on the equivalence between potential energy absolute value of its gravitational interaction with large system with thermal energy, we shall obtain exact value of the Unruh temperature. Moreover, by very simple and correct application of suggested formalism (with small quantum system) at thermodynamic laws, we shall successfully study other thermodynamic characteristics, especially entropy, characteristic for Unruh and Hawking radiation

id: 1011.1565
title: The Shannon and the Von Neumann entropy of random networks with heterogeneous expected degree
authors: Kartik Anand, Ginestra Bianconi, Simone Severini
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 036109 (2011)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1565
abstract: Entropic measures of complexity are able to quantify the information encoded in complex network structures. Several entropic measures have been proposed in this respect. Here we study the relation between the Shannon entropy and the Von Neumann entropy of networks with a given expected degree sequence. We find in different examples of network topologies that when the degree distribution contains some heterogeneity, an intriguing correlation emerges between the two entropies. This result seems to suggest that this kind of heterogeneity is implying an equivalence between a quantum and a classical description of networks, which respectively correspond to the Von Neumann and the Shannon entropy.

id: 1011.1657
title: Physics from information
authors: Jae-Weon Lee
comments: Revtex 4.1, 13pages, 6 figures, entanglement and holography arguments added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1657
abstract: This is an ongoing review on the idea that the phase space information loss at causal horizons is the key ingredient of major physical laws. Assuming that information is fundamental and the information propagates with finite velocity, one can find that basic physical laws such as Newton's second law and Einstein's equation simply describe the energy-information relation (dE=TdS) for matter or space time crossing causal horizons. Quantum mechanics is related to the phase space information loss of matter crossing the Rindler horizon, which explains why superluminal communication is impossible even with quantum entanglement. This approach also explains the origin of Jacobson's thermodynamic formalism of Einstein gravity and Verlinde's entropic gravity. When applied to a cosmic causal horizon, the conjecture can reproduce the observed dark energy and the zero cosmological constant. Quantum entanglement, path integral, and holography are also natural consequences of this theory.

id: 1011.1822
title: Ultra-bright and efficient single photon generation based on N-V centres in nanodiamonds on a solid immersion lens
authors: Tim Schr?der, Friedemann G?deke, Moritz Julian Banholzer, Oliver Benson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1822
abstract: Single photons are fundamental elements for quantum information technologies such as quantum cryptography, quantum information storage and optical quantum computing. Colour centres in diamond have proven to be stable single photon sources and thus essential components for reliable and integrated quantum information technology. A key requirement for such applications is a large photon flux and a high efficiency. Paying tribute to various attempts to maximise the single photon flux we show that collection efficiencies of photons from colour centres can be increased with a rather simple experimental setup. To do so we spin-coated nanodiamonds containing single nitrogen-vacancy colour centres on the flat surface of a ZrO2 solid immersion lens. We found stable single photon count rates of up to 853 kcts/s at saturation under continuous wave excitation while having excess to more than 100 defect centres with count rates from 400 kcts/s to 500 kcts/s. For a blinking defect centre we found count rates up to 2.4 Mcts/s for time intervals of several ten seconds. It seems to be a general feature that very high rates are accompanied by a blinking behaviour. The overall collection efficiency of our setup of up to 4.2% is the highest yet reported for N-V defect centres in diamond. Under pulsed excitation of a stable emitter of 10 MHz, 2.2% of all pulses caused a click on the detector adding to 221 kcts/s thus opening the way towards diamond based on-demand single photon sources for quantum applications.

id: 1011.1858
title: Beyond quantum microcanonical statistics
authors: Barbara Fresch, Giorgio J. Moro
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 134, 054510 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1858
abstract: Descriptions of molecular systems usually refer to two distinct theoretical frameworks. On the one hand the quantum pure state, i.e. the wavefunction, of an isolated system which is determined to calculate molecular properties and to consider the time evolution according to the unitary Schr\"odinger equation. On the other hand a mixed state, i.e. a statistical density matrix, is the standard formalism to account for thermal equilibrium, as postulated in the microcanonical quantum statistics. In the present paper an alternative treatment relying on a statistical analysis of the possible wavefunctions of an isolated system is presented. In analogy with the classical ergodic theory, the time evolution of the wavefunction determines the probability distribution in the phase space pertaining to an isolated system. However, this alone cannot account for a well defined thermodynamical description of the system in the macroscopic limit, unless a suitable probability distribution for the quantum constants of motion is introduced. We present a workable formalism assuring the emergence of typical values of thermodynamic functions, such as the internal energy and the entropy, in the large size limit of the system. This allows the identification of macroscopic properties independently of the specific realization of the quantum state. A description of material systems in agreement with equilibrium thermodynamics is then derived without constraints on the physical constituents and interactions of the system. Furthermore, the canonical statistics is recovered in all generality for the reduced density matrix of a subsystem.

id: 1011.1871
title: PT-symmetric quantum state discrimination
authors: Carl M. Bender, Dorje C. Brody, Joao Caldeira, Bernard K. Meister
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1871
abstract: Suppose that a system is known to be in one of two quantum states, $|\psi_1 > $ or $|\psi_2 >$. If these states are not orthogonal, then in conventional quantum mechanics it is impossible with one measurement to determine with certainty which state the system is in. However, because a non-Hermitian PT-symmetric Hamiltonian determines the inner product that is appropriate for the Hilbert space of physical states, it is always possible to choose this inner product so that the two states $|\psi_1 > $ and $|\psi_2 > $ are orthogonal. Thus, quantum state discrimination can, in principle, be achieved with a single measurement.

id: 1011.1878
title: Matter-wave 2D solitons in crossed linear and nonlinear optical lattices
authors: H.L.F. da Luz, F.Kh. Abdullaev, A. Gammal, M. Salerno, Lauro Tomio
comments: 8 pages (two-column format), with 16 eps-files of 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 82, 043618 (2010)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1878
abstract: It is demonstrated the existence of multidimensional matter-wave solitons in a crossed optical lattice (OL) with linear OL in the $x-$direction and nonlinear OL (NOL) in the $y-$direction, where the NOL can be generated by a periodic spatial modulation of the scattering length using an optically induced Feshbach resonance. In particular, we show that such crossed linear and nonlinear OL allows to stabilize two-dimensional (2D) solitons against decay or collapse for both attractive and repulsive interactions. The solutions for the soliton stability are investigated analytically, by using a multi-Gaussian variational approach (VA), with the Vakhitov-Kolokolov (VK) necessary criterion for stability; and numerically, by using the relaxation method and direct numerical time integrations of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation (GPE). Very good agreement of the results corresponding to both treatments is observed.

id: 1011.1883
title: A unified framework for quasi-species evolution and stochastic quantization
authors: Ginestra Bianconi, Christoph Rahmede
comments: (8 pages, 1 figure)
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 056104 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1883
abstract: We investigate the profound relation between the equations of biological evolution and quantum mechanics by writing a biologically inspired equation for the stochastic dynamics of an ensemble of particles. Interesting behavior is observed which is related to a new type of stochastic quantization. We find that the probability distribution of the ensemble of particles can be decomposed into eigenfunctions associated to a discrete spectrum of eigenvalues. In absence of interactions between the particles, the out-of-equilibrium dynamics asymptotically relaxes towards the fundamental state. This phenomenon can be related with the Fisher theorem in biology. On the contrary, in presence of scattering processes the evolution reaches a steady state in which the distribution of the ensemble of particles is characterized by a Bose-Einstein statistics. In order to show a concrete example of this stochastic quantization we have solved explicitly the case in which the potential energy has the harmonic oscillator form.

id: 1011.1898
title: Direct observation of dynamic surface acoustic wave controlled carrier injection into single quantum posts using phase-resolved optical spectroscopy
authors: S. V?lk, F. Knall, F. J. R. Sch¨¹lein, T. A. Truong, H. Kim, P. M. Petroff, A. Wixforth, H. J. Krenner
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 98, 023109 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1898
abstract: A versatile stroboscopic technique based on active phase-locking of a surface acoustic wave to picosecond laser pulses is used to monitor dynamic acoustoelectric effects. Time-integrated multi-channel detection is applied to probe the modulation of the emission of a quantum well for different frequencies of the surface acoustic wave. For quantum posts we resolve dynamically controlled generation of neutral and charged excitons and preferential injection of holes into localized states within the nanostructure.

id: 1011.1948
title: Tunneling in Fractional Quantum Mechanics
authors: Edmundo Capelas de Oliveira, Jayme Vaz Jr
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures. Revised version; accepted for publication in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1948
abstract: We study the tunneling through delta and double delta potentials in fractional quantum mechanics. After solving the fractional Schr\"odinger equation for these potentials, we calculate the corresponding reflection and transmission coefficients. These coefficients have a very interesting behaviour. In particular, we can have zero energy tunneling when the order of the Riesz fractional derivative is different from 2. For both potentials, the zero energy limit of the transmission coefficient is given by $\mathcal{T}_0 = \cos^2{\pi/\alpha}$, where $\alpha$ is the order of the derivative ($1 < \alpha \leq 2$).

id: 1011.1973
title: The dressed atom as binary phase modulator: towards attojoule/edge optical phase-shift keying
authors: Joseph Kerckhoff, Michael A. Armen, Dmitri S. Pavlichin, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1973
abstract: Nanophotonic technologies offer great promise for ultra-low power optical signal processing, but relatively few nonlinear-optical phenomena have yet been explored as bases for robust digital modulation/switching~\cite{Yang07,Fara08,Liu10,Noza10}. Here we show that a single two-level system (TLS) coupled strongly to an optical resonator can impart binary phase modulation on a saturating probe beam. Our experiment relies on spontaneous emission to induce occasional transitions between positive and negative phase shifts---with each such edge corresponding to a dissipated energy of just one photon ($\approx 0.23$ aJ)---but an optical control beam could be used to trigger additional phase switching at signalling rates above this background. Although our ability to demonstrate controlled switching in our atom-based experiment is limited, we discuss prospects for exploiting analogous physics in a nanophotonic device incorporating a quantum dot as the TLS to realize deterministic binary phase modulation with control power in the aJ/edge regime.

id: 1011.1994
title: A new solution for effective interaction
authors: R. Okamoto, K. Suzuki, H. Kumagai, S. Fujii
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, 1 table, talk presented at 10th International Spring Seminar on Nuclear Physics "New Quests in Nuclear Structure", Vietri sul Mare, may 21-25, 2010. To be published on Journal of Physics Conference Series. Fig.1 and Fig.2 replaced. Content unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1994
abstract: A new method is given for the model-space effective interaction. Introducing a new operator in place of the Q-box in the Krenciglowa-Kuo (KK) method, we derive a new equation for the effective interaction. This equation can be viewed as an extension of the KK method. We show that this equation can be solved both in iterative and non-iterative ways. We observe that the iteration procedure brings about fast acceleration of convergence compared to the KK approach. We also find that the non-iterative calculation reproduces successfully any set of the true eigenvalues of the original Hamiltonian. This non-iterative calculation can be made regardless of the magnitudes of the overlaps with the model space and the energy differences between the unperturbed energy and the eigenvalues to be solved.

id: 1011.2001
title: Controlling phonon squeezing and correlation via one- and two-phonon interference
authors: Oleg V. Misochko, Jianbo Hu, Kazutaka G. Nakamura
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 375,4141 (2011)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2001
abstract: When ultrafast laser pulse strikes the crystal with a van Hove singularity in the phonon density of states, it can create a pair of anti-correlated in wave-vector acoustic phonons. As a result, the atomic fluctuations in either position or momentum become squeezed in such a way that their size might fall below the vacuum level. The ultrafast pulses can also generate a two-phonon bound (biphonon) state in which the constituent phonons are correlated and/or entangled. Here we show that via the interplay between one- and two-phonon interference the bound and squeezed two-phonon state in (110) oriented ZnTe single crystal can be manipulated. We demonstrate experimentally that when two biphonon ensembles are temporally and spatially overlapped, the strength of phonon squeezing and correlation can be controlled. However, due to the complementarity of one- and two-phonon interference a larger correlation comes at the expense of a reduced squeezing.

id: 1011.2117
title: Numerical treatment of long-range Coulomb potential with Berggren bases
authors: N. Michel
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys.Rev.C83:034325,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2117
abstract: The Schrodinger equation incorporating the long-range Coulomb potential takes the form of a Fredholm equation whose kernel is singular on its diagonal when represented by a basis bearing a continuum of states, such as in a Fourier-Bessel transform. Several methods have been devised to tackle this difficulty, from simply removing the infinite-range of the Coulomb potential with a screening or cut function to using discretizing schemes which take advantage of the integrable character of Coulomb kernel singularities. However, they have never been tested in the context of Berggren bases, which allow many-body nuclear wave functions to be expanded, with halo or resonant properties within a shell model framework. It is thus the object of this paper to test different discretization schemes of the Coulomb potential kernel in the framework of complex-energy nuclear physics. For that, the Berggren basis expansion of proton states pertaining to the sd-shell arising in the A ~ 20 region, being typically resonant, will be effected. Apart from standard frameworks involving a cut function or analytical integration of singularities, a new method will be presented, which replaces diagonal singularities by finite off-diagonal terms. It will be shown that this methodology surpasses in precision the two former techniques.

id: 1011.2125
title: Structural change of vortex patterns in anisotropic Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: N. Lo Gullo, Th. Busch, M. Paternostro
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: PhysRevA.83.053612 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2125
abstract: We study the changes in the spatial distribution of vortices in a rotating Bose-Einstein condensate due to an increasing anisotropy of the trapping potential. Once the rotational symmetry is broken, we find that the vortex system undergoes a rich variety of structural changes, including the formation of zig-zag and linear configurations. These spatial re-arrangements are well signaled by the change in the behavior of the vortex-pattern eigenmodes against the anisotropy parameter. The existence of such structural changes opens up possibilities for the coherent exploitation of effective many-body systems based on vortex patterns.

id: 1011.2147
title: Out-of-equilibrium Correlated Systems : Bipartite Entanglement as a Probe of Thermalization
authors: Didier Poilblanc
comments: extended version: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 045120 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2147
abstract: Thermalization play a central role in out-of-equilibrium physics of ultracold atoms or electronic transport phenomena. On the other hand, entanglement concepts have proven to be extremely useful to investigate quantum phases of matter. Here, it is argued that **bipartite** entanglement measures provide key information on out-of-equilibrium states and might therefore offer stringent thermalization criteria. This is illustrated by considering a global quench in an (extended) XXZ spin-1/2 chain across its (zero-temperature) quantum critical point. A non-local **bipartition** of the chain **preserving translation symmetry** is proposed. The time-evolution after the quench of the **reduced** density matrix of the half-system is computed and its associated (time-dependent) entanglement spectrum is analyzed. Generically, the corresponding entanglement entropy quickly reaches a "plateau" after a short transient regime. However, in the case of the integrable XXZ chain, the low-energy entanglement spectrum still reveals strong time-fluctuations. In addition, its infinite-time average shows strong deviations from the spectrum of a Boltzmann thermal density matrix. In contrast, when the integrability of the model is broken (by small next-nearest neighbor couplings), the entanglement spectra of the time-average and thermal density matrices become remarkably similar.

id: 1011.2170
title: Low-Temperature Dependences of the Polarization of Terahertz Emission from $n$-Germanium in Heating Electric Fields
authors: V.M. Bondar, P.M. Tomchuk
comments: 
journal: Ukrainian Journal of Physics, 2010, Vol. 55, no. 6, pp. 722-724 (www.ujp.bitp.kiev.ua)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2170
abstract: As was noted in [3], in order to verify the assumption that the behavior of the polarization dependences of the terahertz emission by hot electrons from $n$-Ge is determined by the type of carrier scattering, it is necessary to perform temperature measurements of this dependence in the range between the temperatures, where the scattering is determined by impurities and by acoustic lattice vibrations, respectively. The given work presents the results of such investigations.

id: 1011.2183
title: Doorway States and Billiards
authors: J. A. Franco-Villafa?e, J. Flores, J. L. Mateos, R. A. M¨¦ndez-S¨¢nchez, O. Novaro, T. H. Seligman
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, Accepted in Proceedings of "Symmetries in Nature", Symposium in Memoriam Marcos Moshinsky
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings Volume 1323, SYMMETRIES IN NATURE: SYMPOSIUM IN MEMORIAM MARCOS MOSHINSKY, pp. 91-97
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2183
abstract: Whenever a distinct state is immersed in a sea of complicated and dense states, the strength of the distinct state, which we refer to as a doorway, is distributed in their neighboring states. We analyze this mechanism for 2-D billiards with different geometries. One of them is symmetric and integrable, another is symmetric but chaotic, and the third has a capricious form. The fact that the doorway-state mechanism is valid for such highly diverse cases, proves that it is robust.

id: 1011.2193
title: Building and Destroying Symmetry in 1-D Elastic Systems
authors: J. Flores, G. Monsivais, P. Mora, A. Morales, R. A. M¨¦ndez-S¨¢nchez, A. D¨ªaz-de-Anda, L. Guti¨¦rrez
comments: 12 pages, 16 figures, Accepted in Proceedings of "Symmetries in Nature", Symposium in Memoriam Marcos Moshinsky
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2193
abstract: Locally periodic rods, which show approximate invariance with respect to translations, are constructed by joining $N$ unit cells. The spectrum then shows a band spectrum. We then break the local periodicity by including one or more defects in the system. When the defects follow a certain definite prescription, an analog of the Wannier-Stark ladders is gotten; when the defects are random, an elastic rod showing Anderson localization is obtained. In all cases experimental values match the theoretical predictions.

id: 1011.2256
title: On Quantum Markov Chains on Cayley tree II: Phase transitions for the associated chain with XY-model on the Cayley tree of order three
authors: Luigi Accardi, Farrukh Mukhamedov, Mansoor Saburov
comments: 34 pages, 1 figure
journal: Ann. Henri Poincar\'e 12 (2011), 1109--1144
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2256
abstract: In the present paper we study forward Quantum Markov Chains (QMC) defined on a Cayley tree. Using the tree structure of graphs, we give a construction of quantum Markov chains on a Cayley tree. By means of such constructions we prove the existence of a phase transition for the XY-model on a Cayley tree of order three in QMC scheme. By the phase transition we mean the existence of two now quasi equivalent QMC for the given family of interaction operators $\{K_{<x,y>}\}$.

id: 1011.2305
title: Wigner quantization of some one-dimensional Hamiltonians
authors: Gilles Regniers, Joris Van der Jeugt
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51 (2010), 123515
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2305
abstract: Recently, several papers have been dedicated to the Wigner quantization of different Hamiltonians. In these examples, many interesting mathematical and physical properties have been shown. Among those we have the ubiquitous relation with Lie superalgebras and their representations. In this paper, we study two one-dimensional Hamiltonians for which the Wigner quantization is related with the orthosymplectic Lie superalgebra osp(1|2). One of them, the Hamiltonian H = xp, is popular due to its connection with the Riemann zeros, discovered by Berry and Keating on the one hand and Connes on the other. The Hamiltonian of the free particle, H_f = p^2/2, is the second Hamiltonian we will examine. Wigner quantization introduces an extra representation parameter for both of these Hamiltonians. Canonical quantization is recovered by restricting to a specific representation of the Lie superalgebra osp(1|2).

id: 1011.2351
title: Anomalous Bloch oscillations in one dimensional parity-breaking periodic potentials
authors: Giulio Pettini, Michele Modugno
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2351
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of a wave packet in a parity-breaking one-dimensional periodic potential slowly varied in time and perturbed by a linear potential. Parity is broken by considering an asymmetric double well per unit cell. By comparing the prediction of the semiclassical dynamics with the full Schr\"odinger solution, we show that Bloch oscillations are strongly affected by anomalous velocity corrections related to Berry's phase. We characterize how these effects depend on the degree of parity breaking of the potential and on the modulation parameters. We also discuss how to measure the effects of the anomalous velocity in current experiments with non-interacting Bose-Einstein condensates in bichromatic optical lattices, under the effect of gravity.

id: 1011.2357
title: `Deterministic' quantum plasmonics
authors: Aur¨¦lien Cuche, Oriane Mollet, Aur¨¦lien Drezet, Serge Huant
comments: Published in nanoletters: Nano Lett., 2010, 10 (11), pp 4566-4570 Publication Date (Web): October 21, 2010 Copyright \c{opyright} 2010 American Chemical Society
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2357
abstract: We demonstrate `deterministic' launching of propagative quantum surface-plasmon polaritons at freely chosen positions on gold plasmonic receptacles. This is achieved by using as plasmon launcher a near-field scanning optical source made of a diamond nanocrystal with two Nitrogen-Vacancy color-center occupancy. Our demonstration relies on leakage-radiation microscopy of a thin homogeneous gold film and on near-field optical microscopy of a nanostructured thick gold film. Our work paves the way to future fundamental studies and applications in quantum plasmonics that require an accurate positioning of single-plasmon sources and may open a new branch in plasmonics and nanophotonics, namely scanning quantum plasmonics.

id: 1011.2362
title: Observation of subdiffusion of a disordered interacting system
authors: E. Lucioni, B. Deissler, L. Tanzi, G. Roati, M. Modugno, M. Zaccanti, M. Larcher, F. Dalfovo, M. Inguscio, G. Modugno
comments: 8 pages, to be published on Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 230403 (2011)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2362
abstract: We study the transport dynamics of matter-waves in the presence of disorder and nonlinearity. An atomic Bose-Einstein condensate that is localized in a quasiperiodic lattice in the absence of atom-atom interaction shows instead a slow expansion with a subdiffusive behavior when a controlled repulsive interaction is added. The measured features of the subdiffusion are compared to numerical simulations and a heuristic model. The observations confirm the nature of subdiffusion as interaction-assisted hopping between localized states and highlight a role of the spatial correlation of the disorder.

id: 1011.2368
title: Dirac-Hulthen Problem with Position-dependent Mass in D-dimensions
authors: D. Agboola
comments: 11 Pages, 4 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2368
abstract: An approximate solution of the position-dependent mass Dirac equation with the Hulthen potential is obtained in $D$-dimensions within frame work of an exponential approximation of the centrifugal term. The relativistic energy spectrum is worked out using direct transformation method; the two-component spinor wavefunctions are obtained in terms of the Jacobi polynomials. Dependence of the energy levels on some parameters is discussed. The results obtained are in good agreement with previous works.

id: 1011.2382
title: Stationary scattering from a nonlinear network
authors: Sven Gnutzmann, Uzy Smilansky, Stanislav Derevyanko
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 033831 (2011)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2382
abstract: Transmission through a complex network of nonlinear one-dimensional leads is discussed by extending the stationary scattering theory on quantum graphs to the nonlinear regime. We show that the existence of cycles inside the graph leads to a large number of sharp resonances that dominate scattering. The latter resonances are then shown to be extremely sensitive to the nonlinearity and display multi-stability and hysteresis. This work provides a framework for the study of light propagation in complex optical networks.

id: 1011.2477
title: Trionic Optical Potential for Electrons in Semiconductors
authors: Martin J. A. Schuetz, Michael G. Moore, Carlo Piermarocchi
comments: Article and Supplemental Materials; This is a preprint of the original submission to Nature Physics
journal: Nature Physics 6 919 (2010)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2477
abstract: Laser-induced optical potentials for atoms have led to remarkable advances in precision measurement, quantum information, and towards addressing fundamental questions in condensed matter physics. Here, we describe analogous optical potentials for electrons in quantum wells and wires that can be generated by optically driving the transition between a single electron and a three-body electron-exciton bound state, known as a trion. The existence of a bound trion state adds a term to the ac Stark shift of the material proportional to the light intensity at the position of the electron. According to our theoretical calculations, this shift can be large relative to the thermal equilibrium temperature of the electron, resulting in a relatively strong optical potential that could be used to trap, guide, and manipulate individual electrons within a semiconductor quantum well or wire. These potentials can be thought of as artificial nano-structures on the scale of 100 nm that can be spin-dependent and reconfigurable in real-time. Our results suggest the possibility of integrating ultrafast optics and gate voltages in new resolved-carrier semiconductor opto-electronic devices, with potential applications in fields such as nano-electronics, spintronics, and quantum information processing

id: 1011.2490
title: The Prediction of a Gapless Topological "Haldane Liquid" Phase in a One-Dimensional Cold Polar Molecular Lattice
authors: J. P. Kestner, Bin Wang, Jay D. Sau, S. Das Sarma
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures; expanded discussion and added figure; accepted for publication in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 174409 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2490
abstract: We show that ultracold two-component fermionic dipolar gases in an optical lattice with strong two-body on-site loss can be used to realize a tunable effective spin-one model. Fermion number conservation provides an unusual constraint that $\sum_i (S^z_i)^2$ is conserved, leading to a novel topological liquid phase in one dimension which can be thought of as the gapless analog of the Haldane gapped phase of a spin-one Heisenberg chain. The properties of this phase are calculated numerically via the infinite time-evolving block decimation method and analytically via a mapping to a one-mode Luttinger liquid with hidden spin information.

id: 1011.2579
title: The Spin-weighted Spheroidal Wave functions in the Case of s=1/2
authors: Kun Dong, Guihua Tian, Yue Sun
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2579
abstract: The spin-weighted spheroidal equations in the case s=1/2 is thoroughly studied in the paper by means of the perturbation method in supersymmetry quantum mechanics. The first-five terms of the super-potential in the series of the parameter beta are given. The general form of the nth term of the superpotential is also obtained, which could derived from the previous terms W_{k}, k<n. From the results, it is easy to give the ground eigenfunction of the equation. Furthermore, the shape-invariance property is investigated in the series form of the parameter beta and is proven kept in this series form for the equations. This nice property guarantee one could obtain the excited eigenfunctions in the series form from the ground eigenfunctions by the method in supersymmetry quantum mechanics. This shows the perturbation method method in supersymmetry quantum mechanics could solve the spin-weight spheroidal wave equations completely in the series form of the small parameter beta.

id: 1011.2687
title: Combining red- and blue-detuned optical potentials to form a Lamb-Dicke trap for a single neutral atom
authors: Xiaodong He, Peng Xu, Jin Wang, Mingsheng Zhan
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Opt. Express 20, 3711-3724 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2687
abstract: We propose and demonstrate a scheme for strongly radially confining a single neutral atom in a bichromatic far-off resonance optical dipole trap(BFORT) . BFORT is composed of a blue-detuned Laguerre-Gaussian $LG^1_ 0$ beam and a red-detuned Gaussian beam. The trapping radial dimension of a single atom trapped in the Gaussian FORT can be greatly compressed by imposing a blue-detuned Laguerre-Gaussian $LG^1_ 0$ beam with moderate potential depth. By modulating the potential depth of the Gaussian FORT we observed that the resonant and parametric excitation of the oscillatory motion of a single atom in this BFORT and obtained the oscillation frequency that well fits prediction from the theoretical model. The frequency measurement shows that effective trapping dimension can be greatly sharper than that diffraction limited of microscopic objective we used. Then we show that the excess scattering rate due to imposing blue detuned light can be eliminated when single atoms is close to ground-state theoretically. So BFORT suits the purpose of acting as a Lamb-Dicke trap for further cooling a single neutral atom to motion ground-state and finding application in quantum information progressing.

id: 1011.2721
title: Selective excitation of homogeneous spectral lines
authors: A. K. Khitrin
comments: 19 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2721
abstract: It is possible, for homogeneously broadened lines, to excite selectively the response signals, which are orders of magnitude narrower than the original lines. The new type of echo, which allows detecting such signals, and the formalism, useful for understanding the phenomenon, as well as the experimental examples from NMR spectroscopy are presented.

id: 1011.2733
title: Lorentz invariant nonzero minimal uncertainty in position and inhomogeneity of space at the Planck scale
authors: Arko Bose
comments: This paper has been withdrawn owing to the numerous revisions. All existing issues will be addressed and a final version will be posted
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2733
abstract: The suspicion that the existence of a minimal uncertainty in position measurements violates Lorentz invariance seems unfounded. It is shown that the existence of such a nonzero minimal uncertainty in position is not only consistent with Lorentz invariance, but that the latter also fixes the algebra between position and momentum which gives rise to this minimal uncertainty. We also investigate how this algebra affects the underlying quantum mechanical structure, and why, at the Planck scale, space can no longer be considered homogeneous.

id: 1011.2760
title: Emission characteristics of laser-driven dissipative coupled-cavity systems
authors: Michael Knap, Enrico Arrigoni, Wolfgang von der Linden, Jared H. Cole
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 023821 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2760
abstract: We consider a laser-driven and dissipative system of two coupled cavities with Jaynes-Cummings nonlinearity. In particular, we investigate both incoherent and coherent laser driving, corresponding to different experimental situations. We employ Arnoldi time evolution as a numerical tool to solve exactly the many-body master equation describing the non-equilibrium quantum system. We evaluate the fluorescence spectrum and the spectrum of the second-order correlation function of the emitted light field. Finally, we relate the measured spectra of the dissipative quantum system to excitations of the corresponding non-dissipative quantum system. Our results demonstrate how to interpret spectra obtained from dissipative quantum systems and specify what information is contained therein.

id: 1011.2840
title: Optically induced spin polarisation of the NV- centre in diamond: role of electron-vibration interaction
authors: Neil Manson, Lachlan Rogers, Marcus Doherty, Lloyd Hollenberg
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2840
abstract: The novel aspect of the centre (NV-) in diamond is the high degree of spin polarisation achieved through optical illumination. In this paper it is shown that the spin polarisation occurs as a consequence of an electron-vibration interaction combined with spin-orbit interaction, and an electronic model involving these interactions is developed to account for the observed polarisation.

id: 1011.2944
title: Fractionalization in Three-Components Fermionic Atomic Gases in a One-Dimensional Optical Lattice
authors: Patrick Azaria
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2944
abstract: We study a three-components fermionic gas loaded in a one-dimensional optical trap at half-filling. We find that the system is fully gapped and may order into 8 possible phases: four 2$k_F$ atomic density wave and spin-Peierls phases with all possible relative $\pi$ phases shifts between the three species. We find that trionic excitations are unstable toward the decay into pairs of kinks carrying a {\it fractional} number, $Q=3/2$, of atoms. These sesquions eventually condense upon small doping and are described by a Luttinger liquid. We finally discuss the phase diagram of a three component mixture made of three hyperfine level of $^6$Li as a function of magnetic field.

id: 1011.3035
title: Transformation & Uncertainty. Some Thoughts on Quantum Probability Theory, Quantum Statistics, and Natural Bundles
authors: Bas Janssens
comments: PHD thesis, successfully defended at the University of Utrecht, October 4, 2010
journal: 
subjects: Differential Geometry (math.DG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3035
abstract: This PHD thesis is concerned with uncertainty relations in quantum probability theory, state estimation in quantum stochastics, and natural bundles in differential geometry. After some comments on the nature and necessity of decoherence in open systems and its absence in closed ones, we prove sharp, state-independent inequalities reflecting the Heisenberg principle, the necessity of decoherence and the impossibility of perfect joint measurement. These bounds are used to judge how far a particular measurement is removed from the optimal one. We do this for a qubit interacting with the quantized EM field, continually probed using homodyne detection. We calculate to which extent this joint measurement is optimal. We then propose a two-step strategy to determine the (possibly mixed) state of n identically prepared qubits, and prove that it is asymptotically optimal in a local minimax sense, using `Quantum Local Asymptotic Normality' for qubits. We propose a physical implementation of QLAN, based on interaction with the quantized EM field. In differential geometry, a bundle is called `natural' if diffeomorphisms of the base lift to automorphisms of the bundle. We slightly extend this notion to `infinitesimal naturality', requiring only vector fields (infinitesimal diffeomorphisms) to lift. We classify these bundles. Physical fields that transform under (infinitesimal) space-time transformations must be described in terms of (infinitesimally) natural bundles. All spin structures are infinitesimally natural. Our framework thus encompasses Fermionic fields, for which the notion of a natural bundle is too restrictive. Interestingly, generalized spin structures (e.g. spin-c structures) are not always infinitesimally natural. We classify the ones that are. Depending on the gauge group at hand, this can significantly reduce the number of allowed space-time topologies.

id: 1011.3061
title: Optimal control for unitary preparation of many-body states: application to Luttinger liquids
authors: Armin Rahmani, Claudio Chamon
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, extended results on robustness, to appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 016402 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3061
abstract: Many-body ground states can be prepared via unitary evolution in cold atomic systems. Given the initial state and a fixed time for the evolution, how close can we get to a desired ground state if we can tune the Hamiltonian in time? Here we study this optimal control problem focusing on Luttinger liquids with tunable interactions. We show that the optimal protocol can be obtained by simulated annealing. We find that the optimal interaction strength of the Luttinger liquid can have a nonmonotonic time dependence. Moreover, the system exhibits a marked transition when the ratio $\tau/L$ of the preparation time to the system size exceeds a critical value. In this regime, the optimal protocols can prepare the states with almost perfect accuracy. The optimal protocols are robust against dynamical noise.

id: 1011.3065
title: Strengthening constraints on Yukawa-type corrections to Newtonian gravity from measuring the Casimir force between a cylinder and a plate
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, C. Romero
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures; to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D82:115005,2010
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3065
abstract: We discuss possibility to obtain stronger constraints on non-Newtonian gravity from measuring the gradient of the Casimir force between a cylinder and a plate. Exact analytical expression for the Yukawa-type force in a cylinder-plate configuration is obtained, as well as its asymptotic expansions. The gravitational force is compared with the Casimir force acting between a cylinder and a plate. Numerical computations for the prospective constraints on non-Newtonian gravity are performed for recently proposed experiment using a microfabricated cylinder attached to a micromachined oscillator. Specifically, it is shown that this experiment is expected to obtain up to 70 times stronger constraints on the Yukawa-type force, compared with the best present day limits, over a wide interaction range from 12.5 to 630 nm.

id: 1011.3080
title: Photon shell game in three-resonator circuit quantum electrodynamics
authors: Matteo Mariantoni, H. Wang, Radoslaw C. Bialczak, M. Lenander, Erik Lucero, M. Neeley, A. D. O'Connell, D. Sank, M. Weides, J. Wenner, T. Yamamoto, Y. Yin, J. Zhao, John M. Martinis, A. N. Cleland
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures, 1 table. DOI refers to published paper on Nature Physics, not to the pre-review version posted here
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3080
abstract: The generation and control of quantum states of light constitute fundamental tasks in cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED). The superconducting realization of cavity QED, circuit QED, enables on-chip microwave photonics, where superconducting qubits control and measure individual photon states. A long-standing issue in cavity QED is the coherent transfer of photons between two or more resonators. Here, we use circuit QED to implement a three-resonator architecture on a single chip, where the resonators are interconnected by two superconducting phase qubits. We use this circuit to shuffle one- and two-photon Fock states between the three resonators, and demonstrate qubit-mediated vacuum Rabi swaps between two resonators. This illustrates the potential for using multi-resonator circuits as photon quantum registries and for creating multipartite entanglement between delocalized bosonic modes.

id: 1011.3201
title: Dynamical generation of phase-squeezed states in a two-component Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: G. R. Jin, Y. An, T. Yan, Z. S. Lu
comments: 6.2 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 82, 063622 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3201
abstract: As an "input" state of a linear (Mach-Zehnder or Ramsey) interferometer, the phase-squeezed state proposed by Berry and Wiseman exhibits the best sensitivity approaching to the Heisenberg limit [Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 5098 (2000)]. In this paper, we find that it can be generated dynamically with atomic Bose-Einstein condensates confined in a symmetric double well. Similar with the Berry and Wiseman's state, the prepared states show the squeezing along spin operator S_y and the anti-squeezing along S_z, leading to a sub-shot-noise of the phase sensitivity.

id: 1011.3211
title: Phase diffusion of a two-component Bose-Einstein condensates: exact and short-time solutions for arbitrary coherent spin state
authors: G. R. Jin, B. B. Wang, Y. W. Lu
comments: 3.6pages, 3 figures
journal: Chin. Phys.B 19, 020502 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3211
abstract: We investigate phase diffusion of a two-component Bose-Einstein condensates prepared initially in arbitrary coherent spin state $|\theta_0,\phi_0\rangle$. Analytical expression of the phase-diffusion time is presented for $\theta_0\neq\pi/2$ case. In comparison with the symmetrical case (i.e., $\theta_0=\pi/2$), we find that the diffusion process becomes slowly due to the reduced atom number variance.

id: 1011.3277
title: Topological disentangler for the valence-bond-solid chain
authors: Kouichi Okunishi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 104411 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3277
abstract: We discuss topological disentangler for S=1 quantum spin chains in the Haldane phase. We first point out that Kennedy-Tasaki's(KT) nonlocal unitary transformation is the perfect disentangler for Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki model. We then demonstrate that the KT transformation can be reconstructed as an assembly of pair disentanglers. Finally, we show that the KT transformation can be regarded as a topological disentangler, which selectively disentangles the double-fold degeneracy in the entanglement spectrum of the S=1 Heisenberg chain.

id: 1011.3285
title: Full 3D Quantum Transport Simulation of Atomistic Interface Roughness in Silicon Nanowire FETs
authors: SungGeun Kim, Abhijeet Paul, Mathieu Luisier, Timothy B. Boykin, Gerhard Klimeck
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3285
abstract: The influence of interface roughness scattering (IRS) on the performances of silicon nanowire field-effect transistors (NWFETs) is numerically investigated using a full 3D quantum transport simulator based on the atomistic sp3d5s* tight-binding model. The interface between the silicon and the silicon dioxide layers is generated in a real-space atomistic representation using an experimentally derived autocovariance function (ACVF). The oxide layer is modeled in the virtual crystal approximation (VCA) using fictitious SiO2 atoms. <110>-oriented nanowires with different diameters and randomly generated surface configurations are studied. The experimentally observed ON-current and the threshold voltage is quantitatively captured by the simulation model. The mobility reduction due to IRS is studied through a qualitative comparison of the simulation results with the experimental results.

id: 1011.3375
title: Global fixed point proof of time-dependent density-functional theory
authors: Michael Ruggenthaler, Robert van Leeuwen
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Europhysics Letters 95, 13001 (2011)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3375
abstract: We reformulate and generalize the uniqueness and existence proofs of time-dependent density-functional theory. The central idea is to restate the fundamental one-to-one correspondence between densities and potentials as a global fixed point question for potentials on a given time-interval. We show that the unique fixed point, i.e. the unique potential generating a given density, is reached as the limiting point of an iterative procedure. The one-to-one correspondence between densities and potentials is a straightforward result provided that the response function of the divergence of the internal forces is bounded. The existence, i.e. the v-representability of a density, can be proven as well provided that the operator norms of the response functions of the members of the iterative sequence of potentials have an upper bound. The densities under consideration have second time-derivatives that are required to satisfy a condition slightly weaker than being square-integrable. This approach avoids the usual restrictions of Taylor-expandability in time of the uniqueness theorem by Runge and Gross [Phys.Rev.Lett.52, 997 (1984)] and of the existence theorem by van Leeuwen [Phys.Rev.Lett. 82, 3863 (1999)]. Owing to its generality, the proof not only answers basic questions in density-functional theory but also has potential implications in other fields of physics.

id: 1011.3433
title: Recurrence and differential relations for spherical spinors
authors: Rados?aw Szmytkowski
comments: LaTeX, 12 pages
journal: J.Math.Chem.42:397-413,2007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3433
abstract: We present a comprehensive table of recurrence and differential relations obeyed by spin one-half spherical spinors (spinor spherical harmonics) $\Omega_{\kappa\mu}(\mathbf{n})$ used in relativistic atomic, molecular, and solid state physics, as well as in relativistic quantum chemistry. First, we list finite expansions in the spherical spinor basis of the expressions $\mathbf{A}\cdot\mathbf{B}\,\Omega_{\kappa\mu}(\mathbf{n})$ and {$\mathbf{A}\cdot(\mathbf{B}\times\mathbf{C})\, \Omega_{\kappa\mu}(\mathbf{n})$}, where $\mathbf{A}$, $\mathbf{B}$, and $\mathbf{C}$ are either of the following vectors or vector operators: $\mathbf{n}=\mathbf{r}/r$ (the radial unit vector), $\mathbf{e}_{0}$, $\mathbf{e}_{\pm1}$ (the spherical, or cyclic, versors), $\boldsymbol{\sigma}$ (the $2\times2$ Pauli matrix vector), $\hat{\mathbf{L}}=-i\mathbf{r}\times\boldsymbol{\nabla}I$ (the dimensionless orbital angular momentum operator; $I$ is the $2\times2$ unit matrix), $\hat{\mathbf{J}}=\hat{\mathbf{L}}+1/2\boldsymbol{\sigma}$ (the dimensionless total angular momentum operator). Then, we list finite expansions in the spherical spinor basis of the expressions $\mathbf{A}\cdot\mathbf{B}\,F(r)\Omega_{\kappa\mu}(\mathbf{n})$ and $\mathbf{A}\cdot(\mathbf{B}\times\mathbf{C})\, F(r)\Omega_{\kappa\mu}(\mathbf{n})$, where at least one of the objects $\mathbf{A}$, $\mathbf{B}$, $\mathbf{C}$ is the nabla operator $\boldsymbol{\nabla}$, while the remaining ones are chosen from the set $\mathbf{n}$, $\mathbf{e}_{0}$, $\mathbf{e}_{\pm1}$, $\boldsymbol{\sigma}$, $\hat{\mathbf{L}}$, $\hat{\mathbf{J}}$.

id: 1011.3508
title: Entropy production and equilibration in Yang-Mills quantum mechanics
authors: Hung-Ming Tsai, Berndt M¨¹ller
comments: 23 pages, 23 figures
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3508
abstract: The Husimi distribution provides for a coarse grained representation of the phase space distribution of a quantum system, which may be used to track the growth of entropy of the system. We present a general and systematic method of solving the Husimi equation of motion for an isolated quantum system, and we construct a coarse grained Hamiltonian whose expectation value is exactly conserved. As an application, we numerically solve the Husimi equation of motion for two-dimensional Yang-Mills quantum mechanics (the x-y model) and calculate the time evolution of the coarse grained entropy of a highly excited state. We show that the coarse grained entropy saturates to a value that coincides with the microcanonical entropy corresponding to the energy of the system.

id: 1011.3608
title: Photon spin operator and Pauli matrix
authors: Chun-Fang Li, Xi Chen
comments: 14 pages and 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3608
abstract: Any polarization vector of a plane wave can be decomposed into a pair of mutually orthogonal base vectors, known as a polarization basis. Regarding this decomposition as a quasi-unitary transformation from a three-component vector to a corresponding two-component spinor, one is led to a representation formalism for the photon spin. The spin operator $\hat{\boldsymbol \gamma}$ defined on the space of unit spinors, referred to as the Jones space, has only component along the wave vector and is represented by one of the Pauli matrices in the commonly used polarization basis. It is deformed by the quasi-unitary transformation from the spin operator that is defined on the space of unit polarization vectors, referred to as the Pancharatnam space. On the basis of this theory, it is shown that the Cartesian components of spin operator $\hat{\boldsymbol \gamma}$ are mutually commutative and the spin angular momentum in units of $\hbar$ is exactly the component of the Stokes vector along the wave vector.

id: 1011.3646
title: Quantum Abacus for counting and factorizing numbers
authors: M. V. Suslov, G. B. Lesovik, G. Blatter
comments: 23 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3646
abstract: We generalize the binary quantum counting algorithm of Lesovik, Suslov, and Blatter [Phys. Rev. A 82, 012316 (2010)] to higher counting bases. The algorithm makes use of qubits, qutrits, and qudits to count numbers in a base 2, base 3, or base d representation. In operating the algorithm, the number n < N = d^K is read into a K-qudit register through its interaction with a stream of n particles passing in a nearby wire; this step corresponds to a quantum Fourier transformation from the Hilbert space of particles to the Hilbert space of qudit states. An inverse quantum Fourier transformation provides the number n in the base d representation; the inverse transformation is fully quantum at the level of individual qudits, while a simpler semi-classical version can be used on the level of qudit registers. Combining registers of qubits, qutrits, and qudits, where d is a prime number, with a simpler single-shot measurement allows to find the powers of 2, 3, and other primes d in the number n. We show, that the counting task naturally leads to the shift operation and an algorithm based on the quantum Fourier transformation. We discuss possible implementations of the algorithm using quantum spin-d systems, d-well systems, and their emulation with spin-1/2 or double-well systems. We establish the analogy between our counting algorithm and the phase estimation algorithm and make use of the latter's performance analysis in stabilizing our scheme. Applications embrace a quantum metrological scheme to measure a voltage (analog to digital converter) and a simple procedure to entangle multi-particle states.

id: 1011.3664
title: Quantum relaxation after a quench in systems with boundaries
authors: Ferenc Igl¨®i, Heiko Rieger
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 035701 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3664
abstract: We study the time-dependence of the magnetization profile, m_l(t), of a large finite open quantum Ising chain after a quench. We observe a cyclic variation, in which starting with an exponentially decreasing period the local magnetization arrives to a quasi-stationary regime, which is followed by an exponentially fast reconstruction period. The non-thermal behavior observed at near-surface sites turns over to thermal behavior for bulk sites. Besides the standard time- and length-scales a non-standard time-scale is identified in the reconstruction period.

id: 1011.3679
title: Bound states of the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau equation with a mixed minimal-nonminimal vector cusp potential
authors: A.S. de Castro
comments: 
journal: J.Phys.A44:035201,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3679
abstract: The problem of spin-0 and spin-1 bosons subject to a general mixing of minimal and nonminimal vector cusp potentials is explored in a unified way in the context of the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau theory. Effects on the bound-state solutions due to a short-range interaction are discussed in some detail.

id: 1011.3690
title: The quantum N-body problem with a minimal length
authors: F. Buisseret
comments: To appear in PRA
journal: Phys.Rev.82:062102,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3690
abstract: The quantum $N$-body problem is studied in the context of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics with a one-dimensional deformed Heisenberg algebra of the form $[\hat x,\hat p]=i(1+\beta \hat p^2)$, leading to the existence of a minimal observable length $\sqrt\beta$. For a generic pairwise interaction potential, analytical formulas are obtained that allow to estimate the ground-state energy of the $N$-body system by finding the ground-state energy of a corresponding two-body problem. It is first shown that, in the harmonic oscillator case, the $\beta$-dependent term grows faster with $N$ than the $\beta$-independent one. Then, it is argued that such a behavior should be observed also with generic potentials and for $D$-dimensional systems. In consequence, quantum $N$-body bound states might be interesting places to look at nontrivial manifestations of a minimal length since, the more particles are present, the more the system deviates from standard quantum mechanical predictions.

id: 1011.3760
title: Entanglement Entropy of Two Black Holes and Entanglement Entropic Force
authors: Noburo Shiba
comments: 30 pages, 10 figures; v3, added captions for all figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:065002,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3760
abstract: We study the entanglement entropy, $S_C$, of a massless free scalar field on the outside region $C$ of two black holes $A$ and $B$ whose radii are $R_1$ and $R_2$ and how it depends on the distance, $r(\gg R_1,R_2)$, between two black holes. If we can consider the entanglement entropy as thermodynamic entropy, we can see the entropic force acting on the two black holes from the $r$ dependence of $S_C$. We develop the computational method based on that of Bombelli et al to obtain the $r$ dependence of $S_C$ of scalar fields whose Lagrangian is quadratic with respect to the scalar fields. First we study $S_C$ in $d+1$ dimensional Minkowski spacetime. In this case the state of the massless free scalar field is the Minkowski vacuum state and we replace two black holes by two imaginary spheres, and we take the trace over the degrees of freedom residing in the imaginary spheres. We obtain the leading term of $S_C$ with respect to $1/r$. The result is $S_C=S_A+S_B+\tfrac{1}{r^{2d-2}} G(R_1,R_2)$, where $S_A$ and $S_B$ are the entanglement entropy on the inside region of $A$ and $B$, and $G(R_1,R_2) \leq 0$. We do not calculate $G(R_1,R_2)$ in detail, but we show how to calculate it. In the black hole case we use the method used in the Minkowski spacetime case with some modifications. We show that $S_C$ can be expected to be the same form as that in the Minkowski spacetime case. But in the black hole case, $S_A$ and $S_B$ depend on $r$, so we do not fully obtain the $r$ dependence of $S_C$. Finally we assume that the entanglement entropy can be regarded as thermodynamic entropy, and consider the entropic force acting on two black holes. We argue how to separate the entanglement entropic force from other force and how to cancel $S_A$ and $S_B$ whose $r$ dependence are not obtained. Then we obtain the physical prediction which can be tested experimentally in principle.

id: 1011.3762
title: Quantum memory coupled to cavity modes
authors: Fabio L. Pedrocchi, Stefano Chesi, Daniel Loss
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 115415 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3762
abstract: Inspired by spin-electric couplings in molecular magnets, we introduce in the Kitaev honeycomb model a linear modification of the Ising interactions due to the presence of quantized cavity fields. This allows to control the properties of the low-energy toric code Hamiltonian, which can serve as a quantum memory, by tuning the physical parameters of the cavity modes, like frequencies, photon occupations, and coupling strengths. We study the properties of the model perturbatively by making use of the Schrieffer-Wolff transformation and show that, depending on the specific setup, the cavity modes can be useful in several ways. They allow to detect the presence of anyons through frequency shifts and to prolong the lifetime of the memory by enhancing the anyon excitation energy or mediating long-range anyon-anyon interactions with tunable sign. We consider both resonant and largely detuned cavity modes.

id: 1011.3871
title: Arrayed and checkerboard optical waveguides controlled by the electromagnetically-induced transparency
authors: Yongyao Li, Boris A. Malomed, Mingneng Feng, Jianying Zhou
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, Physical Review A, in press
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3871
abstract: We introduce two models of quasi-discrete optical systems: an array of waveguides doped by four-level N-type atoms, and a nonlinear checkerboard pattern, formed by doping with three-level atoms of the {\Lambda}-type. The dopant atoms are driven by external fields, to induce the effect of the electromagnetically-induced transparency (EIT). These active systems offer advantages and addition degrees of freedom, in comparison with ordinary passive waveguiding systems. In the array of active waveguides, the driving field may adjust linear and nonlinear propagation regimes for a probe signal. The nonlinear checkerboard system supports the transmission of stable spatial solitons and their "fuzzy" counterparts, straight or oblique.

id: 1011.3909
title: Realistic Time-Reversal Invariant Topological Insulators With Neutral Atoms
authors: N. Goldman, I. Satija, P. Nikolic, A. Bermudez, M. A. Martin-Delgado, M. Lewenstein, I. B. Spielman
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, Accepted in Phys. Rev. Lett. (Nov 2010)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett.105 255302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3909
abstract: We lay out an experiment to realize time-reversal invariant topological insulators in alkali atomic gases. We introduce an original method to synthesize a gauge field in the near-field of an atom-chip, which effectively mimics the effects of spin-orbit coupling and produces quantum spin-Hall states. We also propose a feasible scheme to engineer sharp boundaries where the hallmark edge states are localized. Our multi-band system has a large parameter space exhibiting a variety of quantum phase transitions between topological and normal insulating phases. Due to their remarkable versatility, cold-atom systems are ideally suited to realize topological states of matter and drive the development of topological quantum computing.

id: 1011.3913
title: Transition probabilities and dynamic structure factor in the ASEP conditioned on strong flux
authors: V. Popkov, G. M. Sch¨¹tz
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Stat. Phys 142, Issue 3, p. 627 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3913
abstract: We consider the asymmetric simple exclusion processes (ASEP) on a ring constrained to produce an atypically large flux, or an extreme activity. Using quantum free fermion techniques we find the time-dependent conditional transition probabilities and the exact dynamical structure factor under such conditioned dynamics. In the thermodynamic limit we obtain the explicit scaling form. This gives a direct proof that the dynamical exponent in the extreme current regime is $z=1$ rather than the KPZ exponent $z=3/2$ which characterizes the ASEP in the regime of typical currents. Some of our results extend to the activity in the partially asymmetric simple exclusion process, including the symmetric case.

id: 1011.3974
title: Optoelectronic cooling of mechanical modes in a semiconductor nanomembrane
authors: K. Usami, A. Naesby, T. Bagci, B. Melholt Nielsen, J. Liu, S. Stobbe, P. Lodahl, E. S. Polzik
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3974
abstract: Optical cavity cooling of mechanical resonators has recently become a research frontier. The cooling has been realized with a metal-coated silicon microlever via photo-thermal force and subsequently with dielectric objects via radiation pressure. Here we report cavity cooling with a crystalline semiconductor membrane via a new mechanism, in which the cooling force arises from the interaction between the photo-induced electron-hole pairs and the mechanical modes through the deformation potential coupling. The optoelectronic mechanism is so efficient as to cool a mode down to 4 K from room temperature with just 50 uW of light and a cavity with a finesse of 10 consisting of a standard mirror and the sub-wavelength-thick semiconductor membrane itself. The laser-cooled narrow-band phonon bath realized with semiconductor mechanical resonators may open up a new avenue for photonics and spintronics devices.

id: 1011.4000
title: Two-mode Correlation of Microwave Quantum Noise Generated by Parametric Down-Conversion
authors: N. Bergeal, F. Schackert, L. Frunzio, M. H. Devoret
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4000
abstract: In this letter, we report the observation of the correlation between two modes of microwave radiation resulting from the amplification of quantum noise by the Josephson Parametric Converter. This process, seen from the pump, can be viewed as parametric down-conversion. The correlation is measured by an interference experiment displaying a contrast better than 99% with a number of photons per mode greater than two hundred and fifty thousand. Dispersive measurements of mesoscopic systems and quantum encryption can benefit from this development.

id: 1011.4031
title: The Clifford Algebra approach to Quantum Mechanics A: The Schroedinger and Pauli Particles
authors: B.J.Hiley, R.E.Callaghan
comments: 29 pages, LaTex, no figures. Related talk with figures available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4031
abstract: In this paper we show how all the quantum properties of Schroedinger and Pauli particles can be described entirely from within a Clifford algebra taken over the reals. There is no need to appeal to any `wave function'. To describe a quantum system, we define the Clifford density element [CDE] as a product of an element of a minimal left ideal and its Clifford conjugate. The properties of the system are then completely specified in terms of bilinear invariants of the first and second kind calculated using the CDE. Thus the quantum properties of a system can be completely described from within the algebra without the need to appeal to any Hilbert space representation. Furthermore we show that the essential bilinear invariants of the second kind are simply the Bohm energy and the Bohm momentum, entities that make their appearance in the Bohm interpretation. We also show how these parameters emerge from standard quantum field theory in the low energy, single particle approximation. There is no need to appeal to classical mechanics at any stage. This clearly shows that the Bohm approach is entirely within the standard quantum formalism. The method has enabled us to lay the foundations of an approach that can be extended to provide a complete relativistic version of Bohm model. In this paper we confine our attention to the details of the non-relativistic case and will present its relativistic extension in a subsequent paper.

id: 1011.4033
title: The Clifford Algebra Approach to Quantum Mechanics B: The Dirac Particle and its relation to the Bohm Approach
authors: B.J.Hiley, R.E.Callaghan
comments: 28 pages, Latex, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4033
abstract: In this paper we present for the first time a complete description of the Bohm model of the Dirac particle. This result demonstrates again that the common perception that it is not possible to construct a fully relativistic version of the Bohm approach is incorrect. We obtain the fully relativistic version by using an approach based on Clifford algebras outlined in two earlier papers by Hiley and by Hiley and Callaghan. The relativistic model is different from the one originally proposed by Bohm and Hiley and by Doran and Lasenby. We obtain exact expressions for the Bohm energy-momentum density, a relativistic quantum Hamilton-Jacobi for the conservation of energy which includes an expression for the quantum potential and a relativistic time development equation for the spin vectors of the particle. We then show that these reduce to the corresponding non-relativistic expressions for the Pauli particle which have already been derived by Bohm, Schiller and Tiomno and in more general form by Hiley and Callaghan. In contrast to the original presentations, there is no need to appeal to classical mechanics at any stage of the development of the formalism. All the results for the Dirac, Pauli and Schroedinger cases are shown to emerge respectively from the hierarchy of Clifford algebras C(13),C(30), C(01) taken over the reals as Hestenes has already argued. Thus quantum mechanics is emerging from one mathematical structure with no need to appeal to an external Hilbert space with wave functions.

id: 1011.4180
title: STU attractors from vanishing concurrence
authors: P¨¦ter L¨¦vay, Szil¨¢rd Szalay
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures, Latex
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:045005,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4180
abstract: Concurrence is an entanglement measure characterizing the {\it mixed} state bipartite correlations inside of a pure state of an $n$-qubit system. We show that after organizing the charges and the moduli in the STU model of $N=2$, $d=4$ supergravity to a three-qubit state, for static extremal spherically symmetric BPS black hole solutions the vanishing condition for all of the bipartite concurrences on the horizon is equivalent to the attractor equations. As a result of this the macroscopic black hole entropy given by the three-tangle can be reinterpreted as a linear entropy characterizing the {\it pure} state entanglement for an arbitrary bipartite split. Both for the BPS and non-BPS cases explicit expressions for the concurrences are obtained, with their vanishing on the horizon is demonstrated.

id: 1011.4233
title: Nonlinear growth with the microwave intensity in radiation-induced magnetoresistance oscillations
authors: R. G. Mani, C. Gerl, S. Schmult, W. Wegscheider, V. Umansky
comments: 6 pages, 6 color figures
journal: Physical Review B81, 125320 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4233
abstract: We report the observation of inverse-magnetic-field-periodic, radiation-induced magnetoresistance oscillations in GaAs/AlGaAs heterostructures prepared in W. Wegscheider's group, compare their characteristics with similar oscillations in V. Umansky's material, and describe the lineshape variation vs. the radiation power, $P$, in the two systems. We find that the radiation-induced oscillatory $\Delta R_{xx}$, in both materials, can be described by $\Delta R_{xx} = -A exp(-\lambda/B)sin(2 \pi F/B)$, where $A$ is the amplitude, $\lambda$ is the damping parameter, and $F$ is the oscillation frequency. Both $\lambda$ and $F$ turn out to be insensitive to $P$. On the other hand, $A$ grows nonlinearly with $P$.

id: 1011.4281
title: Perfect transmission scattering as a PT-symmetric spectral problem
authors: H. Hernandez-Coronado, D. Krejcirik, P. Siegl
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375 (2011), 2149-2152
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4281
abstract: We establish that a perfect-transmission scattering problem can be described by a class of parity and time reversal symmetric operators and hereby we provide a scenario for understanding and implementing the corresponding quasi-Hermitian quantum mechanical framework from the physical viewpoint. One of the most interesting features of the analysis is that the complex eigenvalues of the underlying non-Hermitian problem, associated with a reflectionless scattering system, lead to the loss of perfect-transmission energies as the parameters characterizing the scattering potential are varied. On the other hand, the scattering data can serve to describe the spectrum of a large class of Schroedinger operators with complex Robin boundary conditions.

id: 1011.4315
title: Synthetic magneto-hydrodynamics in Bose-Einstein condensates and routes to vortex nucleation
authors: L. B. Taylor, R. M. W. van Bijnen, D. H. J. O'Dell, N. G. Parker, S. J. J. M. F. Kokkelmans, A. M. Martin
comments: 4 pages with 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev A 84, 021604(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4315
abstract: Engineering of synthetic magnetic flux in Bose-Einstein condensates [Lin et al., Nature {\bf 462}, 628 (2009)] has prospects for attaining the high vortex densities necessary to emulate the fractional quantum Hall effect. We analytically establish the hydrodynamical behaviour of a condensate in a uniform synthetic magnetic field, including its density and velocity profile. Importantly, we find that the onset of vortex nucleation observed experimentally corresponds to a dynamical instability in the hydrodynamical solutions and reveal other routes to instability and anticipated vortex nucleation.

id: 1011.4317
title: Tunable coupling in circuit quantum electrodynamics with a superconducting V-system
authors: S.J. Srinivasan, A.J. Hoffman, J.M. Gambetta, A.A. Houck
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 083601 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4317
abstract: Recent progress in superconducting qubits has demonstrated the potential of these devices for the future of quantum information processing. One desirable feature for quantum computing is independent control of qubit interactions as well as qubit energies. We demonstrate a new type of superconducting charge qubit that has a V-shaped energy spectrum and uses quantum interference to provide independent control over the qubit energy and dipole coupling to a superconducting cavity. We demonstrate dynamic access to the strong coupling regime by tuning the coupling strength from less than 200 kHz to more than 40 MHz. This tunable coupling can be used to protect the qubit from cavity-induced relaxation and avoid unwanted qubit-qubit interactions in a multi-qubit system.

id: 1011.4329
title: Microwave Photon Counter Based on Josephson Junctions
authors: Y.-F. Chen, D. Hover, S. Sendelbach, L. Maurer, S. T. Merkel, E. J. Pritchett, F. K. Wilhelm, R. McDermott
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4329
abstract: We describe a microwave photon counter based on the current-biased Josephson junction. The junction is tuned to absorb single microwave photons from the incident field, after which it tunnels into a classically observable voltage state. Using two such detectors, we have performed a microwave version of the Hanbury Brown and Twiss experiment at 4 GHz and demonstrated a clear signature of photon bunching for a thermal source. The design is readily scalable to tens of parallelized junctions, a configuration that would allow number-resolved counting of microwave photons.

id: 1011.4369
title: Enhanced sequential carrier capture into individual quantum dots and quantum posts controlled by surface acoustic waves
authors: Stefan V?lk, Florian J. R. Sch¨¹lein, Florian Knall, Dirk Reuter, Andreas D. Wieck, Tuan A. Truong, Hyochul Kim, Pierre M. Petroff, Achim Wixforth, Hubert J. Krenner
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nano Lett. 10, 3399-3407 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4369
abstract: Individual self-assembled Quantum Dots and Quantum Posts are studied under the influence of a surface acoustic wave. In optical experiments we observe an acoustically induced switching of the occupancy of the nanostructures along with an overall increase of the emission intensity. For Quantum Posts, switching occurs continuously from predominantely charged excitons (dissimilar number of electrons and holes) to neutral excitons (same number of electrons and holes) and is independent on whether the surface acoustic wave amplitude is increased or decreased. For quantum dots, switching is non-monotonic and shows a pronounced hysteresis on the amplitude sweep direction. Moreover, emission of positively charged and neutral excitons is observed at high surface acoustic wave amplitudes. These findings are explained by carrier trapping and localization in the thin and disordered two-dimensional wetting layer on top of which Quantum Dots nucleate. This limitation can be overcome for Quantum Posts where acoustically induced charge transport is highly efficient in a wide lateral Matrix-Quantum Well.

id: 1011.4421
title: Mutual information in classical spin models
authors: Johannes Wilms, Matthias Troyer, Frank Verstraete
comments: 
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2011) P10011
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4421
abstract: The total many-body correlations present in finite temperature classical spin systems are studied using the concept of mutual information. As opposed to zero-temperature quantum phase transitions, the total correlations are not maximal at the phase transition, but reach a maximum in the high temperature paramagnetic phase. The Shannon and Renyi mutual information in both Ising and Potts models in 2 dimensions are calculated numerically by combining matrix product states algorithms and Monte Carlo sampling techniques.

id: 1011.4437
title: A consequence of the repulsive Casimir-Lifshitz force on nano-scale and the related Wheeler propagator in the classical electrodynamics
authors: Ferenc Markus, Mario Rocca, Katalin Gambar
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4437
abstract: Mainly on nano-scale, but maybe not exclusively, it can be imagined a spontaneous charge disjunction inside certain media due to the fluctuations, collisions, wall effects, radiation or/and other presently unknown interactions. The repulsive Casimir-Lifshitz force may be also a good candidate as a source of this kind of phenomenon. To cover this assumption mathematically an additional term should appear in the Maxwell equations. As a consequence of this term, similar Klein-Gordon equations with a negative mass term will be obtained for the electric and magnetic fields. These equations may have tachyonic solutions depending on the parameter of the charge disjunction process. Finally, the propagator is formulated, the electric field and the charge density are calculated during the charge disjunction.

id: 1011.4444
title: Time evolution in quantum cosmology
authors: Ian D. Lawrie
comments: 21 pages, no figures; minor revisions and added references; matches version in Phys Rev D
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:043503,2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4444
abstract: A commonly adopted relational account of time evolution in generally-covariant systems, and more specifically in quantum cosmology, is argued to be unsatisfactory, insofar as it describes evolution relative to observed readings of a clock that does not exist as a bona fide observable object. A modified strategy is proposed, in which evolution relative to the proper time that elapses along the worldline of a specific observer can be described through the introduction of a `test clock', regarded as internal to, and hence unobservable by, that observer. This strategy is worked out in detail in the case of a homogeneous cosmology, in the context of both a conventional Schrodinger quantization scheme, and a `polymer' quantization scheme of the kind inspired by loop quantum gravity. Particular attention is given to limitations placed on the observability of time evolution by the requirement that a test clock should contribute only a negligible energy to the Hamiltonian constraint. It is found that suitable compromises are available, in which the clock energy is reasonably small, while Dirac observables are reasonably sharply defined.

id: 1011.4471
title: Full electrical control of Charge and Spin conductance through Interferometry of Edge States in Topological Insulators
authors: Fabrizio Dolcini
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures (expanded discussion section, corrected typos)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 165304 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4471
abstract: We investigate electron interferometry of edge states in Topological Insulators. We show that, when inter-boundary coupling is induced at two quantum point contacts of a four terminal setup, both Fabry-P\'erot-like and Aharonov-Bohm-like loop processes arise. These underlying interference effects lead to a full electrically controllable system, where the magnitude of charge and spin linear conductances can be tuned by gate voltages, without applying magnetic fields. In particular we find that, under appropriate conditions, inter-boundary coupling can lead to negative values of the conductance. Furthermore, the setup also allows to selectively generate pure charge or pure spin currents, by choosing the voltage bias configuration.

id: 1011.4564
title: Fractional occupation in Kohn-Sham density-functional theory and the treatment of non-pure-state v-representable densities
authors: Eli Kraisler, Guy Makov, Nathan Argaman, Itzhak Kelson
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A vol. 80, 032115 (2009)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4564
abstract: In the framework of Kohn-Sham density-functional theory, systems with ground-state densities that are not pure-state v-representable in the non-interacting reference system (PSVR) occur frequently. In the present contribution, a new algorithm, which allows the solution of such systems, is proposed. It is shown that the use of densities which do not correspond to a ground state of their non-interacting reference system is forbidden. As a consequence, the proposed algorithm considers only non-interacting ensemble v-representable densities. The Fe atom, a well-known non-PSVR system, is used as an illustration. Finally, the problem is analyzed within finite temperature density-functional theory, where the physical significance of fractional occupations is exposed and the question of why degenerate states can be unequally occupied is resolved.

id: 1011.4567
title: Ensemble v-representable ab-initio density functional calculation of energy and spin in atoms: atest of exchange-correlation approximations
authors: Eli Kraisler, Guy Makov, Itzhak Kelson
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A, vol. 82, 042516 (2010)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4567
abstract: The total energies and the spin states for atoms and their first ions with Z = 1-86 are calculated within the the local spin-density approximation (LSDA) and the generalized-gradient approximation (GGA) to the exchange-correlation (xc) energy in density-functional theory. Atoms and ions for which the ground-state density is not pure-state v-representable, are treated as ensemble v- representable with fractional occupations of the Kohn-Sham system. A newly developed algorithm which searches over ensemble v-representable densities [E. Kraisler et al., Phys. Rev. A 80, 032115 (2009)] is employed in calculations. It is found that for many atoms the ionization energies obtained with the GGA are only modestly improved with respect to experimental data, as compared to the LSDA. However, even in those groups of atoms where the improvement is systematic, there remains a non-negligible difference with respect to the experiment. The ab-initio electronic configuration in the Kohn-Sham reference system does not always equal the configuration obtained from the spectroscopic term within the independent-electron approximation. It was shown that use of the latter configuration can prevent the energy-minimization process from converging to the global minimum, e.g. in lanthanides. The spin values calculated ab-initio fit the experiment for most atoms and are almost unaffected by the choice of the xc-functional. Among the systems with incorrectly obtained spin there exist some cases (e.g. V, Pt) for which the result is found to be stable with respect to small variations in the xc-approximation. These findings suggest a necessity for a significant modification of the exchange-correlation functional, probably of a non-local nature, to accurately describe such systems. PACS numbers: 31.15.A

id: 1011.4622
title: Colloquium: Physics of optical lattice clocks
authors: Andrei Derevianko, Hidetoshi Katori
comments: 18 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4622
abstract: Recently invented and demonstrated, optical lattice clocks hold great promise for improving the precision of modern timekeeping. These clocks aim at the 10^-18 fractional accuracy, which translates into a clock that would neither lose or gain a fraction of a second over an estimated age of the Universe. In these clocks, millions of atoms are trapped and interrogated simultaneously, dramatically improving clock stability. Here we discuss the principles of operation of these clocks and, in particular, a novel concept of "magic" trapping of atoms in optical lattices. We also highlight recently proposed microwave lattice clocks and several applications that employ the optical lattice clocks as a platform for precision measurements and quantum information processing.

id: 1011.4628
title: Fock Spaces, Landau Operators and the Regular Solutions of time-harmonic Maxwell equations
authors: Denis Constales, Nelson Faustino, Soeren Krausshar
comments: Exposition improved; Some typos corrected; Accepted for publication in J.Phys.A (February 2011). this http URL
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 135303 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Complex Variables (math.CV); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4628
abstract: We investigate the representations of the solutions to Maxwell's equations based on the combination of hypercomplex function-theoretical methods with quantum mechanical methods. Our approach provides us with a characterization for the solutions to the time-harmonic Maxwell system in terms of series expansions involving spherical harmonics resp. spherical monogenics. Also, a thorough investigation for the series representation of the solutions in terms of eigenfunctions of Landau operators that encode $n-$dimensional spinless electrons is given. This new insight should lead to important investigations in the study of regularity and hypo-ellipticity of the solutions to Schr\"odinger equations with natural applications in relativistic quantum mechanics concerning massive spinor fields.

id: 1011.4660
title: Transport, atom blockade and output coupling in a Tonks-Girardeau gas
authors: L. Rutherford, J. Goold, Th. Busch, J.F. McCann
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 055601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4660
abstract: Recent experiments have demonstrated how quantum-mechanical impurities can be created within strongly correlated quantum gases and used to probe the coherence properties of these systems [S. Palzer, C. Zipkes, C. Sias, and M. K\"ohl, Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 150601 (2009).]. Here we present a phenomenological model to simulate such an output coupler for a Tonks-Girardeau gas that shows qualitative agreement with the experimental results for atom transport and output coupling. Our model allows us to explore nonequilibrium transport phenomena in ultracold quantum gases and leads us to predict a regime of atom blockade, where the impurity component becomes localized in the parent cloud despite the presence of gravity. We show that this provides a stable mixed-species quantum gas in the strongly correlated limit.

id: 1011.4724
title: Atomistic theory of spin relaxation in self-assembled In$_{1-x}$Ga$_x$As/GaAs quantum dots at zero magnetic field
authors: Hai Wei, Ming Gong, G-C Guo, Lixin He
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 045317 (2012)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4724
abstract: We present full atomistic calculations of the spin-flip time (T$_{1}$) of electrons and holes mediated by acoustic phonons in self-assembled In$_{1-x}$Ga$_x$As/GaAs quantum dots at zero magnetic field. At low magnetic field, the first-order process is suppressed, and the second-order process becomes dominant. We find that the spin-phonon-interaction induced spin relaxation time is 40 - 80 s for electrons, and 1 - 20 ms for holes at 4.2 K. The calculated hole-spin relaxation times are in good agreement with recent experiments, which suggests that the two-phonon process is the main relaxation mechanism for hole-spin relaxation in the self-assembled quantum dots at zero field. We further clarify the structural and alloy composition effects on the spin relaxation in the quantum dots.

id: 1011.4935
title: Strong direct product theorems for quantum communication and query complexity
authors: Alexander A. Sherstov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4935
abstract: A strong direct product theorem (SDPT) states that solving n instances of a problem requires Omega(n) times the resources for a single instance, even to achieve success probability exp(-Omega(n)). We prove that quantum communication complexity obeys an SDPT whenever the communication lower bound for a single instance is proved by the generalized discrepancy method, the strongest technique in that model. We prove that quantum query complexity obeys an SDPT whenever the query lower bound for a single instance is proved by the polynomial method, one of the two main techniques in that model. In both models, we prove the corresponding XOR lemmas and threshold direct product theorems.

id: 1011.5002
title: Ground state properties of a three-site Bose-Fermi ring with a small number of atoms
authors: Santiago F. Caballero-Benitez, Elena A. Ostrovskaya
comments: 5 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44, 135301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5002
abstract: We investigate a three-site ring system with a small number of quantum degenerate bosons and fermions. By means of the exact diagonalization of the Bose-Fermi-Hubbard Hamiltonian, we show that the symmetry of the ground state configuration is a function of both the boson-boson and the inter-species interaction in the system. The phase diagram of the system, constructed by computing the exact two-body spatial correlations, reveals nontrivial insulating phases that exist even in the strong bosonic tunneling limit and for incommensurate filling of bosons. These insulating phases are due to the inter-species interactions in the system and are not necessarily accompanied by the suppression of the particle number fluctuations.

id: 1011.5019
title: Mixture of Tonks-Girardeau gas and Fermi gas in one-dimensional optical lattices
authors: Shu Chen, Junpeng Cao, Shi-Jian Gu
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 053625 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5019
abstract: We study the Bose-Fermi mixture with infinitely boson-boson repulsion and finite boson-Fermion repulsion. By using a generalized Jordan-Wigner transformation, we show that the system can be mapped to a repulsive Hubbard model and thus can be solved exactly for the case with equal boson and fermion masses. By using the Bethe-ansatz solutions, we investigate the ground state properties of the mixture system. Our results indicate that the system with commensurate filling $n=1$ is a charge insulator but still a superfluid with non-vanishing superfluid density. We also briefly discuss the case with unequal masses for bosons and fermions.

id: 1011.5109
title: Chemical control of the charge state of nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond
authors: M.V. Hauf, B. Grotz, B. Naydenov, M. Dankerl, S. Pezzagna, J. Meijer, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup, M. Stutzmann, F. Reinhard, J.A. Garrido
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5109
abstract: We investigate the effect of surface termination on the charge state of nitrogen vacancy centers, which have been ion-implanted few nanometers below the surface of diamond. We find that, when changing the surface termination from oxygen to hydrogen, previously stable NV- centers convert into NV0 and, subsequently, into an unknown non-fluorescent state. This effect is found to depend strongly on the implantation dose. Simulations of the electronic band structure confirm the dissappearance of NV- in the vicinity of the hydrogen-terminated surface. The band bending, which induces a p-type surface conductive layer leads to a depletion of electrons in the nitrogen vacancies close to the surface. Therefore, hydrogen surface termination provides a chemical way for the control of the charge state of nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond. Furthermore, it opens the way to an electrostatic control of the charge state with the use of an external gate electrode.

id: 1011.5157
title: Coherent state transfer between an electron- and nuclear spin in 15N@C60
authors: Richard M. Brown, Alexei M. Tyryshkin, Kyriakos Porfyrakis, Erik M. Gauger, Brendon W. Lovett, Arzhang Ardavan, S. A. Lyon, G. Andrew. D. Briggs, John J. L. Morton
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures with supplementary material (8 pages)
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5157
abstract: Electron spin qubits in molecular systems offer high reproducibility and the ability to self assemble into larger architectures. However, interactions between neighbouring qubits are 'always-on' and although the electron spin coherence times can be several hundred microseconds, these are still much shorter than typical times for nuclear spins. Here we implement an electron-nuclear hybrid scheme which uses coherent transfer between electron and nuclear spin degrees of freedom in order to both controllably turn on/off dipolar interactions between neighbouring spins and benefit from the long nuclear spin decoherence times (T2n). We transfer qubit states between the electron and 15N nuclear spin in 15N@C60 with a two-way process fidelity of 88%, using a series of tuned microwave and radiofrequency pulses and measure a nuclear spin coherence lifetime of over 100 ms.

id: 1011.5185
title: Fast Converging Path Integrals for Time-Dependent Potentials II: Generalization to Many-body Systems and Real-Time Formalism
authors: Antun Balaz, Ivana Vidanovic, Aleksandar Bogojevic, Aleksandar Belic, Axel Pelster
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures
journal: J.Stat.Mech.2011:03005,2011
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5185
abstract: Based on a previously developed recursive approach for calculating the short-time expansion of the propagator for systems with time-independent potentials and its time-dependent generalization for simple single-particle systems, in this paper we present a full extension of this formalism to a general quantum system with many degrees of freedom in a time-dependent potential. Furthermore, we also present a recursive approach for the velocity-independent part of the effective potential, which is necessary for calculating diagonal amplitudes and partition functions, as well as an extension from the imaginary-time formalism to the real-time one, which enables to study the dynamical properties of quantum systems. The recursive approach developed here allows an analytic derivation of the short-time expansion to orders that have not been accessible before, using the implemented SPEEDUP symbolic calculation code. The analytically derived results are extensively numerically verified by treating several models in both imaginary and real time.

id: 1011.5207
title: Correlation effects on topological insulator
authors: Xiong-Jun Liu, Yang Liu, Xin Liu
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5207
abstract: The strong correlation effects on topological insulator are studied in a two-sublattice system with an onsite single-particle energy difference $\Delta$ between two sublattices. At $\Delta=0$, increasing the onsite interaction strength $U$ drives the transition from the quantum spin Hall insulating state to the non-topological antiferromagnetic Mott-insulating (AFMI) state. When $\Delta$ is larger than a certain value, a topologically trivial band insulator or AFMI at small values of $U$ may change into a quantum anomalous Hall state with antiferromagnetic ordering at intermediate values of $U$. Further increasing $U$ drives the system back into the topologically trivial state of AFMI. The corresponding phenomena is observable in the solid state and cold atom systems. We also propose a scheme to realize and detect these effects in cold atom systems.

id: 1011.5234
title: Lorentz invariance, nonzero minimal uncertainty in position, and inhomogeneity of space at the Planck scale
authors: Arko Bose
comments: As I have been able to prove in a more recent work, the main result of this paper is wrong. That's why I am withdrawing this paper
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5234
abstract: The suspicion that the existence of a minimal uncertainty in position measurements violates Lorentz invariance seems unfounded. It is shown that the existence of such a nonzero minimal uncertainty in position is not only consistent with Lorentz invariance, but that the latter also fixes the algebra between position and momentum which gives rise to this minimal uncertainty. We also investigate how this algebra affects the underlying quantum mechanical structure, and why, at the Planck scale, space can no longer be considered homogeneous.

id: 1011.5273
title: Complementarity and uncertainty in a two-way interferometer
authors: Jie-Hui Huang, Shi-Yao Zhu
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5273
abstract: In terms of operator, the two complementary quantities, the predictability and visibility, are reinvestigated in a two-way interferometer. One Hermitian operator and one non-Hermitian operator (composed of two Hermitian operators) are introduced for the predictability and visibility, respectively. The predictability and visibility can not be measured exactly simultaneously, due to the non-commutation between the two operators. The sum of the variances of the predictability and visibility (the total variance), is used to measure the uncertainty, which is linked to the complementarity relation through the equation, $(\delta_P)^2+(\delta_Vf)^2+P^2+V^2=2$ . This new description for the predictability and visibility connects the complementarity and the uncertainty relations, although neither of them can be derived directly from the other.

id: 1011.5361
title: On the dynamics of Bohmian measures
authors: Peter Markowich, Thierry Paul, Christof Sparber
comments: Slightly revised version: Several typos corrected. Some more details in the proof of the main result
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5361
abstract: The present work is devoted to the study of dynamical features of Bohmian measures, recently introduced by the authors. We rigorously prove that for sufficiently smooth wave functions the corresponding Bohmian measure furnishes a distributional solution of a nonlinear Vlasov-type equation. Moreover, we study the associated defect measures appearing in the classical limit. In one space dimension, this yields a new connection between mono- kinetic Wigner and Bohmian measures. In addition, we shall study the dynamics of Bohmian measures associated to so-called semi-classical wave packets. For these type of wave functions, we prove local in-measure convergence of a rescaled sequence of Bohmian trajectories towards the classical Hamiltonian flow on phase space. Finally, we construct an example of wave functions whose limiting Bohmian measure is not mono-kinetic but nevertheless equals the associated Wigner measure.

id: 1011.5387
title: Quantum criticality in disordered bosonic optical lattices
authors: Xiaoming Cai, Shu Chen, Yupeng Wang
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 043613 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5387
abstract: Using the exact Bose-Fermi mapping, we study universal properties of ground-state density distributions and finite-temperature quantum critical behavior of one-dimensional hard-core bosons in trapped incommensurate optical lattices. Through the analysis of universal scaling relations in the quantum critical regime, we demonstrate that the superfluid to Bose glass transition and the general phase diagram of disordered hard-core bosons can be uniquely determined from finite-temperature density distributions of the trapped disordered system.

id: 1011.5426
title: Large photon number extraction from individual atoms trapped in an optical lattice
authors: Martin Shotter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5426
abstract: The atom-by-atom characterization of quantum gases requires the development of novel measurement techniques. One particularly promising new technique demonstrated in recent experiments uses strong fluorescent laser scattering from neutral atoms confined in a short-period optical lattice to measure the position of individual atoms in the sample. A crucial condition for the measurements is that atomic hopping between lattice sites must be strongly suppressed despite substantial photon recoil heating. This article models three-dimensional polarization gradient cooling of atoms trapped within a far-detuned optical lattice. The atomic dynamics are simulated using a hybrid Monte Carlo and master equation analysis in order to predict the frequency of processes which give rise to degradation or loss of the fluorescent signal during measurements. It is shown, consistent with the experimental results, that there exists a wide parameter range in which the lifetime of strongly-fluorescing isolated lattice-trapped atoms is limited by background gas collisions rather than radiative processes. In these cases the total number of scattered photons can be as large as 10^8 per atom. The performance of the technique is related to relevant experimental parameters.

id: 1011.5460
title: Quantum Walks on Regular Graphs and Eigenvalues
authors: Chris Godsil, Krystal Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5460
abstract: We study the transition matrix of a quantum walk on strongly regular graphs. It is proposed by Emms, Hancock, Severini and Wilson in 2006, that the spectrum of $S^+(U^3)$, a matrix based on the amplitudes of walks in the quantum walk, distinguishes strongly regular graphs. We find the eigenvalues of $S^+(U)$ and $S^+(U^2)$ for regular graphs.

id: 1011.5467
title: Non-Abelian operations on Majorana fermions via single charge control
authors: Karsten Flensberg
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 090503 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5467
abstract: We demonstrate that non-Abelian rotations within the degenerate groundstate manifold of a set of Majorana fermions can be realized by the addition or removal of single electrons, and propose an implementation using Coulomb blockaded quantum dots. The exchange of electrons generates rotations similar to braiding, though not in real space. Unlike braiding operations, rotations by a continuum of angles are possible, while still being partially robust against perturbations. The quantum dots can also be used for readout of the state of the Majorana system via a charge measurement.

id: 1011.5482
title: Entanglement entropy of two disjoint intervals in conformal field theory II
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, John Cardy, Erik Tonni
comments: 31 pages, 4 figures
journal: J.Stat.Mech.1101:P01021,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5482
abstract: We continue the study of the entanglement entropy of two disjoint intervals in conformal field theories that we started in J. Stat. Mech. (2009) P11001. We compute Tr\rho_A^n for any integer n for the Ising universality class and the final result is expressed as a sum of Riemann-Siegel theta functions. These predictions are checked against existing numerical data. We provide a systematic method that gives the full asymptotic expansion of the scaling function for small four-point ratio (i.e. short intervals). These formulas are compared with the direct expansion of the full results for free compactified boson and Ising model. We finally provide the analytic continuation of the first term in this expansion in a completely analytic form.

id: 1011.5510
title: Klein-Gordon Equation in Hydrodynamical Form
authors: Cheuk-Yin Wong
comments: 13 pages
journal: J.Math.Phys.51:122304,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5510
abstract: We follow and modify the Feshbach-Villars formalism by separating the Klein-Gordon equation into two coupled time-dependent Schroedinger equations for particle and antiparticle wave function components with positive probability densities. We find that the equation of motion for the probability densities is in the form of relativistic hydrodynamics where various forces have their classical counterparts, with the additional element of the quantum stress tensor that depends on the derivatives of the amplitude of the wave function. We derive the equation of motion for the Wigner function and we find that its approximate classical weak-field limit coincides with the equation of motion for the distribution function in the collisionless kinetic theory.

id: 1011.5598
title: Dissipative dynamics of a two-qubit system: Four-level lasing
authors: E. A. Temchenko, S. N. Shevchenko, A. N. Omelyanchouk
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures; v2: minor changes due to referee reports
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 144507 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5598
abstract: The dissipative dynamics of a two-qubit system is studied theoretically. We make use of the Bloch-Redfield formalism which explicitly includes the parameter-dependent relaxation rates. We consider the case of two flux qubits, when the controlling parameters are the partial magnetic fluxes through the qubits' loops. The strong dependence of the inter-level relaxation rates on the controlling magnetic fluxes is demonstrated for the realistic system. This allows us to propose several mechanisms for lasing in this four-level system.

id: 1011.5609
title: Design of a technique to measure the density of ultracold atoms in a short-period optical lattice in three dimensions with single atom sensitivity
authors: Martin Shotter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5609
abstract: A measurement technique is described which has the potential to map the atomic site occupancies of ultracold atoms in a short-period three-dimensional optical lattice. The method uses accordion and pinning lattices, together with polarization gradient cooling and fluorescence detection, to measure the positions of individual atoms within the sample in three dimensions at a resolution of around half the atomic resonant wavelength. The method measures the site occupancy, rather than the parity of the site occupancy, of atoms in the lattice. It is expected that such measurements hold significant potential for the study of ultracold quantum dynamics.

id: 1011.5669
title: Strongly Modified Plasmon-Matter Interaction with Mesoscopic Quantum Emitters
authors: Mads Lykke Andersen, S?ren Stobbe, Anders S?ndberg S?rensen, Peter Lodahl
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5669
abstract: Semiconductor quantum dots (QDs) provide an essential link between light and matter in emerging fields such as light-harvesting, all-solid-state quantum communication, and quantum computing. QDs are excellent single-photon sources and can store quantum bits for extended periods making them promising interconnects between light and matter in integrated quantum information networks. To this end the light-matter interaction strength must be strongly enhanced using nanophotonic structures such as photonic crystal cavities and waveguides or plasmonic nanowires. So far it has been assumed that QDs can be treated just like atomic photon emitters where the spatial properties of the wavefunction can be safely ignored. Here we demonstrate that the point-emitter description for QDs near plasmonic nanostructures breaks down. We observe that the QDs can excite plasmons eight times more efficiently depending on their orientation due to their mesoscopic character. Either enhancement or suppresion of the rate of plasmon excitation is observed depending on the geometry of the plasmonic nanostructure in full agreement with a new theory. This discovery has no equivalence in atomic systems and paves the way for novel nanophotonic devices that exploit the extended size of QDs as a resource for increasing the light-matter interaction strength.

id: 1011.5673
title: Minimal Length and Bouncing Particle Spectrum
authors: Kourosh Nozari, Pouria Pedram
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, to appear in Europhysics Letters
journal: EPL 92 (2010) 50013
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5673
abstract: In this paper we study the effects of the Generalized Uncertainty Principle (GUP) on the spectrum of a particle that is bouncing vertically and elastically on a smooth reflecting floor in the Earth's gravitational field (a quantum bouncer). We calculate energy levels and corresponding wave functions of this system in terms of the GUP parameter. We compare the outcomes of our study with the results obtained from elementary quantum mechanics. A potential application of the present study is discussed finally.

id: 1011.5754
title: Background independent condensed matter models for quantum gravity
authors: Alioscia Hamma, Fotini Markopoulou
comments: Contribution submitted to the focus issue of the New Journal of Physics on "Classical and Quantum Analogues for Gravitational Phenomena and Related Effects", R. Schuetzhold, U. Leonhardt and C. Maia, Eds
journal: New J.Phys.13:095006,2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5754
abstract: A number of recent proposals for a quantum theory of gravity are based on the idea that spacetime geometry and gravity are derivative concepts and only apply at an approximate level. There are two fundamental challenges to any such approach. At the conceptual level, there is a clash between the "timelessness" of general relativity and emergence. Second, the lack of a fundamental spacetime makes difficult the straightforward application of well-known methods of statistical physics to the problem. We recently initiated a study of such problems using spin systems based on evolution of quantum networks with no a priori geometric notions as models for emergent geometry and gravity. In this article we review two such models. The first is a model of emergent (flat) space and matter and we show how to use methods from quantum information theory to derive features such as speed of light from a non-geometric quantum system. The second model exhibits interacting matter and geometry, with the geometry defined by the behavior of matter. This model has primitive notions of gravitational attraction which we illustrate with a toy black hole, and exhibits entanglement between matter and geometry and thermalization of the quantum geometry.

id: 1011.5818
title: On Electron Pairing in One-Dimensional Anharmonic Crystal Lattices
authors: M.G. Velarde, L. Brizhik, A.P. Chetverikov, L. Cruzeiro, W. Ebeling, G. Roepke
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5818
abstract: We show that when anharmonicity is added to the electron-phonon interaction it facilitates electron pairing in a localized state. Such localized state appears as singlet state of two electrons bound with the traveling local lattice soliton distortion which survives when Coulomb repulsion is included.

id: 1011.5859
title: Classical Tensors and Quantum Entanglement II: Mixed States
authors: P. Aniello, J. Clemente-Gallardo, G. Marmo, G. F. Volkert
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures
journal: Int.J.Geom.Meth.Mod.Phys.08:853-883,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5859
abstract: Invariant operator-valued tensor fields on Lie groups are considered. These define classical tensor fields on Lie groups by evaluating them on a quantum state. This particular construction, applied on the local unitary group U(n)xU(n), may establish a method for the identification of entanglement monotone candidates by deriving invariant functions from tensors being by construction invariant under local unitary transformations. In particular, for n=2, we recover the purity and a concurrence related function (Wootters 1998) as a sum of inner products of symmetric and anti-symmetric parts of the considered tensor fields. Moreover, we identify a distinguished entanglement monotone candidate by using a non-linear realization of the Lie algebra of SU(2)xSU(2). The functional dependence between the latter quantity and the concurrence is illustrated for a subclass of mixed states parametrized by two variables.

id: 1011.5932
title: Effective Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians for Studying Resonance Statistics in Open Disordered Systems
authors: Joshua Feinberg
comments: Latex, 20 pages, 1 fig. Expanded version of a talk at the Workshop on Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics IX, June 21-24 2010, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China. Accepted for publication in the Internationa Journal of Theoretical Physics (Springer Verlag)
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.50:1116-1125,2011
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5932
abstract: We briefly discuss construction of energy-dependent effective non-hermitian hamiltonians for studying resonances in open disordered systems

id: 1011.5938
title: Quantum limited amplification with a nonlinear cavity detector
authors: Catherine Laflamme, Aashish A. Clerk
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A83:033803,2011
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5938
abstract: We consider the quantum measurement properties of a driven cavity with a Kerr-type nonlinearity which is used to amplify a dispersively coupled input signal. Focusing on an operating regime which is near a bifurcation point, we derive simple asymptotic expressions describing the cavity's noise and response. We show that the cavity's backaction and imprecision noise allow for quantum limited linear amplification and position detection only if one is able to utilize the sizeable correlations between these quantities. This is possible when one amplifies a non-resonant signal, but is not possible in QND qubit detection. We also consider the possibility of using the nonlinear cavity's backaction for cooling a mechanical mode.

id: 1011.5944
title: Richardson-Gaudin Algebras and the Exact Solutions of the Proton-Neutron Pairing
authors: V. G. Gueorguiev, J. Dukelsky
comments: 13 pages, no figures, Contribution to the XII International Conference on Geometry, Integrability and Quantization, June 04-09, 2010, Varna, Bulgaria
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5944
abstract: Many exactly solvable models are based on Lie algebras. The pairing interaction is important in nuclear physics and its exact solution for identical particles in non-degenerate single-particle levels was first given by Richardson in 1963. His solution and its generalization to Richardson-Gaudin quasi-exactly solvable models have attracted the attention of many contemporary researchers and resulted in the exact solution of the isovector pn-pairing within the so(5) RG-model and the equal strength spin-isospin pn-pairing within the so(8) RG-model. Basic properties of the RG-models are summarized and possible applications to nuclear physics are emphasized. MSC2010 Classification: 81U15 Exactly and quasi-solvable systems, 17B81 Applications to physics, 81V35 Nuclear physics, 81R40 Symmetry breaking.

id: 1011.5947
title: Challenges for Modeling Nuclear Structure: Are the Proton and Neutron Masses and A-body Interactions Relevant?
authors: V.G. Gueorguiev, P. Navratil, J.P. Vary, J.P. Draayer, F. Pan
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, Contribution to the XXIX International Workshop on Nuclear Theory, June 20 - 26, 2010, Rila Mountains, Bulgaria
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5947
abstract: We discuss some of the challenges that future nuclear modeling may face in order to improve the description of the nuclear structure. One challenge is related to the need for A-body nuclear interactions justified by various contemporary nuclear physics studies. Another challenge is related to the discrepancy in the NNN contact interaction parameters for 3He and 3H that suggests the need for accurate proton and neutron masses in the future precision calculations. MSC2010 Classification: 17B81 Applications to physics, 17B80 Applications to integrable systems, 81R12 Relations with integrable systems, 81V70 Many-body theory, 81V35 Nuclear physics, 81U15 Exactly and quasi-solvable systems, 82B23 Exactly solvable models; Bethe ansatz.

id: 1011.5949
title: Blackbody radiation shift, multipole polarizabilities, oscillator strengths, lifetimes, hyperfine constants, and excitation energies in Ca+
authors: M. S. Safronova, U.I. Safronova
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5949
abstract: A systematic study of Ca+ atomic properties is carried out using high-precision relativistic all-order method where all single, double, and partial triple excitations of the Dirac-Fock wave functions are included to all orders of perturbation theory. Reduced matrix elements, oscillator strengths, transition rates, and lifetimes are determined for the levels up to n = 7. Recommended values and estimates of their uncertainties are provided for a large number of electric-dipole transitions. Electric-dipole scalar polarizabilities for the 5s, 6s, 7s, 8s, 4p, 5p, 3d, and 4d states and tensor polarizabilities for the 4p, 5p, 3d, and 4d states in Ca+ are calculated. Methods are developed to accurately treat the contributions from highly-excited states, resulting in significant (factor of 3) improvement in accuracy of the 3d_{5/2} static polarizability value, 31.8(3) a.u., in comparison with the previous calculation [Arora et al., Phys. Rev. A 76, 064501 (2007)]. The blackbody radiation (BBR) shift of the 4s - 3d_{5/2} clock transition in Ca+ is calculated to be 0.381(4) Hz at room temperature, T=300K. Electric-quadrupole 4s -nd and electric-octupole 4s -nf matrix elements are calculated to obtain the ground state multipole E2 and E3 static polarizabilities. The hyperfine constants A are determined for the low-lying levels up to n = 7. The quadratic Stark effect on hyperfine structure levels of 43Ca+ ground state is investigated. These calculations provide recommended values critically evaluated for their accuracy for a number of Ca+ atomic properties for use in planning and analysis of various experiments as well as theoretical modeling.

id: 1011.6013
title: A reduced complexity numerical method for optimal gate synthesis
authors: Srinivas Sridharan, Mile Gu, Matthew R. James, William M. McEneaney
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 042319 (2010)
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6013
abstract: Although quantum computers have the potential to efficiently solve certain problems considered difficult by known classical approaches, the design of a quantum circuit remains computationally difficult. It is known that the optimal gate design problem is equivalent to the solution of an associated optimal control problem, the solution to which is also computationally intensive. Hence, in this article, we introduce the application of a class of numerical methods (termed the max-plus curse of dimensionality free techniques) that determine the optimal control thereby synthesizing the desired unitary gate. The application of this technique to quantum systems has a growth in complexity that depends on the cardinality of the control set approximation rather than the much larger growth with respect to spatial dimensions in approaches based on gridding of the space, used in previous literature. This technique is demonstrated by obtaining an approximate solution for the gate synthesis on $SU(4)$- a problem that is computationally intractable by grid based approaches.

id: 1011.6019
title: Vertex coupling in quantum graphs: approximations by scaled Schroedinger operators
authors: Pavel Exner
comments: 22 pages, to appear in Proceedings of the ICM satellite conference "Mathematics in Science and Technology" (New Delhi, August 15-17, 2010); in the revised version some typos are corrected and a figure is reformatted
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6019
abstract: We review recent progress in understanding the physical meaning of quantum graph models through analysis of their vertex coupling approximations.

id: 1011.6103
title: Early Stage of Superradiance from Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: L. F. Buchmann, G. M. Nikolopoulos, O. Zobay, P. Lambropoulos
comments: 27 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 023608 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6103
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of matter and optical waves at the early stage of superradiant Rayleigh scattering from Bose-Einstein Condensates. Our analysis is within a spatially dependent quantum model which is capable of providing analytic solutions for the operators of interest. The predictions of the present model are compared to the predictions of a closely related mean field model, and we provide a procedure that allows one to calculate quantum expectation values by averaging over semiclassical solutions. The coherence properties of the outgoing scattered light are also analyzed, and it is shown that the corresponding correlation functions may provide detailed information about the internal dynamics of the system.

id: 1011.6114
title: Spin Liquid Ground State of the $S=1/2$ Kagome Heisenberg Model
authors: Simeng Yan, David A. Huse, Steven R. White
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Science 332, 1173-1176 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6114
abstract: Condensed matter physicists have long sought a realistic two-dimensional (2D) magnetic system whose ground state is a {\it spin liquid}---a zero temperature state in which quantum fluctuations have melted away any form of magnetic order. The nearest-neighbor $S=1/2$ Heisenberg model on the kagome lattice has seemed an ideal candidate, but in recent years some approximate numerical approaches to it have yielded instead a valence bond crystal. We have used the density matrix renormalization group to perform very accurate simulations on numerous cylinders with circumferences up to 12 lattice spacings, finding instead of the valence bond crystal a singlet-gapped spin liquid with substantially lower energy that appears to have $Z_2$ topological order. Our results, through a combination of very low energy, short correlation lengths and corresponding small finite size effects, a new rigorous energy bound, and consistent behavior on many cylinders, provide strong evidence that the 2D ground state of this model is a gapped spin liquid.

id: 1011.6115
title: Direct observation of two-phonon bound states in ZnTe
authors: Jianbo Hu, Oleg V. Misochko, Kazutaka G. Nakamura
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, This paper is accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. B
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6115
abstract: A coherent two-phonon bound state has been impulsively generated in ZnTe(110) via second-order Raman scattering in the time domain for the first time. The two-phonon bound state, composed of two anticorrelated in wave vector acoustic phonons, exhibits full {\Gamma}1 symmetry and has energy higher than the corresponding 2TA(X) overtone. By suppressing two-phonon fluctuations with a double-pulse excitation, the coexistence of coherently excited bound and unbound two-phonon states has been demonstrated.

id: 1011.6320
title: The quantum Biroli-M¨¦zard model: glass transition and superfluidity in a quantum lattice glass model
authors: Laura Foini, Guilhem Semerjian, Francesco Zamponi
comments: 33 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 094513 (2011)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6320
abstract: We study the quantum version of a lattice model whose classical counterpart captures the physics of structural glasses. We discuss the role of quantum fluctuations in such systems and in particular their interplay with the amorphous order developed in the glass phase. We show that quantum fluctuations might facilitate the formation of the glass at low enough temperature. We also show that the glass transition becomes a first-order transition between a superfluid and an insulating glass at very low temperature, and is therefore accompanied by phase coexistence between superfluid and glassy regions.

id: 1011.6444
title: Emergence of a new pair-coherent phase in many-body quenches of repulsive bosons
authors: Uwe R. Fischer, Kang-Soo Lee, Bo Xiong
comments: 4 pages of RevTex4-1, 4 figures; Rapid Communication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 011604(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6444
abstract: We investigate the dynamical mode population statistics and associated first- and second-order coherence of an interacting bosonic two-mode model when the pair-exchange coupling is quenched from negative to positive values. It is shown that for moderately rapid second-order transitions, a new pair-coherent phase emerges on the positive coupling side in an excited state, which is not fragmented as the ground-state single-particle density matrix would prescribe it to be.

id: 1011.6477
title: Bose-Einstein condensation with a finite number of particles in a power-law trap
authors: Amine Jaouadi, Mourad Telmini, Eric Charron
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6477
abstract: Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) of an ideal gas is investigated, beyond the thermodynamic limit, for a finite number $N$ of particles trapped in a generic three-dimensional power-law potential. We derive an analytical expression for the condensation temperature $T_c$ in terms of a power series in $x_0=\epsilon_0/k_BT_c$, where $\epsilon_0$ denotes the zero-point energy of the trapping potential. This expression, which applies in cartesian, cylindrical and spherical power-law traps, is given analytically at infinite order. It is also given numerically for specific potential shapes as an expansion in powers of $x_0$ up to the second order. We show that, for a harmonic trap, the well known first order shift of the critical temperature $\Delta T_c/T_c \propto N^{-1/3}$ is inaccurate when $N \leqslant 10^{5}$, the next order (proportional to $N^{-1/2}$) being significant. We also show that finite size effects on the condensation temperature cancel out in a cubic trapping potential, e.g. $V(\mathbi{r}) \propto r^3$. Finally, we show that in a generic power-law potential of higher order, e.g. $V(\mathbi{r}) \propto r^\alpha$ with $\alpha > 3$, the shift of the critical temperature becomes positive. This effect provides a large increase of $T_c$ for relatively small atom numbers. For instance, an increase of about +40% is expected with $10^4$ atoms in a $V(\mathbi{r}) \propto r^{12}$ trapping potential.

id: 1011.6529
title: Ideal Quantum non-demolishing measurement of a flux qubit at variable bias
authors: Ying-Dan Wang, Xiaobo Zhu, Christoph Bruder
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 134504 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6529
abstract: We propose a scheme to realize a quantum non-demolition (QND) measurement of a superconducting flux qubit by a Josephson bifurcation amplifier. Our scheme can implement a perfect QND measurement for a qubit subject to a variable magnetic bias. Measurement back-action induced qubit relaxation can be suppressed and hence the QND fidelity is expected to be high over a wide range of bias conditions.

id: 1011.6530
title: Entanglement of quantum spin systems: a valence-bond approach
authors: S. Capponi, F. Alet, M. Mambrini
comments: Proceedings of StatPhys 24 satellite conference in Hanoi; submitted for a special issue of Modern Physics Letters B
journal: Modern Physics Letters B, Volume: 25, Issues: 12-13(2011) pp. 917-928
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6530
abstract: In order to quantify entanglement between two parts of a quantum system, one of the most used estimator is the Von Neumann entropy. Unfortunately, computing this quantity for large interacting quantum spin systems remains an open issue. Faced with this difficulty, other estimators have been proposed to measure entanglement efficiently, mostly by using simulations in the valence-bond basis. We review the different proposals and try to clarify the connections between their geometric definitions and proper observables. We illustrate this analysis with new results of entanglement properties of spin 1 chains.

id: 1011.6566
title: Single Photon Near Field Emission and Revival in Quantum Dots
authors: Sergio Tafur, Michael N. Leuenberger
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6566
abstract: Models of the spontaneous emission of photons coupled to the electronic states of quantum dots are important for understanding quantum interactions in dielectric media as applied to proposed solid-state quantum computers, single photon emitters, and single photon detectors. The characteristic lifetime of photon emission is traditionally modeled in the Weisskopf-Wigner approximation. Here we model the fully quantized spontaneous emission, including near field effects, of a photon from the excited state of a quantum dot beyond theWeisskopf-Wigner approximation. We propose the use of discretized central-difference approximations to describe single photon states via single photon operators in 3+1 dimensions. We further show herein that one can shift from the traditional description of electrodynamics and quantum electrodynamics, in terms of electric and magnetic fields to one in terms of a photonic wave function and its operators using the Dirac equation for the propagation of single photons.

id: 1011.6602
title: Construction of Multivariate Gaussian Weyl--Heisenberg Frames, (I)
authors: Maurice de Gosson
comments: Corrected version of a withdrawn submission; This Note replaces a former note which contains an incorrect proof
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6602
abstract: Let {\phi} be an arbitrary generalized Gaussian (squeezed coherent state), {\Lambda}_{{\alpha}{\beta}}=({\alpha}_1 Z \times\cdot\cdot\cdot\times \alpha_{n}\mathbb{Z)\times}(\beta_{1}\mathbb{Z}\times\cdot\cdot\cdot \times\beta_{n}\mathbb{Z)}$ a rectangular lattice. We show that there exists a positive definite symplectic matrix M (depending on {\phi}) such that the multivariate Weyl--Heisenberg system G({\phi},M{\Lambda}_{{\alpha}{\beta}}) is a frame. In a forthcoming Note we will prove a converse to this result.

id: 1011.6634
title: Speeding up critical system dynamics through optimized evolution
authors: T. Caneva, T. Calarco, R. Fazio, G. E. Santoro, S. Montangero
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012312 (2011)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6634
abstract: The number of defects which are generated on crossing a quantum phase transition can be minimized by choosing properly designed time-dependent pulses. In this work we determine what are the ultimate limits of this optimization. We discuss under which conditions the production of defects across the phase transition is vanishing small. Furthermore we show that the minimum time required to enter this regime is $T\sim \pi/\Delta$, where $\Delta$ is the minimum spectral gap, unveiling an intimate connection between an optimized unitary dynamics and the intrinsic measure of the Hilbert space for pure states. Surprisingly, the dynamics is non-adiabatic, this result can be understood by assuming a simple two-level dynamics for the many-body system. Finally we classify the possible dynamical regimes in terms of the action $s=T\Delta$.

id: 1011.6116
title: Transport of charged particles by adjusting rf voltage amplitudes
authors: Todd Karin, Isabela Le Bras, Andreas Kehlberger, Kilian Singer, Nikos Daniilidis, Hartmut H?ffner
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.6116
abstract: We propose a planar architecture for scalable quantum information processing (QIP) that includes X-junctions through which particles can move without micromotion. This is achieved by adjusting radio frequency (rf) amplitudes to move an rf null along the legs of the junction. We provide a proof-of-principle by transporting dust particles in three dimensions via adjustable rf potentials in a 3D trap. For the proposed planar architecture, we use regularization techniques to obtain amplitude settings that guarantee smooth transport through the X-junction.

id: 1011.5495
title: Quantum probe and design for a chemical compass with magnetic nanostructures
authors: Jianming Cai
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 100501 (2011)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5495
abstract: Magnetic fields as weak as Earth's may affect the outcome of certain photochemical reactions that go through a radical pair intermediate. When the reaction environment is anisotropic, this phenomenon can form the basis of a chemical compass and has been proposed as a mechanism for animal magnetoreception. Here, we demonstrate how to optimize the design of a chemical compass with a much better directional sensitivity simply by a gradient field, e.g. from a magnetic nanostructure. We propose an experimental test of these predictions, and suggest design principles for a hybrid metallic-organic chemical compass. In addition to the practical interest in designing a biomimetic weak magnetic field sensor, our result shows that gradient fields can server as powerful tools to probe spin correlations in radical pair reactions.

id: 1011.5819
title: Holographic c-theorems in arbitrary dimensions
authors: Robert C. Myers, Aninda Sinha
comments: 62 pages, 4 figures, few typo's corrected
journal: JHEP 1101:125,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5819
abstract: We re-examine holographic versions of the c-theorem and entanglement entropy in the context of higher curvature gravity and the AdS/CFT correspondence. We select the gravity theories by tuning the gravitational couplings to eliminate non-unitary operators in the boundary theory and demonstrate that all of these theories obey a holographic c-theorem. In cases where the dual CFT is even-dimensional, we show that the quantity that flows is the central charge associated with the A-type trace anomaly. Here, unlike in conventional holographic constructions with Einstein gravity, we are able to distinguish this quantity from other central charges or the leading coefficient in the entropy density of a thermal bath. In general, we are also able to identify this quantity with the coefficient of a universal contribution to the entanglement entropy in a particular construction. Our results suggest that these coefficients appearing in entanglement entropy play the role of central charges in odd-dimensional CFT's. We conjecture a new c-theorem on the space of odd-dimensional field theories, which extends Cardy's proposal for even dimensions. Beyond holography, we were able to show that for any even-dimensional CFT, the universal coefficient appearing the entanglement entropy which we calculate is precisely the A-type central charge.

id: 1011.5041
title: Instability and Vortex Rings Dynamics in a Three-Dimensional Superfluid Flow Through a Constriction
authors: F. Piazza, L. A. Collins, A. Smerzi
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 043008 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.5041
abstract: We study the instability of a superfluid flow through a constriction in three spatial dimensions. We consider a Bose-Einstein condensate at zero temperature in two different geometries: a straight waveguide and a torus. The constriction consists of a broad, repulsive penetrable barrier. In the hydrodynamic regime, we find that the flow becomes unstable as soon as the velocity at the classical (Thomas-Fermi) surface equals the sound speed inside the constriction. At this critical point, vortex rings enter inside the bulk region of the cloud. The nucleation and dynamics scenario is strongly affected by the presence of asymmetries in the velocity and density of the background condensate flow.

id: 1011.1220
title: Time-dependent occupation numbers in reduced-density-matrix functional theory: Application to an interacting Landau-Zener model
authors: Ryan Requist, Oleg Pankratov
comments: 6 pages, revised, Fig. 2 added
journal: Phys. Rev. A, vol. 83, 052510 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.1220
abstract: We prove that if the two-body terms in the equation of motion for the one-body reduced density matrix are approximated by ground-state functionals, the eigenvalues of the one-body reduced density matrix (occupation numbers) remain constant in time. This deficiency is related to the inability of such an approximation to account for relative phases in the two-body reduced density matrix. We derive an exact differential equation giving the functional dependence of these phases in an interacting Landau-Zener model and study their behavior in short- and long-time regimes. The phases undergo resonances whenever the occupation numbers approach the boundaries of the interval [0,1]. In the long-time regime, the occupation numbers display correlation-induced oscillations and the memory dependence of the functionals assumes a simple form.

id: 1011.3428
title: Particle with non-Abelian charge: classical and quantum
authors: Amitabha Lahiri, Tae-Hun Lee
comments: 28 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3428
abstract: We study the action for a non-Abelian charged particle in a non-Abelian background field in the worldline formalism, described by real bosonic variables, leading to the well known equations given by Wong. The isospin parts in the action can be viewed as the Lagrange multiplier term corresponding to a non-holonomic constraint restricting the isospins to be parallel transported. The path integration is performed over the isospin variables and as a result, the worldlines turn out to be constrained by the classical solutions for the isospins. We derive a wave equation from the path integral, constructed as the constrained Hamiltonian operator acting on the wave function. The operator ordering corresponding to the quantum Hamiltonian is found and verified by the inverse Weyl transformation.

id: 1011.4605
title: Nuclear classical dynamics of H$_2$ in intense laser field
authors: Firoozeh Sami, Mohsen Vafaee, Babak Shokri
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 165601
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.4605
abstract: In the first part of this paper, the different distinguishable pathways and regions of the single and sequential double ionization are determined and discussed. It is shown that there are two distinguishable pathways for the single ionization and four distinct pathways for the sequential double ionization. It is also shown that there are two and three different regions of space which are related to the single and double ionization respectively. In the second part of the paper, the time dependent Schr\"{o}dinger and Newton equations are solved simultaneously for the electrons and the nuclei of H$_2$ respectively. The electrons and nuclei dynamics are separated on the base of the adiabatic approximation. The soft-core potential is used to model the electrostatic interaction between the electrons and the nuclei. A variety of wavelengths (390 nm, 532 nm and 780 nm) and intensities ($5\times10^{14}$ $Wcm^{-2} $ and $ 5\times10^{15}$ $Wcm^{-2}$) of the ultrashort intense laser pulses with a sinus second order envelope function are used. The behaviour of the time dependent classical nuclear dynamics in the absence and present of the laser field are investigated and compared. In the absence of the laser field, there are three distinct sections for the nuclear dynamics on the electronic ground state energy curve. The bond hardening phenomenon does not appear in this classical nuclear dynamics simulation.

id: 1011.2436
title: Giant Stark effect in the emission of single semiconductor quantum dots
authors: Anthony. J. Bennett, Raj. B. Patel, Joanna Skiba-Szymanska, Christine A. Nicoll, Ian Farrer, David A. Ritchie, Andrew J. Shields
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics Letters, 97, 031104 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.2436
abstract: We study the quantum-confined Stark effect in single InAs/GaAs quantum dots embedded within a AlGaAs/GaAs/AlGaAs quantum well. By significantly increasing the barrier height we can observe emission from a dot at electric fields of -500 kV/cm, leading to Stark shifts of up to 25 meV. Our results suggest this technique may enable future applications that require self-assembled dots with transitions at the same energy.

id: 1011.3081
title: Optical Dielectric Functions of III-V Semiconductors in Wurtzite Phase
authors: Amrit De, Craig E. Pryor
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1011.3081
abstract: Optical properties of semiconductors can exhibit strong polarization dependence due to crystalline anisotropy. A number of recent experiments have shown that the photoluminescence intensity in free standing nanowires is polarization dependent. One contribution to this effect is the anisotropy of the dielectric function due to the fact that most nanowires crystalize in the wurtzite form. While little is known experimentally about the band structures wurtzite phase III-V semiconductors, we have previously predicted the bulk band structure of nine III-V semiconductors in wurtzite phase.Here, we predict the frequency dependent dielectric functions for nine non-Nitride wurtzite phase III-V semiconductors (AlP, AlAs, AlSb, GaP, GaAs, GaSb, InP, InAs and InSb). Their complex dielectric functions are calculated in the dipole approximation by evaluating the momentum matrix elements on a dense grid of special k-points using empirical pseudopotential wave functions. Corrections to the momentum matrix elements accounting for the missing core states are made using a scaling factor which is determined by using the optical sum rules on the calculated dielectric functions for the zincblende polytypes. The dielectric function is calculated for polarizations perpendicular and parallel to the c-axis of the crystal.

