id: 1012.0007
title: Quantum state tomography of an itinerant squeezed microwave field
authors: F. Mallet, M. A. Castellanos-Beltran, H. S. Ku, S. Glancy, E. Knill, K. D. Irwin, G. C. Hilton, L. R. Vale, K. W. Lehnert
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, published version to contain higher resolution figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 220502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0007
abstract: We perform state tomography of an itinerant squeezed state of the microwave field prepared by a Josephson parametric amplifier (JPA). We use a second JPA as a pre-amplifier to improve the quantum efficiency of the field quadrature measurement (QM) from 2% to 36 +/- 4%. Without correcting for the detection inefficiency we observe a minimum quadrature variance which is 69 +/- 8% of the variance of the vacuum. We reconstruct the state's density matrix by a maximum likelihood method and infer that the squeezed state has a minimum variance less than 40% of the vacuum, with uncertainty mostly caused by calibration systematics.

id: 1012.0071
title: On the estimation of interaction parameters in weak measurements
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 3 pages, no figures. Contribution to the proceedings of QCMC 2010, held at Queensland University, July 19-23 2010
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1363, 125 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0071
abstract: Since weak measurements are known to produce measurement values that can be much larger than the maximal eigenvalues of the measured observable, it is an interesting question how this enhancement of the measurement signal relates to the sensitivity of quantum measurements as investigated in the field of quantum metrology. In this presentation, it is pointed out that the estimation of a small interaction parameter using weak measurements actually corresponds to standard quantum metrology, where the logarithmic derivatives of the final measurement probabilities are proportional to the corresponding weak values. The analysis of the general weak measurement formalism then shows that extreme weak values do not improve the sensitivity. Instead, all final measurements with real weak values have the same sensitivity as a final measurement of the eigenvalues. This result supports the view that real weak values can be interpreted as precise, zero uncertainty estimates of a quantum observable, despite their deviation from the eigenvalues of the corresponding operator.

id: 1012.0106
title: Sequential projective measurements for channel decoding
authors: Seth Lloyd, Vittorio Giovannetti, Lorenzo Maccone
comments: New version: two important typos corrected, other modifications to enhance the manuscript
journal: Seth Lloyd, Vittorio Giovannetti, Lorenzo Maccone, Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 250501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0106
abstract: We study the transmission of classical information in quantum channels. We present a decoding procedure that is very simple but still achieves the channel capacity. It is used to give an alternative straightforward proof that the classical capacity is given by the regularized Holevo bound. This procedure uses only projective measurements and is based on successive "yes"/"no" tests only.

id: 1012.0115
title: Test of Common Sense in Quantum Copying Process
authors: Mi-Ra Hwang, Eylee Jung, Kap Soo Jang, Mu-Seong Kim, DaeKil Park, Eui-Soon Yim, Hungsoo Kim, Jin-Woo Son
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0115
abstract: It is believed that the more we have {\it a priori} information on input states, the better we can make the quality of clones in quantum cloning machines. This common sense idea was confirmed several years ago by analyzing a situation, where the input state is either one of two non-orthogonal states. If the {\it a priori} information is measured by the Shannon entropy, common sense predicts that the quality of the clone becomes poorer with increasing $N$, where $N$ is the number of possible input states. We show, however, that the {\it a priori} information measured by the Shannon entropy does not affect the quality of the clones. Instead the no-cloning theorem and `denseness' of the possible input states play important roles in determining the quality. Specifically, the factor `denseness' plays a more crucial role than the no-cloning theorem when $N \geq 3$.

id: 1012.0194
title: Metric operators for non-Hermitian quadratic su(2) Hamiltonians
authors: Paulo E. G. Assis
comments: 25 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 265303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0194
abstract: A class of non-Hermitian quadratic su(2) Hamiltonians having an anti-linear symmetry is constructed. This is achieved by analysing the possible symmetries of such systems in terms of automorphisms of the algebra. In fact, different realisations for this type of symmetry are obtained, including the natural occurrence of charge conjugation together with parity and time reversal. Once specified the underlying anti-linear symmetry of the Hamiltonian, the former, if unbroken, leads to a purely real spectrum and the latter can be mapped to a Hermitian counterpart by, amongst other possibilities, a similarity transformation. Here, Lie-algebraic methods which were used to investigate the generalised Swanson Hamiltonian are employed to identify the class of quadratic Hamiltonians that allow for such a mapping to the Hermitian counterpart. Whereas for the linear su(2) system every Hamiltonian of this type can be mapped to a Hermitian counterpart by a transformation which is itself an exponential of a linear combination of su(2) generators, the situation is more complicated for quadratic Hamiltonians. Therefore, the possibility of more elaborate similarity transformations, including quadratic exponents, is also explored in detail. The existence of finite dimensional representations for the su(2) Hamiltonian, as opposed to the su(1,1) studied before, allows for comparison with explicit diagonalisation results for finite matrices. Finally, the similarity transformations constructed are compared with the analogue of Swanson's method for exact diagonalsation of the problem, establishing a simple relation between both approaches.

id: 1012.0244
title: Transient Dynamics in Molecular Junctions: Coherent Bichromophoric Molecular Electron Pumps
authors: Roie Volkovich, Uri Peskin
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B 83, 033403. 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0244
abstract: The possibility of using single molecule junctions as electron pumps for energy conversion and storage is considered. It is argued that the small dimensions of these systems enable to make use of unique intra-molecular quantum coherences in order to pump electrons between two leads and to overcome relaxation processes which tend to suppress the pumping efficiency. In particular, we demonstrate that a selective transient excitation of one chromophore in a bi-chromophoric donor-bridge-acceptor molecular junction model yields currents which transfer charge (electron and holes) unevenly to the two leads in the absence of a bias potential. The utility of this mechanism for charge pumping in steady state conditions is proposed.

id: 1012.0262
title: Probing multimode squeezing with correlation functions
authors: Andreas Christ, Kaisa Laiho, Andreas Eckstein, Kati¨²scia N. Cassemiro, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 033027 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0262
abstract: Broadband multimode squeezers constitute a powerful quantum resource with promising potential for different applications in quantum information technologies such as information coding in quantum communication networks or quantum simulations in higher dimensional systems. However, the characterization of a large array of squeezers that coexist in a single spatial mode is challenging. In this paper we address this problem and propose a straightforward method to determine the number of squeezers and their respective squeezing strengths by using broadband multimode correlation function measurements. These measurements employ the large detection windows of state of the art avalanche photodiodes to simultaneously probe the full Hilbert space of the generated state, which enables us to benchmark the squeezed states. Moreover, due to the structure of correlation functions, our measurements are not affected by losses. This is a significant advantage, since detectors with low efficiencies are sufficient. Our approach is less costly than full state tomography methods relying on multimode homodyne detection which build on much more demanding measurement and analysis tools and appear to be impractical for large Hilbert spaces.

id: 1012.0288
title: Effect of Randomness on Quantum Data Buses of Heisenberg Spin Chains
authors: Sangchul Oh, Yun-Pil Shim, Jianjia Fei, Mark Friesen, Xuedong Hu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 224418 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0288
abstract: A strongly coupled spin chain can mediate long-distance effective couplings or entanglement between remote qubits, and can be used as a quantum data bus. We study how the fidelity of a spin-1/2 Heisenberg chain as a spin bus is affected by static random exchange couplings and magnetic fields. We find that, while non-uniform exchange couplings preserve the isotropy of the qubit effective couplings, they cause the energy levels, the eigenstates, and the magnitude of the couplings to vary locally. On the other hand, random local magnetic fields lead to an avoided level crossing for the bus ground state manifold, and cause the effective qubit couplings to be anisotropic. Interestingly, the total magnetic moment of the ground state of an odd-size bus may not be parallel to the average magnetic field. Its alignment depends on both the direction of the average field and the field distribution, in contrast with the ground state of a single spin which always aligns with the applied magnetic field to minimize the Zeeman energy. Lastly, we calculate sensitivities of the spin bus to such local variations, which are potentially useful for evaluating decoherence when dynamical fluctuations in the exchange coupling or magnetic field are considered.

id: 1012.0300
title: Fast quantum dot single photon source triggered at telecommunications wavelength
authors: Kelley Rivoire, Sonia Buckley, Arka Majumdar, Hyochul Kim, Pierre Petroff, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0300
abstract: We demonstrate a quantum dot single photon source at 900 nm triggered at 300 MHz by a continuous wave telecommunications wavelength laser followed by an electro-optic modulator. The quantum dot is excited by on-chip-generated second harmonic radiation, resonantly enhanced by a GaAs photonic crystal cavity surrounding the InAs quantum dot. Our result suggests a path toward the realization of telecommunications-wavelength-compatible quantum dot single photon sources with speeds exceeding 1 GHz.

id: 1012.0332
title: Experimental investigation of the uncertainty principle in the presence of quantum memory
authors: Robert Prevedel, Deny R. Hamel, Roger Colbeck, Kent Fisher, Kevin J. Resch
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, comments welcome
journal: Nature Physics 7, 757--761 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0332
abstract: Heisenberg's uncertainty principle provides a fundamental limitation on an observer's ability to simultaneously predict the outcome when one of two measurements is performed on a quantum system. However, if the observer has access to a particle (stored in a quantum memory) which is entangled with the system, his uncertainty is generally reduced. This effect has recently been quantified by Berta et al. [Nature Physics 6, 659 (2010)] in a new, more general uncertainty relation, formulated in terms of entropies. Using entangled photon pairs, an optical delay line serving as a quantum memory and fast, active feed-forward we experimentally probe the validity of this new relation. The behaviour we find agrees with the predictions of quantum theory and satisfies the new uncertainty relation. In particular, we find lower uncertainties about the measurement outcomes than would be possible without the entangled particle. This shows not only that the reduction in uncertainty enabled by entanglement can be significant in practice, but also demonstrates the use of the inequality to witness entanglement.

id: 1012.0361
title: Experimental investigation of the entanglement-assisted entropic uncertainty principle
authors: Chuan-Feng Li, Jin-Shi Xu, Xiao-Ye Xu, Ke Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature Physics 7, 752-756 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0361
abstract: The uncertainty principle, which bounds the uncertainties involved in obtaining precise outcomes for two complementary variables defining a quantum particle, is a crucial aspect in quantum mechanics. Recently, the uncertainty principle in terms of entropy has been extended to the case involving quantum entanglement. With previously obtained quantum information for the particle of interest, the outcomes of both non-commuting observables can be predicted precisely, which greatly generalises the uncertainty relation. Here, we experimentally investigated the entanglement-assisted entropic uncertainty principle for an entirely optical setup. The uncertainty is shown to be near zero in the presence of quasi-maximal entanglement. The new uncertainty relation is further used to witness entanglement. The verified entropic uncertainty relation provides an intriguing perspective in that it implies the uncertainty principle is not only observable-dependent but is also observer-dependent.

id: 1012.0364
title: Non-Markovian Quantum Trajectories of Many-Body Quantum Open Systems
authors: Jun Jing, Xinyu Zhao, J. Q. You, W. T. Strunz, Ting Yu
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures. manuscript revised and reference updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052122 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0364
abstract: A long-standing open problem in non-Markovian quantum state diffusion (QSD) approach to open quantum systems is to establish the non-Markovian QSD equations for multiple qubit systems. In this paper, we settle this important question by explicitly constructing a set of exact time-local QSD equations for $N$-qubit systems. Our exact time-local (convolutionless) QSD equations have paved the way towards simulating quantum dynamics of many-body open systems interacting with a common bosonic environment. The applicability of this multiple-qubit stochastic equation is exemplified by numerically solving several quantum open many-body systems concerning quantum coherence dynamics and dynamical control.

id: 1012.0371
title: The criterion for maximally entangled four-qubit state
authors: Xin-wei Zha, Hai-yang Song, Feng Feng
comments: 8 pages
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 56 (2011) 827
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0371
abstract: Paolo Facchi et al.[Phys. Rev. A. 77, 060304(R) (2009)] presented a maximally multipartite entangled state(MMES). Here we give the criterion for four-qubit state.and some new characterizations of the maximally entangled four-qubit state are given.

id: 1012.0386
title: Achieving the Holevo bound via sequential measurements
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0386
abstract: We present a new decoding procedure to transmit classical information in a quantum channel which, saturating asymptotically the Holevo bound, achieves the optimal rate of the communication line. Differently from previous proposals, it is based on performing a sequence of (projective) YES/NO measurements which in N steps determines which codeword was sent by the sender (N being the number of the codewords). Our analysis shows that as long as N is below the limit imposed by the Holevo bound the error probability can be sent to zero asymptotically in the length of the codewords.

id: 1012.0425
title: Constructions and Noise Threshold of Topological Subsystem Codes
authors: Martin Suchara, Sergey Bravyi, Barbara M. Terhal
comments: 30 pages, 16 figures, submitted to Jour. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. Vol. 44, page 155301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0425
abstract: Topological subsystem codes proposed recently by Bombin are quantum error correcting codes defined on a two-dimensional grid of qubits that permit reliable quantum information storage with a constant error threshold. These codes require only the measurement of two-qubit nearest-neighbor operators for error correction. In this paper we demonstrate that topological subsystem codes (TSCs) can be viewed as generalizations of Kitaev's honeycomb model to trivalent hypergraphs. This new connection provides a systematic way of constructing TSCs and analyzing their properties. We also derive a necessary and sufficient condition under which a syndrome measurement in a subsystem code can be reduced to measurements of the gauge group generators. Furthermore, we propose and implement some candidate decoding algorithms for one particular TSC assuming perfect error correction. Our Monte Carlo simulations indicate that this code, which we call the five-squares code, has a threshold against depolarizing noise of at least 2%.

id: 1012.0437
title: New identities about operator Hermite polynomials and their related integration formulas
authors: Hong-Yi Fan, Hong-Chun Yuan
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0437
abstract: By virtue of the technique of integration within an ordered product (IWOP) of operators and the bipartite entangled state representation we derive some new identities about operator Hermite polynomials in both single- and two-variable, we also find a binomial-like theorem between the single-variable Hermite polynomials and the two-variable Hermite polynomials. Application of these identities in deriving new integration formulas, but without really doing the integration in the usual sense, is demonstrated.

id: 1012.0466
title: Non-Gaussianity of quantum states: an experimental test on single-photon added coherent states
authors: Marco Barbieri, Nicol¨° Spagnolo, Marco G. Genoni, Franck Ferreyrol, R¨¦mi Blandino, Matteo G.A. Paris, Philippe Grangier, Rosa Tualle-Brouri
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 82, 063833 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0466
abstract: Non Gaussian states and processes are useful resources in quantum information with continuous variables. An experimentally accessible criterion has been proposed to measure the degree of non Gaussianity of quantum states, based on the conditional entropy of the state with a Gaussian reference. Here we adopt such criterion to characterise an important class of non classical states, single-photon added coherent states. Our studies demonstrate the reliability and sensitivity of this measure, and use it to quantify how detrimental is the role of experimental imperfections in our realisation.

id: 1012.0476
title: Reply to "Avoiding the Detector Blinding Attack on Quantum Cryptography"
authors: Lars Lydersen, Carlos Wiechers, Christoffer Wittmann, Dominique Elser, Johannes Skaar, Vadim Makarov
comments: 1 page
journal: Nature Photonics 4, 801 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0476
abstract: This is a reply to the comment by Yuan et al. [arXiv:1009.6130v1] on our publication [arXiv:1008.4593].

id: 1012.0531
title: Categorical Tensor Network States
authors: Jacob D. Biamonte, Stephen R. Clark, Dieter Jaksch
comments: 39 pages, 31 figures, published version
journal: AIP Advances 1(4), 042172 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0531
abstract: We examine the use of string diagrams and the mathematics of category theory in the description of quantum states by tensor networks. This approach lead to a unification of several ideas, as well as several results and methods that have not previously appeared in either side of the literature. Our approach enabled the development of a tensor network framework allowing a solution to the quantum decomposition problem which has several appealing features. Specifically, given an n-body quantum state S, we present a new and general method to factor S into a tensor network of clearly defined building blocks. We use the solution to expose a previously unknown and large class of quantum states which we prove can be sampled efficiently and exactly. This general framework of categorical tensor network states, where a combination of generic and algebraically defined tensors appear, enhances the theory of tensor network states.

id: 1012.0535
title: Physics as Information Processing
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano
comments: Work presented at the conference "Advances in Quantum Theory" held on 14-17 June 2010 at the Linnaeus University, Vaxjo, Sweden
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0535
abstract: I review some recent advances in foundational research at Pavia QUIT group. The general idea is that there is only Quantum Theory without quantization rules, and the whole Physics---including space-time and relativity--is emergent from the quantum-information processing. And since Quantum Theory itself is axiomatized solely on informational principles, the whole Physics must be reformulated in information-theoretical terms: this is the "It from Bit of J. A. Wheeler. The review is divided into four parts: a) the informational axiomatization of Quantum Theory; b) how space-time and relativistic covariance emerge from quantum computation; c) what is the information-theoretical meaning of inertial mass and of $\hbar$, and how the quantum field emerges; d) an observational consequence of the new quantum field theory: a mass-dependent refraction index of vacuum. I will conclude with the research lines that will follow in the immediate future.

id: 1012.0539
title: Quantum metrology with imperfect states and detectors
authors: Animesh Datta, Lijian Zhang, Nicholas Thomas-Peter, Uwe Dorner, Brian J. Smith, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: Reference updated. Close to the published version. 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 83, 063836 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0539
abstract: Quantum enhancements of precision in metrology can be compromised by system imperfections. These may be mitigated by appropriate optimization of the input state to render it robust, at the expense of making the state difficult to prepare. In this paper, we identify the major sources of imperfection an optical sensor: input state preparation inefficiency, sensor losses, and detector inefficiency. The second of these has received much attention; we show that it is the least damaging to surpassing the standard quantum limit in a optical interferometric sensor. Further, we show that photonic states that can be prepared in the laboratory using feasible resources allow a measurement strategy using photon-number-resolving detectors that not only attains the Heisenberg limit for phase estimation in the absence of losses, but also deliver close to the maximum possible precision in realistic scenarios including losses and inefficiencies. In particular, we give bounds for the trade off between the three sources of imperfection that will allow true quantum-enhanced optical metrology.

id: 1012.0544
title: Precision requirements for spin-echo based quantum memories
authors: Khabat Heshami, Nicolas Sangouard, Jiri Minar, Hugues de Riedmatten, Christoph Simon
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032315 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0544
abstract: Spin echo techniques are essential for achieving long coherence times in solid-state quantum memories for light because of inhomogeneous broadening of the spin transitions. It has been suggested that unrealistic levels of precision for the radio frequency control pulses would be necessary for successful decoherence control at the quantum level. Here we study the effects of pulse imperfections in detail, using both a semi-classical and a fully quantum-mechanical approach. Our results show that high efficiencies and low noise-to-signal ratios can be achieved for the quantum memories in the single-photon regime for realistic levels of control pulse precision. We also analyze errors due to imperfect initial state preparation (optical pumping), showing that they are likely to be more important than control pulse errors in many practical circumstances. These results are crucial for future developments of solid-state quantum memories.

id: 1012.0630
title: Lenses as an Atom-Photon Interface: A Semiclassical Model
authors: Colin Teo, Valerio Scarani
comments: 
journal: Opt. Comm. 284 (2011), pp. 4485-4490
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0630
abstract: Strong interaction between the light field and an atom is often achieved with cavities. Recent experiments have used a different configuration: a propagating light field is strongly focused using a system of lenses, the atom being supposed to sit at the focal position. In reality, this last condition holds only up to some approximation; in particular, at any finite temperature, the atom position fluctuates. We present a formalism that describes the focalized field and the atom sitting at an arbitrary position. As a first application, we show that thermal fluctuations do account for the extinction data reported in M. K. Tey et al., Nature Physics 4, 924 (2008).

id: 1012.0632
title: Generalizations of Quantum Discord
authors: Jianwei Xu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0632
abstract: The original definition of quantum discord of bipartite states was defined over projective measurements, in this paper we discuss some generalizations of it. These generalizations are defined over general measurements, rank-one general measurements or Neumark extension measurements. We investigate the nonnegativity, zero-discord sets of all these quantum discords and some properties about them.

id: 1012.0647
title: Beam-splitters don't have memory: a comment on "Event-based corpuscular model for quantum optics experiments'' by K.Michielsen et al
authors: Radu Ionicioiu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0647
abstract: In a recent article (arXiv:1006.1728) K.Michielsen et al. claim that a simple corpuscular model can explain many quantum optics experiments. We discuss these claims and show that their proposal fails at several levels. Finally, we propose an experiment to falsify the model.

id: 1012.0650
title: Quantum Discord in the Ground and Thermal States of Spin Clusters
authors: Amit Kumar Pal, Indrani Bose
comments: Article, 16 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 045101 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0650
abstract: Quantum discord is a general measure of bipartite quantum correlations with a potential role in quantum information processing tasks. Spin clusters serve as ideal candidates for the implementation of some of the associated protocols. In this paper, we consider a symmetric spin trimer and a tetramer, which describe a number of known molecular magnets, and compute the quantum discord in the ground and thermal states of the clusters. The variations of the quantum discord as a function of anisotropy parameter, magnetic field and temperature are investigated. We obtain a number of interesting results such as a finite value of the quantum discord in the trimer ground state for which the pairwise entanglement is known to be zero, differences in the nature of some of the variations in the ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic cases and discontinuous jumps in the magnitude of the quantum discord at first order quantum phase transition points. A remarkable feature that is observed is that the quantum discord completely vanishes only in the asymptotic limit of temperature $T\rightarrow\infty$. We further study the dynamics of the quantum discord and the pairwise entanglement at T=0 under the effect of a dephasing channel describing the interaction of the reduced spin cluster state with independent local environments. The QD is found to vanish asymptotically as $t\rightarrow\infty$. In the case of the spin trimer, the pairwise entanglement has a zero value at all times and reaches a zero value in a finite time in the case of the tetramer.

id: 1012.0681
title: Non-Equilibrium Fluctuation-Dissipation Inequality and Non-Equilibrium Uncertainty Principle
authors: C. H. Fleming, B. L. Hu, Albert Roura
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 88, 012102 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0681
abstract: The fluctuation-dissipation relation is usually formulated for a system interacting with a heat bath at finite temperature in the context of linear response theory, where only small deviations from the mean are considered. We show that for an open quantum system interacting with a non-equilibrium environment, where temperature is no longer a valid notion, a fluctuation-dissipation inequality exists. Clearly stated, quantum fluctuations are bounded below by quantum dissipation, whereas classically the fluctuations can be made to vanish. The lower bound of this inequality is exactly satisfied by (zero-temperature) quantum noise and is in accord with the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, both in its microscopic origins and its influence upon systems. Moreover, it is shown that the non-equilibrium fluctuation-dissipation relation determines the non-equilibrium uncertainty relation in the weak-damping limit.

id: 1012.0686
title: Entangled Qubits in a non-Gaussian Quantum State
authors: T. Kiesel, W. Vogel, B. Hage, R. Schnabel
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062319 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0686
abstract: We experimentally generate and tomographically characterize a mixed, genuinely non-Gaussian bipartite continuous-variable entangled state. By testing entanglement in 2$\times$2-dimensional two-qubit subspaces, entangled qubits are localized within the density matrix, which, firstly, proves the distillability of the state and, secondly, is useful to estimate the efficiency and test the applicability of distillation protocols. In our example, the entangled qubits are arranged in the density matrix in an asymmetric way, i.e. entanglement is found between diverse qubits composed of different photon number states, although the entangled state is symmetric under exchanging the modes.

id: 1012.0699
title: Bound state energies and phase shifts of a non-commutative well
authors: J. D. Thom, F. G. Scholtz
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. (42) 445301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0699
abstract: Non-commutative quantum mechanics can be viewed as a quantum system represented in the space of Hilbert-Schmidt operators acting on non-commutative configuration space. Within this framework an unambiguous definition can be given for the non-commutative well. Using this approach we compute the bound state energies, phase shifts and scattering cross sections of the non- commutative well. As expected the results are very close to the commutative results when the well is large or the non-commutative parameter is small. However, the convergence is not uniform and phase shifts at certain energies exhibit a much stronger then expected dependence on the non-commutative parameter even at small values.

id: 1012.0741
title: Fresnel operator, squeezed state and Wigner function for Caldirola-Kanai Hamiltonian
authors: Shuai Wang, Hong-Yi Fan, Hong-Chun Yuan
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0741
abstract: Based on the technique of integration within an ordered product (IWOP) of operators we introduce the Fresnel operator for converting Caldirola-Kanai Hamiltonian into time-independent harmonic oscillator Hamiltonian. The Fresnel operator with the parameters A,B,C,D corresponds to classical optical Fresnel transformation, these parameters are the solution to a set of partial differential equations set up in the above mentioned converting process. In this way the exact wavefunction solution of the Schr\"odinger equation governed by the Caldirola-Kanai Hamiltonian is obtained, which represents a squeezed number state. The corresponding Wigner function is derived by virtue of the Weyl ordered form of the Wigner operator and the order-invariance of Weyl ordered operators under similar transformations. The method used here can be suitable for solving Schr\"odinger equation of other time-dependent oscillators.

id: 1012.0756
title: The Quantum Field as a Quantum Computer
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano
comments: 4 PRL-style pages with 4 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0756
abstract: It is supposed that at very small scales a quantum field is an infinite homogeneous quantum computer. On a quantum computer the information cannot propagate faster than $c=a/\tau$, $a$ and $\tau$ being the minimum space and time distances between gates, respectively. It is shown that the information flow satisfies a Dirac equation, with speed $v=\zeta c$ and $\zeta=\zeta(m)$ mass-dependent. For $a/\tau=c$ the speed of light $\zeta^{-1}$ is a vacuum refraction index increasing monotonically from $\zeta^{-1}(0)=1$ to $\zeta^{-1}(M)=\infty$, $M$ being the Planck mass for $2a$ the Planck length.

id: 1012.0771
title: Coincident count rates in absorbing dielectric media
authors: J. A. Crosse, Stefan Scheel
comments: Updated to journal version. 10 Pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 83, 023815 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0771
abstract: A study of the effects of absorption on the nonlinear process of parametric down conversion is presented. Absorption within the nonlinear medium is accounted for by employing the framework of macroscopic QED and the Green tensor quantization of the electromagnetic field. An effective interaction Hamiltonian, which describes the nonlinear interaction of the electric field and the linear noise polarization field, is used to derive the quantum state of the light leaving a nonlinear crystal. The signal and idler modes of this quantum state are found to be a superpositions of the electric and noise polarization fields. Using this state, the expression for the coincident count rates for both Type I and Type II conversion are found. The nonlinear interaction with the noise polarization field were shown to cause an increase in the rate on the order of 10^{-12} for absorption of 10% per cm. This astonishingly small effect is found to be negligible compared to the decay caused by linear absorption of the propagating modes. From the expressions for the biphoton amplitude it can be seen the maximally entangled states can still be produced even in the presence of strong absorption.

id: 1012.0772
title: Intense ultra-broadband down-conversion from randomly poled nonlinear crystals
authors: Ji?¨ª Svozil¨ªk, Jan Pe?ina Jr
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Opt. Express 18, 27130 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0772
abstract: Randomly poled nonlinear crystals are shown to be able to emit intense ultra-broadband photon-pair fields with properties comparable to those coming from chirped periodically-poled crystals. Their intensities scale linearly with the number of domains. Also photon pairs extending over intervals with durations comparable to one optical cycle can be generated in these crystals.

id: 1012.0776
title: Thermodynamics of quantum jump trajectories in systems driven by classical fluctuations
authors: Adrian A. Budini
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 82, 061106 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0776
abstract: The large-deviation method can be used to study the measurement trajectories of open quantum systems. For optical arrangements this formalism allows to describe the long time properties of the (non-equilibrium) photon counting statistics in the context of a (equilibrium) thermodynamic approach defined in terms of dynamical phases and transitions between them in the trajectory space [J.P. Garrahan and I. Lesanovsky, Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 160601 (2010)]. In this paper, we study the thermodynamic approach for fluorescent systems coupled to complex reservoirs that induce stochastic fluctuations in their dynamical parameters. In a fast modulation limit the thermodynamics corresponds to that of a Markovian two-level system. In a slow modulation limit, the thermodynamic properties are equivalent to those of a finite system that in an infinite-size limit is characterized by a first-order transition. The dynamical phases correspond to different intensity regimes, while the size of the system is measured by the transition rate of the bath fluctuations. As a function of a dimensionless intensive variable, the first and second derivative of the thermodynamic potential develop an abrupt change and a narrow peak respectively. Their scaling properties are consistent with a double-Gaussian probability distribution of the associated extensive variable.

id: 1012.0859
title: Local non-CSS quantum error correcting code on a three-dimensional lattice
authors: Isaac H. Kim
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures. Minor revision
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052308 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0859
abstract: We present a family of non-CSS quantum error-correcting code consisting of geometrically local stabilizer generators on a 3D lattice. We study the Hamiltonian constructed from ferromagnetic interaction of overcomplete set of local stabilizer generators. The degenerate ground state of the system is characterized by a quantum error-correcting code whose number of encoded qubits are equal to the second Betti number of the manifold. These models (i) have solely local interactions; (ii) admit a strong-weak duality relation with an Ising model on a dual lattice; (iii) have topological order in the ground state, some of which survive at finite temperature; and (iv) behave as classical memory at finite temperature.

id: 1012.0860
title: Casimir micro-sphere diclusters and three-body effects in fluids
authors: Jaime Varela, Alejandro W. Rodriguez, Alexander P. McCauley, Steven G. Johnson
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0860
abstract: Our previous article [Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 060401 (2010)] predicted that Casimir forces induced by the material-dispersion properties of certain dielectrics can give rise to stable configurations of objects. This phenomenon was illustrated via a dicluster configuration of non-touching objects consisting of two spheres immersed in a fluid and suspended against gravity above a plate. Here, we examine these predictions from the perspective of a practical experiment and consider the influence of non-additive, three-body, and nonzero-temperature effects on the stability of the two spheres. We conclude that the presence of Brownian motion reduces the set of experimentally realizable silicon/teflon spherical diclusters to those consisting of layered micro-spheres, such as the hollow- core (spherical shells) considered here.

id: 1012.0896
title: Weak measurement of photon polarization by back-action induced path interference
authors: Masataka Iinuma, Yutaro Suzuki, Gen Taguchi, Yutaka Kadoya, Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 033041 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0896
abstract: The essential feature of weak measurements on quantum systems is the reduction of measurement back-action to negligible levels. To observe the non-classical features of weak measurements, it is therefore more important to avoid additional back-action errors than it is to avoid errors in the actual measurement outcome. In this paper, it is shown how an optical weak measurement of diagonal (PM) polarization can be realized by path interference between the horizontal (H) and vertical (V) polarization components of the input beam. The measurement strength can then be controlled by rotating the H and V polarizations towards each other. This well-controlled operation effectively generates the back-action without additional decoherence, while the visibility of the interference between the two beams only limits the measurement resolution. As the experimental results confirm, we can obtain extremely high weak values, even at rather low visibilities. Our method therefore provides a realization of weak measurements that is extremely robust against experimental imperfections.

id: 1012.0906
title: Matrix Algebras in Non-Hermitian Quantum Mechanics
authors: Alessandro Sergi
comments: Third revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0906
abstract: In principle, non-Hermitian quantum equations of motion can be formulated using as a starting point either the Heisenberg's or the Schr\"odinger's picture of quantum dynamics. Here it is shown in both cases how to map the algebra of commutators, defining the time evolution in terms of a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian, onto a non-Hamiltonian algebra with a Hermitian Hamiltonian. The logic behind such a derivation is reversible, so that any Hermitian Hamiltonian can be used in the formulation of non-Hermitian dynamics through a suitable algebra of generalized (non-Hamiltonian) commutators. These results provide a general structure (a template) for non-Hermitian equations of motion to be used in the computer simulation of open quantum systems dynamics.

id: 1012.0907
title: Constructing Exactly Solvable Pseudo-hermitian Many-particle Quantum Systems by Isospectral Deformation
authors: Pijush K. Ghosh
comments: To appear in the Special Issue PHHQP 2010, International Journal of Theoretical Physics; 16 pages, LateX, no figure
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.50:1143-1151,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0907
abstract: A class of non-Dirac-hermitian many-particle quantum systems admitting entirely real spectra and unitary time-evolution is presented. These quantum models are isospectral with Dirac-hermitian systems and are exactly solvable. The general method involves a realization of the basic canonical commutation relations defining the quantum system in terms of operators those are hermitian with respect to a pre-determined positive definite metric in the Hilbert space. Appropriate combinations of these operators result in a large number of pseudo-hermitian quantum systems admitting entirely real spectra and unitary time evolution. Examples of a pseudo-hermitian rational Calogero model and XXZ spin-chain are considered.

id: 1012.0928
title: Quantum controlled phase gate based on two nonresonant quantum dots trapped in two coupled photonic crystal cavities
authors: Jian-Qi Zhang, Ya-Fei Yu, Xun-Li Feng, Zhi-Ming Zhang
comments: 5 pages,1 figure The realizability in the experiment is complemented
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0928
abstract: We propose a scheme for realizing two-qubit quantum phase gates with two nonidentical quantum dots trapped in two coupled photonic crystal cavities and driven by classical laser fields. During the gate operation, neither the cavity modes nor the quantum dots are excited, so the decoherence can be suppressed. The system can acquire a phase conditional upon the states of the quantum dots, which can be used to realize the controlled phase gate.

id: 1012.0949
title: Quantum measurements of atoms using cavity QED
authors: Adetunmise C. Dada, Erika Andersson, Martin L. Jones, Vivien M. Kendon, Mark S. Everitt
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042339 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0949
abstract: Generalized quantum measurements are an important extension of projective or von Neumann measurements, in that they can be used to describe any measurement that can be implemented on a quantum system. We describe how to realize two non-standard quantum measurements using cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED). The first measurement optimally and unabmiguously distinguishes between two non-orthogonal quantum states. The second example is a measurement that demonstrates superadditive quantum coding gain. The experimental tools used are single-atom unitary operations effected by Ramsey pulses and two-atom Tavis-Cummings interactions. We show how the superadditive quantum coding gain is affected by errors in the field-ionisation detection of atoms, and that even with rather high levels of experimental imperfections, a reasonable amount of superadditivity can still be seen. To date, these types of measurement have only been realized on photons. It would be of great interest to have realizations using other physical systems. This is for fundamental reasons, but also since quantum coding gain in general increases with code word length, and a realization using atoms could be more easily scaled than existing realizations using photons.

id: 1012.0970
title: Modal Hamiltonian interpretation of quantum mechanics and Casimir operators: the road towards quantum field theory
authors: Juan Sebasti¨¢n Ardenghi, Mario Castagnino, Olimpia Lombardi
comments: 21 pages, in press
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys.,(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0970
abstract: The general aim of this paper is to extend the Modal-Hamiltonian interpretation of quantum mechanics to the case of relativistic quantum mechanics with gauge U(1) elds. In this case we propose that the actual- valued observables are the Casimir operators of the Poincar\'e group and of the group U(1) of the internal symmetry of the theory. Moreover, we also show that the magnitudes that acquire actual values in the relativistic and in the non-relativistic cases are correctly related through the adequate limit.

id: 1012.0992
title: Quantum Structures of a Model-Universe: Questioning the Everett Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: J. Jeknic-Dugic, M. Dugic, A. Francom
comments: new version as arXiv:1109.6424
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0992
abstract: Our objective is to demonstrate an inconsistency with both the original and modern Everettian Many Worlds Interpretations. We do this by examining two important corollaries of the universally valid quantum mechanics in the context of the Quantum Brownian Motion (QBM) model: "Entanglement Relativity" and the "parallel occurrence of decoherence." We conclude that the highlighted inconsistency demands that either there is a privileged spatial structure of the QBM model universe or that the Everettian Worlds are not physically real.

id: 1012.1000
title: Quantum computational tensor network on string-net condensate
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062328 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1000
abstract: The string-net condensate is a new class of materials which exhibits the quantum topological order. In order to answer the important question, "how useful is the string-net condensate in quantum information processing?", we consider the most basic example of the string-net condensate, namely the $Z_2$ gauge string-net condensate on the two-dimensional hexagonal lattice, and show that the universal measurement-based quantum computation (in the sense of the quantum computational webs) is possible on it by using the framework of the quantum computational tensor network. This result implies that even the most basic example of the string-net condensate is equipped with the correlation space that has the capacity for the universal quantum computation.

id: 1012.1013
title: Time operators in stroboscopic wavepacket basis and the time scales in tunneling
authors: P. Bokes
comments: 6 pages, 4 figs
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032104 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1013
abstract: We demonstrate that the time operator that measures the time of arrival of a quantum particle into chosen state can be defined as a self-adjoint quantum-mechanical operator using periodic boundary conditions on applied to wavefuncions in energy representation. The time becomes quantized into discreet eigenvalues and the eigenstates of the time operator, the stroboscopic wavepackets introduced recently [Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 046402 (2008).] form orthogonal system of states. The formalism provides simple physical interpretation of the time-measurement process and direct construction of normalized, positive definite probability distribution for the quantized values of the arrival time. The average value of the time is equal to the phase time but in general depends on the choise of zero time eigenstate, whereas the uncertainity of the average is related to the traversal time and is independent of this choise. The general fromalism is applied to a particle tunneling through resonant tunneling barrier in 1D.

id: 1012.1014
title: Vacuum Rabi oscillation in nonzero-temperature open cavity
authors: Patrycja Stefa¨½ska, Marcin Wilczewski, Marek Czachor
comments: LaTeX, 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Open Systems and Information Dynamics 18 (2011) 363-373
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1014
abstract: Comparison of theory of Rabi oscillations with experiment [M. Wilczewski and M. Czachor, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 79}, 033836 (2009)] suggests that cavity lifetime parameters obtained in measurements with many photons may be much smaller than those applicable to almost vacuum states of light. In this context we show that the conclusion remains unchanged even if one takes a more realistic description of the initial state of light in cavity.

id: 1012.1028
title: Generation and sudden death of entanglement in qubit-qutrit systems in depolarizing noise
authors: Salman Khan
comments: Pages 11, Figures 6
journal: Mathematical Structures in Computer Science 23 1220-1233 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1028
abstract: The dynamics of entanglement in some hybrid qubit-qutrit systems under the influence of global, collective, local and multilocal depolarizing noise is studied. It is shown that the depolarizing noise can be used to induce entanglement. A critical point exists under every coupling of the system with the environment at which all the states are equally entangled. Furthermore, it is seen that no ESD occurs when either only the qubit is coupled to its local environment or the system is coupled to multilocal or global environment. This is an important result for various quantum information processing tasks and hence needs further investigation.

id: 1012.1060
title: A diagrammatic expansion of the Casimir energy in multiple reflections: theory and applications
authors: Mohammad F. Maghrebi
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:045004,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1060
abstract: We develop a diagrammatic representation of the Casimir energy of a multibody configuration. The diagrams represent multiple reflections between the objects and can be organized by a few simple rules. The lowest-order diagrams (or reflections) give the main contribution to the Casimir interaction which proves the usefulness of this expansion. Among some applications of this, we find analytical formulae describing the interaction between "edges", i.e. semi-infinite plates, where we also give a first example of blocking in the context of the Casimir energy. We also find the interaction of edges with a needle and describe analytically a recent model of the repulsion due to the Casimir interaction.

id: 1012.1078
title: Manipulation and decoherence of acceptor charge qubit in silicon
authors: Y.P. Song, B. Golding
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a crucial sign error in equation 1 This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to major revision
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1078
abstract: Dielectric constant and absorption measurements on boron doped silicon samples show that transitions between the acceptor energy levels can be induced by an applied resonant ac electric field and the Stark tuning of level spacing with an external DC electric field. The relatively longer decoherence times were observed by the electric echo measurement in a low boron dopant concentration Si sample. The scalable acceptor-based system is a promising candidate of the charge qubit for quantum computing.

id: 1012.1123
title: Optical phase estimation in the presence of phase-diffusion
authors: Marco G. Genoni, Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: revised version, 4 pages, 4 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 106, 153603 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1123
abstract: The measurement problem for the optical phase has been traditionally attacked for noiseless schemes or in the presence of amplitude or detection noise. Here we address estimation of phase in the presence of phase diffusion and evaluate the ultimate quantum limits to precision for phase-shifted Gaussian states. We look for the optimal detection scheme and derive approximate scaling laws for the quantum Fisher information and the optimal squeezing fraction in terms of the overall total energy and the amount of noise. We also found that homodyne detection is a nearly optimal detection scheme in the limit of very small and large noise.

id: 1012.1124
title: Optimal entanglement witnesses from generalized reduction and Robertson maps
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Justyna Pytel
comments: 14 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 165304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1124
abstract: We provide a generalization of the reduction and Robertson positive maps in matrix algebras. They give rise to a new class of optimal entanglement witnesses. Their structural physical approximation is analyzed. As a byproduct we provide a new examples of PPT (Positive Partial Transpose) entangled states.

id: 1012.1135
title: Nano-fabricated solid immersion lenses registered to single emitters in diamond
authors: L. Marseglia, J. P. Hadden, A. C. Stanley-Clarke, J. P. Harrison, B. Patton, Y.-L. D. Ho, B. Naydenov, F. Jelezko, J. Meijer, P. R. Dolan, J. M. Smith, J. G. Rarity, J. L. O'Brien
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 98, 133107 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1135
abstract: We describe a technique for fabricating micro- and nano-structures incorporating fluorescent defects in diamond with a positional accuracy in the hundreds of nanometers. Using confocal fluorescence microscopy and focused ion beam (FIB) etching we first locate a suitable defect with respect to registration marks on the diamond surface and then etch a structure using these coordinates. We demonstrate the technique here by etching an 8 micron diameter hemisphere positioned such that a single negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy defect lies at its origin. This type of structure increases the photon collection efficiency by removing refraction and aberration losses at the diamond-air interface. We make a direct comparison of the fluorescence photon count rate before and after fabrication and observe an 8-fold increase due to the presence of the hemisphere.

id: 1012.1140
title: The Casimir spectrum revisited
authors: Carlos A. R. Herdeiro, Marco O. P. Sampaio, Jaime E. Santos
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1140
abstract: We examine the mathematical and physical significance of the spectral density sigma(w) introduced by Ford in Phys. Rev. D38, 528 (1988), defining the contribution of each frequency to the renormalised energy density of a quantum field. Firstly, by considering a simple example, we argue that sigma(w) is well defined, in the sense of being regulator independent, despite an apparently regulator dependent definition. We then suggest that sigma(w) is a spectral distribution, rather than a function, which only produces physically meaningful results when integrated over a sufficiently large range of frequencies and with a high energy smooth enough regulator. Moreover, sigma(w) is seen to be simply the difference between the bare spectral density and the spectral density of the reference background. This interpretation yields a simple `rule of thumb' to writing down a (formal) expression for sigma(w) as shown in an explicit example. Finally, by considering an example in which the sign of the Casimir force varies, we show that the spectrum carries no manifest information about this sign; it can only be inferred by integrating sigma(w).

id: 1012.1215
title: Limits on non-local correlations from the structure of the local state space
authors: Peter Janotta, Christian Gogolin, Jonathan Barrett, Nicolas Brunner
comments: 26 pages, 4 figures. v2: Document structure changed. Main theorem has been extended. It applies to all quantum states now. v3: new abstract
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 063024
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1215
abstract: The outcomes of measurements on entangled quantum systems can be nonlocally correlated. However, while it is easy to write down toy theories allowing arbitrary nonlocal correlations, those allowed in quantum mechanics are limited. Quantum correlations cannot, for example, violate a principle known as macroscopic locality, which implies that they cannot violate Tsirelson's bound. This work shows that there is a connection between the strength of nonlocal correlations in a physical theory, and the structure of the state spaces of individual systems. This is illustrated by a family of models in which local state spaces are regular polygons, where a natural analogue of a maximally entangled state of two systems exists. We characterize the nonlocal correlations obtainable from such states. The family allows us to study the transition between classical, quantum, and super-quantum correlations, by varying only the local state space. We show that the strength of nonlocal correlations - in particular whether the maximally entangled state violates Tsirelson's bound or not - depends crucially on a simple geometric property of the local state space, known as strong self-duality. This result is seen to be a special case of a general theorem, which states that a broad class of entangled states in probabilistic theories - including, by extension, all bipartite classical and quantum states - cannot violate macroscopic locality. Finally, our results show that there exist models which are locally almost indistinguishable from quantum mechanics, but can nevertheless generate maximally nonlocal correlations.

id: 1012.1253
title: Controlling the sense of molecular rotation: classical vs quantum analysis
authors: Yuri Khodorkovsky, Kenta Kitano, Hirokazu Hasegawa, Yasuhiro Ohshima, Ilya Sh. Averbukh
comments: 27 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1253
abstract: Recently, it was predicted theoretically and verified experimentally that a pair of delayed and cross-polarized short laser pulses can create molecular ensembles with a well defined sense of rotation (clockwise or counterclockwise). Here we provide a comparative study of the classical and quantum aspects of the underlying mechanism for linear molecules and for symmetric tops, like benzene molecules, that were used for the first experimental demonstration of the effect. Very good quantitative agreement is found between the classical description of the process and the rigorous quantum mechanical analysis at the relevant experimental conditions. Both approaches predict the same optimal values for the delay between pulses and the angle between them, and deliver the same magnitude of the induced oriented angular momentum of the molecular ensemble. As expected, quantum and classical analysis substantially deviate when the delay between pulses is comparable with the period of quantum rotational revivals. However, time-averaged characteristics of the excited molecular ensemble are equally good described by the these two approaches. This is illustrated by calculating the anisotropic time-averaged angular distribution of the double-pulse excited molecules, which reflects persistent confinement of the molecular axes to the rotation plane defined by two polarization vectors of the pulses.

id: 1012.1328
title: Breakdown of the coherent state path integral: two simple examples
authors: Justin H. Wilson, Victor Galitski
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 110401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1328
abstract: We show how the time-continuous coherent state path integral breaks down for both the single-site Bose-Hubbard model and the spin path integral. Specifically, when the Hamiltonian is quadratic in a generator of the algebra used to construct coherent states, the path integral fails to produce correct results following from an operator approach. As suggested by previous authors, we note that the problems do not arise in the time-discretized version of the path integral.

id: 1012.1337
title: Quantum Geometric Tensor (Fubini-Study Metric) in Simple Quantum System: A pedagogical Introduction
authors: Ran Cheng
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1337
abstract: Geometric Quantum Mechanics is a novel and prospecting approach motivated by the belief that our world is ultimately geometrical. At the heart of that is a quantity called Quantum Geometric Tensor (or Fubini-Study metric), which is a complex tensor with the real part serving as the Riemannian metric that measures the `quantum distance', and the imaginary part being the Berry curvature. Following a physical introduction of the basic formalism, we illustrate its physical significance in both the adiabatic and non-adiabatic systems.

id: 1012.1380
title: Cavity cooling of a mechanical resonator in the presence of two-level-system defects
authors: L. Tian
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 035417 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1380
abstract: Cavity cooling via quantum backaction force can extract thermal fluctuations from a mechanical resonator to reach the quantum ground state. Surface or bulk two-level-system (TLS) defects in a mechanical resonator can couple with the mechanical mode via deformation potential and affect the cooling process significantly. Here, we develop a theory to study the cavity cooling of a mechanical mode in the presence of a TLS defect using the adiabatic elimination technique. Our result shows that the cooling process depends strongly on the resonance and the damping rate of the TLS.

id: 1012.1392
title: The strong-coupling master equation of quantum open systems
authors: C. H. Fleming
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1392
abstract: In this paper we demonstrate how to generate the strong-coupling master equations for open quantum systems of continuous variables. These are the dissipative master equations of quantum Brownian particles for which the environmental noise is stronger than other system forces. Our strong-coupling master equations are very different from other so-called "strong-coupling" master equations (e.g. the quantum Smoluchowski equation) which are perturbing off a limit in which the system energy is taken to be perturbative and thus the dynamics is principally Markovian. Such approximations also require the system mass to be asymptotically large (even as compared to the ratio of noise and induced system frequencies) and thus they do not fully categorize the regime of what one might consider to be strong coupling. Our master equations are highly non-Markovian and radically different for different system potentials, admitting no apparent generic form. This result is quite exciting as it brings forth a new regime for theoretical exploration: the regime of strong noise and dissipation yet non-Markovian, such as strong coupling to a low-temperature environment with large 1/f fluctuations.

id: 1012.1396
title: Formulation of a Mesoscopic Electron Beam Splitter with Application in Semiconductor Based Quantum Computing
authors: A. Shanker, D. Bhowmik, T.K. Bhattacharya
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, The paper is being withdrawn as it will be resubmitted as part of another paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1396
abstract: We aim to analytically arrive at a beam splitter formulation for electron waves. The electron beam splitter is an essential component of quantum logical devices. To arrive at the beam splitter structure, the electrons are treated as waves, i.e. we assume the transport to be ballistic. Ballistic electrons are electrons that travel over such short distances that their phase coherence is maintained. For mesoscopic devices with size smaller than the mean free path, the phase relaxation length and the Fermi wavelength of electrons in the medium, the transport can be considered to be coherent and hence ballistic. In such a case the electron motion can be completely described by the Schrodinger's wave equation with an effective mass assigned to the electron. To design a beam splitter, we draw inspiration from an electromagnetic beam splitter, where the Maxwell's equations (and subsequently the Helmholtz equation) are used to describe the splitting of light across a thin slab of dielectric material. The parameters of the media and the thickness of the slab can be manipulated to achieve a 50-50 beam splitter. We wish to achieve a similar 50-50 beam splitting for the electron wave. Using an analogy between the scalar Helmholtz equation and the Schrodinger's equation for a ballistic electron, we arrive at this desired beam splitter structure for the electron.

id: 1012.1397
title: Discrete-Time Controllability for Feedback Quantum Dynamics
authors: Francesca Albertini, Francesco Ticozzi
comments: 
journal: Automatica 47(11): 2451-2456 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1397
abstract: Controllability properties for discrete-time, Markovian quantum dynamics are investigated. We find that, while in general the controlled system is not finite-time controllable, feedback control allows for arbitrary asymptotic state-to-state transitions. Under further assumption on the form of the measurement, we show that finite-time controllability can be achieved in a time that scales linearly with the dimension of the system, and we provide an iterative procedure to design the unitary control actions.

id: 1012.1401
title: Creating multiphoton-polarization bound-entangled states
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei, Jonathan Lavoie, Rainer Kaltenbaek
comments: Single column, 17 pages, 4 figures, revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 033839 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1401
abstract: Bound entangled states are the exotic objects in the entangled world. They require entanglement to create them, but once they are formed, it is not possible to locally distill any free entanglement from them. It is only until recently that a few bound entangled states were realized in the laboratory. Motivated by these experiments, we propose schemes for creating various classes of bound entangled states with photon polarization. These include Acin-Bruss-Lewenstein-Sanpara states, Dur's states, Lee-Lee-Kim bound entangled states, and an unextendible-product-basis bound entangled state.

id: 1012.1402
title: Quantum discord in quantum computation
authors: Aharon Brodutch, Alexei Gilchrist, Daniel R. Terno, Christopher J. Wood
comments: Prepared for publication in the Proceedings of DICE2010. Section 4 contains previously unpublished results on process tomography. Comments welcome
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 306 012030 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1402
abstract: Quantum discord is a measure of the quantumness of correlations. After reviewing its different versions and properties, we apply it to the questions of quantum information processing. First we show that changes in discord in the processed unentangled states indicate the need for entanglement in the distributed implementation of quantum gates. On the other hand, it was shown that zero system-environment discord is a necessary and sufficient condition for applicability of the standard completely positive description of the system's evolution. We demonstrate that this result does not translate into useful quantum process tomography. Depending on the details of the preparation procedure only absence of any initial correlations may guarantees consistency of the process tomography.

id: 1012.1428
title: Quantum Games and Quantum Discord
authors: Ahmad Nawaz, A. H. Toor
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1428
abstract: We quantize prisoners dilemma and chicken game by our generalized quantization scheme to explore the role of quantum discord in quantum games. In order to establish this connection we use Werner-like state as an initial state of the game. In this quantization scheme measurement can be performed in entangled as well as in product basis. For the measurement in entangled basis the dilemma in both the games can be resolved by separable states with non-zero quantum discord. Similarly for product basis measurement the payoffs are quantum mechanical only for nonzero values of quantum discord.

id: 1012.1457
title: Shaking the entropy out of a lattice: atomic filtering by vibrational excitations
authors: Malte C. Tichy, Klaus M?lmer, Jacob F. Sherson
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, version accepted by PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 033618 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1457
abstract: We present a simple and efficient scheme to reduce atom-number fluctuations in optical lattices. The interaction-energy difference for atoms in different vibrational states is used to remove excess atomic occupation. The remaining vacant sites are then filled with atoms by merging adjacent wells, for which we implement a protocol that circumvents the constraints of unitarity. The preparation of large regions with precisely one atom per lattice site is discussed for both bosons and fermions. The resulting low-entropy Mott-insulating states may serve as high-fidelity register states for quantum computing and as a starting point for investigations of many-body physics.

id: 1012.1461
title: About the Dedekind psi function in Pauli graphs
authors: Michel R. P. Planat
comments: Proceedings of Quantum Optics V, Cozumel to appear in Revista Mexicana de Fisica
journal: Revista Mexicana de Fisica S57, 3 (2011) 107-112
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Number Theory (math.NT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1461
abstract: We study the commutation structure within the Pauli groups built on all decompositions of a given Hilbert space dimension $q$, containing a square, into its factors. The simplest illustrative examples are the quartit ($q=4$) and two-qubit ($q=2^2$) systems. It is shown how the sum of divisor function $\sigma(q)$ and the Dedekind psi function $\psi(q)=q \prod_{p|q} (1+1/p)$ enter into the theory for counting the number of maximal commuting sets of the qudit system. In the case of a multiple qudit system (with $q=p^m$ and $p$ a prime), the arithmetical functions $\sigma(p^{2n-1})$ and $\psi(p^{2n-1})$ count the cardinality of the symplectic polar space $W_{2n-1}(p)$ that endows the commutation structure and its punctured counterpart, respectively. Symmetry properties of the Pauli graphs attached to these structures are investigated in detail and several illustrative examples are provided.

id: 1012.1474
title: Quantum tunneling effect and quantum Zeno effect in a Topological system
authors: Gangcheng Wang, Kang Xue, Chunfang Sun, Chengcheng Zhou, Guijiao Du
comments: 8 pages, 26 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1474
abstract: A spin interaction Hamiltonian for topological basis is constructed in this paper. When we select proper parameters, this Hamiltonian system can be simulated by a quantum double well potential system. If the parameter $\Delta=0$, the topological system is equivalent to two independent quantum wells. If the parameter $\Delta\neq 0$, the system is equivalent to a double well potential with finite potential barrier. The quantum tunneling effect and quantum Zeno effect for this topological system are investigated in detail.

id: 1012.1487
title: Delayed four- and six-wave mixing in a coherently prepared atomic ensemble
authors: D. Felinto, D. Moretti, R. A. de Oliveira, J. W. R. Tabosa
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 35, Issue 23, pp. 3937-3939 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1487
abstract: We report on the simultaneous observation, by delayed Bragg diffraction, of four- and six-wave mixing processes in a coherently prepared atomic ensemble consisting of cold cesium atoms. For each diffracted order, we observe different temporal pulse shapes and dependencies with the intensities of the exciting fields, evidencing the different mechanisms involved in each process. The various observations are well described by a simplified analytical theory, which considers the atomic system as an ensemble of three-level atoms in {\Lambda} configuration.

id: 1012.1513
title: Semi-device-independent bounds on entanglement
authors: Yeong-Cherng Liang, Tamas Vertesi, Nicolas Brunner
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures (published version). Note 1: Title changed to distinguish our approach from the standard device-independent scenario where no assumption on the Hilbert space dimension is made. Note 2: This paper contains explicit examples of more nonlocality with less entanglement in the simplest CH-like scenario (see also arXiv:1011.5206 by Vidick and Wehner for related results)
journal: Physical Review A, vol 83, art. 022108 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1513
abstract: Detection and quantification of entanglement in quantum resources are two key steps in the implementation of various quantum-information processing tasks. Here, we show that Bell-type inequalities are not only useful in verifying the presence of entanglement but can also be used to bound the entanglement of the underlying physical system. Our main tool consists of a family of Clauser-Horne-like Bell inequalities that cannot be violated maximally by any finite-dimensional maximally entangled state. Using these inequalities, we demonstrate the explicit construction of both lower and upper bounds on the concurrence for two-qubit states. The fact that these bounds arise from Bell-type inequalities also allows them to be obtained in a semi-device-independent manner, that is, with assumption of the dimension of the Hilbert space but without resorting to any knowledge of the actual measurements being performed on the individual subsystems.

id: 1012.1536
title: Making precise predictions of the Casimir force between metallic plates via a weighted Kramers-Kronig transform
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte
comments: 18 pages, 15 encapsulated figures. In the revised version important improvements have been made, which affect the main conclusions of the paper
journal: Phys.Rev.A83:042109,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1536
abstract: The possibility of making precise predictions for the Casimir force is essential for the theoretical interpretation of current precision experiments on the thermal Casimir effect with metallic plates, especially for sub-micron separations. For this purpose it is necessary to estimate very accurately the dielectric function of a conductor along the imaginary frequency axis. This task is complicated in the case of ohmic conductors, because optical data do not usually extend to sufficiently low frequencies to permit an accurate evaluation of the standard Kramers-Kronig integral used to compute $\epsilon(i \xi)$. By making important improvements in the results of a previous paper by the author, it is shown that this difficulty can be resolved by considering suitable weighted dispersions relations, which strongly suppress the contribution of low frequencies. The weighted dispersion formulae presented in this paper permit to estimate accurately the dielectric function of ohmic conductors for imaginary frequencies, on the basis of optical data extending from the IR to the UV, with no need of uncontrolled data extrapolations towards zero frequency that are instead necessary with standard Kramers-Kronig relations. Applications to several sets of data for gold films are presented to demonstrate viability of the new dispersion formulae.

id: 1012.1572
title: Non-Perturbative Entangling Gates between Distant Qubits using Uniform Cold Atom Chains
authors: Leonardo Banchi, Abolfazl Bayat, Paola Verrucchi, Sougato Bose
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 140501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1572
abstract: We propose a new fast scalable method for achieving a two-qubit entangling gate between arbitrary distant qubits in a network by exploiting dispersionless propagation in uniform chains. This is achieved dynamically by switching on a strong interaction between the qubits and a bus formed by a non-engineered chain of interacting qubits. The quality of the gate scales very efficiently with qubit separations. Surprisingly, a sudden switching of the coupling is not necessary and our gate mechanism is not altered by a possibly gradual switching. The bus is also naturally reset to its initial state making the complex resetting procedure unnecessary after each application of the gate. Moreover, we propose a possible experimental realization in cold atoms trapped in optical lattices and near field Fresnel trapping potentials, which are both accessible to current technology.

id: 1012.1622
title: A violation of the spatial quantum inequality
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1622
abstract: In classical physics the energy density of a field, such as the electromagnetic field, is always positive. However, in quantum field theory it has been shown that the energy density can be negative. There are restrictions, called the quantum inequalities, on the amount of negative energy that can exist in some region of space and time. In this paper we will focus on the spatial quantum inequality as it applies to a massless scalar field in 1-1 dimensional space-time. The spatial quantum inequality is a restriction on the amount of negative energy that can exist in a region of space at a given time. It will be shown that we can specify a quantum state which violates the spatial quantum inequality.

id: 1012.1642
title: Frictionless atom cooling in harmonic traps: a time-optimal approach
authors: Dionisis Stefanatos, Justin Ruths, Jr-Shin Li
comments: This paper has been submitted to Phys. Rev. A since 13/09/2010
journal: Phys. Rev. A, Vol. 82, 063422, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1642
abstract: In this article we formulate frictionless atom cooling in harmonic traps as a time-optimal control problem, permitting imaginary values of the trap frequency for trasient time intervals during which the trap becomes an expulsive parabolic potential. We show that the minimum time solution has "bang-bang" form, where the frequency jumps suddenly at certain instants and then remains constant, and calculate estimates of the minimum cooling time for various numbers of such jumps. A numerical optimization method based on pseudospectral approximations is used to obtain suboptimal realistic solutions without discontinuities, which may be implemented experimentally.

id: 1012.1676
title: Deterministic LOCC transformation of three-qubit pure states and entanglement transfer
authors: Hiroyasu Tajima
comments: 28 pages, 7 figures, To appear in Ann. Phys
journal: Ann. Phys. 329, 1, (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1676
abstract: A necessary and sufficient condition of the possibility of a deterministic local operations and classical communication (LOCC) transformation of three-qubit pure states is given. The condition shows that the three-qubit pure states are a partially ordered set parametrized by five well-known entanglement parameters and a novel parameter; the five are the concurrences $C_{AB}$, $C_{AC}$, $C_{BC}$, the tangle $\tau_{ABC}$ and the fifth parameter $J_{5}$ of Ref. [18], while the other new one is the entanglement charge $Q_{e}$. The order of the partially ordered set is defined by the possibility of a deterministic LOCC transformation from a state to another state. In this sense, the present condition is an extension of Nielsen's work [20] to three-qubit pure states. We also clarify the rules of transfer and dissipation of the entanglement which is caused by deterministic LOCC transformations. Moreover, the minimum number of times of measurements to reproduce an arbitrary deterministic LOCC transformation between three-qubit pure states is given.

id: 1012.1682
title: Nondestructive Fluorescent State Detection of Single Neutral Atom Qubits
authors: Michael J. Gibbons, Christopher D. Hamley, Chung-Yu Shih, Michael S. Chapman
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1682
abstract: We demonstrate non-destructive (loss-less) fluorescent state detection of individual neutral atom qubits trapped in an optical lattice. The hyperfine state of the atom is measured with a 95% accuracy and an atom loss rate of 1%. Individual atoms are initialized and detected over 100 times before being lost from the trap, representing a 100-fold improvement in data collection rates over previous experiments. Microwave Rabi oscillations are observed with repeated measurements of one-and-the-same single atom.

id: 1012.1683
title: Continuous-mode effects and photon-photon phase gate performance
authors: Bing He, Artur Scherer
comments: Published Version
journal: Physical Review A 85, 033814 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1683
abstract: The effects arising from the inherent continuous-mode nature of photonic pulses were poorly understood but significantly influence the performance of quantum devices employing photonic pulse interaction in nonlinear media. Such effects include the entanglement between the continuous wave-vector modes due to pulse interaction as well as the consequence of a finite system bandwidth. We present the first analysis on these effects for interactions between single-photon pulses, demonstrating their impact on the performance of quantum phase gates based on such process. Our study clarifies a realistic picture of this type of quantum devices.

id: 1012.1719
title: On a Probabilistic Interpretation of Relativistic Quantum Mechanics
authors: Natalia Gorobey, Alexander Lukyanenko, Inna Lukyanenko
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1719
abstract: A probabilistic interpretation of one-particle relativistic quantum mechanics is proposed. Quantum Action Principle formulated earlier is used for to make the dynamics of the Minkowsky time variable of a particle to be classical. After that, quantum dynamics of a particle in the 3D space obtains the ordinary probabilistic interpretation. In addition, the classical dynamics of the Minkowsky time variable may serve as a tool for "observation" of the quantum dynamics of a particle. A relativistic analog of the hydrogen atom energy spectrum is obtained.

id: 1012.1723
title: A simple trapped-ion architecture for high-fidelity Toffoli gates
authors: Massimo Borrelli, Laura Mazzola, Mauro Paternostro, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012314 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1723
abstract: We discuss a simple architecture for a quantum Toffoli gate implemented using three trapped ions. The gate, which in principle can be implemented with a single laser-induced operation, is effective under rather general conditions and is strikingly robust (within any experimentally realistic range of values) against dephasing, heating and random fluctuations of the Hamiltonian parameters. We provide a full characterization of the unitary and noise-affected gate using three-qubit quantum process tomography.

id: 1012.1724
title: Projective measurement of a single nuclear spin qubit by using two-mode cavity QED
authors: Yujiro Eto, Atsushi Noguchi, Peng Zhang, Masahito Ueda, Mikio Kozuma
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:160501,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1724
abstract: We report the implementation of projective measurement on a single 1/2 nuclear spin of the 171Yb atom by measuring the polarization of cavity-enhanced fluorescence. To obtain cavity-enhanced fluorescence having a nuclear-spin-dependent polarization, we construct a two-mode cavity QED system, in which two cyclic transitions are independently coupled to each of the orthogonally polarized cavity modes, by manipulating the energy level of 171Yb. This system can associate the nuclear spin degrees of freedom with the polarization of photons, which will facilitate the development of hybrid quantum systems.

id: 1012.1737
title: Generating nonclassical correlations without fully aligning measurements
authors: Joel J. Wallman, Yeong-Cherng Liang, Stephen D. Bartlett
comments: v2: Essentially published version (with typos fixed, results updated in Table 2 and Figure 4 replaced); v1: 16 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022110 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1737
abstract: We investigate the scenario where spatially separated parties perform measurements in randomly chosen bases on an N-partite Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state. We show that without any alignment of the measurements, the observers will obtain correlations that violate a Bell inequality with a probability that rapidly approaches 1 as N increases and that this probability is robust against noise. We also prove that restricting these randomly chosen measurements to a plane perpendicular to a common direction will always generate correlations that violate some Bell inequality. Specifically, if each observer chooses their two measurements to be locally orthogonal, then the N observers will violate one of two Bell inequalities by an amount that increases exponentially with N. These results are also robust against noise and perturbations of each observer's reference direction from the common direction.

id: 1012.1752
title: Uncertainty relation and probability: Numerical illustration
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa, Koichiro Umetsu
comments: 27 pages, 4 figures. To appear in Progress of Theoretical Physics (kyoto)
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 125 (2011), 205-224
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1752
abstract: The uncertainty relation and the probability interpretation of quantum mechanics are intrinsically connected, as is evidenced by the evaluation of standard deviations. It is thus natural to ask if one can associate a very small uncertainty product of suitably sampled events with a very small probability. We have shown elsewhere that some examples of the evasion of the uncertainty relation noted in the past are in fact understood in this way. We here numerically illustrate that a very small uncertainty product is realized if one performs a suitable sampling of measured data which occur with a very small probability. It is also shown that our analysis is consistent with the Landau-Pollak type uncertainty relation. It is suggested that the present analysis may help reconcile the contradicting views about the "standard quantum limit" in the detection of gravitational waves.

id: 1012.1778
title: Generation of graph-state streams
authors: Daniel Ballester, Jaeyoon Cho, M. S. Kim
comments: Accepted for publication at PRA Rapid Communications
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1778
abstract: We propose a protocol to generate a stream of mobile qubits in a graph state through a single stationary parent qubit and discuss two types of its physical implementation, namely, the generation of photonic graph states through an atom-like qubit and those of flying atoms through a cavity-mode photonic qubit. The generated graph states fall into an important class that can hugely reduce the resource requirement of fault-tolerant linear optics quantum computation, which was previously known to be far from realistic. In regard to the flying atoms, we also propose a heralded generation scheme, which allows for high-fidelity graph states even under the photon loss.

id: 1012.1821
title: High-performance single-photon generation with commercial-grade optical fiber
authors: Christoph S?ller, Offir Cohen, Brian J. Smith, Ian A. Walmsley, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 031806(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1821
abstract: High-quality quantum sources are of paramount importance for the implementation of quantum technologies. We present here a heralded single-photon source based on commercial-grade polarization-maintaining optical fiber. The heralded photons exhibit a purity of at least 0.84 and an unprecedented heralding efficiency into single-mode fiber of 85%. The birefringent phase-matching condition of the underlying four-wave mixing process can be controlled mechanically to optimize the wavelength tuning needed for interfacing multiple sources, as are required for large-scale entanglement generation.

id: 1012.1839
title: Unidimensional reduction of the 3D Gross-Pitaevskii equation with two- and three-body interactions
authors: W. B. Cardoso, A. T. Avelar, D. Bazeia
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures; version to appear in PRE
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 036604 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1839
abstract: We deal with the three-dimensional Gross-Pitaevskii equation, which is used to describe a cloud of dilute bosonic atoms that interact under competing two- and three-body scattering potentials. We study the case where the cloud of atoms is strongly confined in two spatial dimensions, allowing us to build an unidimensional nonlinear equation, controlled by the nonlinearities and the confining potentials that trap the system along the longitudinal coordinate. We focus attention on specific limits, dictated by the cubic and quintic coefficients, and we implement numerical simulations to help us to quantify the validity of the procedure.

id: 1012.1868
title: Single-photon device requirements for operating linear optics quantum computing outside the post-selection basis
authors: Thomas Jennewein, Marco Barbieri, Andrew G. White
comments: To appear in J. Mod. Optics
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 58, 276-287 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1868
abstract: Photonics is a promising architecture for the realisation of quantum information processing, since the two-photon interaction, or non-linearity, necessary to build logical gates can efficiently be realised by the use of interference with ancillary photons and detection. Although single-photon sources and detectors are pivotal in realisations of such systems, clear guidelines for the required performance of realistic systems are yet to be defined. We present our detailed numerical simulation of several quantum optics circuits including sources and detectors all represented in multi-dimensional Fockspaces, which allows to obtain experimentally realistic performance bounds for for these devices. In addition, the single-photon source based on switched parametric down-conversion is studied, which in principle could reach the required performance. Three approaches for implementing the switching hierarchy of the photons are simulated, and their anticipated performance is obtained. Our results define the bar for the optical devices needed to achieve the first level of linear-optics quantum computing outside the coincidence basis.

id: 1012.1916
title: Large violation of Bell inequalities using both particle and wave measurements
authors: Daniel Cavalcanti, Nicolas Brunner, Paul Skrzypczyk, Alejo Salles, Valerio Scarani
comments: v2: 5pages, 3figs, same results
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022105 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1916
abstract: When separated measurements on entangled quantum systems are performed, the theory predicts correlations that cannot be explained by any classical mechanism: communication is excluded because the signal should travel faster than light; pre-established agreement is excluded because Bell inequalities are violated. All optical demonstrations of such violations have involved discrete degrees of freedom and are plagued by the detection-efficiency loophole. A promising alternative is to use continuous variables combined with highly efficient homodyne measurements. However, all the schemes proposed so far use states or measurements that are extremely difficult to achieve, or produce very weak violations. We present a simple method to generate large violations for feasible states using both photon counting and homodyne detections. The present scheme can also be used to obtain nonlocality from easy-to-prepare Gaussian states (e.g. two-mode squeezed state).

id: 1012.1933
title: The Generalized Quantization Schemes for Games and its Application to Quantum Information
authors: Ahmad Nawaz
comments: 144 pages, 15 figures, PhD. Thesis, Submitted to Department of Electronics Quaid-i-Azam University Islamabad, Pakistn in 2007
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1933
abstract: Theory of quantum games is relatively new to the literature and its applications to various areas of research are being explored. It is a novel interpretation of strategies and decisions in quantum domain. In the earlier work on quantum games considerable attention was given to the resolution of dilemmas present in corresponding classical games. Two separate quantum schemes were presented by Eisert et al. and Marinatto and Weber to resolve dilemmas in Prisoners' Dilemma and Battle of Sexes games respectively. However for the latter scheme it was argued that dilemma was not resolved. We have modified the quantization scheme of Marinatto and Weber to resolve the dilemma. We have developed a generalized quantization scheme for two person non-zero sum games which reduces to the existing schemes under certain conditions. Applications of this generalized quantization scheme to quantum information theory are studied. Measurement being ubiquitous in quantum mechanics can not be ignored in quantum games. With the help of generalized quantization scheme we have analyzed the effects of measurement on quantum games. Qubits are the important elements for playing quantum games and are generally prone to decoherence due to their interactions with environment. An analysis of quantum games in presence of quantum correlated noise is performed in the context of generalized quantization scheme. Quantum key distribution is one of the key issues of quantum information theory for the purpose of secure communication. Using mathematical framework of generalized quantization scheme we have proposed a protocol for quantum key distribution and a technique for quantum state tomography.

id: 1012.1960
title: A Quantum Random Number Generator Certified by Value Indefiniteness
authors: Alastair A. Abbott, Cristian S. Calude, Karl Svozil
comments: 25 pages, 3 figures
journal: Mathematical Structures in Computer Science 24 (Special Issue 3), e240303 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1960
abstract: In this paper we propose a quantum random number generator (QRNG) which utilizes an entangled photon pair in a Bell singlet state, and is certified explicitly by value indefiniteness. While "true randomness" is a mathematical impossibility, the certification by value indefiniteness ensures the quantum random bits are incomputable in the strongest sense. This is the first QRNG setup in which a physical principle (Kochen-Specker value indefiniteness) guarantees that no single quantum bit produced can be classically computed (reproduced and validated), the mathematical form of bitwise physical unpredictability. The effects of various experimental imperfections are discussed in detail, particularly those related to detector efficiencies, context alignment and temporal correlations between bits. The analysis is to a large extent relevant for the construction of any QRNG based on beam-splitters. By measuring the two entangled photons in maximally misaligned contexts and utilizing the fact that two rather than one bitstring are obtained, more efficient and robust unbiasing techniques can be applied. A robust and efficient procedure based on XORing the bitstrings together---essentially using one as a one-time-pad for the other---is proposed to extract random bits in the presence of experimental imperfections, as well as a more efficient modification of the von Neumann procedure for the same task. Some open problems are also discussed.

id: 1012.1993
title: A reconfigurable spintronic device for quantum and classical logic
authors: Debanjan Bhowmik, Aamod Shanker, Angik Sarkar, Tarun Kanti Bhattacharyya
comments: 29 pages, 8 figures, 1 Table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1993
abstract: Quantum superposition and entanglement of physical states can be harnessed to solve some problems which are intractable on a classical computer implementing binary logic. Several algorithms have been proposed to utilize the quantum nature of physical states and solve important problems. For example, Shor's quantum algorithm is extremely important in the field of cryptography since it factors large numbers exponentially faster than any known classical algorithm. Another celebrated example is the Grovers quantum algorithm. These algorithms can only be implemented on a quantum computer which operates on quantum bits (qubits). Rudimentary implementations of quantum processor have already been achieved through linear optical components, ion traps, NMR etc. However demonstration of a solid state quantum processor had been elusive till DiCarlo et al demonstrated two qubit algorithms in superconducting quantum processor. Though this has been a significant step, scalable semiconductor based room temperature quantum computing is yet to be found. Such a technology could benefit from the vast experience of the semiconductor industry. Hence, here we present a reconfigurable semiconductor quantum logic device (SQuaLD) which operates on the position and spin degree of freedom of the electrons in the device. Based on a few recent experiments, we believe SQuaLD is experimentally feasible. Moreover, using a well known quantum simulation method, we show that quantum algorithms (such as Deutsch Jozsa, Grover search) as well as universal classical logic operations (such as NAND gate) can be implemented in SQuaLD. Thus, we argue that SQuaLD is a strong candidate for the future quantum logic processor since it also satisfies the DiVincenzo criteria for quantum logic application as well as the five essential characteristics for classical logic applications.

id: 1012.1994
title: Birman-Wenzl-Murakami Algebra, Topological parameter and Berry phase
authors: Chengcheng Zhou, Kang Xue, Lidan Gou, Chunfang Sun, Gangcheng Wang, Taotao Hu
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1994
abstract: In this paper, a (3\times3)-matrix representation of the Birman-Wenzl-Murakami(BWM) algebra has been presented. Based on which, unitary matrices (A(\theta,\phi_1,\phi_2), B(\theta,\phi_1,\phi_2)) are generated via the Yang-Baxterization approach. A hamiltonian is constructed from the unitary (B(\theta,\phi)) matrix. We then study the Berry phase of the Yang-Baxter system and find the topological parameter d has relationship with berry phase.

id: 1012.2005
title: Majorana path integral for nonequilibrium dynamics of two-level systems
authors: Tigran A. Sedrakyan, Victor M. Galitski
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures; References added; Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 134303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2005
abstract: We present a new field-theoretic approach to anaylize non-equilirbium dynamics of two-level systems (TLS), which is based on a correspondence between a driven TLS and a Majorana fermion field theory coupled to bosonic fields. This approach allows us to calculate analytically properties of non-linear TLS dynamics with an arbitrary accuracy. We apply our method to analyze specific TLS dynamics under a monochromatic periodic drive that is relevant to the problem of decoherence in Josephson junction qubits. It is demonstrated that the method gives the precise positions of the resonance peaks in the non-linear dielectric response function that are in agreement with numerical simulations.

id: 1012.2013
title: Nonlocal PMD compensation in the transmission of non-stationary streams of polarization entangled photons
authors: Mark Shtaif, Cristian Antonelli, Misha Brodsky
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 19, Issue 3, pp. 1728-1733 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2013
abstract: We study the feasibility of nonlocally compensating for polarization mode dispersion (PMD), when polarization entangled photons are distributed in fiber-optic channels.We quantify the effectiveness of nonlocal compensation while taking into account the possibility that entanglement is generated through the use of a pulsed optical pump signal.

id: 1012.2030
title: Quantum information transfer with superconducting flux qubits coupled to a resonator
authors: Chui-Ping Yang
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 054303 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2030
abstract: We propose a way for implementing quantum information transfer with two superconducting flux qubits, by coupling them to a resonator. This proposal does not require adjustment of the level spacings or uniformity in the device parameters. Moreover, neither adiabatic passage nor a second-order detuning is needed by this proposal, thus the operation can be performed much faster when compared with the previous proposals.

id: 1012.2041
title: Coupled anharmonic oscillators: the Rayleigh-Ritz approach versus the collocation approach
authors: Arkadiusz Kuros, Anna Okopinska
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physica Scripta 83 (2011) 015003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2041
abstract: For a system of coupled anharmonic oscillators we compare the convergence rate of the variational collocation approach presented recently by Amore and Fernandez (2010 Phys.Scr.81 045011) with the one obtained using the optimized Rayleigh-Ritz (RR) method. The monotonic convergence of the RR method allows us to obtain more accurate results at a lower computational cost.

id: 1012.2050
title: Markov entropy decomposition: a variational dual for quantum belief propagation
authors: David Poulin, Matthew B. Hastings
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 080403 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2050
abstract: We present a lower bound for the free energy of a quantum many-body system at finite temperature. This lower bound is expressed as a convex optimization problem with linear constraints, and is derived using strong subadditivity of von Neumann entropy and a relaxation of the consistency condition of local density operators. The dual to this minimization problem leads to a set of quantum belief propagation equations, thus providing a firm theoretical foundation to that approach. The minimization problem is numerically tractable, and we find good agreement with quantum Monte Carlo for the spin-half Heisenberg anti-ferromagnet in two dimensions. This lower bound complements other variational upper bounds. We discuss applications to Hamiltonian complexity theory and give a generalization of the structure theorem of Hayden, Jozsa, Petz and Winter to trees in an appendix.

id: 1012.2112
title: Symmetry-assisted adversaries for quantum state generation
authors: Andris Ambainis, Lo?ck Magnin, Martin Roetteler, J¨¦r¨¦mie Roland
comments: 35 pages, 5 figures
journal: 26th IEEE Conference on Computational Complexity (CCC'11), pages 167-177, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2112
abstract: We introduce a new quantum adversary method to prove lower bounds on the query complexity of the quantum state generation problem. This problem encompasses both, the computation of partial or total functions and the preparation of target quantum states. There has been hope for quite some time that quantum state generation might be a route to tackle the {\sc Graph Isomorphism} problem. We show that for the related problem of {\sc Index Erasure} our method leads to a lower bound of $\Omega(\sqrt N)$ which matches an upper bound obtained via reduction to quantum search on $N$ elements. This closes an open problem first raised by Shi [FOCS'02]. Our approach is based on two ideas: (i) on the one hand we generalize the known additive and multiplicative adversary methods to the case of quantum state generation, (ii) on the other hand we show how the symmetries of the underlying problem can be leveraged for the design of optimal adversary matrices and dramatically simplify the computation of adversary bounds. Taken together, these two ideas give the new result for {\sc Index Erasure} by using the representation theory of the symmetric group. Also, the method can lead to lower bounds even for small success probability, contrary to the standard adversary method. Furthermore, we answer an open question due to \v{S}palek [CCC'08] by showing that the multiplicative version of the adversary method is stronger than the additive one for any problem. Finally, we prove that the multiplicative bound satisfies a strong direct product theorem, extending a result by \v{S}palek to quantum state generation problems.

id: 1012.2122
title: Measurement contextuality is implied by macroscopic realism
authors: Zeqian Chen, Alberto Montina
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042110 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2122
abstract: Ontological theories of quantum mechanics provide a realistic description of single systems by means of well-defined quantities conditioning the measurement outcomes. In order to be complete, they should also fulfil the minimal condition of macroscopic realism. Under the assumption of outcome determinism and for Hilbert space dimension greater than two, they were all proved to be contextual for projective measurements. In the recent years a generalized concept of non-contextuality was introduced that applies also to the case of outcome indeterminism and unsharp measurements. It was pointed out that the Beltrametti-Bugajski model is an example of measurement non-contextual indeterminist theory. Here we provide a simple proof that this model is the only one with such a feature for projective measurements and Hilbert space dimension greater than two. As a corollary, von Neumann measurement non-contextuality implies non-contextuality for unsharp measurements. By noting that the Beltrametti-Bugajski model does not satisfy the condition of macroscopic realism, we arrive at the conclusion that the only way to solve the measurement problem in the framework of an ontological theory is relaxing the hypothesis of non-contextuality in its generalized sense.

id: 1012.2130
title: Group theoretic structures in the estimation of an unknown unitary transformation
authors: G. Chiribella
comments: 15 pages, lecture given at The XXVIII International Colloquium on Group-Theoretical Methods in Physics, 26-30 July 2010, Newcastle upon Tyne (UK)
journal: J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 284, 012001 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2130
abstract: This paper presents a series of general results about the optimal estimation of physical transformations in a given symmetry group. In particular, it is shown how the different symmetries of the problem determine different properties of the optimal estimation strategy. The paper also contains a discussion about the role of entanglement between the representation and multiplicity spaces and about the optimality of square-root measurements.

id: 1012.2156
title: Elimination of degenerate trajectory of single atom strongly coupled to the tilted cavity TEM10 mode
authors: Pengfei Zhang, Yanqiang Guo, Zhuoheng Li, Yanfeng Zhang, Jinjin Du, Gang Li, Junmin Wang, Tiancai Zhang
comments: 13 pages, 5figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2156
abstract: We demonstrate the trajectory measurement of the single neutral atoms deterministically using a high-finesse optical micro-cavity. Single atom strongly couples to the high-order transverse vacuum TEM_{10} mode, instead of the usual TEM_{00} mode, and the parameter of the system is (g_{10},\kappa ,\gamma )=2\pi \times (20.5,2.6,2.6)MHz. The atoms simply fall down freely from the magneto-optic trap into the cavity modes and the trajectories of the single atoms are linear. The transmission spectrums of atoms passing through the TEM10 mode are detected by a single photon counting modules and well fitted. Thanks to the tilted cavity transverse TEM10 mode, which is inclined to the vertical direction about 45 degrees and it helps us, for the first time, to eliminate the degenerate trajectory of the single atom falling through the cavity and get the unique atom trajectory. Atom position with high precision of 0.1{\mu}m in the off-axis direction (axis y) is obtained, and the spatial resolution of 5.6{\mu}m is achieved in time of 10{\mu}s along the vertical direction (axis x). The average velocity of the atoms is also measured from the atom transits, which determines the temperature of the atoms in magneto-optic trap, 186{\mu}K {\pm} 19{\mu}K.

id: 1012.2196
title: The Casimir interaction of a massive vector field between concentric spherical bodies
authors: L. P. Teo
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. B 696 (2011), 529-535
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2196
abstract: The Casimir interaction energy due to the vacuum fluctuations of a massive vector field between two perfectly conducting concentric spherical bodies is computed. The TE contribution to the Casimir interaction energy is a direct generalization of the massless case but the TM contribution is much more complicated. Each TM mode is a linear combination of a transverse mode which is the generalization of a TM mode in the massless case and a longitudinal mode that does not appear in the massless case. In contrast to the case of two parallel perfectly conducting plates, the are no TM discrete modes that vanish identically in the perfectly conducting spherical bodies. Numerical simulations show that the Casimir interaction force between the two bodies is always attractive.

id: 1012.2208
title: Using Berry's phase to detect the Unruh effect at lower accelerations
authors: E. Martin-Martinez, I. Fuentes, R. B. Mann
comments: 5 pages (including appendices) 2 figures, revtex 4. I.F. previously published as Fuentes-Guridi and Fuentes-Schuller. Journal reference added
journal: Physical Review Letters 107, 131301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2208
abstract: We show that a detector acquires a Berry phase due to its motion in spacetime. The phase is different in the inertial and accelerated case as a direct consequence of the Unruh effect. We exploit this fact to design a novel method to measure the Unruh effect. Surprisingly, the effect is detectable for accelerations 10^9 times smaller than previous proposals sustained only for times of nanoseconds.

id: 1012.2247
title: Cross-Phase Modulation and Population Redistribution in a Periodic Tripod Medium
authors: K. Slowik, A. Raczynski, J. Zaremba, S. Zielinska-Kaniasty, M. Artoni, G. C. La Rocca
comments: 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2247
abstract: The cross-Kerr effect is studied for two pulses propagating in an atomic medium in a tripod configuration, dressed by a strong standing wave coupling beam. Nonlinear phase shifts for both transmitted and reflected beams are calculated taking into account the redistribution of the population among the atomic levels which allows one to study the phase shifts in a wide range of pulse detunings. The influence of other parameters, e.g., the intensity of the control field and the relaxation rates, on the cross-Kerr effect is also examined in detail.

id: 1012.2262
title: Limitations on quantum dimensionality reduction
authors: Aram W. Harrow, Ashley Montanaro, Anthony J. Short
comments: 17 pages; v2: typo fixes and clarifications
journal: Proc. of ICALP 2011, Volume 6755/2011, pp. 86-97
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2262
abstract: The Johnson-Lindenstrauss Lemma is a classic result which implies that any set of n real vectors can be compressed to O(log n) dimensions while only distorting pairwise Euclidean distances by a constant factor. Here we consider potential extensions of this result to the compression of quantum states. We show that, by contrast with the classical case, there does not exist any distribution over quantum channels that significantly reduces the dimension of quantum states while preserving the 2-norm distance with high probability. We discuss two tasks for which the 2-norm distance is indeed the correct figure of merit. In the case of the trace norm, we show that the dimension of low-rank mixed states can be reduced by up to a square root, but that essentially no dimensionality reduction is possible for highly mixed states.

id: 1012.2264
title: Accessing photon bunching with photon number resolving multi-pixel detector
authors: Dmitry A. Kalashnikov, Si-Hui Tan, Maria V. Chekhova, Leonid A. Krivitsky
comments: Reconsidered theoretical description, added recent experimental data, submitted for publication
journal: OPTICS EXPRESS Vol. 19, No. 10, 9352-9363 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2264
abstract: In quantum optics and its applications, there is an urgent demand for photon-number resolving detectors. Recently, there appeared multi-pixel detectors (MPPC) that are able to distinguish between 1,2,..10 photons. At the same time, strong coupling between different pixels (cross-talk) hinders their photon-number resolution. In this work, we suggest a method for `filtering out' the cross-talk effect in the measurement of intensity correlation functions.

id: 1012.2291
title: Bitwise Quantum Min-Entropy Sampling and New Lower Bounds for Random Access Codes
authors: J¨¹rg Wullschleger
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2291
abstract: Min-entropy sampling gives a bound on the min-entropy of a randomly chosen subset of a string, given a bound on the min-entropy of the whole string. K\"onig and Renner showed a min-entropy sampling theorem that holds relative to quantum knowledge. Their result achieves the optimal rate, but it can only be applied if the bits are sampled in blocks, and only gives weak bounds for the non-smooth min-entropy. We give two new quantum min-entropy sampling theorems that do not have the above weaknesses. The first theorem shows that the result by K\"onig and Renner also applies to bitwise sampling, and the second theorem gives a strong bound for the non-smooth min-entropy. Our results imply a new lower bound for k-out-of-n random access codes: while previous results by Ben-Aroya, Regev, and de Wolf showed that the decoding probability is exponentially small in k if the storage rate is smaller than 0.7, our results imply that this holds for any storage rate strictly smaller than 1, which is optimal.

id: 1012.2361
title: Transverse Mode Revival of a Light-Compensated Quantum Memory
authors: Fan Yang, Torsten Mandel, Christian Lutz, Zhen-Sheng Yuan, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2361
abstract: A long-lived quantum memory was developed based on light-compensated cold $^{87}$Rb atoms in a dipole trap. The lifetime of the quantum memory was improved by 40 folds, from 0.67 ms to 28 ms with the help of a compensation laser beam. Oscillations of the memory efficiency due to the transverse mode breathing of the singly-excited spin wave have been clearly observed and clarified with a Monte-Carlo simulation procedure. With detailed analysis of the decoherence processes of the spin wave in cold atomic ensembles, this experiment provides a benchmark for the further development of high-quality quantum memories.

id: 1012.2366
title: Femtosecond Coherence and Quantum Control of Single Molecules at Room Temperature
authors: Richard Hildner, Daan Brinks, Niek F. van Hulst
comments: 
journal: Nature Phys. 7 (2011) 172 - 177
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2366
abstract: Quantum mechanical phenomena, such as electronic coherence and entanglement, play a key role in achieving the unrivalled efficiencies of light-energy conversion in natural photosynthetic light-harvesting complexes, and triggered the growing interest in the possibility of organic quantum computing. Since biological systems are intrinsically heterogeneous, clear relations between structural and quantum-mechanical properties can only be obtained by investigating individual assemblies. However, single-molecule techniques to access ultrafast coherences at physiological conditions were not available so far. Here we show by employing femtosecond pulse-shaping techniques that quantum coherences in single organic molecules can be created, probed, and manipulated at ambient conditions even in highly disordered solid environments. We find broadly distributed coherence decay times for different individual molecules giving direct insight into the structural heterogeneity of the local surroundings. Most importantly, we induce Rabi-oscillations and control the coherent superposition state in a single molecule, thus performing a basic femtosecond single-qubit operation at room temperature.

id: 1012.2376
title: Microwave guiding of electrons on a chip
authors: Johannes Hoffrogge, Roman Fr?hlich, Mark A. Kasevich, Peter Hommelhoff
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 193001 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2376
abstract: Electrons travelling in free space have allowed to explore fundamental physics like the wave nature of matter, the Aharonov-Bohm and the Hanbury Brown-Twiss effect. Complementarily, the precise control over the external degrees of freedom of electrons has proven pivotal for wholly new types of experiments such as high precision measurements of the electron's mass and magnetic moment in Penning traps. Interestingly, the confinement of electrons in the purely electric field of an alternating quadrupole has rarely been considered. Recent advances in the development of planar chip-based ion traps suggest that this technology can be applied to enable entirely new experiments with electron beams guided in versatile potentials. Here we demonstrate the transverse confinement of a low energy electron beam in a linear quadrupole guide based on microstructured planar electrodes and driven at microwave frequencies. A new guided matter-wave system will result, with applications ranging from electron interferometry to novel non-invasive electron microscopy.

id: 1012.2405
title: Quantum walks on complex networks with connection instabilities and community structure
authors: Dimitris I. Tsomokos
comments: 5.1 pages, 4 figures; Shift of focus towards quantum networks (published version)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052315 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2405
abstract: A continuous-time quantum walk is investigated on complex networks with the characteristic property of community structure, which is shared by most real-world networks. Motivated by the prospect of viable quantum networks, I focus on the effects of network instabilities in the form of broken links, and examine the response of the quantum walk to such failures. It is shown that the reconfiguration of the quantum walk is determined by the community structure of the network. In this context, quantum walks based on the adjacency and Laplacian matrices of the network are compared, and their responses to link failures is analyzed.

id: 1012.2418
title: On the Robustness of (Photonic) Quantum Key Distribution with Classical Alice
authors: Michel Boyer, Tal Mor
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2418
abstract: Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) with classical Bob has recently been suggested and proven robust. Following this work, QKD with classical Alice was also suggested and proven robust. The above protocols are ideal in the sense that they make use of qubits. However, in the past, well-known QKD protocols that were proven robust and even proven unconditionally secure, when qubits are used, were found to be totally insecure when photons are used. This is due to sensitivity to photon losses (e.g., Bennett's two-state protocol) or sensitivity to losses combined with multi-photon states (e.g., the photon-number-splitting attack on the weak-pulse Bennett-Brassard protocol, BB84). Here we prove that QKD with classical Alice is still robust when photon losses and even multi-photon states are taken into account.

id: 1012.2536
title: Is realism compatible with true randomness ?
authors: Nicolas Gisin
comments: Invited white paper for Quantum Physics and the Nature of Reality, John Polkinghorne 80th Birthday Conference. St Anne's College, Oxford. 26-29 September 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2536
abstract: It is argued that realism and true randomness are fully compatible. Realistic true random events are acts of pure creation that obey strict laws, but do not necessarily satisfy Kolmogorov's axioms of probabilities. Realistic true randomness is some sort of nondeterministic force, or propensity of physical systems to manifest such and such properties under such and such conditions. Realistic random events reflect preexisting properties, as required by realism, simply the reflection is not deterministic; still, the preexisting properties determine the propensities of the different possible events. It is argued that deterministic extensions of quantum physics are necessarily incompatible with special relativity. Hence, from today's violations of Bell's inequalities one can conclude that all future physics theories will display true randomness as does quantum physics. It is argued that accepting true randomness and realism leads to new questions with interesting answers, allowing one 1) to study nonlocality in configurations with many independent sources and 2) to bound how much free will is needed for a proper violation of Bell's inequality.

id: 1012.2548
title: Enhanced standoff sensing resolution using quantum illumination
authors: Saikat Guha, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: This 4-page article is based on a contributed talk presented at the Tenth International Conference on Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computation (QCMC) 2010, in Brisbane, Australia (this http URL). This article has been submitted for the proceedings volume of QCMC 2010. After it is published, it will be available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2548
abstract: Loss and noise quickly destroy quantum entanglement. Nevertheless, recent work has shown that a quadrature-entangled light source can reap a substantial performance advantage over all classical-state sources of the same average transmitter power in scenarios whose loss and noise makes them entanglement breaking, standoff target-detection being an example. In this paper, we make a first step in extending this quantum illumination paradigm to the optical imaging domain, viz., to obtain better spatial resolution for standoff optical sensing. Our canonical imaging scenario---restricted, for simplicity, to one transverse dimension---is taken to be that of resolving one versus two closely-spaced in-phase specular point targets. We show that an entangled-state transmitter, which uses continuous-wave-pumped spontaneous parametric downconversion (SPDC), achieves an error-probability exponent that exceeds that of all classical-state transmitters of the same average power. Using these error-exponent results, we find the ultimate spatial-resolution limits for coherent-state and SPDC imaging systems that use their respective quantum-optimal receivers, thus quantifying the latter's spatial-resolution advantage over the former. We also propose a structured optical receiver that is ideally capable of harnessing 3 dB (of the full 6 dB) gain in the error-probability exponent achievable by the SPDC transmitter and its quantum-optimal receiver.

id: 1012.2575
title: A review of the decoherent histories approach to the arrival time problem in quantum theory
authors: James M Yearsley
comments: 10 pages. To appear in DICE 2010 conference proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2575
abstract: We review recent progress in understanding the arrival time problem in quantum mechanics, from the point of view of the decoherent histories approach to quantum theory. We begin by discussing the arrival time problem, focussing in particular on the role of the probability current in the expected classical solution. After a brief introduction to decoherent histories we review the use of complex potentials in the construction of appropriate class operators. We then discuss the arrival time problem for a particle coupled to an environment, and review how the arrival time probability can be expressed in terms of a POVM in this case. We turn finally to the question of decoherence of the corresponding histories, and we show that this can be achieved for simple states in the case of a free particle, and for general states for a particle coupled to an environment.

id: 1012.2597
title: Physics as quantum information processing
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano
comments: Work presented at the conference QCMC 2010 held on 19-23 July 2010 at the University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2597
abstract: The experience from Quantum Information has lead us to look at Quantum Theory (QT) and the whole Physics from a different angle. The information-theoretical paradigm---"It from Bit'---prophesied by John Archibald Wheeler is relentlessly advancing. Recently it has been shown that QT is derivable from pure informational principles. The possibility that there is only QT at the foundations of Physics has been then considered, with space-time, Relativity, quantization rules and Quantum Field Theory (QFT) emerging from a quantum-information processing. The resulting theory is a discrete version of QFT with automatic relativistic invariance, and without fields, Hamiltonian, and quantization rules. In this paper I review some recent advances on these lines. In particular: i) How space-time and relativistic covariance emerge from the quantum computation; ii) The derivation of the Dirac equation as free information flow, without imposing Lorentz covariance; iii) the information-theoretical meaning of inertial mass and Planck constant; iv) An observable consequence of the theory: a mass-dependent refraction index of vacuum. I will then conclude with two possible routes to Quantum Gravity.

id: 1012.2630
title: An algebraic classification of entangled states
authors: Roman V. Buniy, Thomas W. Kephart
comments: published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 185304 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2630
abstract: We provide a classification of entangled states that uses new discrete entanglement invariants. The invariants are defined by algebraic properties of linear maps associated with the states. We prove a theorem on a correspondence between the invariants and sets of equivalent classes of entangled states. The new method works for an arbitrary finite number of finite-dimensional state subspaces. As an application of the method, we considered a large selection of cases of three subspaces of various dimensions. We also obtain an entanglement classification of four qubits, where we find 27 fundamental sets of classes.

id: 1012.2650
title: A quantum version of randomization criterion
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: Proof of Theorem 4 in section 5 is corrected and simplified
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2650
abstract: In classical statistical decision theory, comparison of experiments plays very important role. Especially, so-called randomization criteria is most important. In this paper, we establish two kinds of quantum analogue these concepts, and apply to some examples.

id: 1012.2656
title: Stationary entanglement achievable by environment induced chain links
authors: Laleh Memarzadeh, Stefano Mancini
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042329 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2656
abstract: We investigate the possibility of chaining qubits by letting pairs of nearest neighbours qubits dissipating into common environments. We then study entanglement dynamics within the chain and show that steady state entanglement can be achieved.

id: 1012.2686
title: Comment on: Hawking Radiation from Ultrashort Laser Pulse Filaments
authors: Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold, William G. Unruh
comments: 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2686
abstract: In a recent paper Belgiorno {\em et al} claimed to have observed the analog of the Hawking effect because of the detection of radiation in a frequency range in which what they called "phase horizons" existed. They created rapidly moving pulses of light in a silica glass whose Kerr effect altered the refractive index to create those horizons. Unfortunately, while the observations are very interesting, the cause of the radiation is not understood, and we feel it is not justified to call this a detection of the Hawking effect in an analog system.

id: 1012.2704
title: General U(4) gate for photon polarization and orbital angular momentum
authors: Craig S. Hamilton, Aurel Gabris, Igor Jex, Stephen M. Barnett
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2704
abstract: We examine the implementation of an arbitrary U(4) gate consisting of CNOT gates and single qubit unitary gates for the Hilbert space of photon spin polarization and two states of photon orbital angular momentum. Our scheme improves over a recently proposed one that uses q-plates because the fidelity is limited only by losses thus in principle it could be used to achieve a perfect transformation.

id: 1012.2788
title: Quantum and classical correlations in the one-dimensional XY model with Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction
authors: Ben-Qiong Liu, Bin Shao, Jun-Gang Li, Jian Zou, Lian-Ao Wu
comments: 18pages, 6figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2788
abstract: We study the effect of Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (DM) interaction on pairwise quantum discord, entanglement, and classical correlation in the anisotropic XY spin-half chain. Analytical expressions for both quantum and classical correlations are obtained from the spin-spin correlation functions. We show that these pairwise quantities exhibit various behaviors in relation to the relative strengths of the DM interaction, the anisotropy and the magnetic intensity. We observe non-analyticities of the derivatives of both quantum and classical correlations with respect to the magnetic intensity at the critical point, with consideration of the DM interaction.

id: 1012.2794
title: Balancing efficiencies by squeezing in realistic eight-port homodyne detection
authors: Juha-Pekka Pellonp??, Jussi Schultz, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 043818 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2794
abstract: We address measurements of covariant phase observables (CPOs) by means of realistic eight-port homodyne detectors. We do not assume equal quantum efficiencies for the four photodetectors and investigate the conditions under which the measurement of a CPO may be achieved. We show that balancing the efficiencies using an additional beam splitter allows us to achieve a CPO at the price of reducing the overall effective efficiency, and prove that it is never a smearing of the ideal CPO achievable with unit quantum efficiency. An alternative strategy based on employing a squeezed vacuum as a parameter field is also suggested, which allows one to increase the overall efficiency in comparison to the passive case using only a moderate amount of squeezing. Both methods are suitable for implementantion with current technology.

id: 1012.2850
title: Generalized Bose-Einstein Condensation
authors: William J. Mullin, Asaad R. Sakhel
comments: 17 pages; 6 figures. Intended for American Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2850
abstract: Generalized Bose-Einstein condensation (GBEC) involves condensates appearing simultaneously in multiple states. We review examples of the three types in an ideal Bose gas with different geometries. In Type I there is a discrete number of quantum states each having macroscopic occupation; Type II has condensation into a continuous band of states, with each state having macroscopic occupation; in Type III each state is microscopically occupied while the entire condensate band is macroscopically occupied. We begin by discussing Type I or "normal" BEC into a single state for an isotropic harmonic oscillator potential. Other geometries and external potentials are then considered: the {}"channel" potential (harmonic in one dimension and hard-wall in the other), which displays Type II, the {}"cigar trap" (anisotropic harmonic potential), and the "Casimir prism" (an elongated box), the latter two having Type III condensations. General box geometries are considered in an appendix. We particularly focus on the cigar trap, which Van Druten and Ketterle first showed had a two-step condensation: a GBEC into a band of states at a temperature $T_{c}$ and another "one-dimensional" transition at a lower temperature $T_{1}$ into the ground state. In a thermodynamic limit in which the ratio of the dimensions of the anisotropic harmonic trap is kept fixed, $T_{1}$ merges with the upper transition, which then becomes a normal BEC. However, in the thermodynamic limit of Beau and Zagrebnov, in which the ratio of the boundary lengths increases exponentially, $T_{1}$ becomes fixed at the temperature of a true Type I phase transition. The effects of interactions on GBEC are discussed and we show that there is evidence that Type III condensation may have been observed in the cigar trap.

id: 1012.2855
title: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen correlations in a hybrid system
authors: Pawe? Caban, Jakub Rembieli¨½ski, Piotr Witas, Marta W?odarczyk
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2855
abstract: We calculate the relativistic correlation function for a hybrid system of a photon and a Dirac-particle. Such a system can be produced in decay of another spin-1/2 fermion. We show, that the relativistic correlation function, which depends on particle momenta, may have local extrema for fermion velocity of order 0.5 c. This influences the degree of violation of CHSH inequality.

id: 1012.2864
title: Scalable Architecture for a Room Temperature Solid-State Quantum Information Processor
authors: Norman Y. Yao, Liang Jiang, Alexey V. Gorshkov, Peter C. Maurer, Geza Giedke, J. Ignacio Cirac, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: Nat. Commun. 3:800 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2864
abstract: The realization of a scalable quantum information processor has emerged over the past decade as one of the central challenges at the interface of fundamental science and engineering. Much progress has been made towards this goal. Indeed, quantum operations have been demonstrated on several trapped ion qubits, and other solid-state systems are approaching similar levels of control. Extending these techniques to achieve fault-tolerant operations in larger systems with more qubits remains an extremely challenging goal, in part, due to the substantial technical complexity of current implementations. Here, we propose and analyze an architecture for a scalable, solid-state quantum information processor capable of operating at or near room temperature. The architecture is applicable to realistic conditions, which include disorder and relevant decoherence mechanisms, and includes a hierarchy of control at successive length scales. Our approach is based upon recent experimental advances involving Nitrogen-Vacancy color centers in diamond and will provide fundamental insights into the physics of non-equilibrium many-body quantum systems. Additionally, the proposed architecture may greatly alleviate the stringent constraints, currently limiting the realization of scalable quantum processors.

id: 1012.2911
title: Low-frequency Landau-Zener-St¨¹ckelberg interference in dissipative superconducting qubits
authors: lingjie du, yang yu
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a crucial sign error in equation 3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2911
abstract: Landau-Zener-St\"uckelberg (LZS) interference of continuously driven superconducting qubits is studied. Going beyond the second order perturbation expansion, we find a time dependent stationary population evolution as well as unsymmetrical microwave driven Landau-Zener transitions, resulting from the nonresonant terms which are neglected in rotating-wave approximation. For the low-frequency driving, the qubit population at equilibrium is a periodical function of time, owing to the contribution of the nonresonant terms. In order to obtain the average population, it is found that the average approximation based on the perturbation approach can be applied to the low-frequency region. For the extremely low frequency which is much smaller than the decoherence rate, we develop noncoherence approximation by dividing the evolution into discrete time steps during which the coherence is lost totally. These approximations present comprehensive analytical descriptions of LZS interference in most of parameter space of frequency and decoherence rate, agreeing well with those of the numerical simulations and providing a simple but integrated understanding to system dynamics. The application of our models to microwave cooling can obtain the minimal frequency to realize effective microwave cooling.

id: 1012.2916
title: Optimal cooling of a driven artificial atom in dissipative environment
authors: Lingjie Du, Yang Yu
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a crucial sign error in equation 10
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2916
abstract: We study microwave-driven cooling in a superconducting flux qubit subjected to environment noises. For the weak decoherence, our analytical results agree well with the experimental observations near the degeneracy point and show that the microwave amplitude for optimal cooling should depend linearly on the dc flux detuning. With the decoherence increasing, more vibrational degrees of freedom couple in, making the ordinary cooling method less effective or even fail. We propose an improved cooling method, which can eliminate the perturbation of additional vibrational degrees of freedom hence keep high efficiency even under the strong decoherence. Furthermore, we point out that the decoherence will modulate the frequency where microwave-driven Landau-Zener transition reaches maximum in both methods, displaying the feature of incoherent dynamics which is important for the optimal cooling of qubits and other quantum systems.

id: 1012.2917
title: Electromagnetically induced interference at superconducting qubits
authors: Lingjie Du, Yang Yu
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a crucial sign error in equation 5
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2917
abstract: We study electromagnetically induced interference at superconducting qubits. The interaction between qubits and electromagnetic fields can provide additional coupling channels to qubit states, leading to quantum interference in a microwave driven qubit. In particular, the interwell relaxation or Rabi oscillation, resulting respectively from the multi- or single-mode interaction, can induce effective crossovers. The environment is modeled by a multi-mode thermal bath, generating the interwell relaxation. Relaxation induced interference, independent of the tunnel coupling, provides deeper understanding to the interaction between the qubits and their environment. It also supplies a useful tool to characterize the relaxation strength as well as the characteristic frequency of the bath. In addition, we demonstrate the relaxation can generate population inversion in a strongly driving two-level system. On the other hand, different from Rabi oscillation, Rabi oscillation induced interference involves more complicated and modulated photon exchange thus offers an alternative means to manipulate the qubit, with more controllable parameters including the strength and position of the tunnel coupling. It also provides a testing ground for exploring nonlinear quantum phenomena and quantum state manipulation, in not only the flux qubit but also the systems with no crossover structure, e.g. phase qubits.

id: 1012.2951
title: Hamiltonian Determination with Restricted Access in Transverse Field Ising Chain
authors: Mohammad Ali Fasihi, Shu Tanaka, Mikio Nakahara, Yasushi Kondo
comments: 15pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 80 (2011) 044002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2951
abstract: We propose a method to evaluate parameters in the Hamiltonian of the Ising chain under site-dependent transverse fields, with a proviso that we can control and measure one of the edge spins only. We evaluate the eigenvalues of the Hamiltonian and the time-evoultion operator exactly for a 3-spin chain, from which we obtain the expectation values of $\sigma_x$ of the first spin. The parameters are found from the peak positions of the Fourier transform of the expectation value. There are four assumptions in our method, which are mild enough to be satisfied in many physical systems.

id: 1012.3001
title: Quantum quench influenced by an excited-state phase transition
authors: P. Perez-Fernandez, P. Cejnar, J. M. Arias, J. Dukelsky, J. E. Garcia-Ramos, A. Relano
comments: submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3001
abstract: We analyze excited-state quantum phase transitions (ESQPTs) in three schematic (integrable and nonintegrable) models describing a single-mode bosonic field coupled to a collection of atoms. It is shown that the presence of the ESQPT in these models affects the quantum relaxation processes following an abrupt quench in the control parameter. Clear cut evidence of the ESQPT effects is presented in integrable models, while in the nonintegrable model the evidence is blurred due to chaotic behavior of the system in the region around the critical energy.

id: 1012.3008
title: Nondeterministic Amplifier for Two Photon Superpositions
authors: John Jeffers
comments: References re-ordered, one added. Some typos corrected. Journal reference added. 8 pages, 10 figs
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 063828 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3008
abstract: We examine heralded nondeterministic noiseless amplification based on the quantum scissors device, which has been shown to increase the one-photon amplitude of a state at the expense of the vacuum-state amplitude. Here we propose using the same basic design to perform perfect amplification in a basis set of up to two photons. The device is much more efficient than several one-photon amplifiers working in tandem. When used to amplify coherent states this advantage is shown using either fidelity or in terms of probability of sucessful action, or more strikingly in a combination of the two.

id: 1012.3033
title: Controlling transfer of quantum correlations among bi-partitions of a composite quantum system by combining noisy environments
authors: Xiu-xing Zhang, Fu-li Li
comments: 22 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3033
abstract: The correlation dynamics is investigated for various bi-partitions of a composite system consisting of two qubits, and two independent and non-identical noisy environments. The two qubits have no direct interaction with each other and locally interact with their environments. Classical and quantum correlations including entanglement are initially prepared only between the two qubits. We find that, contrary to the identical noisy environment case, the entanglement and quantum correlation transfer directions can be controlled by combining different noisy environments. The amplitude damping environment determines whether there exists entanglement transfer among the bi-partitions of a composite system. When one qubit is coupled to an amplitude damping environment but another one to a bit-flip one, we find a very interesting result that all the quantum and classical correlations, and even the entanglement, originally existing between the qubits, can be completely transferred without any loss to the qubit coupled to the bit-flip environment and the amplitude-damping environment. We also notice that it is possible to distinguish the quantum correlation from the classical correlation and entanglement by combining different noisy environments.

id: 1012.3041
title: Cyclotron-Bloch dynamics of a quantum particle in a 2D lattice
authors: A. R. Kolovsky, G. Mantica
comments: APS preprint format, 23 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 041123 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3041
abstract: This paper studies the quantum dynamics of a charged particle in a 2D square lattice, under the influence of electric and magnetic fields, the former being aligned with one of the lattice axes and the latter perpendicular to the lattice plane. While in free space these dynamics consist of uniform motions in the direction orthogonal to the electric field vector, we find that, in a lattice, this directed drift takes place only for specific initial conditions and for electric field magnitudes smaller than a critical value. Otherwise, the quantum wave--packet spreads ballistically in both directions orthogonal to the electric field. We quantify this ballistic spreading and identify the subspace of initial conditions insuring directed transport with the drift velocity. We also describe the effect of disorder in the system.

id: 1012.3052
title: The Problem of Contextuality and the Impossibility of Experimental Metaphysics Thereof
authors: Ronnie Hermens
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3052
abstract: Recently a new impulse has been given to the experimental investigation of contextuality. In this paper we show that for a widely used definition of contextuality there can be no decisive experiment on the existence of contextuality. To this end, we give a clear presentation of the hidden variable models due to Meyer, Kent and Clifton (MKC), which would supposedly nullify the Kochen-Specker Theorem. Although we disagree with this last statement, the models play a significant role in the discussion on the meaning of contextuality. In fact, we introduce a specific MKC-model of which we show that it is non-contextual and completely in agreement with quantum mechanical predictions. We also investigate the possibility of other definitions of non-contextuality --with an emphasis on operational definitions-- and argue that any useful definition relies on the specification of a theoretical framework. It is therefore concluded that no experimental test can yield any conclusions about contextuality on a metaphysical level.

id: 1012.3075
title: Classicality witness for two-qubit states
authors: J. Maziero, R. M. Serra
comments: To appear in IJQI
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 10, 1250028 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3075
abstract: In the last few years one realized that if the state of a bipartite system can be written as $\sum_{i,j}p_{ij}|a_{i}>< a_{i}|\otimes |b_{j}> < b_{j}|$, where $\{|a_{i}> \}$ and $\{|b_{j}> \}$ form orthonormal basis for the subsystems and $\{p_{ij}\}$ is a probability distribution, then it possesses at most classical correlations. In this article we introduce a nonlinear witness providing a sufficient condition for classicality of correlations (absence of quantum discord) in a broad class of two-qubit systems. Such witness turns out to be necessary and sufficient condition in the case of Bell-diagonal states. We show that the witness introduced here can be readily experimentally implemented in nuclear magnetic resonance setups.

id: 1012.3105
title: Variance-based uncertainty relations
authors: Yichen Huang
comments: C191 course project at UC Berkeley
journal: Physical Review A 86, 024101 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3105
abstract: It is hard to overestimate the fundamental importance of uncertainty relations in quantum mechanics. In this work, I propose state-independent variance-based uncertainty relations for arbitrary observables in both finite and infinite dimensional spaces. We recover the Heisenberg uncertainty principle as a special case. By studying examples, we find that the lower bounds provided by our new uncertainty relations are optimal or near-optimal. I illustrate the uses of our new uncertainty relations by showing that they eliminate one common obstacle in a sequence of well-known works in entanglement detection, and thus make these works much easier to access in applications.

id: 1012.3111
title: Collective versus Single--Particle Motion in Quantum Many--Body Systems: Spreading and its Semiclassical Interpretation
authors: Jens Hammerling, Boris Gutkin, Thomas Guhr
comments: 4 pages
journal: EPL 96, 20007 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3111
abstract: We study the interplay between collective and incoherent single-particle motion in a model of two chains of particles whose interaction comprises a non-integrable part. In the perturbative regime, but for a general form of the interaction, we calculate the spectral density for collective excitations. We obtain the remarkable result that it always has a unique semiclassical interpretation. We show this by a proper renormalization procedure which allows us to map our system to a Caldeira-Leggett--type of model in which the bath is part of the system.

id: 1012.3123
title: Testing spectral filters as Gaussian quantum optical channels
authors: K. Laiho, A. Christ, K. N. Cassemiro, C. Silberhorn
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: Opt. Lett. 36, 1476-1478 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3123
abstract: We experimentally investigate the mode characteristics of multimode radiation fields propagating through frequency dependent Gaussian channels. After manipulating the twin beams emitted from a conventional parametric down-conversion source via spectral filtering, we study the changes in their mode characteristics, utilizing the joint normalized correlation functions. While filtering reduces the number of spectral modes, it also leads to an apparent mode mismatch, which destroys the perfect photon-number correlation between the twin beams, and influences the mode properties of heralded states.

id: 1012.3139
title: Simulation of Interaction of Oriented J Aggregates with Resonance Laser Radiation
authors: N. V. Vysotina, V. A. Malyshev, V. G. Maslov, L. A. Nesterov, N. N. Rosanov, S. V. Fedorov, A. N. Shatsev
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Opt. Spectrosc. 109, 112 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3139
abstract: The interaction of laser radiation with single J aggregates of cyanine dyes is theoretically analyzed and numerically simulated. The quantum mechanical calculations of the equilibrium geometry and the energies and intensities of the lowest singlet electronic transitions in pseudoisocyanine chloride and its linear (chain) oligomers are fulfilled. The data of these calculations can serve as parameters of the analyzed model of interaction of J aggregates with radiation in the oneparticle density matrix approximation. This model takes into account relaxation processes, the annihilation of excitations at neighboring molecules, and inho mogeneous broadening. Assuming that the inhomogeneous broadening is absent, calculations demonstrate the existence of spatial bistability, molecular switching waves, and dissipative solitons. The effect of the inhomogeneous broadening and the radiation intensity on the effective coherence length in linear (chain) J aggregates is analyzed

id: 1012.3174
title: Quantum property testing for bounded-degree graphs
authors: Andris Ambainis, Andrew M. Childs, Yi-Kai Liu
comments: 21 pages; v3: more detailed proof of the lower bound; v2: minor corrections to Lemma 6
journal: Proceedings of RANDOM 2011, Lecture Notes in Computer Science 6845, pp. 365-376
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3174
abstract: We study quantum algorithms for testing bipartiteness and expansion of bounded-degree graphs. We give quantum algorithms that solve these problems in time O(N^(1/3)), beating the Omega(sqrt(N)) classical lower bound. For testing expansion, we also prove an Omega(N^(1/4)) quantum query lower bound, thus ruling out the possibility of an exponential quantum speedup. Our quantum algorithms follow from a combination of classical property testing techniques due to Goldreich and Ron, derandomization, and the quantum algorithm for element distinctness. The quantum lower bound is obtained by the polynomial method, using novel algebraic techniques and combinatorial analysis to accommodate the graph structure.

id: 1012.3206
title: Entanglement evolution of two qubits under noisy environments
authors: Jun-Gang Li, Jian Zou, Bin Shao
comments: 5 pages,1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 82, 042318 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3206
abstract: The entanglement evolution of two qubits under local, single- and two- sided noisy channels is investigated. It is found that for all pure initial states, the entanglement under a one-sided noisy channel is completely determined by the maximal trace distance which is the main element to construct the measure of non-Markovianity. For the two-sided noisy channel case, when the qubits are initially prepared in a general class of states, no matter pure or mixed, the entanglement can be expressed as the products of initial entanglement and the channels' action on the maximally entangled state.

id: 1012.3222
title: The Principle of Sufficient Reason and Quantum Determinism
authors: Vladimir S. Mashkevich
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX 2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3222
abstract: The Principle of Sufficient Reason implies determinism. An explicit indeterministic quantum jump dynamics is constructed, which may be naturally transformed into a deterministic one. A consistent application of the Principle of Sufficient Reason results in a canonical deterministic dynamics.

id: 1012.3226
title: Negative Power Spectra in Quantum Field Theory
authors: Jen-Tsung Hsiang, Chun-Hsien Wu, L. H. Ford
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A375, 2296 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3226
abstract: We consider the spatial power spectra associated with fluctuations of quadratic operators in field theory, such as quantum stress tensor components. We show that the power spectrum can be negative, in contrast to most fluctuation phenomena where the Wiener-Khinchine theorem requires a positive power spectrum. We show why the usual argument for positivity fails in this case, and discuss the physical interpretation of negative power spectra. Possible applications to cosmology are discussed.

id: 1012.3248
title: Absolute calibration of photodetectors: photocurrent multiplication versus photocurrent subtraction
authors: I. N. Agafonov, M. V. Chekhova, T. Sh. Iskhakov, A. N. Penin, G. O. Rytikov, O. A. Shumilkina
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures, submitted to Optics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3248
abstract: We report testing of the new absolute method of photodetectors calibration based on the difference-signal measurement for two-mode squeezed vacuum by comparison with the traditional absolute method based on the coincidence counting. Using low-gain parametric down conversion we have measured the quantum efficiency of a counting detector by both methods. The difference-signal method was adapted for the counting detectors by taking into account the dead-time effect.

id: 1012.3297
title: Homodyne extimation of quantum states purity by exploiting covariant uncertainty relation
authors: V.I. Man'ko, G. Marmo, A. Porzio, S. Solimeno, F. Ventriglia
comments: accepted for publication into Physica Scripta
journal: Phys. Scr. 83 (2011) 045001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3297
abstract: We experimentally verify uncertainty relations for mixed states in the tomographic representation by measuring the radiation field tomograms, i.e. homodyne distributions. Thermal states of single-mode radiation field are discussed in details as paradigm of mixed quantum state. By considering the connection between generalised uncertainty relations and optical tomograms is seen that the purity of the states can be retrieved by statistical analysis of the homodyne data. The purity parameter assumes a relevant role in quantum information where the effective fidelities of protocols depend critically on the purity of the information carrier states. In this contest the homodyne detector becomes an easy to handle purity-meter for the state on-line with a running quantum information protocol.

id: 1012.3366
title: Two-electron entanglement in a two-dimensional isotropic harmonic trap: Radial correlation effects in the low density limit
authors: Przemyslaw Koscik
comments: 10 pages,3 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 375 (2011) 458-462
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3366
abstract: We study a two-dimensional system of two Coulombically interacting electrons in an external harmonic confining potential. More precisely, we present calculations for the singlet ground-state of the system. We explain the nature of the degeneracy in the spectrum of the reduced density matrix and provide detailed results for the dependencies of the entanglement on the interaction strength. Among other features, it is indicated that in the limit of an infinitely strong interaction, the angular and radial correlations are asymptotically independent of each other. Appearing in this limit, the pure radial correlation effects are quantitatively investigated for the first time.

id: 1012.3374
title: Relativistic Entanglement from Relativistic Quantum Mechanics in the Rest-Frame Instant Form of Dynamics
authors: Luca Lusanna
comments: Talk at the {\it Fifth Int. Workshop DICE2010 Space-Time-Matter}, Castiglioncello, September 13-17, 2010, 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3374
abstract: After a review of the problems induced by the Lorentz signature of Minkowski space-time, like the need of a clock synchronization convention for the definition of 3-space and the complexity of the notion of relativistic center of mass, there is the introduction of a new formulation of relativistic quantum mechanics compatible with the theory of relativistic bound states. In it the zeroth postulate of non-relativistic quantum mechanics is not valid and the physics is described in the rest frame by a Hilbert space containing only relative variables. The non-locality of the Poincare' generators imply a kinematical non-locality and non-separability influencing the theory of relativistic entanglement and not connected with the standard quantum non-locality.

id: 1012.3433
title: High fidelity quantum gates via dynamical decoupling
authors: Jacob R. West, Daniel A. Lidar, Bryan H. Fong, Mark F. Gyure
comments: Slightly expanded form of the journal version. Also includes the supplementary material as an appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 230503 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3433
abstract: Realizing the theoretical promise of quantum computers will require overcoming decoherence. Here we demonstrate numerically that high fidelity quantum gates are possible within a framework of quantum dynamical decoupling. Orders of magnitude improvement in the fidelities of a universal set of quantum gates, relative to unprotected evolution, is achieved over a broad range of system-environment coupling strengths, using recursively constructed (concatenated) dynamical decoupling pulse sequences.

id: 1012.3451
title: Characterization and quantification of the role of coherence in ultrafast quantum biological experiments using quantum master equations, atomistic simulations, and quantum process tomography
authors: Patrick Rebentrost, Sangwoo Shim, Joel Yuen-Zhou, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 24 pages, 6 figures, to appear in the proceedings of the 22. Solvay Conference in Chemistry on Quantum Effects in Chemistry and Biology
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3451
abstract: Long-lived electronic coherences in various photosynthetic complexes at cryogenic and room temperature have generated vigorous efforts both in theory and experiment to understand their origins and explore their potential role to biological function. The ultrafast signals resulting from the experiments that show evidence for these coherences result from many contributions to the molecular polarization. Quantum process tomography (QPT) was conceived in the context of quantum information processing to characterize and understand general quantum evolution of controllable quantum systems, for example while carrying out quantum computational tasks. We introduce our QPT method for ultrafast experiments, and as an illustrative example, apply it to a simulation of a two-chromophore subsystem of the Fenna-Matthews-Olson photosynthetic complex, which was recently shown to have long-lived quantum coherences. Our Fenna-Matthews-Olson model is constructed using an atomistic approach to extract relevant parameters for the simulation of photosynthetic complexes that consists of a quantum mechanics/molecular mechanics approach combined with molecular dynamics and the use of state-of-the-art quantum master equations. We provide a set of methods that allow for quantifying the role of quantum coherence, dephasing, relaxation and other elementary processes in energy transfer efficiency in photosynthetic complexes, based on the information obtained from the atomistic simulations, or, using QPT, directly from the experiment. The ultimate goal of the combination of this diverse set of methodologies is to provide a reliable way of quantifying the role of long-lived quantum coherences and obtain atomistic insight of their causes.

id: 1012.3474
title: Linear-optics realization of channels for single-photon multimode qudits
authors: Marco Piani, David Pitkanen, Rainer Kaltenbaek, Norbert Lutkenhaus
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032304 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3474
abstract: We propose and theoretically study a method for the stochastic realization of arbitrary quantum channels on multimode single-photon qudits. In order for our method to be undemanding in its implementation, we restrict our analysis to linear-optical techniques, vacuum ancillary states and non-adaptive schemes, but we allow for random switching between different optical networks. With our method it is possible to deterministically implement random-unitary channels and to stochastically implement general, non-unital channels. We provide an expression for the optimal probability of success of our scheme and calculate this quantity for specific examples like the qubit amplitude-damping channel. The success probability is shown to be related to the entanglement properties of the Choi-Jamiolkowski state isomorphic to the channel.

id: 1012.3477
title: Quantum tomography of the full hyperfine manifold of atomic spins via continuous measurement on an ensemble
authors: Carlos A. Riofr¨ªo, Poul S. Jessen, Ivan H. Deutsch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3477
abstract: Quantum state reconstruction based on weak continuous measurement has the advantage of being fast, accurate, and almost non-perturbative. In this work we present a pedagogical review of the protocol proposed by Silberfarb et al., PRL 95 030402 (2005), whereby an ensemble of identically prepared systems is collectively probed and controlled in a time-dependent manner so as to create an informationally complete continuous measurement record. The measurement history is then inverted to determine the state at the initial time through a maximum-likelihood estimate. The general formalism is applied to the case of reconstruction of the quantum state encoded in the magnetic sublevels of a large-spin alkali atom, 133Cs. We detail two different protocols for control. Using magnetic interactions and a quadratic ac-Stark shift, we can reconstruct a chosen hyperfine manifold F, e.g., the 7-dimensional F=3 manifold in the electronic-ground state of Cs. We review the procedure as implemented in experiments (Smith et al., PRL 97 180403 (2006)). We extend the protocol to the more ambitious case of reconstruction of states in the full 16-dimensional electronic-ground subspace (F=3 \oplus F=4), controlled by microwaves and radio-frequency magnetic fields. We give detailed derivations of all physical interactions, approximations, numerical methods, and fitting procedures, tailored to the realistic experimental setting. For the case of light-shift and magnetic control, reconstruction fidelities of \sim 0.95 have been achieved, limited primarily by inhomogeneities in the light shift. For the case of microwave/RF-control we simulate fidelity >0.97, limited primarily by signal-to-noise.

id: 1012.3481
title: Majorization Formulation of Uncertainty in Quantum Mechanics
authors: M. Hossein Partovi
comments: Expanded version, 11 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052117 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3481
abstract: Heisenberg's uncertainty principle is formulated for a set of generalized measurements within the framework of majorization theory, resulting in a partial uncertainty order on probability vectors that is stronger than those based on quasi-entropic measures. The theorem that results from this formulation guarantees that the uncertainty of the results of a set of generalized measurements without a common eigenstate has an inviolable lower bound which depends on the measurement set but not the state. A corollary to this theorem yields a parallel formulation of the uncertainty principle for generalized measurements based on quasi-entropic measures. Optimal majorization bounds for two and three mutually unbiased bases in two dimensions are calculated. Similarly, the leading term of the majorization bound for position and momentum measurements is calculated which provides a strong statement of Heisenberg's uncertainty principle in direct operational terms. Another theorem provides a majorization condition for the least uncertain generalized measurement of a given state with interesting physical implications.

id: 1012.3482
title: Relative intensity squeezing by four-wave mixing with loss: an analytic model and experimental diagnostic
authors: M. Jasperse, L. D. Turner, R. E. Scholten
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express, 19(4), 3765-3744 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3482
abstract: Four-wave mixing near resonance in an atomic vapor can produce relative intensity squeezed light suitable for precision measurements beyond the shot-noise limit. We develop an analytic distributed gain/loss model to describe the competition of mixing and absorption through the non-linear medium. Using a novel matrix calculus, we present closed-form expressions for the degree of relative intensity squeezing produced by this system. We use these theoretical results to analyze experimentally measured squeezing from a $^{85}$Rb vapor and demonstrate the analytic model's utility as an experimental diagnostic.

id: 1012.3499
title: Polarization Entangled Photons at X-Ray Energies
authors: S. Shwartz, S. E. Harris
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:080501,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3499
abstract: We show that polarization entangled photons at x-ray energies can be generated via spontaneous parametric down conversion. Each of the four Bell states can be generated by choosing the angle of incidence and polarization of the pumping beam.

id: 1012.3525
title: Multiple-copy state discrimination: Thinking globally, acting locally
authors: B. L. Higgins, A. C. Doherty, S. D. Bartlett, G. J. Pryde, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 11 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052314 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3525
abstract: We theoretically investigate schemes to discriminate between two nonorthogonal quantum states given multiple copies. We consider a number of state discrimination schemes as applied to nonorthogonal, mixed states of a qubit. In particular, we examine the difference that local and global optimization of local measurements makes to the probability of obtaining an erroneous result, in the regime of finite numbers of copies $N$, and in the asymptotic limit as $N \rightarrow \infty$. Five schemes are considered: optimal collective measurements over all copies, locally optimal local measurements in a fixed single-qubit measurement basis, globally optimal fixed local measurements, locally optimal adaptive local measurements, and globally optimal adaptive local measurements. Here, adaptive measurements are those for which the measurement basis can depend on prior measurement results. For each of these measurement schemes we determine the probability of error (for finite $N$) and scaling of this error in the asymptotic limit. In the asymptotic limit, adaptive schemes have no advantage over the optimal fixed local scheme, and except for states with less than 2% mixture, the most naive scheme (locally optimal fixed local measurements) is as good as any noncollective scheme. For finite $N$, however, the most sophisticated local scheme (globally optimal adaptive local measurements) is better than any other noncollective scheme, for any degree of mixture.

id: 1012.3532
title: Group theoretic formulation of complementarity
authors: J.A. Vaccaro
comments: This paper appeared in a conference proceedings which is not widely available. 4 pages
journal: Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computing, 28th November-3rd December 2006 Tsukuba Japan, Edited by O. Hirota, J.H. Shapiro, M. Sasaki (NICT, Tokyo, 2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3532
abstract: We generalize Bohr's complementarity principle for wave and particle properties to arbitrary quantum systems. We begin by noting that a particle-like state is represented by a spatially-localized wave function and its narrow probability density is displaced by spatial translations. In contrast a wave-like state is represented by a spatially-delocalized wave function and the corresponding broad position probability density is invariant to spatial translations. The wave-particle dichotomy can therefore be seen as a competition between displacement and invariance of the state with respect to spatial translations. We generalize this dichotomy to arbitrary quantum systems with finite dimensional Hilbert spaces as follows. We use arbitrary finite symmetry groups to represent transformations of the quantum system. The symmetry (i.e. invariance) or asymmetry (i.e. displacement) of a given state with respect to transformations of the group are identified with the generalized wave and particle nature, respectively. We adopt a measure of wave and particle properties based on the amount of information that can be encoded in the symmetric and asymmetric parts of the state.

id: 1012.3543
title: Study of maximal bipartite entanglement and robustness in resonating-valence-bond states
authors: Muzaffar Q. Lone, Sudhakar Yarlagadda
comments: Significantly enlarged version of paper. We thank anonymous referee for stimulating comments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3543
abstract: We study maximal bipartite entanglement in valence-bond states and show that the average bipartite entanglement $E_v^2$, between a sub-system of two spins and the rest of the system, can be maximized through a homogenized superposition of the valence-bond states. Our derived maximal $E_v^2$ rapidly increases with system size and saturates at its maximum allowed value. We also demonstrate that our maximal $E^2_v$ states are ground states of an infinite range Heisenberg model (IRHM) and represent a new class of resonating-valence-bond (RVB) states. The entangled RVB states produced from our IRHM are robust against interaction of spins with both local and global phonons and represent a new class of decoherence free states.

id: 1012.3564
title: Multi-copy and stochastic transformation of multipartite pure states
authors: Lin Chen, Masahito Hayashi
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, revised version according to colleagues' comments
journal: PhysRevA.83.022331 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3564
abstract: Characterizing the transformation and classification of multipartite entangled states is a basic problem in quantum information. We study the problem under two most common environments, local operations and classical communications (LOCC), stochastic LOCC and two more general environments, multi-copy LOCC (MCLOCC) and multi-copy SLOCC (MCSLOCC). We show that two transformable multipartite states under LOCC or SLOCC are also transformable under MCLOCC and MCSLOCC. What's more, these two environments are equivalent in the sense that two transformable states under MCLOCC are also transformable under MCSLOCC, and vice versa. Based on these environments we classify the multipartite pure states into a few inequivalent sets and orbits, between which we build the partial order to decide their transformation. In particular, we investigate the structure of SLOCC-equivalent states in terms of tensor rank, which is known as the generalized Schmidt rank. Given the tensor rank, we show that GHZ states can be used to generate all states with a smaller or equivalent tensor rank under SLOCC, and all reduced separable states with a cardinality smaller or equivalent than the tensor rank under LOCC. Using these concepts, we extended the concept of "maximally entangled state" in the multi-partite system.

id: 1012.3570
title: Trapping ions with lasers
authors: Cecilia Cormick, Tobias Schaetz, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, replaced with published version (minor changes)
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 043019 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3570
abstract: This work theoretically addresses the trapping an ionized atom with a single valence electron by means of lasers, analyzing qualitatively and quantitatively the consequences of the net charge of the particle. In our model, the coupling between the ion and the electromagnetic field includes the charge monopole and the internal dipole, within a multipolar expansion of the interaction Hamiltonian. Specifically, we perform a Power-Zienau-Woolley transformation, taking into account the motion of the center of mass. The net charge produces a correction in the atomic dipole which is of order $m_e/M$ with $m_e$ the electron mass and $M$ the total mass of the ion. With respect to neutral atoms, there is also an extra coupling to the laser field which can be approximated by that of the monopole located at the position of the center of mass. These additional effects, however, are shown to be very small compared to the dominant dipolar trapping term.

id: 1012.3598
title: Tunable pulse delay and advancement in a coupled nanomechanical resonator-superconducting microwave cavity system
authors: Cheng Jiang, Bin Chen, Ka-Di Zhu
comments: 12pages, 3 figures
journal: EPL 94, 38002(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3598
abstract: We theoretically study the transmission of a weak probe field under the influence of a strong pump field in a coupled nanomechanical resonator-superconducting microwave cavity system. Using the standard input-output theory, we find that both pulse delay (slow light effect) and advancement (fast light effect) of the probe field can appear in this coupled system provided that we choose the suitable detuning of the pump field from cavity resonance. The magnitude of the delay (advancement) can be tuned continuously by adjusting the power of the pump field. This technique demonstrates great potential in applications including microwave phase shifter and delay line.

id: 1012.3601
title: Strongly interacting photons in hollow-core waveguides
authors: Ephraim Shahmoon, Gershon Kurizki, Michael Fleischhauer, David Petrosyan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 033806 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3601
abstract: Hollow-core photonic-crystal waveguides filled with cold atoms can support giant optical nonlinearities through nondispersive propagation of light tightly confined in the transverse direction. Here we explore electromagnetically induced transparency is such structures, considering a pair of counter-propagating weak quantum fields in the medium of coherently driven atoms in the ladder configuration. Strong dipole--dipole interactions between optically excited, polarized Rydberg states of the atoms translate into a large dispersive interaction between the two fields. This can be used to attain a spatially-homogeneous conditional phase shift of pi for two single-photon pulses, realizing a deterministic photonic phase gate, or to implement a quantum nondemolition measurement of the photon number in the signal pulse by a coherent probe, thereby achieving a heralded source of single or few photon pulses.

id: 1012.3660
title: Hybrid methods for witnessing entanglement in a microscopic-macroscopic system
authors: Nicol¨° Spagnolo, Chiara Vitelli, Mauro Paternostro, Francesco De Martini, Fabio Sciarrino
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032102 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3660
abstract: We propose a hybrid approach to the experimental assessment of the genuine quantum features of a general system consisting of microscopic and macroscopic parts. We infer entanglement by combining dichotomic measurements on a bidimensional system and phase-space inference through the Wigner distribution associated with the macroscopic component of the state. As a benchmark, we investigate the feasibility of our proposal in a bipartite-entangled state composed of a single-photon and a multiphoton field. Our analysis shows that, under ideal conditions, maximal violation of a Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt-based inequality is achievable regardless of the number of photons in the macroscopic part of the state. The difficulty in observing entanglement when losses and detection inefficiency are included can be overcome by using a hybrid entanglement witness that allows efficient correction for losses in the few-photon regime.

id: 1012.3690
title: St¨¹ckelberg-Interferometry with ultra-cold atoms
authors: Patrick Pl?tz, Sandro Wimberger
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3690
abstract: We show that and how ultra-cold atoms in an accelerated two-band lattice are a controlled realization of Landau--Zener--St\"uckelberg interferometry.

id: 1012.3695
title: Symmetry & Controllability for Spin Networks with a Single-Node Control
authors: Xiaoting Wang, Peter Pemberton-Ross, Sophie G Schirmer
comments: 11 pages, some figures. 3 tables, minor revision
journal: Regular paper, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 57(8), 1945-1956 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3695
abstract: We consider the relation of symmetries and subspace controllability for spin networks with XXZ coupling subject to control of a single node by a local potential (Z-control). Such networks decompose into excitation subspaces. Focusing on the single excitation subspace it is shown that for single-node Z-controls external symmetries are characterized by eigenstates of the system Hamiltonian that have zero overlap with the control node, and there are no internal symmetries. It is further shown that there are symmetries that persist even in the presence of random perturbations. For uniformly coupled XXZ chains a characterization of all possible symmetries is given, which shows a strong dependence on the position of the node we control. Finally, it is shown rigorously for uniform Heisenberg and XX chains subject to single-node Z-control that the lack of symmetry is not only necessary but sufficient for subspace controllability. The latter approach is then generalized to establish controllability results for simple branched networks.

id: 1012.3701
title: Decoherence in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Jurjen F. Koksma, Tomislav Prokopec, Michael G. Schmidt
comments: 25 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3701
abstract: We study decoherence in a simple quantum mechanical model using two approaches. Firstly, we follow the conventional approach to decoherence where one is interested in solving the reduced density matrix from the perturbative master equation. Secondly, we consider our novel correlator approach to decoherence where entropy is generated by neglecting observationally inaccessible correlators. We show that both methods can accurately predict decoherence time scales. However, the perturbative master equation generically suffers from instabilities which prevents us to reliably calculate the system's total entropy increase. We also discuss the relevance of the results in our quantum mechanical model for interacting field theories.

id: 1012.3786
title: A note on the optimality of decomposable entanglement witnesses and completely entangled subspaces
authors: Remigiusz Augusiak, Jordi Tura, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 13 pages, proof of lemma 4 corrected, theorem 3 removed, some parts improved
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 212001 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3786
abstract: Entanglement witnesses (EWs) constitute one of the most important entanglement detectors in quantum systems. Nevertheless, their complete characterization, in particular with respect to the notion of optimality, is still missing, even in the decomposable case. Here we show that for any qubit-qunit decomposable EW (DEW) W the three statements are equivalent: (i) the set of product vectors obeying \bra{e,f}W\ket{e,f}=0 spans the corresponding Hilbert space, (ii) W is optimal, (iii) W=Q^{\Gamma} with Q denoting a positive operator supported on a completely entangled subspace (CES) and \Gamma standing for the partial transposition. While, implications $(i)\Rightarrow(ii)$ and $(ii)\Rightarrow(iii)$ are known, here we prove that (iii) implies (i). This is a consequence of a more general fact saying that product vectors orthogonal to any CES in C^{2}\otimes C^{n} span after partial conjugation the whole space. On the other hand, already in the case of C^{3}\otimes C^{3} Hilbert space, there exist DEWs for which (iii) does not imply (i). Consequently, either (i) does not imply (ii), or (ii) does not imply (iii), and the above transparent characterization obeyed by qubit-qunit DEWs, does not hold in general.

id: 1012.3815
title: Resonant enhancement of the zero-phonon emission from a color center in a diamond cavity
authors: Andrei Faraon, Paul E. Barclay, Charles Santori, Kai-Mei C. Fu, Raymond G. Beausoleil
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3815
abstract: We demonstrate coupling of the zero-phonon line of individual nitrogen-vacancy centers and the modes of microring resonators fabricated in single-crystal diamond. A zero-phonon line enhancement exceeding ten-fold is estimated from lifetime measurements at cryogenic temperatures. The devices are fabricated using standard semiconductor techniques and off-the-shelf materials, thus enabling integrated diamond photonics.

id: 1012.3823
title: Entanglement Property and Monogamy Relation of Gerneralized Mixed W
authors: Ming-Jing Zhao, Shao-Ming Fei, Zhi-Xi Wang
comments: 8 pages
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inform. 8, 905(2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3823
abstract: We introduce a new class of multipartite entangled mixed states with pure state decompositions of generalized W states, similar to Schmidt-correlated states having generalized GHZ states in the pure state decomposition. The entanglement and separability properties are studied according to PPT operations. Monogamy relations linked to these states are also investigated.

id: 1012.3824
title: Chaotic dynamics of thermal atoms in labyrinths created by optical lattices
authors: R. P¨¦rez-Pascual, B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, R. J¨¢uregui
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 035303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3824
abstract: We study the dynamics of non interacting thermal atoms embedded in structured optical lattices with non trivial geometry. The lattice would be generated by two counter propagating modes with parabolic cylindrical symmetry and we concentrate on the quasi conservative red detuned far-off-resonance regime. The system exhibits quasi periodic and chaotic behaviors whose probability can be controlled by varying the intensity of the beams. The spectral density of the trajectories is used as a chaos signature. An analysis of permanency times for chaotic trajectories that visit more than one potential well reveals a distribution with a long tail.

id: 1012.3831
title: Halving the Casimir force with conductive oxides: experimental details
authors: Sven de Man, Kier Heeck, Davide Iannuzzi
comments: 10 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A82 (2010) 062512
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3831
abstract: This work is an extended version of a paper published last year in Physical Review Letters [S. de Man et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 040402 (2009)], where we presented measurements of the Casimir force between a gold coated sphere and a plate coated with either gold or an indium-tin-oxide (ITO) layer. The experiment, which was performed in air, showed that ITO is sufficiently conducting to prevent charge accumulation, but still transparent enough to halve the Casimir attraction when compared to gold. Here, we report all the experimental details that, due to the limited space available, were omitted in the previous article. We discuss the performance of our setup in terms of stability of the calibration procedure and reproducibility of the Casimir force measurement. We also introduce and demonstrate a new technique to obtain the spring constant of our force sensor. Furthermore, we present a thorough description of the experimental method, a comprehensive explanation of data elaboration and error analysis, and a complete characterization of the dielectric function and of the surface roughness of the samples used in the actual experiment.

id: 1012.3878
title: Device-independent quantum key distribution
authors: Esther H?nggi
comments: PhD Thesis, ETH Zurich, August 2010. 188 pages, a5
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3878
abstract: In this thesis, we study two approaches to achieve device-independent quantum key distribution: in the first approach, the adversary can distribute any system to the honest parties that cannot be used to communicate between the three of them, i.e., it must be non-signalling. In the second approach, we limit the adversary to strategies which can be implemented using quantum physics. For both approaches, we show how device-independent quantum key distribution can be achieved when imposing an additional condition. In the non-signalling case this additional requirement is that communication is impossible between all pairwise subsystems of the honest parties, while, in the quantum case, we demand that measurements on different subsystems must commute. We give a generic security proof for device-independent quantum key distribution in these cases and apply it to an existing quantum key distribution protocol, thus proving its security even in this setting. We also show that, without any additional such restriction there always exists a successful joint attack by a non-signalling adversary.

id: 1012.3890
title: A class of exactly solvable models to illustrate supersymmetry and test approximation schemes in quantum mechanics
authors: Charlotte Fabre, David Guery-Odelin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3890
abstract: We derive the analytical eigenvalues and eigenstates of a family of potentials wells with exponential form (FPWEF). We provide a brief summary of the supersymmetry formalism applied to quantum mechanics and illustrate it by producing from the FPWEF another class of exact solutions made of their isospectral partners. Interestingly, a subset of the supersymmetric partners provides a class of exactly solvable double well potentials. We use the exact solutions of the FPWEF to test the robustness and accuracy of different approximation schemes. We determine (i) the ground state through variational method applied to an approriate set of trial functions and (ii) the whole spectrum using three semiclassical quantization formula: the WKB, JWKB and its supersymmetric extension, the SWKB quantization formula. We comment on the importance of Maslov index and on the range of validity of these different semiclassical approaches.

id: 1012.3910
title: Experimental proposal for measuring the Gouy phase of matter waves
authors: I. G. da Paz, P. L. Saldanha, M. C. Nemes, J. G. Peixoto de Faria
comments: 9 pages and 3 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 13 (2011) 125005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3910
abstract: The Schr\"odinger equation for an atomic beam predicts that it must have a phase anomaly near the beam waist analogous to the Gouy phase of an electromagnetic beam. We propose here a feasible experiment which allows for the direct determination of this anomalous phase using Ramsey interferometry with Rydberg atoms. Possible experimental limitations are discussed and shown to be completely under control within the present day technology. We also discuss how this finding can open the possibility to use the spatial mode wavefunctions of atoms as q-dits, since the Gouy phase is an essential ingredient for making rotations in the quantum states.

id: 1012.3915
title: Entanglement between quantum fields
authors: Daniele Teresi, Giuseppe Compagno
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3915
abstract: We analyze entanglement between quantum interacting fields. In particular, we use R\'enyi entropy to quantify the entanglement between the fields in the ground state of the linear $\sigma$ model. We adopt R\'enyi entropy because the failure of the replica trick method does not permit to obtain the Von Neumann entropy. We find that the degree of entanglement is larger in the spontaneously broken symmetry case and a generalization of geometric entropy area law is obtained. Finally, we suggest that entanglement between fields can be used as a signature of the presence of unobserved fields, such as is the Higgs model case with its unobserved sector.

id: 1012.3925
title: Single Photon Ignition of Two-photon Super-fluorescence through the Vacuum of Electromagnetic Field
authors: Nicolae A. Enaki
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3925
abstract: The ignition of two-quantum collective emission of inverted sub-ensemble of radiators due to mutual interaction of this sub-ensemble with other two dipole active atomic subsystems in process of two-photon exchanges between the atoms through the vacuum field is proposed. The three particle resonances between two-photon and single quantum transitions of inverted radiators from the ensemble are proposed for acceleration of collective decay rate of bi-photons, obtained relatively dipole-forbidden transitions of excited atomic sub-ensemble. This mutual interaction between three super-fluorescent processes in subatomic ensembles take place relatively dipole-forbidden transitions in one of radiator subsystem. The collective resonance emission and absorption of two-quanta have nontraditional behavior, accompanied with acceleration and inhibition of collective emission processes of photons.

id: 1012.3940
title: Essential entanglement for atomic and molecular physics
authors: Malte C. Tichy, Florian Mintert, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: accepted as Topical Review by J. Phys. B, 61 pages, 14 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 192001 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3940
abstract: Entanglement is nowadays considered as a key quantity for the understanding of correlations, transport properties, and phase transitions in composite quantum systems, and thus receives interest beyond the engineered applications in the focus of quantum information science. We review recent experimental and theoretical progress in the study of quantum correlations under that wider perspective, with an emphasis on rigorous definitions of the entanglement of identical particles, and on entanglement studies in atoms and molecules.

id: 1012.4019
title: Constructing elliptic curve isogenies in quantum subexponential time
authors: Andrew M. Childs, David Jao, Vladimir Soukharev
comments: v1: 25 pages; v2: 23 pages, improved presentation
journal: J. Math. Cryptol., 8(1):1-29, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Number Theory (math.NT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4019
abstract: Given two elliptic curves over a finite field having the same cardinality and endomorphism ring, it is known that the curves admit an isogeny between them, but finding such an isogeny is believed to be computationally difficult. The fastest known classical algorithm takes exponential time, and prior to our work no faster quantum algorithm was known. Recently, public-key cryptosystems based on the presumed hardness of this problem have been proposed as candidates for post-quantum cryptography. In this paper, we give a subexponential-time quantum algorithm for constructing isogenies, assuming the Generalized Riemann Hypothesis (but with no other assumptions). Our algorithm is based on a reduction to a hidden shift problem, together with a new subexponential-time algorithm for evaluating isogenies from kernel ideals (under only GRH), and represents the first nontrivial application of Kuperberg's quantum algorithm for the hidden shift problem. This result suggests that isogeny-based cryptosystems may be uncompetitive with more mainstream quantum-resistant cryptosystems such as lattice-based cryptosystems.

id: 1012.4059
title: Quantum entanglement phenomena in photosynthetic light harvesting complexes
authors: K. Birgitta Whaley, Mohan Sarovar, Akihito Ishizaki
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures. Review article. To appear in the proceedings of the 22nd Solvay Conference in Chemistry on "Quantum Effects in Chemistry and Biology"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4059
abstract: We review recent theoretical calculations of quantum entanglement in photosynthetic light harvesting complexes. These works establish, for the first time, a manifestation of this characteristically quantum mechanical phenomenon in biologically functional structures. We begin by summarizing calculations on model biomolecular systems that aim to reveal non-trivial characteristics of quantum entanglement in non-equilibrium biological environments. We then discuss and compare several calculations performed recently of excitonic dynamics in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson light harvesting complex and of the entanglement present in this widely studied pigment-protein structure. We point out the commonalities between the derived results and also identify and explain the differences. We also discuss recent work that examines entanglement in the structurally more intricate light harvesting complex II (LHCII). During this overview, we take the opportunity to clarify several subtle issues relating to entanglement in such biomolecular systems, including the role of entanglement in biological function, the complexity of dynamical modeling that is required to capture the salient features of entanglement in such biomolecular systems, and the relationship between entanglement and other quantum mechanical features that are observed and predicted in light harvesting complexes. Finally, we suggest possible extensions of the current work and also review the options for experimental confirmation of the predicted entanglement phenomena in light harvesting complexes.

id: 1012.4091
title: Strong-field dipole resonance. I. Limiting analytical cases
authors: Christoph Uiberacker, Werner Jakubetz
comments: 34 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 80, 063406 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4091
abstract: We investigate population dynamics in N-level systems driven beyond the linear regime by a strong external field, which couples to the system through an operator with nonzero diagonal elements. As concrete example we consider the case of dipolar molecular systems. We identify limiting cases of the Hamiltonian leading to wavefunctions that can be written in terms of ordinary exponentials, and focus on the limits of slowly and rapidly varying fields of arbitrary strength. For rapidly varying fields we prove for arbitrary $N$ that the population dynamics is independent of the sign of the projection of the field onto the dipole coupling. In the opposite limit of slowly varying fields the population of the target level is optimized by a dipole resonance condition. As a result population transfer is maximized for one sign of the field and suppressed for the other one, so that a switch based on flopping the field polarization can be devised. For significant sign dependence the resonance linewidth with respect to the field strength is small. In the intermediate regime of moderate field variation, the integral of lowest order in the coupling can be rewritten as a sum of terms resembling the two limiting cases, plus correction terms for N>2, so that a less pronounced sign-dependence still exists.

id: 1012.4114
title: Global geometric entanglement in transverse-field XY spin chains: finite and infinite systems
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei, Smitha Vishveshwara, Paul M. Goldbart
comments: Single column, 36 pages, 10 figures, 1 table, expansion of PRA 71, 060305 (R) (2005) with additional results; to appear in QIC
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 11, 0326-0354 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4114
abstract: The entanglement in quantum XY spin chains of arbitrary length is investigated via the geometric (measure of) entanglement. The emergence of entanglement is explained intuitively from the perspective of perturbations. The model is solved exactly and the energy spectrum is determined and analyzed in particular for the lowest two levels. The entanglement is obtained over the entire phase diagram, and its behavior can be used to delineate the boundaries in the phase diagram. For example, the field-derivative of the entanglement becomes singular along the critical line. The form of the divergence turns out to be dictated by the universality class controlling the quantum phase transition. The entanglement near criticality can be understood via a scaling hypothesis, analogous to that for free energies. The entanglement density vanishes along the so-called disorder line in the phase diagram, the ground space is doubly degenerate and spanned by two product states. The entanglement for the superposition of the lowest two states is also investigated. Even though the exact value of the entanglement depends on the specific form of superposition, in the thermodynamic limit the entanglement density is independent of the superposition, showing that the entanglement density is insensitive to whether the ground state is chosen to be the spontaneously $Z_2$ symmetry broken one or not. The finite-size scaling of entanglement at critical points is also investigated from two different view points: (1) the maximum in the field-derivative of the entanglement density vs. the system size, used to deduce the correlation length exponent for the Ising class by the behavior of entanglement; (2) the correction to the entanglement density vs. the system size, with the coefficient being universal (but with different values for the two lowest states).

id: 1012.4141
title: The decoherence dynamics of the multipartite entanglement in non-Markovian environment
authors: Zhi He, Jian Zou, Bin Shao, Shu-Yan Kong
comments: 12 pages, 6 figure
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 43 (2010) 115503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4141
abstract: We consider four two-level atoms interacting with independent non-Markovian reservoirs with detuning. We mainly investigate the effects of the detuning and the length of the reservoir correlation time on the decoherence dynamics of the multipartite entanglement. We find that the time evolution of the entanglement of atomic and reservoir subsystems is determined by a parameter, which is a function of the detuning and the reservoir correlation time. We also find that the decay and revival of the entanglement of the atomic and reservoir subsystems are closely related to the sign of the decay rate. We also show that the cluster state is the most robust to decoherence comparing with Dicke, GHZ, and W states for this decoherence channel

id: 1012.4149
title: Single-photon detectors based on ultra-narrow superconducting nanowires
authors: F. Marsili, F. Najafi, E. Dauler, F. Bellei, X. Hu, M. C. Csete, R. Molnar, K. K. Berggren
comments: This article has been withdrawn to comply to the editorial policy on prior publication of a journal
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4149
abstract: Superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors (SNSPDs) perform single-photon counting with exceptional sensitivity and time resolution at near-infrared wavelengths. State-of-the-art SNSPDs, based on 100 nm-wide, 4 to 5 nm thick NbN nanowires, are vulnerable to constrictions, which significantly limit their yield. Also, their sensitivity becomes negligible beyond 2 \mu m wavelength, which makes them unsuitable for mid-infrared applications. SNSPDs based on few-tens-of-nanometer-wide nanowires are expected to efficiently detect mid-infrared photons and to operate at low bias currents, so constrictions may have less impact on their performance. Prior to this work, SNSPDs based on nanowires narrower than 50-nm had not been demonstrated because: (1) the SNSPD signal is roughly proportional to the nanowire width, so narrow nanowires have poor signal-to-noise ratio; and (2) fabrication at these length scales is extremely challenging. In this letter we report how we addressed these issues and demonstrated single-photon detection (20% detection efficiency at 1550 nm wavelength) with 30- and 20-nm-wide-nanowire detectors.

id: 1012.4164
title: Entanglement for discrete-time quantum walks on the line
authors: Yusuke Ide, Norio Konno, Takuya Machida
comments: Quantum Information and Computation (in press)
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol.11 No.9&10, pp.855-866 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4164
abstract: The discrete-time quantum walk is a quantum counterpart of the random walk. It is expected that the model plays important roles in the quantum field. In the quantum information theory, entanglement is a key resource. We use the von Neumann entropy to measure the entanglement between the coin and the particle's position of the quantum walks. Also we deal with the Shannon entropy which is an important quantity in the information theory. In this paper, we show limits of the von Neumann entropy and the Shannon entropy of the quantum walks on the one dimensional lattice starting from the origin defined by arbitrary coin and initial state. In order to derive these limits, we use the path counting method which is a combinatorial method for computing probability amplitude.

id: 1012.4181
title: Progress towards an accurate determination of the Boltzmann constant by Doppler spectroscopy
authors: Cyril Lemarchand, Meriam Triki, Beno?t Darqui¨¦, Christian J. Bord¨¦, Christian Chardonnet, Christophe Daussy
comments: 22 pages, 11 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 13 (2011) 073028
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4181
abstract: In this paper, we present significant progress performed on an experiment dedicated to the determination of the Boltzmann constant, k, by accurately measuring the Doppler absorption profile of a line in a gas of ammonia at thermal equilibrium. This optical method based on the first principles of statistical mechanics is an alternative to the acoustical method which has led to the unique determination of k published by the CODATA with a relative accuracy of 1.7 ppm. We report on the first measurement of the Boltzmann constant by laser spectroscopy with a statistical uncertainty below 10 ppm, more specifically 6.4 ppm. This progress results from improvements in the detection method and in the statistical treatment of the data. In addition, we have recorded the hyperfine structure of the probed saQ(6,3) rovibrational line of ammonia by saturation spectroscopy and thus determine very precisely the induced 4.36 (2) ppm broadening of the absorption linewidth. We also show that, in our well chosen experimental conditions, saturation effects have a negligible impact on the linewidth. Finally, we draw the route to future developments for an absolute determination of with an accuracy of a few ppm.

id: 1012.4221
title: The automorphism group of separable states in quantum information theory
authors: Shmuel Friedland, Chi-Kwong Li, Yiu-Tung Poon, Nung-Sing Sze
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4221
abstract: We show that the linear group of automorphism of Hermitian matrices which preserves the set of separable states is generated by \emph{natural} automorphisms: change of an orthonormal basis in each tensor factor, partial transpose in each tensor factor, and interchanging two tensor factors of the same dimension. We apply our results to preservers of the product numerical range.

id: 1012.4262
title: Dynamical decoupling sequence construction as a filter-design problem
authors: M. J. Biercuk, A.C. Doherty, H. Uys
comments: Added new control-theoretic description of DD-based filtering. Updated references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4262
abstract: Over the past decade we have seen an explosion of demonstrations of quantum coherence in atomic, optical, and condensed matter systems. These developments have placed a new emphasis on the production of robust and optimal quantum control techniques in the presence of environmental noise. We discuss the use of dynamical decoupling as a form of open-loop quantum control capable of suppressing the effects of dephasing in quantum coherent systems. We introduce the concept of dynamical decoupling pulse-sequence construction as a filter-design problem, making connections with filter design from control theory and electrical engineering in the analysis of pulse-sequence performance for the preservation of the phase degree of freedom in a quantum superposition. A detailed mathematical description of how dephasing and the suppression of dephasing can be reduced to a linear control problem is provided, and used as motivation and context for studies of the filtration properties of various dynamical decoupling sequences. Our work then takes this practical perspective in addressing both "standard" sequences derived from nuclear magnetic resonance and novel optimized sequences developed in the context of quantum information. Additionally, we review new techniques for the numerical construction of optimized pulse sequences using the filter-design perspective. We show how the filter-design perspective permits concise comparisons of the relative capabilities of these sequences and reveals the physics underlying their functionality. The use of this new analytical framework allows us to derive new insights into the performance of these sequences and reveals important limiting issues, such as the effect of digital clocking on optimized sequence performance.

id: 1012.4266
title: Operator-sum Representation for Bosonic Gaussian Channels
authors: J. Solomon Ivan, Krishnakumar Sabapathy, R. Simon
comments: 38 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042311 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4266
abstract: Operator-sum or Kraus representations for single-mode Bosonic Gaussian channels are developed, and several of their consequences explored. Kraus operators are employed to bring out the manner in which the unphysical matrix transposition map when accompanied by injection of a threshold classical noise becomes a physical channel. The action of the quantum-limited attenuator and amplifier channels as simply scaling maps on suitable quasi-probabilities in phase space is examined in the Kraus picture. Consideration of cumulants is used to examine the issue of fixed points. In the cases of entanglement-breaking channels a description in terms of rank one Kraus operators is shown to emerge quite simply. In contradistinction, it is shown that there is not even one finite rank operator in the entire linear span of Kraus operators of the quantum-limited amplifier or attenuator families, an assertion far stronger than the statement that these are not entanglement breaking channels. A characterization of extremality in terms of Kraus operators, originally due to Choi, is employed to show that all quantum-limited Gaussian channels are extremal. The fact that every noisy Gaussian channel can be realised as product of a pair of quantum-limited channels is used to construct a discrete set of linearly independent Kraus operators for noisy Gaussian channels, including the classical noise channel, and these Kraus operators have a particularly simple structure.

id: 1012.4268
title: Multipartite entanglement of fermionic systems in noninertial frames
authors: Jieci Wang, Jiliang Jing
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83 (2011) 022314
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4268
abstract: The bipartite and tripartite entanglement of a 3-qubit fermionic system when one or two subsystems accelerated are investigated. It is shown that all the one-tangles decrease as the acceleration increases. However, unlike the scalar case, here one-tangles ${\cal N}_{C_I(AB_I)}$ and ${\cal N}_{C_I(AB)}$ never reduce to zero for any acceleration. It is found that the system has only tripartite entanglement when either one or two subsystems accelerated, which means that the acceleration doesn't generate bipartite entanglement and doesn't effect the entanglement structure of the quantum states in this system. It is of interest to note that the $\pi$-tangle of the two-observers-accelerated case decreases much quicker than that of the one-observer-accelerated case and it reduces to a non-zero minimum in the infinite acceleration limit. Thus we argue that the qutrit systems are better than qubit systems to perform quantum information processing tasks in noninertial systems.

id: 1012.4270
title: Ground state factorization and correlations with broken symmetry
authors: Bruno Tomasello, Davide Rossini, Alioscia Hamma, Luigi Amico
comments: to be published in EPL
journal: Europhys. Lett. 96, 27002 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4270
abstract: We show how the phenomenon of factorization in a quantum many body system is of collective nature. To this aim we study the quantum discord $Q$ in the one dimensional XY model in a transverse field. We analyze the behavior of $Q$ at both the critical point and at the non critical factorizing field. The factorization is found to be governed by an exponential scaling law for $Q$. We also address the thermal effects fanning out from the anomalies occurring at zero temperature. Close to the quantum phase transition, $Q$ exhibits a finite-temperature crossover with universal scaling behavior, while the factorization phenomenon results in a non trivial pattern of correlations present at low temperature.

id: 1012.4277
title: Entanglement in finite spin rings with noncollinear Ising interaction
authors: F. Troiani
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032330 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4277
abstract: We investigate the entanglement properties of finite spin rings, with noncollinear Ising interaction between nearest neighbours. The orientations of the Ising axes are determined either by the spin position within the ring (model A) or by the direction of the bond (model B). In both cases, the considered spin Hamiltonians have a point group symmetry, rather than a translation invariance, as in spin rings with collinear Ising interaction. The ground state of these models exhibit remarkable entanglement properties, resembling GHZ-like states in the absence of an applied magnetic field (model B). Besides, the application of an homogeneous magnetic field allows to modify qualitatively the character of the ground state entanglement, switching from multipartite to pairwise quantum correlations (both models A and B).

id: 1012.4302
title: Measurement-induced disturbances and nonclassical correlations of Gaussian states
authors: Ladislav Mi?ta, Jr., Richard Tatham, Davide Girolami, Natalia Korolkova, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures; new results added; to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042325 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4302
abstract: We study quantum correlations beyond entanglement in two-mode Gaussian states of continuous variable systems, by means of the measurement-induced disturbance (MID) and its ameliorated version (AMID). In analogy with the recent studies of the Gaussian quantum discord, we define a Gaussian AMID by constraining the optimization to all bi-local Gaussian positive operator valued measurements. We solve the optimization explicitly for relevant families of states, including squeezed thermal states. Remarkably, we find that there is a finite subset of two-mode Gaussian states, comprising pure states, where non-Gaussian measurements such as photon counting are globally optimal for the AMID and realize a strictly smaller state disturbance compared to the best Gaussian measurements. However, for the majority of two--mode Gaussian states the unoptimized MID provides a loose overestimation of the actual content of quantum correlations, as evidenced by its comparison with Gaussian discord. This feature displays strong similarity with the case of two qubits. Upper and lower bounds for the Gaussian AMID at fixed Gaussian discord are identified. We further present a comparison between Gaussian AMID and Gaussian entanglement of formation, and classify families of two-mode states in terms of their Gaussian AMID, Gaussian discord, and Gaussian entanglement of formation. Our findings provide a further confirmation of the genuinely quantum nature of general Gaussian states, yet they reveal that non-Gaussian measurements can play a crucial role for the optimized extraction and potential exploitation of classical and nonclassical correlations in Gaussian states.

id: 1012.4328
title: An effective method of calculating the non-Markovianity $\mathcal{N}$ for single channel open systems
authors: Zhi He, Jian Zou, Lin Li, Bin Shao
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures,to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4328
abstract: We propose an effective method which can simplify the optimization of the increase of the trace distance over all pairs of initial states in calculating the non-Markovianity $\mathcal{N}$ for single channel open systems. For the amplitude damping channel, we can unify the results of Breuer $et$ $al$. [Phys. Rev. Lett. \bf 103\rm, 210401 (2009)] in the large-detuning case and the results of Xu $et$ $al$. [Phys. Rev. A \bf 81\rm, 044105 (2010)] in the resonant case; furthermore, for the general off-resonant cases we can obtain a very tight lower bound of $\mathcal{N}$. As another application of our method, we also discuss $\mathcal{N}$ for the non-Markovian depolarizing channel.

id: 1012.4362
title: 'Measurement of Quantum Mechanical Operators' Revisited
authors: Leon Loveridge, Paul Busch
comments: Version 2 contains some corrections and improvements suggested by an anonymous referee
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4362
abstract: The Wigner-Araki-Yanase (WAY) theorem states a remarkable limitation to quantum mechanical measurements in the presence of additive conserved quantities. Discovered by Wigner in 1952, this limitation is known to induce constraints on the control of individual quantum systems in the context of information processing. It is therefore important to understand the precise conditions and scope of the WAY theorem. Here we elucidate its crucial assumptions, briefly review some generalizations, and show how a particular extension can already be obtained by a simple modification of the original proofs. We also describe the evolution of the WAY theorem from a strict no-go verdict for certain, highly idealized, precise measurements into a quantitative constraint on the accuracy and approximate repeatability of imprecise measurements.

id: 1012.4366
title: Tailored bright illumination attack on distributed-phase-reference protocols
authors: Lars Lydersen, Johannes Skaar, Vadim Makarov
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 58, 680--685 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4366
abstract: Detector control attacks on quantum key distribution systems exploit the linear mode of avalanche photodiode in single photon detectors. So far, the protocols under consideration have been the BB84 protocol and its derivatives. Here we present how bright tailored illumination exploiting the linear mode of detectors can be used to eavesdrop on distributed-phase-reference protocols, such as differential-phase-shift and coherent-one-way.

id: 1012.4372
title: Translation of "Die Messung quantenmechanischer Operatoren" by E.P.~Wigner
authors: Paul Busch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4372
abstract: This is a 'facsimile-style' translation of Wigner's seminal paper on measurement limitations in the presence of additive conservation laws. A critical survey of the history of subsequent extensions and variations of what is now known as the Wigner-Araki-Yanase (WAY) Theorem is provided in a paper published concurrently.

id: 1012.4382
title: High-performance solution of hierarchical equations of motions for studying energy-transfer in light-harvesting complexes
authors: Christoph Kreisbeck, Tobias Kramer, Mirta Rodriguez, Birgit Hein
comments: 14 pages; Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation (2011)
journal: Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation, volume 7, page 2166 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4382
abstract: Excitonic models of light-harvesting complexes, where the vibrational degrees of freedom are treated as a bath, are commonly used to describe the motion of the electronic excitation through a molecule. Recent experiments point toward the possibility of memory effects in this process and require to consider time non-local propagation techniques. The hierarchical equations of motion (HEOM) were proposed by Ishizaki and Fleming to describe the site-dependent reorganization dynamics of protein environments (J. Chem. Phys., 130, p. 234111, 2009), which plays a significant role in photosynthetic electronic energy transfer. HEOM are often used as a reference for other approximate methods, but have been implemented only for small systems due to their adverse computational scaling with the system size. Here, we show that HEOM are also solvable for larger systems, since the underlying algorithm is ideally suited for the usage of graphics processing units (GPU). The tremendous reduction in computational time due to the GPU allows us to perform a systematic study of the energy-transfer efficiency in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) light-harvesting complex at physiological temperature under full consideration of memory-effects. We find that approximative methods differ qualitatively and quantitatively from the HEOM results and discuss the importance of finite temperature to achieve high energy-transfer efficiencies.

id: 1012.4387
title: Free-space lossless state-detection of a single trapped atom
authors: A. Fuhrmanek, R. Bourgain, Y.R.P. Sortais, A. Browaeys
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 133003 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4387
abstract: We demonstrate the lossless state-selective detection of a single rubidium 87 atom trapped in an optical tweezer. This detection is analogous to the one used on trapped ions. After preparation in either a dark or bright state, we probe the atom internal state by sending laser light that couples an excited state to the bright state only. The laser induced fluorescence is collected by a high numerical aperture lens. The single-shot fidelity of the detection is 98.6(0.2) % and is presently limited by the dark count noise of the detector. The simplicity of this method opens new perspectives in view of applications to quantum manipulations of neutral atoms.

id: 1012.4413
title: The fundamental obscurity in quantum mechanics. Could the problem be considered universal?
authors: A. V. Nikulov
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure, submitted to Found. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4413
abstract: The contemporary controversy about the fundamental obscurity in quantum mechanics keeps on the old one about the aim of science, which was between the founders of the quantum theory. The orthodox quantum mechanics could be created only at the cost of renunciation of reality as the aim of natural science. The description only of phenomena, i.e. results of observation, should not be universal if no one believes that these phenomena are manifestation of a unique reality. Such belief concerning quantum mechanics is quite unacceptable because of irremediably conflict with special relativity. Nevertheless the quantum mechanics was developed and apprehended by most physicists as a universal theory of a quantum world. This fundamental discrepancy between the essence of the orthodox quantum mechanics and its history of development and studying has resulted both to an illusion about the aim of its description among most physicists and to the consideration of its fundamental obscurity as a universal problem among experts in quantum foundation. The aim of this paper is to show that quantum phenomena can not be described universally. It is indicated that rather the Schrodinger's than Born's interpretation of the wave function is valid for description of many quantum phenomena. The fundamental obscurity with which we are faced at the description, for example, macroscopic quantum phenomena differs fundamentally from the one with which the founders of the quantum theory were faced on atomic level.

id: 1012.4416
title: Controlled coupling of a single nitrogen-vacancy center to a silver nanowire
authors: Alexander Huck, Shailesh Kumar, Abdul Shakoor, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 096801 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4416
abstract: We report on the controlled coupling of a single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center to a surface plasmon mode propagating along a chemically grown silver nanowire. We locate and optically characterize a single NV-center in a uniform dielectric environment before we controllably position this emitter in the close proximity of the nanowire. We are thus able to control the coupling of this particular emitter to the nanowire and directly compare the photon emission properties before and after the coupling. The excitation of single plasmonic modes is witnessed and a total rate enhancement by a factor of up to 4.6 is demonstrated.

id: 1012.4427
title: Quantum interactive proofs with weak error bounds
authors: Tsuyoshi Ito, Hirotada Kobayashi, John Watrous
comments: 18 pages. v3: improved presentation, corrected minor errors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4427
abstract: This paper proves that the computational power of quantum interactive proof systems, with a double-exponentially small gap in acceptance probability between the completeness and soundness cases, is precisely characterized by EXP, the class of problems solvable in exponential time by deterministic Turing machines. This fact, and our proof of it, has implications concerning quantum and classical interactive proof systems in the setting of unbounded error that include the following: * Quantum interactive proof systems are strictly more powerful than their classical counterparts in the unbounded-error setting unless PSPACE=EXP, as even unbounded error classical interactive proof systems can be simulated in PSPACE. * The recent proof of Jain, Ji, Upadhyay, and Watrous (STOC 2010) establishing QIP=PSPACE relies heavily on the fact that the quantum interactive proof systems defining the class QIP have bounded error. Our result implies that some nontrivial assumption on the error bounds for quantum interactive proofs is unavoidable to establish this result (unless PSPACE=EXP). * To prove our result, we give a quantum interactive proof system for EXP with perfect completeness and soundness error 1-2^{-2^poly}, for which the soundness error bound is provably tight. This establishes another respect in which quantum and classical interactive proof systems differ, because such a bound cannot hold for any classical interactive proof system: distinct acceptance probabilities for classical interactive proof systems must be separated by a gap that is at least (single-)exponentially small. We also study the computational power of a few other related unbounded-error complexity classes.

id: 1012.4434
title: The role of pump coherence in two-photon interferometry
authors: J. Liang, S.M. Hendrickson, T.B. Pittman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4434
abstract: We use a parametric down-conversion source pumped by a short coherence-length continuous-wave (CW) diode laser to perform two-photon interferometry in an intermediate regime between the more familiar Franson-type experiments with a long coherence-length pump laser, and the short pulsed pump "time-bin" experiments pioneered by Gisin's group. The use of a time-bin-like Mach-Zehnder interferometer in the CW pumping beam induces coherence between certain two-photon amplitudes, while the CW nature of the experiment prevents the elimination of remaining incoherent ones. The experimental results highlight the role of pump coherence in two-photon interferometry.

id: 1012.4447
title: Observer invariance of the collapse postulate of quantum mechanics
authors: Milton A. da Silva Jr, Roberto M. Serra, Lucas C. Celeri
comments: Accepted for publication in Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, special issue "Classical Vs Quantum correlations in composite systems" edited by L. Amico, S. Bose, V. Korepin and V. Vedral
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 27, 1345013 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4447
abstract: We analyse the wave function collapse as seem by two distinct observers (with identical detectors) in relative motion. Imposing that the measurement process demands information transfer from the system to the detectors, we note that although different observers will acquire different amount of information from their measurements due to correlations between spin and momentum variables, all of them will agree about the orthogonality of the outcomes, as defined by their own reference frame. So, in this sense, such a quantum mechanical postulate is observer invariant, however the effective efficiency of the measurement process differs for each observer.

id: 1012.4472
title: Stable macroscopic quantum superpositions
authors: F. Fr?wis, W. D¨¹r
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; v2: minor changes due to referee reports
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 110402 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4472
abstract: We study the stability of superpositions of macroscopically distinct quantum states under decoherence. We introduce a class of quantum states with entanglement features similar to Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states, but with an inherent stability against noise and decoherence. We show that in contrast to GHZ states, these so-called concatenated GHZ states remain multipartite entangled even for macroscopic numbers of particles and can be used for quantum metrology in noisy environments. We also propose a scalable experimental realization of these states using existing ion-trap set-ups.

id: 1012.4475
title: The robust $\mP\mT$-symmetric chain and properties of its Hermitian counterpart
authors: Yogesh N. Joglekar, Avadh Saxena
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures; significant text and references revision
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 050101(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4475
abstract: We study the properties of a parity- and time-reversal- (PT) symmetric tight-binding chain of size N with position-dependent hopping amplitude. In contrast to the fragile PT-symmetric phase of a chain with constant hopping and imaginary impurity potentials, we show that, under very general conditions, our model is {\it always} in the PT-symmetric phase. We numerically obtain the energy spectrum and the density of states of such a chain, and show that they are widely tunable. By studying the size-dependence of inverse participation ratios, we show that although the chain is not translationally invariant, most of its eigenstates are extended. Our results indicate that tight-binding models with non-Hermitian PT-symmetric hopping have a robust PT-symmetric phase and rich dynamics which may be explored in coupled waveguides.

id: 1012.4544
title: Refraction in spacetime
authors: M. Jaaskelainen, M. Lombard, U. Zuelicke
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, RevTex4.1. This article has been conditionally accepted by the American Journal of Physics. After it is published, it will be found at this http URL
journal: Am. J. Phys. 79, 672 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4544
abstract: Refraction, interference, and diffraction serve as distinguishing features for wave-like phenomena. While they are normally associated only with a purely spatial wave-propagation pattern, analogs to interference and diffraction involving the spatio-temporal dynamics of waves in one dimension (1D) have been pointed out. Here we complete the triplet of analogies by discussing how spatio-temporal analogs to refraction are exhibited by a quantum particle in 1D that is scattering off a step barrier. Similarly, birefringence in spacetime occurs for a spin-1/2 particle in a magnetic field. These examples serve to illustrate basics of quantum time evolution from a new perspective.

id: 1012.4566
title: Asymptotic entanglement in 1D quantum walks with a time-dependent coined
authors: S. Salimi, R. Yosefjani
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in IJMPB. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1001.5326 by other authors
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B, Vol. 26, No. 20 (2012) 1250112
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4566
abstract: Discrete-time quantum walk evolve by a unitary operator which involves two operators a conditional shift in position space and a coin operator. This operator entangles the coin and position degrees of freedom of the walker. In this paper, we investigate the asymptotic behavior of the coin position entanglement (CPE) for an inhomogeneous quantum walk which determined by two orthogonal matrices in one-dimensional lattice. Free parameters of coin operator together provide many conditions under which a measurement perform on the coin state yield the value of entanglement on the resulting position quantum state. We study the problem analytically for all values that two free parameters of coin operator can take and the conditions under which entanglement becomes maximal are sought.

id: 1012.4578
title: Classical and quantum properties of cylindrically polarized states of light
authors: Annemarie Holleczek, Andrea Aiello, Christian Gabriel, Christoph Marquardt, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 22 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4578
abstract: We investigate theoretical properties of beams of light with non-uniform polarization patterns. Specifically, we determine all possible configurations of cylindrically polarized modes (CPMs) of the electro-magnetic field, calculate their total angular momentum and highlight the subtleties of their structure. Furthermore, a hybrid spatio-polarization description for such modes is introduced and developed. In particular, two independent Poincar\'e spheres have been introduced to represent simultaneously the polarization and spatial degree of freedom of CPMs. Possible mode-to-mode transformations accomplishable with the help of conventional polarization and spatial phase retarders are shown within this representation. Moreover, the importance of these CPMs in the quantum optics domain due to their classical features is highlighted.

id: 1012.4583
title: Constructing Quantum Network Coding Schemes from Classical Nonlinear Protocols
authors: Hirotada Kobayashi, Fran?ois Le Gall, Harumichi Nishimura, Martin Roetteler
comments: 14 pages
journal: Proceedings 2011 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2011), pp. 109-113
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4583
abstract: The k-pair problem in network coding theory asks to send k messages simultaneously between k source-target pairs over a directed acyclic graph. In a previous paper [ICALP 2009, Part I, pages 622--633] the present authors showed that if a classical k-pair problem is solvable by means of a linear coding scheme, then the quantum k-pair problem over the same graph is also solvable, provided that classical communication can be sent for free between any pair of nodes of the graph. Here we address the main case that remained open in our previous work, namely whether nonlinear classical network coding schemes can also give rise to quantum network coding schemes. This question is motivated by the fact that there are networks for which there are no linear solutions to the k-pair problem, whereas nonlinear solutions exist. In the present paper we overcome the limitation to linear protocols and describe a new communication protocol for perfect quantum network coding that improves over the previous one as follows: (i) the new protocol does not put any condition on the underlying classical coding scheme, that is, it can simulate nonlinear communication protocols as well, and (ii) the amount of classical communication sent in the protocol is significantly reduced.

id: 1012.4593
title: Effective Strategies for Identifying Model Parameters for Open Quantum Systems
authors: Er-ling Gong, Weiwei Zhou, S. G. Schirmer, Zhi-Qiang Sun, Ming Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4593
abstract: The problem of identifiability of model parameters for open quantum systems is considered by investigating two-level dephasing systems. We discuss under which conditions full information about the Hamiltonian and dephasing parameters can be obtained. Using simulated experiments several different strategies for extracting model parameters from limited and noisy data are compared.

id: 1012.4594
title: Generation of macroscopic quantum-superposition states by linear coupling to a bath
authors: D. D. Bhaktavatsala Rao, Nir Bar-Gill, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, Physical Review Letters (in press)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 010404 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4594
abstract: We demonstrate through an exactly solvable model that collective coupling to any thermal bath induces effectively nonlinear couplings in a quantum many-body (multi-spin) system. The resulting evolution can drive an uncorrelated large-spin system with high probability into a macroscopic quantum-superposition state. We discuss possible experimental realizations.

id: 1012.4597
title: Experimental demonstration of nonlocal effects of the partial collapse measurement and reversal process
authors: Xiao-Ye Xu, Jin-Shi Xu, Chuan-Feng Li, Yang Zou, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 83, 010101(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4597
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the nonlocal reversal of a partial-collapse quantum measurement on two-photon entangled state. Both the partial measurement and the reversal operation are implemented in linear optics with two displaced Sagnac interferometers, which are characterized by single qubit quantum process tomography. The recovered state is measured by quantum state tomography and its nonlocality is characterized by testing the Bell inequality. Our result will be helpful in quantum communication and quantum error correction.

id: 1012.4602
title: Measurement-induced quantum operations on multiphoton states
authors: Chiara Vitelli, Nicol¨° Spagnolo, Fabio Sciarrino, Francesco De Martini
comments: 13 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062319 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4602
abstract: We investigate how multiphoton quantum states obtained through optical parametric amplification can be manipulated by performing a measurement on a small portion of the output light field. We study in detail how the macroqubit features are modified by varying the amount of extracted information and the strategy adopted at the final measurement stage. At last the obtained results are employed to investigate the possibility of performing a microscopic-macroscopic non-locality test free from auxiliary assumptions.

id: 1012.4618
title: Dissipation-induced correlations in 1D bosonic systems
authors: M. Kiffner, M. J. Hartmann
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 053027 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4618
abstract: The quantum dynamics of interacting bosons in a one-dimensional system is investigated numerically. We consider dissipative and conservative two-particle interactions, and integrate the master equation describing the system dynamics via a time-evolving block-decimation (TEBD) algorithm. Our numerical simulations directly apply to stationary-light polaritons in systems where atoms and photons are confined to the hollow core of a photonic crystal fibre. We show that a two-particle loss term can drive an initially uncorrelated state into a regime where correlations effectively inhibit the dissipation of particles. The correlations induced by two-particle losses are compared with those generated by an elastic repulsion. For the considered time range, we find a similar behaviour in local density-density correlations but differences in non-local correlations.

id: 1012.4622
title: Equilibration of quantum systems and subsystems
authors: Anthony J. Short
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4622
abstract: We unify two recent results concerning equilibration in quantum theory. We first generalise a proof of Reimann [PRL 101,190403 (2008)], that the expectation value of 'realistic' quantum observables will equilibrate under very general conditions, and discuss its implications for the equilibration of quantum systems. We then use this to re-derive an independent result of Linden et. al. [PRE 79, 061103 (2009)], showing that small subsystems generically evolve to an approximately static equilibrium state. Finally, we consider subspaces in which all initial states effectively equilibrate to the same state.

id: 1012.4637
title: Optimal verification of entanglement in a photonic cluster state experiment
authors: H. Wunderlich, G. Vallone, P. Mataloni, M. B. Plenio
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 033033
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4637
abstract: We report on the quantification of entanglement by means of entanglement measures on a four- and a six- qubit cluster state realized by using photons entangled both in polarization and linear momentum. This paper also addresss the question of the scaling of entanglement bounds from incomplete tomographic information on the density matrix under realistic experimental conditions.

id: 1012.4684
title: Quantum transport in one-dimensional systems via a master equation approach: Numerics and an exact solution
authors: Marko Znidaric
comments: PNLD 2010 conference proceedings; 10 pages
journal: Pramana J. Phys. 77, 781 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4684
abstract: We discuss recent findings about properties of quantum nonequilibrium steady states. In particular we focus on transport properties. It is shown that the time dependent density matrix renormalization method can be used successfully to find a stationary solution of Lindblad master equation. Furthermore, for a specific model an exact solution is presented.

id: 1012.4685
title: Characterization of Decoherence from an Environmental Perspective
authors: Julius Helm, Walter T. Strunz, Stephan Rietzler, Lars Erik W¨¹rflinger
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4685
abstract: For the case of phase damping (pure decoherence) we investigate the extent to which environmental traits are imprinted on an open quantum system. The dynamics is described using the quantum channel approach. We study what the knowledge of the channel may reveal about the nature of its underlying dynamics and, conversely, what the dynamics tells us about how to consistently model the environment. We find that for a Markov phase-damping channel, that is, a channel compatible with a time-continuous Markovian evolution, the environment may adequately be represented by a mixture of only a few coherent states. For arbitrary Hilbert space dimension $N\geq 4$ we refine the idea of {\it quantum phase damping}, of which we show a means of identification. Symmetry considerations are used to identify decoherence-free subspaces of the system.

id: 1012.4704
title: Single spontaneous photon as a coherent beamsplitter for an atomic matterwave
authors: Ji?¨ª Tomkovi?, Michael Schreiber, Joachim Welte, Martin Kiffner, J?rg Schmiedmayer, Markus K. Oberthaler
comments: main text: 5 pages, 4 figure; supplementary information: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Nature Physics 7, 379-382 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4704
abstract: In spontaneous emission an atom in an excited state undergoes a transition to the ground state and emits a single photon. Associated with the emission is a change of the atomic momentum due to photon recoil. Photon emission can be modified close to surfaces and in cavities. For an ion, localized in front of a mirror, coherence of the emitted resonance fluorescence has been reported. In free space experiments demonstrated that spontaneous emission destroys motional coherence. Here we report on motional coherence created by a single spontaneous emission event close to a mirror surface. The coherence in the free atomic motion is verified by atom interferometry. The photon can be regarded as a beamsplitter for an atomic matterwave and consequently our experiment extends the original recoiling slit Gedanken experiment by Einstein to the case where the slit is in a robust coherent superposition of the two recoils associated with the two paths of the quanta.

id: 1012.4706
title: Quantum Entanglement: Separability, Measure, Fidelity of Teleportation and Distillation
authors: Ming Li, Shao-Ming Fei, Xianqing Li-Jost
comments: 63 pages, 4 figures
journal: Advances in Mathematical Physics, Vol. 2010, 301072
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4706
abstract: Quantum entanglement plays crucial roles in quantum information processing. Quantum entangled states have become the key ingredient in the rapidly expanding field of quantum information science. Although the nonclassical nature of entanglement has been recognized for many years, considerable efforts have been taken to understand and characterize its properties recently. In this review, we introduce some recent results in the theory of quantum entanglement. In particular separability criteria based on the Bloch representation, covariance matrix, normal form and entanglement witness; lower bounds, subadditivity property of concurrence and tangle; fully entangled fraction related to the optimal fidelity of quantum teleportation and entanglement distillation will be discussed in detail.

id: 1012.4720
title: Intertwining of exactly solvable generalized Schrodinger equations
authors: A.A. Suzko, E.P.Velicheva
comments: 19 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4720
abstract: The Darboux transformation operator technique in differential and integral forms is applied to the generalized Schrodinger equation with a position-dependent effective mass and with linearly energy-dependent potentials. Intertwining operators are obtained in an explicit form and used for constructing generalized Darboux transformations of an arbitrary order. A relation between supersymmetry and the generalized Darboux transformation is considered. The method is applied to generation of isospectral potentials with additional or removal bound states or construction of new partner potentials without changing the spectrum, i.e. fully isospectral potentials. The method is illustrated by some examples.

id: 1012.4727
title: Quantum Phase Estimation with Arbitrary Constant-precision Phase Shift Operators
authors: Hamed Ahmadi, Chen-Fu Chiang
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures and 1 table
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, vol.12, no.9 & 10, pp. 0864-0875, (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4727
abstract: While Quantum phase estimation (QPE) is at the core of many quantum algorithms known to date, its physical implementation (algorithms based on quantum Fourier transform (QFT)) is highly constrained by the requirement of high-precision controlled phase shift operators, which remain difficult to realize. In this paper, we introduce an alternative approach to approximately implement QPE with arbitrary constant-precision controlled phase shift operators. The new quantum algorithm bridges the gap between QPE algorithms based on QFT and Kitaev's original approach. For approximating the eigenphase precise to the nth bit, Kitaev's original approach does not require any controlled phase shift operator. In contrast, QPE algorithms based on QFT or approximate QFT require controlled phase shift operators with precision of at least Pi/2n. The new approach fills the gap and requires only arbitrary constant-precision controlled phase shift operators. From a physical implementation viewpoint, the new algorithm outperforms Kitaev's approach.

id: 1012.4728
title: Parallel Repetition of Entangled Games
authors: Julia Kempe, Thomas Vidick
comments: v2: minor fixes and explanations added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4728
abstract: We consider one-round games between a classical referee and two players. One of the main questions in this area is the parallel repetition question: Is there a way to decrease the maximum winning probability of a game without increasing the number of rounds or the number of players? Classically, efforts to resolve this question, open for many years, have culminated in Raz's celebrated parallel repetition theorem on one hand, and in efficient product testers for PCPs on the other. In the case where players share entanglement, the only previously known results are for special cases of games, and are based on techniques that seem inherently limited. Here we show for the first time that the maximum success probability of entangled games can be reduced through parallel repetition, provided it was not initially 1. Our proof is inspired by a seminal result of Feige and Kilian in the context of classical two-prover one-round interactive proofs. One of the main components in our proof is an orthogonalization lemma for operators, which might be of independent interest.

id: 1012.4762
title: Description of thermal entanglement with the static path plus random-phase approximation
authors: N. Canosa, J. M. Matera, R. Rossignoli
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: N. Canosa, J.M. Matera, R. Rossignoli, Phys Rev A 76, 02231(2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4762
abstract: We discuss the application of the static path plus random phase approximation (SPA+RPA) and the ensuing mean field+RPA treatment to the evaluation of entanglement in composite quantum systems at finite temperature. These methods involve just local diagonalizations and the determination of the generalized collective vibrational frequencies. As illustration, we evaluate the pairwise entanglement in a fully connected XXZ chain of $n$ spins at finite temperature in a transverse magnetic field $b$. It is shown that already the mean field+RPA provides an accurate analytic description of the concurrence below the mean field critical region ($|b|<b_c$), exact for large $n$, whereas the full SPA+RPA is able to improve results for finite systems in the critical region. It is proved as well that for $T>0$ weak entanglement also arises when the ground state is separable ($|b|>b_c$), with the limit temperature for pairwise entanglement exhibiting quite distinct regimes for $|b|<b_c$ and $|b|>b_c$.

id: 1012.4814
title: Noisy channel coding via privacy amplification and information reconciliation
authors: Joseph M. Renes, Renato Renner
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures. v2: final version for publication
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory 57, 7377 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4814
abstract: We show that optimal protocols for noisy channel coding of public or private information over either classical or quantum channels can be directly constructed from two more primitive information-theoretic tools: privacy amplification and information reconciliation, also known as data compression with side information. We do this in the one-shot scenario of structureless resources, and formulate our results in terms of the smooth min- and max-entropy. In the context of classical information theory, this shows that essentially all two-terminal protocols can be reduced to these two primitives, which are in turn governed by the smooth min- and max-entropies, respectively. In the context of quantum information theory, the recently-established duality of these two protocols means essentially all two-terminal protocols can be constructed using just a single primitive.

id: 1012.4843
title: Quantum Computing in the de Broglie-Bohm Pilot-Wave Picture
authors: Philipp Roser
comments: MSc Dissertation in Theoretical Physics, Imperial College London, 104 pages (double spaced)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4843
abstract: Much attention has been drawn to quantum computing and the exponential speed-up in computation the technology would be able to provide. Various claims have been made about what aspect of quantum mechanics causes this speed-up. Formulations of quantum computing have traditionally been made in orthodox (Copenhagen) and sometimes many-worlds quantum mechanics. We will aim to understand quantum computing in terms of de Broglie-Bohm Pilot-Wave Theory by considering different simple systems that may function as a basic quantum computer. We will provide a careful discussion of Pilot-Wave Theory and evaluate criticisms of the theory. We will assess claims regarding what causes the exponential speed-up in the light of our analysis and the fact that Pilot-Wave Theory is perfectly able to account for the phenomena involved in quantum computing.

id: 1012.4857
title: Statistical deviation from stationary action to Schr?dinger equation
authors: Agung Budiyono
comments: 8 pages (content changed)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4857
abstract: We discuss the dynamics of single particle by laying a hypothesis that the Hamilton's principle of stationary action is not exact. We then postulate that the deviation of the action with sufficiently short time interval from the stationary action is distributed along a sufficiently long trajectory according to an exponential law. We show that the dynamics of the ensemble of trajectories satisfies the Schr\"odinger equation with Born interpretation of wave function if the average deviation is given by $\hbar/2$ and if two opposite signs of deviation occur equally probably. The particle thus behaves as if it is guided by a virtual wave satisfying the Schr\"odinger equation.

id: 1012.4866
title: Dynamics of open quantum systems with initial system-reservoir correlations
authors: Hua-Tang Tan, Wei-Min Zhang
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032102 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4866
abstract: In this paper, the exact dynamics of open quantum systems in the presence of initial system-reservoir correlations is investigated for a photonic cavity system coupled to a general non-Markovian reservoir. The exact time-convolutionless master equation incorporating with initial system-reservoir correlations is obtained. The non-Markovian dynamics of the reservoir and the effects of the initial correlations are embedded into the time-dependent coefficients in the master equation. We show that the effects induced by the initial correlations play an important role in the non-Markovian dynamics of the cavity but they are washed out in the steady-state limit in the Markovian regime. Moreover, the initial two-photon correlation between the cavity and the reservoir can induce nontrivial squeezing dynamics to the cavity field.

id: 1012.4884
title: Critical behaviors and local transformation properties of wave function
authors: Jian Cui, Jun-Peng Cao, Heng Fan
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4884
abstract: We investigate crossing behavior of ground state entanglement Renyi entropies of quantum critical systems. We find a novel property that the ground state in one quantum phase cannot be locally transferred to that of another phase, that means a global transformation is necessary. This also provides a clear evidence to confirm the long standing expectation that entanglement Renyi entropy contains more information than entanglement von Neumann entropy. The method of studying crossing behavior of entanglement Renyi entropies can distinguish different quantum phases well. We also study the excited states which still give interesting results.

id: 1012.4903
title: Linking Quantum Discord to Entanglement in a Measurement
authors: Alexander Streltsov, Hermann Kampermann, Dagmar Bru?
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 160401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4903
abstract: We show that a von Neumann measurement on a part of a composite quantum system unavoidably creates distillable entanglement between the measurement apparatus and the system if the state has nonzero quantum discord. The minimal distillable entanglement is equal to the one-way information deficit. The quantum discord is shown to be equal to the minimal partial distillable entanglement that is the part of entanglement which is lost, when we ignore the subsystem which is not measured. We then show that any entanglement measure corresponds to some measure of quantum correlations. This powerful correspondence also yields necessary properties for quantum correlations. We generalize the results to multipartite measurements on a part of the system and on the total system.

id: 1012.4967
title: Atomic wave packet dynamics in finite time-dependent optical lattices
authors: T Lauber, P Massignan, G Birkl, A Sanpera
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44, 065301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4967
abstract: Atomic wave packets in optical lattices which are both spatially finite and time-dependent exhibit many striking similarities with light pulses in photonic crystals. We analytically characterize the transmission properties of such a potential geometry for an ideal gas in terms of a position-dependent band structure. In particular, we find that at specific energies, wave packets at the center of the finite lattice may be enclosed by pairs of band gaps. These act as mirrors between which the atomic wave packet is reflected, thereby effectively yielding a matter wave cavity. We show that long trapping times may be obtained in such a resonator and investigate the collapse and revival dynamics of the atomic wave packet by numerical evaluation of the Schr\"odinger equation.

id: 1012.4971
title: Patterns in Wigner-Weyl approach
authors: Antonina N. Fedorova, Michael G. Zeitlin
comments: LaTeX2e, w-art.cls, w-thm.sty, w-pamm.clo, 3 pages, 2 figures, presented at GAMM Meeting, 2006, Berlin, Germany
journal: Proc. Appl. Math. Mech. (PAMM), vol. 6, 627-628, Wiley-VCH, 2006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4971
abstract: We present a family of methods, which can describe behaviour of quantum ensembles and demonstrate the creation of nontrivial (meta) stable states (patterns), localized, chaotic, entangled or decoherent from basic localized modes in collective models arising from the quantum hierarchy of Wigner-von Neumann-Moyal equations.

id: 1012.5013
title: Noise-driven quantum criticality
authors: J. Eisert, T. Prosen
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5013
abstract: We discuss a notion of quantum critical exponents in open quantum many-body systems driven by quantum noise. We show that in translationally invariant quantum lattice models undergoing quasi-local Markovian dissipative processes, mixed states emerge as stationary points that show scaling laws for the divergence of correlation lengths giving rise to well-defined critical exponents. The main new technical tool developed here is a complete description of steady states of free bosonic or fermionic translationally invariant systems driven by quantum noise: This approach allows to express all correlation properties in terms of a symbol, paralleling the Fisher-Hartwig theory used for ground state properties of free models. We discuss critical exponents arising in bosonic and fermionic models. Finally, we relate the findings to recent work on dissipative preparation of pure dark and matrix product states by Markovian noisy processes and sketch further perspectives.

id: 1012.5016
title: High speed spatially multimode atomic memory
authors: T. Golubeva, Yu. Golubev, O. Mishina, A. Bramati, J. Laurat, E. Giacobino
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures, submitted to Phys.Rev.A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 053810 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5016
abstract: We study the coherent storage and retrieval of a very short multimode light pulse in an atomic ensemble. We consider a quantum memory process based on the conversion of a signal pulse into a long-lived spin coherence via light matter interaction in an on-resonant Lambda-type system. In order to study the writing and reading processes we analytically solve the partial differential equations describing the evolution of the field and of the atomic coherence in time as well as in space. We show how to optimize the process for writing as well as for reading. If the medium length is fixed, for each length, there is an optimal value of the pulse duration. We discuss the information capacity of this memory scheme and we estimate the number of transverse modes that can be stored as a quantum hologram.

id: 1012.5017
title: Dark states of single NV centers in diamond unraveled by single shot NMR
authors: G. Waldherr, J. Beck, M. Steiner, P. Neumann, A. Gali, Th. Frauenheim, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5017
abstract: The nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond is supposed to be a building block for quantum computing and nanometer scale metrology at ambient conditions. Therefore, precise knowledge of its quantum states is crucial. Here, we experimentally show that under usual operating conditions the NV exists in an equilibrium of two charge states (70% in the expected negative (NV-) and 30% in the neutral one (NV0)). Projective quantum non-demolition measurement of the nitrogen nuclear spin enables the detection even of the additional, optically inactive state. The nuclear spin can be coherently driven also in NV0 (T1 ~ 90 ms and T2 ~ 6 micro-s).

id: 1012.5021
title: Spectral decomposition of entangled photons with an arbitrary pump
authors: Alison M. Yao
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 053048
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5021
abstract: We calculate the bi-photon state generated by spontaneous parametric down conversion in a thin crystal and under collinear phase matching conditions using a pump consisting of any superposition of Laguerre-Gauss modes. The result has no restrictions on the angular or radial momenta or, in particular, on the width of the pump, signal and idler modes. We demonstrate the strong effect of the pump to signal/idler width ratio on the composition of the down-converted entangled fields. Knowledge of the pump to signal/idler width ratio is shown to be essential when calculating the maximally entangled states that can be produced using pumps with a complex spatial profile.

id: 1012.5039
title: Isotropic Entanglement
authors: Ramis Movassagh, Alan Edelman
comments: 51 pages, 27 figures, 8 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5039
abstract: The method of "Isotropic Entanglement" (IE), inspired by Free Probability Theory and Random Matrix Theory, predicts the eigenvalue distribution of quantum many-body (spin) systems with generic interactions. At the heart is a "Slider", which interpolates between two extrema by matching fourth moments. The first extreme treats the non-commuting terms classically and the second treats them isotropically. Isotropic means that the eigenvectors are in generic positions. We prove Matching Three Moments and Slider Theorems and further prove that the interpolation is universal, i.e., independent of the choice of local terms. Our examples show that IE provides an accurate picture well beyond what one expects from the first four moments alone.

id: 1012.5040
title: Quantumness of noisy quantum walks: a comparison between measurement-induced disturbance and quantum discord
authors: Balaji R. Rao, R. Srikanth, C. M. Chandrashekar, Subhashish Banerjee
comments: 5 pages with 4 figures, Published Version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 064302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5040
abstract: Noisy quantum walks are studied from the perspective of comparing their quantumness as defined by two popular measures, measurement-induced disturbance (MID) and quantum discord (QD). While the former has an operational definition, unlike the latter, it also tends to overestimate non-classicality because of a lack of optimization over local measurements. Applied to quantum walks, we find that MID, while acting as a loose upper bound on QD, still tends to reflect correctly the trends in the behavior of the latter. However, there are regimes where its behavior is not indicative of non-classicality: in particular, we find an instance where MID increases with the application of noise, where we expect a reduction of quantumness.

id: 1012.5043
title: Near-Optimal and Explicit Bell Inequality Violations
authors: Harry Buhrman, Oded Regev, Giannicola Scarpa, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 16 pages LaTeX. To appear in Proceedings of IEEE Complexity 2011. Supersedes arXiv:1007.2359
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5043
abstract: Bell inequality violations correspond to behavior of entangled quantum systems that cannot be simulated classically. We give two new two-player games with Bell inequality violations that are stronger, fully explicit, and arguably simpler than earlier work. The first game is based on the Hidden Matching problem of quantum communication complexity, introduced by Bar-Yossef, Jayram, and Kerenidis. This game can be won with probability~1 by a quantum strategy using a maximally entangled state with local dimension $n$ (e.g., $\log n$ EPR-pairs), while we show that the winning probability of any classical strategy differs from 1/2 by at most $O(\log n/\sqrt{n})$. The second game is based on the integrality gap for Unique Games by Khot and Vishnoi and the quantum rounding procedure of Kempe, Regev, and Toner. Here $n$-dimensional entanglement allows to win the game with probability $1/(\log n)^2$, while the best winning probability without entanglement is $1/n$. This near-linear ratio ("Bell inequality violation") is near-optimal, both in terms of the local dimension of the entangled state, and in terms of the number of possible outputs of the two players.

id: 1012.5056
title: New version of quantum mechanics at finite temperatures as a ground for description of nearly perfect fluids
authors: A.D. Sukhanov, O.N. Golubjeva
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5056
abstract: We suggest a more general than quantum statistical mechanics ($QSM$) microdescription of objects in a heat bath taken into account a vacuum as an object environment - modification of quantum mechanics at finite temperatures; we call it $(\hbar, k)$-dynamics ($ \hbar kD$). This approach allows us in a new manner to calculate some important macroparameters and to modify standard thermodynamics. We create an effective apparatus for features description of nearly perfect fluids in various mediums. As an essentially new model of an object environment we suppose a quantum heat bath and its properties, including cases of cold and warm vacuums, are studied. We describe the thermal equilibrium state in place of the traditional density operator in term of a wave function the amplitude and phase of which have temperature dependence. We introduce a new generative operator, Schroedingerian, or stochastic action operator, and show its fundamental role in the microdescription. We demonstrate that a new macroparameter, namely the effective action, can be obtained through averaging of the Schroedingerian over the temperature dependent wave function. It is established that such different parameters as internal energy, effective temperature, and effective entropy and their fluctuations can be expressed through a single quantity - the effective action.

id: 1012.5062
title: Reply to Comment on: Hawking radiation from ultrashort laser pulse filaments
authors: F. Belgiorno, S.L. Cacciatori, M. Clerici, V. Gorini, G. Ortenzi, L. Rizzi, E. Rubino, V.G. Sala, D. Faccio
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5062
abstract: A comment by R. Schutzhold et al. raises possible concerns and questions regarding recent measurements of analogue Hawking radiation. We briefly reply to the opinions expressed in the comment and sustain that the origin of the radiation may be understood in terms of Hawking emission.

id: 1012.5067
title: Non-Markovian Dynamics and Entanglement of Two-level Atoms in a Common Field
authors: C. H. Fleming, N. I. Cummings, Charis Anastopoulos, B. L. Hu
comments: 17 pages, 13 figures, v2 updated references, v3 clarified results and corrected renormalization, v4 further clarified results and new Fig. 8-10
journal: J. Phys. A. 45, 065301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5067
abstract: We derive the stochastic equations and consider the non-Markovian dynamics of a system of multiple two-level atoms in a common quantum field. We make only the dipole approximation for the atoms and assume weak atom-field interactions. From these assumptions we use a combination of non-secular open- and closed-system perturbation theory, and we abstain from any additional approximation schemes. These more accurate solutions are necessary to explore several regimes: in particular, near-resonance dynamics and low-temperature behavior. In detuned atomic systems, small variations in the system energy levels engender timescales which, in general, cannot be safely ignored, as would be the case in the rotating-wave approximation (RWA). More problematic are the second-order solutions, which, as has been recently pointed out, cannot be accurately calculated using any second-order perturbative master equation, whether RWA, Born-Markov, Redfield, etc.. This latter problem, which applies to all perturbative open-system master equations, has a profound effect upon calculation of entanglement at low temperatures. We find that even at zero temperature all initial states will undergo finite-time disentanglement (sometimes termed "sudden death"), in contrast to previous work. We also use our solution, without invoking RWA, to characterize the necessary conditions for Dickie subradiance at finite temperature. We find that the subradiant states fall into two categories at finite temperature: one that is temperature independent and one that acquires temperature dependence. With the RWA there is no temperature dependence in any case.

id: 1012.5141
title: Quantum Strategic Game Theory
authors: Shengyu Zhang
comments: 38 pages. Presented in QIP 2011. v2: more on background, our model and related work; a conjecture added; discussion added for CE generation with untrusted local operations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5141
abstract: We propose a simple yet rich model to extend the notions of Nash equilibria and correlated equilibria of strategic games to the quantum setting, in which we then study the relations between classical and quantum equilibria. Unlike the previous work that focus on qualitative questions on specific games of small sizes, we address the following fundamental and quantitative question for general games: How much "advantage" can playing quantum strategies provide, if any? Two measures of the advantage are studied, summarized as follows. 1. A natural measure is the increase of payoff. We consider natural mappings between classical and quantum states, and study how well those mappings preserve the equilibrium properties. Among other results, we exhibit correlated equilibrium $p$ whose quantum superposition counterpart $\sum_s \sqrt{p(s)}\ket{s}$ is far from being a quantum correlated equilibrium; actually a player can increase her payoff from almost 0 to almost 1 in a [0,1]-normalized game. We achieve this by a tensor product construction on carefully designed base cases. 2. For studying the hardness of generating correlated equilibria, we propose to examine \emph{correlation complexity}, a new complexity measure for correlation generation. We show that there are $n$-bit correlated equilibria which can be generated by only one EPR pair followed by local operation (without communication), but need at least $\log(n)$ classical shared random bits plus communication. The randomized lower bound can be improved to $n$, the best possible, assuming (even a much weaker version of) a recent conjecture in linear algebra. We believe that the correlation complexity, as a complexity-theoretical counterpart of the celebrated Bell's inequality, has independent interest in both physics and computational complexity theory and deserves more explorations.

id: 1012.5162
title: Separable states to distribute entanglement
authors: Jeonghoon Park, Soojoon Lee
comments: 4 pages, no figures, Revised argument
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 51 (2012) 1100-1110
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5162
abstract: It was shown that two distant particles can be entangled by sending a third particle never entangled with the other two [T. S. Cubitt et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 037902 (2003)]. In this paper, we investigate a class of three-qubit separable states to distribute entanglement by the same way, and calculate the maximal amount of entanglement which two particles of separable states in the class can have after applying the way.

id: 1012.5183
title: Casimir-Lifshitz force out of thermal equilibrium and heat transfer between arbitrary bodies
authors: Riccardo Messina, Mauro Antezza
comments: New longer version of the paper. 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 95, 61002 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5183
abstract: We study the Casimir-Lifshitz force and the radiative heat transfer occurring between two arbitrary bodies, each one held at a given temperature, surrounded by environmental radiation at a third temperature. The system, in stationary configuration out of thermal equilibrium, is characterized by a force and a heat transfer depending on the three temperatures, and explicitly expressed in terms of the scattering operators of each body. We find a closed-form analytic expression valid for bodies of any geometry and dielectric properties. As an example, the force between two parallel slabs of finite thickness is calculated, showing the importance of the environmental temperature as well as the occurrence of a repulsive interaction. An analytic expression is also provided for the force acting on an atom in front of a slab. Our predictions can be relevant for experimental and technological purposes.

id: 1012.5249
title: Quantum public-key cryptosystems based on induced trapdoor one-way transformations
authors: Li Yang, Min Liang, Bao Li, Lei Hu, Deng-Guo Feng
comments: 26 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5249
abstract: A concept named induced trapdoor one-way quantum transformation (OWQT) has been introduced, and a theoretical framework of public-key encryption (PKE) of quantum message is presented based on it. Then several kinds of quantum public-key encryption (QPKE) protocols, such as quantum version PKE of RSA, ElGamal, Goldwasser-Micali, elliptic curve, McEliece, Niederreiter and Okamoto-Tanaka-Uchiyama, are given within this framework. Though all of these protocols are only computationally secure, the last three are probably secure in post-quantum era. Besides, theoretical frameworks for public-key authentication and signature of quantum message are also given based on the induced trapdoor OWQT. As examples, a public-key authentication protocol of quantum message based on SN-S authentication scheme and two quantum digital signature protocols based on RSA and McEliece algorithms respectively are presented.

id: 1012.5256
title: Symmetry Principles in Quantum Systems Theory
authors: Robert Zeier, T. Schulte-Herbrueggen
comments: For complete table with all irreducible simple subalgebras of su(N) [N up to 2^15] download ancillary file; v2: further results on spin chains with limited local control, minor corrections, and updated references; v3: minor amendments in Sec. 10.6, Appendix C more reader-friendly (see C.3, C.4), electronic supplement list corrected in 2 cases (dim=560, 4928) out of 32768 instances
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 113510 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5256
abstract: General dynamic properties like controllability and simulability of spin systems, fermionic and bosonic systems are investigated in terms of symmetry. Symmetries may be due to the interaction topology or due to the structure and representation of the system and control Hamiltonians. In either case, they obviously entail constants of motion. Conversely, the absence of symmetry implies irreducibility and provides a convenient necessary condition for full controllability much easier to assess than the well-established Lie-algebra rank condition. We give a complete lattice of irreducible simple subalgebras of su(2^n) for up to n=15 qubits. It complements the symmetry condition by allowing for easy tests solving homogeneous linear equations to filter irreducible unitary representations of other candidate algebras of classical type as well as of exceptional types. --- The lattice of irreducible simple subalgebras given also determines mutual simulability of dynamic systems of spin or fermionic or bosonic nature. We illustrate how controlled quadratic fermionic (and bosonic) systems can be simulated by spin systems and in certain cases also vice versa.

id: 1012.5293
title: Phase Estimation with Non-Unitary Interferometers: Information as a Metric
authors: Thomas B. Bahder
comments: 16 pages, 13 figures. Replacement text contains small changes. Figure 5 replaced due to printing problem
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5293
abstract: Determining the phase in one arm of a quantum interferometer is discussed taking into account the three non-ideal aspects in real experiments: non-deterministic state preparation, non-unitary state evolution due to losses during state propagation, and imperfect state detection. A general expression is written for the probability of a measurement outcome taking into account these three non-ideal aspects. As an example of applying the formalism, the classical Fisher information and fidelity (Shannon mutual information between phase and measurements) are computed for few-photon Fock and N00N states input into a lossy Mach-Zehnder interferometer. These three non-ideal aspects lead to qualitative differences in phase estimation, such as a decrease in fidelity and Fisher information that depends on the true value of the phase.

id: 1012.5321
title: On Quantum Coherence Effects in Photo and Solar Cells
authors: Kimberly Chapin, Konstantin Dorfman, Anatoly Svidzinsky, Marlan Scully
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5321
abstract: We show that quantum coherence can increase the quantum efficiency of various thermodynamic systems. For example, we can enhance the quantum efficiency for a quantum dot photocell, a laser based solar cell and the photo-Carnot quantum heat engine. Our results are fully consistent with the laws of thermodynamics contrary to comments found in the paper of A.P. Kirk, Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 048703 (2011).

id: 1012.5355
title: A general comparison theorem
authors: Claude Semay
comments: Presentation improved, results unchanged. Version to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 024101 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5355
abstract: Using the Hellmann-Feynman theorem, a general comparison theorem is established for an eigenvalue equation of the form $(T+V)|\psi> = E|\psi>$, where $T$ is a kinetic part which depends only on momentums and $V$ is a potential which depends only on positions. We assume that $H^{(1)}=T+V^{(1)}$ and $H^{(2)}=T+V^{(2)}$ ($H^{(1)}=T^{(1)}+V$ and $H^{(2)}=T^{(2)}+V$) support both discrete eigenvalues $E^{(1)}_{\{\alpha\}}$ and $E^{(2)}_{\{\alpha\}}$, where ${\{\alpha\}}$ represents a set of quantum numbers. We prove that, if $V^{(1)} \le V^{(2)}$ ($T^{(1)} \le T^{(2)}$) for all position (momentum) variables, then the corresponding eigenvalues are ordered $E^{(1)}_{\{\alpha\}} \le E^{(2)}_{\{\alpha\}}$. Some analytical applications are given.

id: 1012.5356
title: Some general properties of unified entropies
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 11 pages, no figures. Minor grammatical changes are made. To appear in J. Stat. Phys
journal: J. Stat. Phys. 143, 1120-1135 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5356
abstract: Basic properties of the unified entropies are examined. The consideration is mainly restricted to the finite-dimensional quantum case. Bounds in terms of ensembles of quantum states are given. Both the continuity in Fannes' sense and stability in Lesche's sense are shown for wide ranges of parameters. In particular, uniform estimates are obtained for the quantum R\'{e}nyi entropies. Stability properties in the thermodynamic limit are discussed as well. It is shown that the unified entropies enjoy both the subadditivity and triangle inequality for a certain range of parameters. Non-decreasing of all the unified entropies under projective measurement is proved.

id: 1012.5361
title: Physical Equivalence of Pure States and Derivation of Qubit in General Probabilistic Theories
authors: Gen Kimura, Koji Nuida, Hideki Imai
comments: 13 pages; in v2, we added the information of our paper arXiv:1012.5350
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5361
abstract: In this paper, we investigate a characterization of Quantum Mechanics by two physical principles based on general probabilistic theories. We first give the operationally motivated definition of the physical equivalence of states and consider the principle of the physical equivalence of pure states, which turns out to be equivalent to the symmetric structure of the state space. We further consider another principle of the decomposability with distinguishable pure states. We give classification theorems of the state spaces for each principle, and derive the Bloch ball in 2 and 3 dimensional systems by these principles.

id: 1012.5404
title: Cross Kerr Effect Induced by Coupled Josephson Qubits in Circuit Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Yong Hu, Guo-Qin Ge, Shi Chen, Xiao-Fei Yang, You-Ling Chen
comments: Submitted. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5404
abstract: We propose a scheme for implementing cross Kerr nonlinearity between two superconducting transmission line resonators (TLR) via their interaction with a coupler which is constructed by two superconducting charge qubits connected to each other via a superconducting quantum interference device. When suitably driven, the coupler can induce very strong cross phase modulation (XPM) between the two TLRs due to its N-type level structure and the consequent electromagnetically induced transparency in its lowest states. The flexibility of our design can lead to various inter-TLR coupling configurations. The obtained cross Kerr coefficient is large enough to allow many important quantum operations in which only few photons are involved. We further show that this scheme is very robust against the fluctuations in solid state circuits. Our numerical calculations imply that the absorption and dispersion resulted from the decoherence of the coupler are very small compared with the strength of the proposed XPM.

id: 1012.5429
title: Adiabatic passage and ensemble control of quantum systems
authors: Zaki Leghtas, Alain Sarlette, Pierre Rouchon
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 154017 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5429
abstract: This paper considers population transfer between eigenstates of a finite quantum ladder controlled by a classical electric field. Using an appropriate change of variables, we show that this setting can be set in the framework of adiabatic passage, which is known to facilitate ensemble control of quantum systems. Building on this insight, we present a mathematical proof of robustness for a control protocol -- chirped pulse -- practiced by experimentalists to drive an ensemble of quantum systems from the ground state to the most excited state. We then propose new adiabatic control protocols using a single chirped and amplitude shaped pulse, to robustly perform any permutation of eigenstate populations, on an ensemble of systems with badly known coupling strengths. Such adiabatic control protocols are illustrated by simulations achieving all 24 permutations for a 4-level ladder.

id: 1012.5432
title: Towards Topological Quantum Computation? - Knotting and Fusing Flux Tubes
authors: Meagan B. Thompson
comments: minor edits, results unchanged
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5432
abstract: Models for topological quantum computation are based on braiding and fusing anyons (quasiparticles of fractional statistics) in (2+1)-D. The anyons that can exist in a physical theory are determined by the symmetry group of the Hamiltonian. In the case that the Hamiltonian undergoes spontaneous symmetry breaking of the full symmetry group G to a finite residual gauge group H, particles are given by representations of the quantum double $D(H)$ of the subgroup. The quasi-triangular Hopf Algebra D(H) is obtained from Drinfeld's quantum double construction applied to the algebra F(H) of functions on the finite group H. A major new contribution of this work is a program written in MAGMA to compute the particles (and their properties - including spin) that can exist in a system with an arbitrary finite residual gauge group, in addition to the braiding and fusion rules for those particles. We compute explicitly the fusion rules for two non-abelian group doubles suggested for universal quantum computation: $S_3$ and $A_5$, and discover some interesting results, subsystems, and symmetries in the tables. SO(3)_4 (the restriction of Chern-Simons theory $SU(2)_4$) and its mirror image are discovered as 3-particle subsystems in the 8-particle $S_3$ quantum double. The tables demonstrate that both $S_3$ and $A_5$ anyons are all Majorana, but this is not the case for all finite groups. In the appendices, the quantum doubles for the remaining nonabelian subgroups of SO(3) - $S_4$, $A_4$, and $D_4$ (the second in the infinite family $D_n$) - are tabulated and analyzed. In addition, the probabilities of obtaining any given fusion product in quantum computation applications are determined and programmed in MAGMA. Throughout, connections to possible experiments are mentioned.

id: 1012.5433
title: Sub-Doppler Laser Cooling of Thulium Atoms in a Magneto-optical Trap
authors: D. Sukachev, A. Sokolov, K. Chebakov, A. Akimov, S. Kanorsky, N. Kolachevsky, V. Sorokin
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Journal of Experimental and Theoretical Physics Letters, 2010, 92:10, 703--706
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5433
abstract: We have experimentally studied sub-Doppler laser cooling in a magneto-optical trap for thulium atoms working at the wavelength of 410.6\,nm. Without any dedicated molasses period of sub-Doppler cooling, the cloud of $3\times 10^6$ atoms at the temperature of 25(5)\,$\mu$K was observed. The measured temperature is significantly lower than the Doppler limit of 240$\mu$K for the cooling transition at 410.6\,nm. High efficiency of the sub-Doppler cooling process is due to a near-degeneracy of the Land\'e-$g$ factors of the lower $4f^{13}6s^{2}\, (J\,=\,{7}/{2})$ and the upper $4f^{12}5d_{3/2}6s^{2}\, (J\,=\,{9}/{2})$ cooling levels.}

id: 1012.5478
title: Magnetic Properties and Thermal Entanglement on a Triangulated Kagome Lattice
authors: N. S. Ananikian, L. N. Ananikyan, L. A. Chakhmakhchyan, A. N. Kocharian
comments: 21 pages, 13 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 025001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5478
abstract: The magnetic and entanglement thermal (equilibrium) properties in spin-1/2 Ising-Heisenberg model on a triangulated Kagome lattice are analyzed by means of variational mean-field like treatment based on Gibbs-Bogoliubov inequality. Because of the separable character of Ising-type exchange interactions between the Heisenberg trimers the calculation of quantum entanglement in a self-consistent field can be performed for each of the trimers individually. The concurrence in terms of three qubit isotropic Heisenberg model in effective Ising field is non-zero even in the absence of a magnetic field. The magnetic and entanglement properties exhibit common (plateau and peak) features observable via (antferromagnetic) coupling constant and external magnetic field. The critical temperature for the phase transition and threshold temperature for concurrence coincide in the case of antiferromagnetic coupling between qubits. The existence of entangled and disentangled phases in saturated and frustrated phases is established.

id: 1012.5509
title: From Zeno to anti-Zeno: decoherence-control dependence on the quantum statistics of the bath
authors: D. D. Bhaktavatsala Rao, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 2 figures (submitted)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032105 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5509
abstract: We demonstrate through exact solutions that a spin bath leads to stronger (faster) dephasing of a qubit than a bosonic bath with identical bath-coupling spectrum. This difference is due to the spin-bath "dressing" by the coupling. Consequently, the quantum statistics of the bath strongly affects the pulse sequences required to dynamically decouple the qubit from its bath.

id: 1012.5570
title: Probabilistic Secret Sharing Through Noisy Quantum Channels
authors: Satyabrata Adhikari, Indranil Chakrabarty, Pankaj Agrawal
comments: 5 pages, 2 tables, 2 figures, Accepted for Publication in Quantum Information and Computation
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, 12, 0253 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5570
abstract: In a realistic situation, the secret sharing of classical or quantum information will involve the transmission of this information through noisy channels. We consider a three qubit pure state. This state becomes a mixed-state when the qubits are distributed over noisy channels. We focus on a specific noisy channel, the phase-damping channel. We propose a protocol for secret sharing of classical information with this and related noisy channels. This protocol can also be thought of as cooperative superdense coding. We also discuss other noisy channels to examine the possibility of secret sharing of classical information.

id: 1012.5584
title: Efficient decoherence-free entanglement distribution over lossy quantum channels
authors: Rikizo Ikuta, Yohei Ono, Toshiyuki Tashima, Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 5pages, 5figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 110503 (2011) [4 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5584
abstract: We propose and demonstrate a scheme for boosting up the efficiency of entanglement distribution based on a decoherence-free subspace (DFS) over lossy quantum channels. By using backward propagation of a coherent light, our scheme achieves an entanglement-sharing rate that is proportional to the transmittance T of the quantum channel in spite of encoding qubits in multipartite systems for the DFS. We experimentally show that highly entangled states, which can violate the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality, are distributed at a rate proportional to T.

id: 1012.5603
title: The gravitational analog of the Aharonov-Bohm electric effect
authors: Doron M. Ludwin
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5603
abstract: The electric Aharonov-Bohm effect is a special case of the general Ab effect. However, when inserting a gravitational potential in the place of the time dependent potential, a different understanding of the phase shift could be gained. The usual topological phase is replaced by a phase with origin in the red shift of the particle at one of the paths taken relative to the other path. In this case, the change in the geometrical measure is the source of the phase shift, which therefore has a local interpretation along with the non-local topological explanation.

id: 1012.5616
title: Continuous-variable teleportation of a negative Wigner function
authors: Ladislav Mi?ta, Jr., Radim Filip, Akira Furusawa
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 012322 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5616
abstract: Teleportation is a basic primitive for quantum communication and quantum computing. We address the problem of continuous-variable (unconditional and conditional) teleportation of a pure single-photon state and a mixed attenuated single-photon state generally in a nonunity gain regime. Our figure of merit is the maximum of negativity of the Wigner function that witnesses highly non-classical feature of the teleported state. We find that negativity of the Wigner function of the single-photon state can be {\em unconditionally} teleported for arbitrarily weak squeezed state used to create the entangled state shared in the teleportation. In contrast, for the attenuated single-photon state there is a strict threshold squeezing one has to surpass in order to successfully teleport the negativity of its Wigner function. The {\em conditional} teleportation allows to approach perfect transmission of the single photon for an arbitrarily low squeezing at a cost of a success rate. On the other hand, for the attenuated single photon conditional teleportation cannot overcome the squeezing threshold of the unconditional teleportation and it approaches negativity of the input state only if the squeezing simultaneously increases. However, as soon as the threshold squeezing is surpassed the conditional teleportation still pronouncedly outperforms the unconditional one. The main consequences for quantum communication and quantum computing with continuous variables are discussed.

id: 1012.5629
title: Two-Dimensional Quantum Search Algorithm
authors: Arti Chamoli, Samina S. Masood
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5629
abstract: Quantum mechanical search induces polynomial speed up in an unsorted database search process. In case of classical linear search the computational time increases with the dimensionality of the query. However, quantum parallelism, inherent to quantum systems, does not let multi-dimensional query processing affect the computational time of the quantum search algorithm. In this letter, a two-dimensional search process has been proposed. It has been shown that a two-dimensional search process can be accomplished without increasing the computational time due to implicit quantum parallelism

id: 1012.5632
title: Quantum dynamics of a vibrational mode of a membrane within an optical cavity
authors: M. Karuza, C. Biancofiore, M. Galassi, R. Natali, G. Di Giuseppe, P. Tombesi, D. Vitali
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures. Work presented at the conference QCMC 2010 held on 19-23 July 2010 at the University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5632
abstract: Optomechanical systems are a promising candidate for the implementation of quantum interfaces for storing and redistributing quantum information. Here we focus on the case of a high-finesse optical cavity with a thin vibrating semitransparent membrane in the middle. We show that robust and stationary optomechanical entanglement could be achieved in the system, even in the presence of nonnegligible optical absorption in the membrane. We also present some preliminary experimental data showing radiation-pressure induced optical bistability.

id: 1012.5640
title: Joint measurements and Svetlichny's inequality
authors: Yang Xiang, Wei Ren
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 325305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5640
abstract: We prove that the Svetlichny's inequality can be derived from the existence of joint measurements and the principle of no-signaling. Then we show that, on the basis of quantum measurement assumption, it would imply the breach of causality if the magnitude of violation of Svetlichny's inequality exceeds quantum bound.

id: 1012.5675
title: Long-distance practical quantum key distribution by entanglement swapping
authors: Artur Scherer, Barry C. Sanders, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures; published in Optics Express
journal: Opt. Express 19, 3004-3018 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5675
abstract: We develop a model for practical, entanglement-based long-distance quantum key distribution employing entanglement swapping as a key building block. Relying only on existing off-the-shelf technology, we show how to optimize resources so as to maximize secret key distribution rates. The tools comprise lossy transmission links, such as telecom optical fibers or free space, parametric down-conversion sources of entangled photon pairs, and threshold detectors that are inefficient and have dark counts. Our analysis provides the optimal trade-off between detector efficiency and dark counts, which are usually competing, as well as the optimal source brightness that maximizes the secret key rate for specified distances (i.e. loss) between sender and receiver.

id: 1012.5699
title: Interactive proofs with efficient quantum prover for recursive Fourier sampling
authors: Matthew McKague
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5699
abstract: We consider the recursive Fourier sampling problem (RFS), and show that there exists an interactive proof for RFS with an efficient classical verifier and efficient quantum prover.

id: 1012.5714
title: Frequency-doubled scattering of symmetry-breaking surface-state electrons on liquid Helium
authors: Miao Zhang, Wenzhi Jia, Lianfu Wei
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5714
abstract: Any systems with symmetry-breaking eigenstates can effectively radiate photons with doubled frequency of the incident light, which is known as the second harmonic generation. Here, we study the second-order nonlinear effects with the system of surface-state electrons on liquid Helium. Due to the symmetry-breaking eigenstates, we show that a Rabi oscillation between two levels of the surface-state electrons can be realized beyond the usual resonant driving. Consequently, an electromagnetic field with the doubled frequency of the applied driving could be effectively radiated. This can be regarded as a frequency-doubled fluorescence, and interestingly, it works in the unusual Terahertz range.

id: 1012.5718
title: Limitation for linear maps in a class for detection and quantification of bipartite nonclassical correlation
authors: Akira SaiToh, Robabeh Rahimi, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 10 pages, no figure, v1: 6 pages, v2: 13 pages, minor revision, style changed, proofs in Section 4 changed, v3: minor revision, Remark 2 added, to appear in QIC
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 12, 0944-0952 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5718
abstract: Eigenvalue-preserving-but-not-completely-eigenvalue-preserving (EnCE) maps were previously introduced for the purpose of detection and quantification of nonclassical correlation, employing the paradigm where nonvanishing quantum discord implies the existence of nonclassical correlation. It is known that only the matrix transposition is nontrivial among Hermiticity-preserving (HP) linear EnCE maps when we use the changes in the eigenvalues of a density matrix due to a partial map for the purpose. In this paper, we prove that this is true even among not-necessarily HP (nnHP) linear EnCE maps. The proof utilizes a conventional theorem on linear preservers. This result imposes a strong limitation on the linear maps and promotes the importance of nonlinear maps.

id: 1012.5738
title: Double pass quantum volume hologram
authors: Denis V. Vasilyev, Ivan V. Sokolov
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 053851 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5738
abstract: We propose a new scheme for parallel spatially multimode quantum memory for light. The scheme is based on the propagating in different directions quantum signal wave and strong classical reference wave, like in a classical volume hologram and the previously proposed quantum volume hologram [Phys. Rev. A 81, 020302(R)(2010)]. The medium for the hologram consists of a spatially extended ensemble of cold spin-polarized atoms. In absence of the collective spin rotation during the interaction, two passes of light for both storage and retrieval are required, and therefore the present scheme can be called a double pass quantum volume hologram. The scheme is less sensitive to diffraction and therefore is capable of achieving higher density of storage of spatial modes as compared to the thin quantum hologram of [Phys. Rev. A 77, 020302(R)(2008)], which also requires two passes of light for both storage and retrieval. On the other hand, the present scheme allows to achieve a good memory performance with a lower optical depth of the atomic sample as compared to the quantum volume hologram. A quantum hologram capable of storing entangled images can become an important ingredient in quantum information processing and quantum imaging.

id: 1012.5764
title: Simulation of the spin-boson model with superconducting phase qubit coupled to a transmission line
authors: Long-Bao Yu, Ning-Hua Tong, Zheng-Yuan Xue, Z. D. Wang, Shi-Liang Zhu
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5764
abstract: Based on the rapid experimental developments of circuit QED, we propose a feasible scheme to simulate a spin-boson model with the superconducting circuits, which can be used to detect quantum Kosterlitz-Thouless (KT) phase transition. We design the spin-boson model by using a superconducting phase qubit coupled with a semi-infinite transmission line, which is regarded as bosonic reservoir with a continuum spectrum. By tuning the bias current or the coupling capacitance, the quantum KT transition can be directly detected through tomography measurement on the states of the phase qubit. We also estimate the experimental parameters using numerical renormalization group method.

id: 1012.5779
title: Optical bistability in artificial composite nanoscale molecules: Towards all optical processing at the nanoscale
authors: A. V. Malyshev, V. A. Malyshev
comments: 2 pages, three figures, Proceedings of 18th International Symposium "Nanostructures: Physics and Technology," St. Petersburg, Russia, June 21-26, 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5779
abstract: Optical response of artificial composite nanoscale molecules comprising a closely spaced noble metal nanoparticle and a semiconductor quantum dot have been studied theoretically. We consider a system composed of an Au particle and CdSe or CdSe/ZnSe quantum dot and predict optical bistability and hysteresis in its response, which suggests various applications, in particular, all-optical processing and optical memory.

id: 1012.5787
title: Interaction-based quantum metrology showing scaling beyond the Heisenberg limit
authors: M. Napolitano, M. Koschorreck, B. Dubost, N. Behbood, R. J. Sewell, M. W. Mitchell
comments: 
journal: Nature 471, 486-489 (24 March 2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5787
abstract: Quantum metrology studies the use of entanglement and other quantum resources to improve precision measurement. An interferometer using N independent particles to measure a parameter X can achieve at best the "standard quantum limit" (SQL) of sensitivity {\delta}X \propto N^{-1/2}. The same interferometer using N entangled particles can achieve in principle the "Heisenberg limit" {\delta}X \propto N^{-1}, using exotic states. Recent theoretical work argues that interactions among particles may be a valuable resource for quantum metrology, allowing scaling beyond the Heisenberg limit. Specifically, a k-particle interaction will produce sensitivity {\delta}X \propto N^{-k} with appropriate entangled states and {\delta}X \propto N^{-(k-1/2)} even without entanglement. Here we demonstrate this "super-Heisenberg" scaling in a nonlinear, non-destructive measurement of the magnetisation of an atomic ensemble. We use fast optical nonlinearities to generate a pairwise photon-photon interaction (k = 2) while preserving quantum-noise-limited performance, to produce {\delta}X \propto N^{-3/2}. We observe super-Heisenberg scaling over two orders of magnitude in N, limited at large N by higher-order nonlinear effects, in good agreement with theory. For a measurement of limited duration, super-Heisenberg scaling allows the nonlinear measurement to overtake in sensitivity a comparable linear measurement with the same number of photons. In other scenarios, however, higher-order nonlinearities prevent this crossover from occurring, reflecting the subtle relationship of scaling to sensitivity in nonlinear systems. This work shows that inter-particle interactions can improve sensitivity in a quantum-limited measurement, and introduces a fundamentally new resource for quantum metrology.

id: 1012.5810
title: Nonlocality and quantum mechanics
authors: Saverio Pascazio
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5810
abstract: A class of nonlocal hidden variable theories is shown to be incompatible with quantum mechanics.

id: 1012.5828
title: Quantum mechanical calculation of spectral statistics of modified Kepler problem
authors: Tao Ma, Rostislav Serota
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5828
abstract: Discrepancy between periodic orbit theory and numerical calculation of a modified Kepler problem is cleared by a quantum mechanical calculation. The diagonal approximation already gives a good fit for the numerical calculation. A better result yet is gained by considering the coherent interference between the classical periodic orbits and the Balian-Bloch term. This approach produces improved results for the rectangular billiards as well.

id: 1012.5830
title: Photon echo without a free induction decay in a double-Lambda system
authors: Sarah E. Beavan, Patrick M. Ledingham, Jevon J. Longdell, Matthew J. Sellars
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5830
abstract: We have characterized a novel photon-echo pulse sequence for a double-$\Lambda$ type energy level system where the input and rephasing transitions are different to the applied $\pi$-pulses. We show that despite having imperfect $\pi$-pulses (associated with large coherent emission due to free induction decay), the noise added is only 0.019$\pm$0.001 relative to the shot noise in the spectral mode of the echo. Using this echo pulse sequence in the `rephased amplified spontaneous emission' (RASE) scheme \cite{Ledingham2010} will allow for generation of entangled photon pairs that are in different frequency, temporal, and potentially spatial modes to any bright driving fields. The coherence and efficiency properties of this sequence were characterized in a Pr:YSO crystal.

id: 1012.5849
title: Level Repulsion in Integrable Systems
authors: Tao Ma, R. A. Serota
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5849
abstract: Contrary to conventional wisdom, level repulsion in semiclassical spectrum is not just a feature of classically chaotic systems, but classically integrable systems as well. While in chaotic systems level repulsion develops on a scale of the mean level spacing, regardless of location in the spectrum, in integrable systems it develops on a much longer scale - geometric mean of the mean level spacing and the running energy in the spectrum. We show that at this scale level correlations in integrable systems have a universal dependence on level separation, as well as discuss their exact form at any scale. These correlations have dramatic consequences, including deviations from Poissonian statistics in the nearest level spacing distribution and persistent oscillations of level number variance as a function of the interval width. We illustrate our findings on two models - a rectangular infinite well and a modified Kepler problem - that serve as generic types of hard-wall billiards and potential problems. Our theory is based on the concept of parametric averaging, which allows for a statistical ensemble of integrable systems at a given spectral location (running energy).

id: 1012.5868
title: Concentrating Energy by Measurement
authors: Almut Beige, Antonio Capolupo, Andreas Kurcz, Emilio Del Giudice, Giuseppe Vitiello
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1446, 353 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5868
abstract: In a recent article [A. Kurcz et al., Phys. Rev. A 81, 063821 (2010)] we predicted an energy concentrating mechanism in composite quantum systems. Its result is a non-zero stationary state photon emission rate even in the absence of external driving. Here we discuss the possible origin of the predicted effect. We attribute it to the presence of a non-trivial interaction between different system components and to repeated environment-induced photon measurements.

id: 1012.5872
title: Coherent-state optical qudit cluster state generation and teleportation via homodyne detection
authors: Jaewan Kim, Juhui Lee, Se-Wan Ji, Hyunchul Nha, Petr M. Anisimov, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5872
abstract: Defining a computational basis of pseudo-number states, we interpret a coherent state of large amplitude, $|\alpha|\gg\frac{d}{2\pi}$, as a qudit --- a $d$-level quantum system --- in a state that is an even superposition of $d$ pseudo-number states. A pair of such coherent-state qudits can be prepared in maximally entangled state by generalized Controlled-$Z$ operation that is based on cross-Kerr nonlinearity, which can be weak for large $d$. Hence, a coherent-state optical qudit cluster state can be prepared by repetitive application of the generalized Controlled-$Z$ operation to a set of coherent states. We thus propose an optical qudit teleportation as a simple demonstration of cluster state quantum computation.

id: 1012.5910
title: Concrete Foundations for Categorical Quantum Physics
authors: Daniel Lehmann
comments: 77 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5910
abstract: An original presentation of Categorical Quantum Physics, in the line of Abramsky and Coecke, tries to introduce only objects and assumptions that are clearly relevant to Physics and does not assume compact closure. Adjoint arrows, tensor products and biproducts are the ingredients of this presentation. Tensor products are defined, up to a unitary arrow, by a universal property related to transformations of composite systems, not by assuming a monoidal structure. Entangled states of a tensor product define mixed states on the components of the tensor product. Coproducts that fit the adjoint structure are shown to be defined up to a unitary arrow and to provide biproducts. An abstract no-cloning result is proved.

id: 1012.5926
title: Long-range quantum discord in critical spin systems
authors: J. Maziero, L. C. C¨¦leri, R. M. Serra, M. S. Sarandy
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 376, 1540 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5926
abstract: We show that quantum correlations as quantified by quantum discord can characterize quantum phase transitions by exhibiting nontrivial long-range decay as a function of distance in spin systems. This is rather different from the behavior of pairwise entanglement, which is typically short-ranged even in critical systems. In particular, we find a clear change in the decay rate of quantum discord as the system crosses a quantum critical point. We illustrate this phenomenon for first-order, second-order, and infinite-order quantum phase transitions, indicating that pairwise quantum discord is an appealing quantum correlation function for condensed matter systems.

id: 1012.5965
title: On the classical capacity of quantum Gaussian channels
authors: Cosmo Lupo, Stefano Pirandola, Paolo Aniello, Stefano Mancini
comments: 10 pages, IOP style. v2: minor corrections, close to the published version
journal: Phys. Scr. T 143 (2011) 014016
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5965
abstract: The set of quantum Gaussian channels acting on one bosonic mode can be classified according to the action of the group of Gaussian unitaries. We look for bounds on the classical capacity for channels belonging to such a classification. Lower bounds can be efficiently calculated by restricting to Gaussian encodings, for which we provide analytical expressions.

id: 1012.6011
title: Atom Optics Quantum Pendulum
authors: Muhammad Ayub, Khalid Naseer, Manzoor Ali, Farhan Saif
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research Volume 30, Number 3, 205-223 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.6011
abstract: We explain the dynamics of cold atoms, initially trapped and cooled in a magneto-optic trap, in a monochromatic stationary standing electromagnetic wave field. In the large detuning limit the system is modeled as a nonlinear quantum pendulum. We show that wave packet evolution of the quantum particle probes parametric regimes in the quantum pendulum which support classical period, quantum mechanical revival and super revival phenomena. Interestingly, complete reconstruction in particular parametric regime at quantum revival times is independent of potential height.

id: 1012.6044
title: One-shot decoupling
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Dupuis, Mario Berta, J¨¹rg Wullschleger, Renato Renner
comments: v2: improved converse theorem, v3: published version
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 328, 251 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.6044
abstract: If a quantum system A, which is initially correlated to another system, E, undergoes an evolution separated from E, then the correlation to E generally decreases. Here, we study the conditions under which the correlation disappears (almost) completely, resulting in a decoupling of A from E. We give a criterion for decoupling in terms of two smooth entropies, one quantifying the amount of initial correlation between A and E, and the other characterizing the mapping that describes the evolution of A. The criterion applies to arbitrary such mappings in the general one-shot setting. Furthermore, the criterion is tight for mappings that satisfy certain natural conditions. Decoupling has a number of applications both in physics and information theory, e.g., as a building block for quantum information processing protocols. As an example, we give a one-shot state merging protocol and show that it is essentially optimal in terms of its entanglement consumption/production.

id: 1012.6045
title: Unitary and Non-Unitary Matrices as a Source of Different Bases of Operators Acting on Hilbert Spaces
authors: S. N. Filippov, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure, 1 table, to appear in Journal of Russian Laser Research
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research 32 (2011) 56-67
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.6045
abstract: Columns of d^2 x N matrices are shown to create different sets of N operators acting on $d$-dimensional Hilbert space. This construction corresponds to a formalism of the star-product of operator symbols. The known bases are shown to be partial cases of generic formulas derived by using d^2 x N matrices as a source for constructing arbitrary bases. The known examples of the SIC-POVM, MUBs, and the phase-space description of qubit states are considered from the viewpoint of the developed unified approach. Star-product schemes are classified with respect to associated d^2 x N matrices. In particular, unitary matrices correspond to self-dual schemes. Such self-dual star-product schemes are shown to be determined by dequantizers which do not form POVM.

id: 1012.0015
title: Foundation of Hydrodynamics for Systems with Strong Interactions
authors: Cheuk-Yin Wong
comments: 10 pages, lecture presented at the Relativistic Fluids Symposium in the IV Mexican Meeting on Mathematical and Experimental Physics, Mexico City, Mexico, July 13-19, 2010
journal: AIP Conf.Proc.1312:39-48,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0015
abstract: For a dense and strongly interacting system, such as a nucleus or a strongly-coupled quark-gluon plasma, the foundation of hydrodynamics can be better found in the quantum description of constituents moving in the strong mean fields generated by all other particles. Using the result that the Schroedinger equation and the Klein-Gordon equation can be written in hydrodynamical forms, we find that the probability currents of the many-body system in the mean-field description obey a hydrodynamical equation with stress tensors arising from many contributions: quantum effects, mean-field interactions, and thermal fluctuations. The influence of various contributions to the hydrodynamical motion is expected to vary with the temperature, as the quantum and mean-field stress tensors playing more important roles at low and moderate temperatures.

id: 1012.0033
title: Diagonalization-free implementation of spin relaxation theory for large spin systems
authors: Ilya Kuprov
comments: 
journal: Journal of Magnetic Resonance, 209 (2011) 31-38
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0033
abstract: The Liouville space spin relaxation theory equations are reformulated in such a way as to avoid the computationally expensive Hamiltonian diagonalization step, replacing it by numerical evaluation of the integrals in the generalized cumulant expansion. The resulting algorithm is particularly useful in the cases where the static part of the Ha-miltonian is dominated by interactions other than Zeeman (e.g. in quadrupolar reson-ance, low-field EPR and Spin Chemistry). When used together with state space re-striction tools, the algorithm reported is capable of computing full relaxation supero-perators for NMR systems with more than 15 spins.

id: 1012.0049
title: Radiofrequency spectroscopy of a strongly interacting two-dimensional Fermi gas
authors: Bernd Fr?hlich, Michael Feld, Enrico Vogt, Marco Koschorreck, Wilhelm Zwerger, Michael K?hl
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 105301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0049
abstract: We realize and study a strongly interacting two-component atomic Fermi gas confined to two dimensions in an optical lattice. Using radio-frequency spectroscopy we measure the interaction energy of the strongly interacting gas. We observe the confinement-induced Feshbach resonance and find the existence of confinement-induced molecules in very good agreement with theoretical predictions.

id: 1012.0060
title: Collective Nuclear Stabilization by Optically Excited Hole in Quantum Dot
authors: Wen Yang, L. J. Sham
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 235319 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0060
abstract: We propose that an optically excited heavy hole in a quantum dot can drive the surrounding nuclear spins into a quiescent collective state, leading to significantly prolonged coherence time for the electron spin qubit. This provides a general paradigm to combat decoherence by environmental control without involving the active qubit in quantum information processing. It also serves as a unified solution to some open problems brought about by two recent experiments [X. Xu et al., Nature 459, 1105 (2009) and C. Latta et al., Nature Phys. 5, 758 (2009)].

id: 1012.0100
title: Multifractal Wave Functions of a System with a Monofractal Energy Spectrum
authors: Masayuki Tashima, Shuichi Tasaki
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0100
abstract: We show the appearance of multifractal wave functions on a one-dimensional quasiperiodic system that has a monofractal energy spectrum. Using the Mantica technique, we construct the model as an inverse problem from the energy spectrum of a pure Cantor set. A relation between the critical state and the information dimension is proved and it is applied to the finite-size multifractal analysis.

id: 1012.0131
title: Numerical Continuation of resonances and bound states in coupled channel Schr?dinger equations
authors: Przemys?aw K?osiewicz, Jan Broeckhove, Wim Vanroose
comments: Accepted for publication in: Communications in Computational Physics (CICP)
journal: Comm. Comput. Phys. 11 p 435 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0131
abstract: In this contribution, we introduce numerical continuation methods and bifurcation theory, techniques which find their roots in the study of dynamical systems, to the problem of tracing the parameter dependence of bound and resonant states of the quantum mechanical Schr\"odinger equation. We extend previous work on the subject to systems of coupled equations. Bound and resonant states of the Schr\"odinger equation can be determined through the poles of the S-matrix, a quantity that can be derived from the asymptotic form of the wave function. We introduce a regularization procedure that essentially transforms the S-matrix into its inverse and improves its smoothness properties, thus making it amenable to numerical continuation. This allows us to automate the process of tracking bound and resonant states when parameters in the Schr\"odinger equation are varied. We have applied this approach to a number of model problems with satisfying results.

id: 1012.0140
title: BCS models of Josephson qubits I. Energy spectra
authors: R. Alicki, W. Miklaszewski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0140
abstract: There exists a large number of experimental and theoretical results supporting the picture of macroscopic qubits implemented by nanoscopic Josephson junctions of three different types -- charge qubit, flux qubit and phase qubit. The standard unified description of such systems is based on the formal quantization of the phenomenological Kirchhoff equations for the corresponding circuits. In this paper a simplified version of the BCS theory for superconductors is used to derive microscopic models for all types of small Josephson junctions. For these models the state-dependent individual tunneling of Cooper pairs couples ground pair states with excited pair states what leads to a more complicated structure of the lowest lying energy levels. In particular, the highly degenerate levels emerge, which act as probability sinks for the qubit. These models allow also for the coupling to phonons as an efficient mechanism of relaxation for all types of junctions. The alternative formulas concerning basic spectral parameters of superconducting qubits are presented and compared with the experimental data. Finally, the question whether small Josephson junctions can be treated as macroscopic quantum systems is briefly discussed.

id: 1012.0216
title: Increasing the coherence time of single electron spins in diamond by high temperature annealing
authors: Boris Naydenov, Friedemann Reinhard, Anke L?mmle, V. Richter, Rafi Kalish, Ulrika F. S. D'Haenens-Johansson, Mark Newton, Fedor Jelezko, J?rg Wrachtrup
comments: Accepted for publication in Appl. Phys. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0216
abstract: Negatively charged Nitrogen-Vacancy (NV$^-$) centers in diamond produced by ion implantation often show properties different from NVs created during the crystal growth. We observe that NVs created from nitrogen ions with four different energies (30-300 keV) show much shorter electron spin coherence time $T_2$ compared to the "natural" NVs and we could find any dependence of $T_2$ on the implantation energy. Moreover, we also find out that about 10% of them show switching from NV$^-$to NV$^0$. We develop a method to increase $T_2$ of single NV$^-$ centers by annealing the sample at $t=1200 {\circ}$C whereas at the same time the fraction of the NVs showing discharging is greatly reduced.

id: 1012.0225
title: Fiber-based cryogenic and time-resolved spectroscopy of PbS quantum dots
authors: Matthew T. Rakher, Ranojoy Bose, Chee Wei Wong, Kartik Srinivasan
comments: 
journal: Optics Express 19, 1786 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0225
abstract: PbS quantum dots are promising active emitters for use with high-quality Si nanophotonic devices in the telecommunications-band. Measurements of low quantum dot densities are limited both because of low fluorescence levels and the challenges of single photon detection at these wavelengths. Here, we report on methods using a fiber taper waveguide to efficiently extract PbS quantum dot photoluminescence. Temperature dependent ensemble measurements reveal an increase in emitted photons concomitant with an increase in excited-state lifetime from 58.9 ns at 293 K to 657 ns at 40 K. Measurements are also performed on quantum dots on high-$Q$ ($>10^5$) microdisks using cavity-resonant, pulsed excitation.

id: 1012.0290
title: Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics and Painlev¨¦ IV Equation
authors: David Bermudez, David J. Fern¨¢ndez C
comments: Proceedings of the Workshop 'Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics and Spectral Design' (July 18-30, 2010, Benasque, Spain)
journal: SIGMA 7:025,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0290
abstract: As it has been proven, the determination of general one-dimensional Schr\"odinger Hamiltonians having third-order differential ladder operators requires to solve the Painlev\'e IV equation. In this work, it will be shown that some specific subsets of the higher-order supersymmetric partners of the harmonic oscillator possess third-order differential ladder operators. This allows us to introduce a simple technique for generating solutions of the Painlev\'e IV equation. Finally, we classify these solutions into three relevant hierarchies.

id: 1012.0301
title: SUSY QM Meets 5d Gravity
authors: Satoshi Ohya
comments: 10 pages, talk given at the workshop "Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics and Spectral Design", Benasque, Spain, 18-30 July 2010; typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0301
abstract: We report hidden quantum mechanical supersymmetry structure in five-dimensional gravity with the Randall-Sundrum background. We show that two N=2 supersymmetries are hidden in the spectrum.

id: 1012.0304
title: Kinetics of a single trapped ion in an ultracold buffer gas
authors: Christoph Zipkes, Lothar Ratschbacher, Carlo Sias, Michael K?hl
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 053020
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0304
abstract: The immersion of a single ion confined by a radiofrequency trap in an ultracold atomic gas extends the concept of buffer gas cooling to a new temperature regime. The steady state energy distribution of the ion is determined by its kinetics in the radiofrequency field rather than the temperature of the buffer gas. Moreover, the finite size of the ultracold gas facilitates the observation of back-action of the ion onto the buffer gas. We numerically investigate the system's properties depending on atom-ion mass ratio, trap geometry, differential cross-section, and non-uniform neutral atom density distribution. Experimental results are well reproduced by our model considering only elastic collisions. We identify excess micromotion to set the typical scale for the ion energy statistics and explore the applicability of the mobility collision cross-section to the ultracold regime.

id: 1012.0443
title: Estimating the Hubbard repulsion sufficient for the onset of nearly-flat-band ferromagnetism
authors: Lukasz Andrzejewski, Janusz Jedrzejewski
comments: 19 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0443
abstract: We consider nearly-flat-band Hubbard models of a ferromagnet, that is the models that are weak perturbations of those flat-band Hubbard models whose ground state is ferromagnetic for any nonzero strength $U$ of the Hubbard repulsion. In contrast to the flat-band case, in the nearly-flat-band case the ground state, being paramagnetic for $U$ in a vicinity of zero, turns into a ferromagnetic one only if $U$ exceeds some nonzero threshold value $U_{th}$. We address the question whether $U_{th}$ of the considered models is in a physical range, therefore we attempt at obtaining possibly good estimates of the threshold value $U_{th}$. A rigorous method proposed by Tasaki is extended and the resulting estimates are compared with small-system, finite-size scaling results obtained for open- and periodic-boundary conditions. Contrary to suggestions in literature, we find the latter conditions particularly useful for our task.

id: 1012.0528
title: A Characterization of Multivariate Gaussian Weyl--Heisenberg Frames, (II)
authors: Maurice de Gosson
comments: Withdrawn due to an error
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0528
abstract: In a previous Note we established a necessary and sufficient condition for a multivariate Weyl--Heisenberg system G({\phi},{\Lambda}) to be a frame when the window is a generalized Gaussian (squeezed coherent state) and {\Lambda} a rectangular lattice. In this Note we extend this result to lattices of the type ${\Lambda}=MZ^{2n}$ where M is a positive definite symmetric matrix.

id: 1012.0565
title: Controllable anisotropic exchange coupling between spin qubits in quantum dots
authors: Yun-Pil Shim, Sangchul Oh, Xuedong Hu, Mark Friesen
comments: 4 pages with 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 180503 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0565
abstract: The exchange coupling between quantum dot spin qubits is isotropic, which restricts the types of quantum gates that can be formed. Here, we propose a method for controlling anisotropic interactions between spins arranged in a bus geometry. The symmetry is broken by an external magnetic field, resulting in XXZ-type interactions that can efficiently generate Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states or universal gate sets for exchange-only quantum computing. Analysis of the bus ground state provides a link between quantum critical phenomena and the communication capacity.

id: 1012.0653
title: Quantum phase transitions in transverse field spin models: From Statistical Physics to Quantum Information
authors: Amit Dutta, Uma Divakaran, Diptiman Sen, Bikas K. Chakrabarti, Thomas F. Rosenbaum, Gabriel Aeppli
comments: 106 pages, 38 figures; completely revised version; added many more references
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0653
abstract: We review quantum phase transitions of spin systems in transverse magnetic fields taking the examples of the spin-1/2 Ising and XY models in a transverse field. Beginning with an overview of quantum phase transitions, we introduce a number of model Hamiltonians. We provide exact solutions in one spatial dimension connecting them to conformal field theoretical studies. We also discuss Kitaev models and some other exactly solvable spin systems. Studies of quantum phase transitions in the presence of quenched randomness and with frustrating interactions are presented in detail. We discuss novel phenomena like Griffiths-McCoy singularities. We then turn to more recent topics like information theoretic measures of the quantum phase transitions in these models such as concurrence, entanglement entropy, quantum discord and quantum fidelity. We then focus on non-equilibrium dynamics of a variety of transverse field systems across quantum critical points and lines. After mentioning rapid quenching studies, we dwell on slow dynamics and discuss the Kibble-Zurek scaling for the defect density following a quench across critical points and its modifications for quenching across critical lines, gapless regions and multicritical points. Topics like the role of different quenching schemes, local quenching, quenching of models with random interactions and quenching of a spin chain coupled to a heat bath are touched upon. The connection between non-equilibrium dynamics and quantum information theoretic measures is presented at some length. We indicate the connection between Kibble-Zurek scaling and adiabatic evolution of a state as well as the application of adiabatic dynamics as a tool of a quantum optimization technique known as quantum annealing. The final section is dedicated to a detailed discussion on recent experimental studies of transverse Ising-like systems.

id: 1012.0740
title: Observation of non-Markovian dynamics of a single quantum dot in a micropillar cavity
authors: K. H. Madsen, S. Ates, T. Lund-Hansen, A. L?ffler, S. Reitzenstein, A. Forchel, P. Lodahl
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 233601 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0740
abstract: We measure the detuning-dependent dynamics of a quasi-resonantly excited single quantum dot coupled to a micropillar cavity. The system is modeled with the dissipative Jaynes-Cummings model where all experimental parameters are determined by explicit measurements. We observe non-Markovian dynamics when the quantum dot is tuned into resonance with the cavity leading to a non-exponential decay in time. Excellent agreement between experiment and theory is observed with no free parameters providing the first quantitative description of an all-solid-state cavity QED system based on quantum dot emitters.

id: 1012.0757
title: On complexified mechanics and coquaternions
authors: Dorje C Brody, Eva-Maria Graefe
comments: 11 pages, version to appear in Journal of Physics A
journal: J. Phys. A 44 (2011) 072001
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0757
abstract: While real Hamiltonian mechanics and Hermitian quantum mechanics can both be cast in the framework of complex canonical equations, their complex generalisations have hitherto been remained tangential. In this paper quaternionic and coquaternionic (split-signature analogue of quaternions) extensions of Hamiltonian mechanics are introduced, and are shown to offer a unifying framework for complexified classical and quantum mechanics. In particular, quantum theories characterised by complex Hamiltonians invariant under space-time reflection are shown to be equivalent to certain coquaternionic extensions of Hermitian quantum theories. One of the interesting consequences is that the space-time dimension of these systems is six, not four, on account of the structures of coquaternionic quantum mechanics.

id: 1012.0758
title: Entanglement for multipartite systems of indistinguishable particles
authors: Janusz Grabowski, Marek Kus, Giuseppe Marmo
comments: 23 pages, minor corrections, the final version to appear in J. Phys. A.: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 175302 (21pp)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0758
abstract: We analyze the concept of entanglement for multipartite system with bosonic and fermionic constituents and its generalization to systems with arbitrary parastatistics. We use the representation theory of symmetry groups to formulate a unified approach to this problem in terms of simple tensors with appropriate symmetry. For an arbitrary parastatistics, we define the S-rank generalizing the notion of the Schmidt rank. The S-rank, defined for all types of tensors, serves for distinguishing entanglement of pure states. In addition, for Bose and Fermi statistics, we construct an analog of the Jamiolkowski isomorphism.

id: 1012.0806
title: Application of the EWL protocol to decision problems with imperfect recall
authors: Piotr Frackiewicz
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0806
abstract: We demonstrate implementations of the Eisert-Wilkens-Lewenstein scheme be- yond normal-form games. The scope of our research includes decision problems, i.e., one-player extensive games. The research is based on the examination of their features when the decision problems are carried out via the EWL protocol. We prove that unitary operators can be adapted to play the role of strategies in deci- sion problems with imperfect recall. Furthermore, we prove that unitary operators provide the decision maker possibilities that are inaccessible for classical strategies.

id: 1012.0808
title: Supersymmetry Transformations for Delta Potentials
authors: David J. Fern¨¢ndez C., Manuel Gadella, Luis-Miguel Nieto
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 7:029,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0808
abstract: We make a detailed study of the first and second-order SUSY partners of a one-dimensional free Hamiltonian with a singular perturbation proportional to a Dirac delta function. It is shown that the second-order transformations increase the spectral manipulation possibilities offered by the standard first-order supersymmetric quantum mechanics.

id: 1012.0878
title: High frequency limit for single-electron pumping operations
authors: Chuan-Yu Lin, Wei-Min Zhang
comments: 4 pages 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0878
abstract: In this Letter, we study the transient electron transfer phenomena of single-electron devices with alternating external gate voltages. We obtain a high frequency limit for pumping electrons one at a time in single-electron devices. Also, we find that in general the electrical current is not proportional to the frequency of the external signals in the single-electron devices, due to the strong quantum coherence tunneling effect.

id: 1012.1020
title: Dear Fellow Quantum Mechanics
authors: Jeremy Bernstein
comments: One figure
journal: 
subjects: Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1020
abstract: This is an open letter on the nature of the quantum theory.

id: 1012.1061
title: Light Propagation and Paired Superradiance in Coherent Medium
authors: M. Yoshimura
comments: 43 pages, 23 figures
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 125 (2011), 149-186
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1061
abstract: The problem of light propagation of frequency corresponding to half of the energy difference between a metastable excited state and the ground state of atoms is examined, and solved for coherent medium by analytic means. We demonstrate that the non-linear system of Maxwell-Bloch equation for the effective model of the $\Lambda-$type three levels is integrable in the mathematical sense. Analytic solutions thus obtained describe pulse splitting accompanied by compression, indicating a kind of non-linear instability of propagating pulses. The instability is eventually terminated by coherent two photon emission (called paired superradiance or PSR in short). These results are displayed by numerical outputs for visual understanding, as well. It is further shown that the integrable system allows a new class of soliton solutions. Solitons, implying the phenomenon of seff-induced transparancy at non-resonant frequencies, are stable against PSR. One of our goals of the present work is construction of a calculable theoretical framework for PSR rates associated with a trigger pulse propagation, which is achieved by combining analytic results with perturbative methods. PSR photon spectrum and its rate $\propto$(target number density)$^2$, along with their time structure, are clarified this way. These results may open a new path for interesting technological applications such as quantum entanglement and for solving the remaining problems of the still mysterious neutrino. Some basic strategy for realistic experiments of PSR detection and soliton production is also outlined.

id: 1012.1194
title: Does an atom interferometer test the gravitational redshift at the Compton frequency ?
authors: Peter Wolf, Luc Blanchet, Christian J. Bord¨¦, Serge Reynaud, Christophe Salomon, Claude Cohen-Tannoudji
comments: 26 pages. Modified version to appear in Classical and Quantum Gravity
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.28:145017,2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1194
abstract: Atom interferometers allow the measurement of the acceleration of freely falling atoms with respect to an experimental platform at rest on Earth's surface. Such experiments have been used to test the universality of free fall by comparing the acceleration of the atoms to that of a classical freely falling object. In a recent paper, M\"uller, Peters and Chu [Nature {\bf 463}, 926-929 (2010)] argued that atom interferometers also provide a very accurate test of the gravitational redshift when considering the atom as a clock operating at the Compton frequency associated with the rest mass. We analyze this claim in the frame of general relativity and of different alternative theories. We show that the difference of "Compton phases" between the two paths of the interferometer is actually zero in a large class of theories, including general relativity, all metric theories of gravity, most non-metric theories and most theoretical frameworks used to interpret the violations of the equivalence principle. Therefore, in most plausible theoretical frameworks, there is no redshift effect and atom interferometers only test the universality of free fall. We also show that frameworks in which atom interferometers would test the redshift pose serious problems, such as (i) violation of the Schiff conjecture, (ii) violation of the Feynman path integral formulation of quantum mechanics and of the principle of least action for matter waves, (iii) violation of energy conservation, and more generally (iv) violation of the particle-wave duality in quantum mechanics. Standard quantum mechanics is no longer valid in such frameworks, so that a consistent interpretation of the experiment would require an alternative formulation of quantum mechanics. As such an alternative has not been proposed to date, we conclude that the interpretation of atom interferometers as testing the gravitational redshift is unsound.

id: 1012.1205
title: Diamagnetic critical singularity in unconventional ferromagnetic superconductors
authors: Humberto Belich, Dimo I. Uzunov
comments: To be published in Bulg. J. Phys (2012)
journal: Bulg. J. Phys. 39 (2012) 27-50
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1205
abstract: The scaling properties of the free energy, the diamagnetic moment, and the diamagnetic susceptibility above the phase transition from the ferromagnetic phase to the phase of coexistence of ferromagnetic order and superconductivity in unconventional ferromagnetic superconductors with spin-triplet (p-wave) electron paring are considered. The crossover from weak to strong magnetic induction is described for both quasi-2D (thin films) and 3D (bulk) superconductors. The singularities of diamagnetic moment and diamagnetic susceptibility are dumped for large variations of the pressure and, hence, such singularities could hardly be observed in experiments. The results are obtained within Gaussian approximation on the basis of general theory of ferromagnetic superconductors with p-wave electron pairing.

id: 1012.1334
title: The Block Neighborhood
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Vincent Fabrice Nesme
comments: Journ\'ees Automates Cellulaires 2010, Turku : Finland (2010)
journal: 
subjects: Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Cellular Automata and Lattice Gases (nlin.CG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1334
abstract: We define the block neighborhood of a reversible CA, which is related both to its decomposition into a product of block permutations and to quantum computing. We give a purely combinatorial characterization of the block neighborhood, which helps in two ways. First, it makes the computation of the block neighborhood of a given CA relatively easy. Second, it allows us to derive upper bounds on the block neighborhood: for a single CA as function of the classical and inverse neighborhoods, and for the composition of several CAs. One consequence of that is a characterization of a class of "elementary" CAs that cannot be written as the composition of two simpler parts whose neighborhoods and inverse neighborhoods would be reduced by one half.

id: 1012.1419
title: Pseudo-Bosons from Landau Levels
authors: Fabio Bagarello
comments: Proceedings of the Workshop "Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics and Spectral Design", Benasque, 2010
journal: SIGMA 6 (2010), 093, 9 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1419
abstract: We construct examples of pseudo-bosons in two dimensions arising from the Hamiltonian for the Landau levels. We also prove a no-go result showing that non-linear combinations of bosonic creation and annihilation operators cannot give rise to pseudo-bosons.

id: 1012.1512
title: A comparison between microscopic methods for finite temperature Bose gases
authors: S. P. Cockburn, A. Negretti, N. P. Proukakis, C. Henkel
comments: Detailed comparison of equilibrium properties, correlation functions and condensate statistics between stochastic Gross-Pitaevskii, stochastically-sampled number-conserving Bogoliubov and modified Popov theory; Relation between quasi-condensate and Penrose-Onsager condensate (35 pages, 22 figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 043619 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1512
abstract: We analyze the equilibrium properties of a weakly interacting, trapped quasi-one-dimensional Bose gas at finite temperatures and compare different theoretical approaches. We focus in particular on two stochastic theories: a number-conserving Bogoliubov (ncB) approach and a stochastic Gross-Pitaevskii equation (sGPe) that have been extensively used in numerical simulations. Equilibrium properties like density profiles, correlation functions, and the condensate statistics are compared to predictions based upon a number of alternative theories. We find that due to thermal phase fluctuations, and the corresponding condensate depletion, the ncB approach loses its validity at relatively low temperatures. This can be attributed to the change in the Bogoliubov spectrum, as the condensate gets thermally depleted, and to large fluctuations beyond perturbation theory. Although the two stochastic theories are built on different thermodynamic ensembles (ncB: canonical, sGPe: grand-canonical), they yield the correct condensate statistics in a large BEC (strong enough particle interactions). For smaller systems, the sGPe results are prone to anomalously large number fluctuations, well-known for the grand-canonical, ideal Bose gas. Based on the comparison of the above theories to the modified Popov approach, we propose a simple procedure for approximately extracting the Penrose-Onsager condensate from first- and second-order correlation functions that is computationally convenient. This also clarifies the link between condensate and quasi-condensate in the Popov theory of low-dimensional systems.

id: 1012.1519
title: Yang-Baxter $\breve{R}$ matrix, Entanglement and Yangian
authors: Gangcheng Wang, Kang Xue, Chunfang Sun, Guijiao Du
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1519
abstract: We present a method to construct "X" form unitary Yang-Baxter $\breve{R}$ matrices, which act on the tensor product space $V_{i}^{j_{1}}\otimes V_{i+1}^{j_{2}}$. We can obtain a set of entangled states for $(2j_{1}+1)\times (2j_{2}+1)$-dimensional system with these Yang-Baxter $\breve{R}$ matrices. By means of Yang-Baxter approach, a $8\times 8$ Yang-Baxter Hamiltonian is constructed. Yangian symmetry and Yangian generators as shift operators for this Yang-Baxter system are investigated in detail.

id: 1012.1548
title: Entanglement entropy for odd spheres
authors: J.S.Dowker
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1548
abstract: It is shown, non--rigorously, that the effective action on a Z_q factored odd spheres (lune) has a vanishing derivative at q=1. This leaves the effective action on the ordinary odd d-sphere as (minus) the value of the entanglement entropy associated with a (d-2)-sphere. Some numbers are given.

id: 1012.1675
title: Interpolation problems by completely positive maps
authors: Chi-Kwong Li, Yiu-Tung Poon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1675
abstract: Given commuting families of Hermitian matrices {A1, ..., Ak} and {B1, ...., Bk}, conditions for the existence of a completely positive map L, such that L(Aj) = Bj for j = 1, ...,k, are studied. Additional properties such as unital or / and trace preserving on the map ? are also considered. Connections of the study to dilation theory, matrix inequalities, unitary orbits, and quantum information science are mentioned.

id: 1012.1740
title: Robustness of a perturbed topological phase
authors: S. Dusuel, M. Kamfor, R. Orus, K. P. Schmidt, J. Vidal
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 107203 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1740
abstract: We investigate the stability of the topological phase of the toric code model in the presence of a uniform magnetic field by means of variational and high-order series expansion approaches. We find that when this perturbation is strong enough, the system undergoes a topological phase transition whose first- or second-order nature depends on the field orientation. When this transition is of second order, it is in the Ising universality class except for a special line on which the critical exponent driving the closure of the gap varies continuously, unveiling a new topological universality class.

id: 1012.1807
title: Equivalent Circuit Description of Non-compensated n-p Codoped TiO2 as Intermediate Band Solar Cells
authors: Tian-Li Feng, Guang-Wei Deng, Yi Xia, Feng-Cheng Wu, Ping Cui, Hai-Ping Lan, Zhen-Yu Zhang
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a crucial sign error in the last description
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1807
abstract: The novel concept of non-compensated n-p codoping has made it possible to create tunable intermediate bands in the intrinsic band gap of TiO2, making the codoped TiO2 a promising material for developing intermediate band solar cells (IBSCs). Here we investigate the quantum efficiency of such IBSCs within two scenarios - with and without current extracted from the extended intermediate band. Using the ideal equivalent circuit model, we find that the maximum efficiency of 57% in the first scenario and 53% in the second are both much higher than the Shockley-Queisser limit from single gap solar cells. We also obtain various key quantities of the circuits, a useful step in realistic development of TiO2 based solar cells invoking device integration. These equivalent circuit results are also compared with the efficiencies obtained directly from consideration of electron transition between the energy bands, and both approaches reveal the intriguing existence of double peaks in the maximum quantum efficiency as a function of the relative location of IBs.

id: 1012.1816
title: Solitary waves and yrast states in Bose-Einstein condensed gases of atoms
authors: A. D. Jackson, J. Smyrnakis, M. Magiropoulos, G. M. Kavoulakis
comments: Revised version, where the generality of our arguments is presented more clearly
journal: Europh. Lett., 95, (2011) 30002
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1816
abstract: Considering a Bose-Einstein condensed gas confined in one dimension with periodic boundary conditions, we demonstrate that, very generally, solitary-wave and rotational excitations coincide. This exact equivalence allows us to establish connections between a number of effects that are present in these two problems, many of which have been studied using the mean-field approximation.

id: 1012.1902
title: Sutherland-type Trigonometric Models, Trigonometric Invariants and Multivariate Polynomials. III. $E_8$ case
authors: K.G.Boreskov, A.V.Turbiner, J.C.L¨®pez Vieyra, M.A.G.Garc¨ªa
comments: 39 pages, 3 Tables, 3 Appendices, no figures
journal: Intern.Journ.Mod.Phys. A 26 (2011) 1399-1437
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1902
abstract: It is shown that the $E_8$ trigonometric Olshanetsky-Perelomov Hamiltonian, when written in terms of the Fundamental Trigonometric Invariants (FTI), is in algebraic form, i.e., has polynomial coefficients, and preserves two infinite flags of polynomial spaces marked by the Weyl (co)-vector and $E_8$ highest root (both in the basis of simple roots) as characteristic vectors. The explicit form of the Hamiltonian in new variables has been obtained both by direct calculation and by means of the orbit function technique. It is shown a triangularity of the Hamiltonian in the bases of orbit functions and of algebraic monomials ordered through Weyl heights. Examples of first eigenfunctions are presented.

id: 1012.1928
title: Evidence for coherent quantum phase-slips across a Josephson junction array
authors: Vladimir E. Manucharyan, Nicholas A. Masluk, Archana Kamal, Jens Koch, Leonid I. Glazman, Michel H. Devoret
comments: 15 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 024521 (2012)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1928
abstract: Superconducting order in a sufficiently narrow and infinitely long wire is destroyed at zero temperature by quantum fluctuations, which induce $2\pi$ slips of the phase of the order parameter. However, in a finite-length wire coherent quantum phase-slips would manifest themselves simply as shifts of energy levels in the excitations spectrum of an electrical circuit incorporating this wire. The higher the phase-slips probability amplitude, the larger are the shifts. Phase-slips occurring at different locations along the wire interfere with each other. Due to the Aharonov-Casher effect, the resulting full amplitude of a phase-slip depends on the offset charges surrounding the wire. Slow temporal fluctuations of the offset charges make the phase-slips amplitudes random functions of time, and therefore turn energy levels shifts into linewidths. We experimentally observed this effect on a long Josephson junction array acting as a "slippery" wire. The slip-induced linewidths, despite being only of order 100 kHz, were resolved from the flux-dependent dephasing of the fluxonium qubit.

id: 1012.1934
title: Electromagnetically Induced Transparency and Slow Light with Optomechanics
authors: Amir H. Safavi-Naeini, Thiago P. Mayer Alegre, Jasper Chan, Matt Eichenfield, Martin Winger, Qiang Lin, Jeffrey T. Hill, Darrick Chang, Oskar Painter
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: Nature 472, 69--73 (07 April 2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1934
abstract: Controlling the interaction between localized optical and mechanical excitations has recently become possible following advances in micro- and nano-fabrication techniques. To date, most experimental studies of optomechanics have focused on measurement and control of the mechanical subsystem through its interaction with optics, and have led to the experimental demonstration of dynamical back-action cooling and optical rigidity of the mechanical system. Conversely, the optical response of these systems is also modified in the presence of mechanical interactions, leading to strong nonlinear effects such as Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT) and parametric normal-mode splitting. In atomic systems, seminal experiments and proposals to slow and stop the propagation of light, and their applicability to modern optical networks, and future quantum networks, have thrust EIT to the forefront of experimental study during the last two decades. In a similar fashion, here we use the optomechanical nonlinearity to control the velocity of light via engineered photon-phonon interactions. Our results demonstrate EIT and tunable optical delays in a nanoscale optomechanical crystal device, fabricated by simply etching holes into a thin film of silicon (Si). At low temperature (8.7 K), we show an optically-tunable delay of 50 ns with near-unity optical transparency, and superluminal light with a 1.4 microseconds signal advance. These results, while indicating significant progress towards an integrated quantum optomechanical memory, are also relevant to classical signal processing applications. Measurements at room temperature and in the analogous regime of Electromagnetically Induced Absorption (EIA) show the utility of these chip-scale optomechanical systems for optical buffering, amplification, and filtering of microwave-over-optical signals.

id: 1012.1967
title: Visualization and Interpretation of Attosecond Electron Dynamics in Laser-Driven Hydrogen Molecular Ion using Bohmian Trajectories
authors: Norio Takemoto, Andreas Becker
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures. The following article has been submitted to The Journal of Chemical Physics. After it is published, it will be found at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1967
abstract: We analyze the attosecond electron dynamics in hydrogen molecular ion driven by an external intense laser field using ab-initio numerical simulations of the corresponding time-dependent Schr{\"{o}}dinger equation and Bohmian trajectories. To this end, we employ a one-dimensional model of the molecular ion in which the motion of the protons is frozen. The results of the Bohmian trajectory calculations do agree well with those of the ab-initio simulations and clearly visualize the electron transfer between the two protons in the field. In particular, the Bohmian trajectory calculations confirm the recently predicted attosecond transient localization of the electron at one of the protons and the related multiple bunches of the ionization current within a half cycle of the laser field. Further analysis based on the quantum trajectories shows that the electron dynamics in the molecular ion can be understood via the phase difference accumulated between the Coulomb wells at the two protons. Modeling of the dynamics using a simple two-state system leads us to an explanation for the sometimes counter-intuitive dynamics of an electron opposing the classical force of the electric field on the electron.

id: 1012.1977
title: Bound State Solutions of the Schr?dinger Equation for Generalized Morse Potential With Position Dependent Mass
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever
comments: Accepted for publication in Commun. Theor. Phys., 12 pages, 1 table
journal: Commun. Theor.Phys. 56, 51 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.1977
abstract: The effective mass one-dimensional Schr\"odinger equation for the generalized Morse potential is solved by using Nikiforov-Uvarov method. Energy eigenvalues and corresponding eigenfunctions are computed analytically. The results are also reduced to the case of constant mass. Energy eigenvalues are computed numerically for some diatomic molecules. The results are in agreement with the ones obtained before.

id: 1012.2053
title: Tuned transition from quantum to classical for macroscopic quantum states
authors: A. Fedorov, P. Macha, A. K. Feofanov, C. J. P. M. Harmans, J. E. Mooij
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:170404,2011
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2053
abstract: The boundary between the classical and quantum worlds has been intensely studied. It remains fascinating to explore how far the quantum concept can reach with use of specially fabricated elements. Here we employ a tunable flux qubit with basis states having persistent currents of 1$ \mu$A carried by a billion electrons. By tuning the tunnel barrier between these states we see a cross-over from quantum to classical. Released from non-equilibrium, the system exhibits spontaneous coherent oscillations. For high barriers the lifetime of the states increases dramatically while the tunneling period approaches the phase coherence time and the classical regime is reached.

id: 1012.2067
title: Identity of electrons and ionization equilibrium
authors: V.B. Bobrov, S.A. Trigger, W. Ebeling
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2067
abstract: It is perhaps appropriate that, in a year marking the 90th anniversary of Meghnad Saha seminal paper (1920), new developments should call fresh attention to the problem of ionization equilibrium in gases. Ionization equilibrium is considered in the simplest "physical" model for an electronic subsystem of matter in a rarefied state, consisting of one localized electronic state in each nucleus and delocalized electronic states considered as free ones. It is shown that, despite the qualitative agreement, there is a significant quantitative difference from the results of applying the Saha formula to the degree of ionization. This is caused by the fact that the Saha formula corresponds to the "chemical" model of matter.

id: 1012.2268
title: Colloquium. Quantum Fluctuation Relations: Foundations and Applications
authors: Michele Campisi, Peter H?nggi, Peter Talkner
comments: 25 pages. Published version + Addendum/Erratum
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 83, 771-791 (2011) ; Erratum: Rev. Mod. Phys. 83, 1653 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2268
abstract: Two fundamental ingredients play a decisive role in the foundation of fluctuation relations: the principle of microreversibility and the fact that thermal equilibrium is described by the Gibbs canonical ensemble. Building on these two pillars we guide the reader through a self-contained exposition of the theory and applications of quantum fluctuation relations. These are exact results that constitute the fulcrum of the recent development of nonequilibrium thermodynamics beyond the linear response regime. The material is organized in a way that emphasizes the historical connection between quantum fluctuation relations and (non)-linear response theory. We also attempt to clarify a number of fundamental issues which were not completely settled in the prior literature. The main focus is on (i) work fluctuation relations for transiently driven closed or open quantum systems, and (ii) on fluctuation relations for heat and matter exchange in quantum transport settings. Recently performed and proposed experimental applications are presented and discussed.

id: 1012.2348
title: Twin-atom beams
authors: Robert B¨¹cker, Julian Grond, Stephanie Manz, Tarik Berrada, Thomas Betz, Christian Koller, Ulrich Hohenester, Thorsten Schumm, Aur¨¦lien Perrin, J?rg Schmiedmayer
comments: 7 pages (including supplementary material), 5 figures
journal: Nature Physics 7, 608 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2348
abstract: We present highly efficient emission of twin-atom beams into a single transversal mode of a waveguide potential. The source is a one-dimensional degenerate Bose gas in the first radially excited state. We directly measure a suppression of fluctuations in the atom number difference between the beams to 0.37(3) with respect to the classical expectation, equivalent to 0.11(2) after correcting for detection noise. Our results underline the high potential of ultracold atomic gases as sources for quantum matter wave optics and will enable the implementation of schemes previously unattainable with massive particles

id: 1012.2437
title: Event-based simulation of light propagation in lossless dielectric media
authors: Binh Trieu, Kristel Michielsen, Hans De Raedt
comments: Accepted for publication in Computer Physics Reports
journal: Comp. Phys. Commun. 182, 726 - 734 (2011)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2437
abstract: We describe an event-based approach to simulate the propagation of an electromagnetic plane wave through dielectric media. The basic building block is a deterministic learning machine that is able to simulate a plane interface. We show that a network of two of such machines can simulate the propagation of light through a plane parallel plate. With properly chosen parameters this setup can be used as a beam splitter. The modularity of the simulation method is illustrated by constructing a Mach-Zehnder interferometer from plane parallel plates, the whole system reproducing the results of wave theory. A generalization of the event-based model of the plane parallel plate is also used to simulate a periodically stratified medium.

id: 1012.2447
title: Modeling comminution processes in ball mills as a canonical ensemble
authors: G. K. Sunnardianto, Muhandis, F. N. Diana, L.T. Handoko
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Compt. Theor. Nanoscience 8 (2011) 194-200
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2447
abstract: A new approach to describe comminution processes in general ball mills as a macroscopic canonical ensemble is proposed. Using hamiltonian method, the model is able to take simultaneously into account the internal dynamics from mechanical motions inside the vial and external effects like electromagnetic and gravitational forces. Relevant physical observables are extracted using statistical mechanics approach through partition function at finite temperature. The method enables numerical calculation using Monte Carlo technique to obtain, for instance particle number evolution in term of system temperature. It is argued that the method is experimentally more verifiable than the conventional approaches based on geometrical displacements. An example of simulation for typical spex mill is also given.

id: 1012.2541
title: Properties of 1.5 um synchronous heralded single photon sources based on optical fiber
authors: Qiang Zhou, Wei Zhang, Jie-rong Cheng, Yi-dong Huang, Jiang-de Peng
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2541
abstract: A 1.5 um synchronous heralded single photon source (HSPS) is experimentally demonstrated based on dispersion shifted fiber and commercial fiber components in the paper. Experimental results show that both the preparation efficiency and the conditional second order correlation function g2(0) increase with the pump light level. Between the two important parameters, tradeoff should be taken in order to obtain a high quality fiber-based synchronous HSPS. A synchronous HSPS with a prepare efficiency of >60% and g2(0)<0.06 is achieved, the multi-photon probability of which is reduced by a factor of more than 16 compared with the Poissonian light sources. The experimental results show a great potential of the fiber-based synchronous HSPS for quantum information applications.

id: 1012.2660
title: Fine tuning of phase qubit parameters for optimization of fast single-pulse readout
authors: Leonid S. Revin, Andrey L. Pankratov
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2660
abstract: We analyze a two-level quantum system, describing the phase qubit, during a single-pulse readout process by a numerical solution of the time-dependent Schroedinger equation. It has been demonstrated that the readout error has a minimum for certain values of the system`s basic parameters. In particular, the optimization of the qubit capacitance and the readout pulse shape leads to significant reduction of the readout error. It is shown that in an ideal case the fidelity can be increased to almost 97% for 2 ns pulse duration and to 96% for 1 ns pulse duration.

id: 1012.2712
title: Solution and testing of the Abraham-Minkowski controversy in light-atom interacting system
authors: Wen-Zhuo Zhang, Peng Zhang, Ru-Quan Wang, Wu-Ming Liu
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2712
abstract: We present the origin of the Abraham-Minkowski controversy of light-matter wave interacting system, which is a special case of the centaury-old Abraham-Minkowski controversy. We solve the controversy of laser-atom interacting case and find that for systems with perfect atomic spatial coherence, the systems prefer to show Minkowski momentum and canonical momentum for the atoms and light, respectively; while for the systems where the atoms are spatially incoherent, the momenta of light and atoms would choose the Abraham and kinetic forms. The provement of our solution can be realized with current techniques, using three-dimensional optical lattices and electromagnetically-induced absorption (EIA) to distinguish the kinetic and canonical recoil momentum of ultra-cold atoms.

id: 1012.2730
title: Comment on "Delayed luminescence of biological systems in terms of coherent states" [Phys. Lett. A 293 (2002) 93]
authors: Vahid Salari, Christian Brouder
comments: 2 pages, no figure
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375 (2011) 2531-2
subjects: Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2730
abstract: Popp and Yan [F. A. Popp, Y. Yan, Phys. Lett. A 293 (2002) 93] proposed a model for delayed luminescence based on a single time-dependent coherent state. We show that the general solution of their model corresponds to a luminescence that is a linear function of time. Therefore, their model is not compatible with any measured delayed luminescence. Moreover, the functions that they use to describe the oscillatory behaviour of delayed luminescence are not solutions of the coupling equations to be solved.

id: 1012.2833
title: The split-ring Josephson resonator as an artificial atom
authors: J.-G.~Caputo, I. Gabitov, A.I.~Maimistov
comments: We believe this study is useful to the community of meta-materials because a Josephson junction is the only nonlinear device that has this behavior. In addition these systems have very small losses contrarily to the current meta-materials. The article can also interest people working on arrays of Josephson junctions because of the problems of synchronization and superradiance
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2833
abstract: Using the resistive-shunted-junction model we show that a split-ring Josephson oscillator or radio-frequency SQUID in the hysteretic regime is similar to an atomic system. It has a number of stationary states that we characterize. Applying a short magnetic pulse we switch the system from one state to another. These states can be detected via the reflection of a small amplitude signal forming the base of a new spectroscopy.

id: 1012.2843
title: Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics and Solitons of the sine-Gordon and Nonlinear Schr?dinger Equations
authors: Andrew Koller, Maxim Olshanii
comments: minor improvements | 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 84, 066601 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2843
abstract: We present a case demonstrating the connection between supersymmetric quantum mechanics (SUSY--QM), reflectionless scattering, and soliton solutions of integrable partial differential equations. We show that the members of a class of reflectionless Hamiltonians, namely, Akulin's Hamiltonians, are connected via supersymmetric chains to a potential-free Hamiltonian, explaining their reflectionless nature. While the reflectionless property in question has been mentioned in the literature for over two decades, the enabling algebraic mechanism was previously unknown. Our results indicate that the multi-solition solutions of the sine-Gordon and nonlinear Schr\"{o}dinger equations can be systematically generated via the supersymmetric chains connecting Akulin's Hamiltonians. Our findings also explain a well-known but little-understood effect in laser physics: when a two-level atom, initially in the ground state, is subjected to a laser pulse of the form $V(t) = (n\hbar/\tau)/\cosh(t/\tau)$, with $n$ being an integer and $\tau$ being the pulse duration, it remains in the ground state after the pulse has been applied, for {\it any} choice of the laser detuning.

id: 1012.2873
title: Quantum-to-Classical Correspondence and Hubbard-Stratonovich Dynamical Systems, a Lie-Algebraic Approach
authors: Victor Galitski
comments: 25 pages, 1 figure; v2: citations added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012118 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2873
abstract: We propose a Lie-algebraic duality approach to analyze non-equilibrium evolution of closed dynamical systems and thermodynamics of interacting quantum lattice models (formulated in terms of Hubbard-Stratonovich dynamical systems). The first part of the paper utilizes a geometric Hilbert-space-invariant formulation of unitary time-evolution, where a quantum Hamiltonian is viewed as a trajectory in an abstract Lie algebra, while the sought-after evolution operator is a trajectory in a dynamic group, generated by the algebra via exponentiation. The evolution operator is uniquely determined by the time-dependent dual generators that satisfy a system of differential equations, dubbed here dual Schrodinger-Bloch equations, which represent a viable alternative to the conventional Schrodinger formulation. These dual Schrodinger-Bloch equations are derived and analyzed on a number of specific examples. It is shown that deterministic dynamics of a closed classical dynamical system occurs as action of a symmetry group on a classical manifold and is driven by the same dual generators as in the corresponding quantum problem. This represents quantum-to-classical correspondence. In the second part of the paper, we further extend the Lie algebraic approach to a wide class of interacting many-particle lattice models. A generalized Hubbard-Stratonovich transform is proposed and it is used to show that the thermodynamic partition function of a generic many-body quantum lattice model can be expressed in terms of traces of single-particle evolution operators governed by the dynamic Hubbard-Stratonovich fields. Finally, we derive Hubbard-Stratonovich dynamical systems for the Bose-Hubbard model and a quantum spin model and use the Lie-algebraic approach to obtain new non-perturbative dual descriptions of these theories.

id: 1012.2906
title: Physical consequences of the QED theta angle
authors: Stephen D.H. Hsu
comments: 4 pages, latex, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2906
abstract: We describe a simple gedanken experiment which illustrates the physical effects of the QED theta angle, a fundamental parameter of Nature that has yet to be measured. The effects are manifest in quantum phases analogous to those in the Aharonov-Bohm effect, although they are not intrinsically topological. We also derive the quantum phases using a functional Schrodinger approach, and generalize the results to non-Abelian gauge theories.

id: 1012.3048
title: Weakly interacting Bose gas in the one-dimensional limit
authors: P. Kr¨¹ger, S. Hofferberth, I. E. Mazets, I. Lesanovsky, J. Schmiedmayer
comments: to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 265302 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3048
abstract: We prepare a chemically and thermally one-dimensional (1d) quantum degenerate Bose gas in a single microtrap. We introduce a new interferometric method to distinguish the quasicondensate fraction of the gas from the thermal cloud at finite temperature. We reach temperatures down to $kT\approx 0.5\hbar\omega_\perp$ (transverse oscillator eigenfrequency $\omega_\perp$) when collisional thermalization slows down as expected in 1d. At the lowest temperatures the transverse momentum distribution exhibits a residual dependence on the line density $n_{1d}$, characteristic for 1d systems. For very low densities the approach to the transverse single particle ground state is linear in $n_{1d}$.

id: 1012.3125
title: Phonon Mediated Off-Resonant Quantum Dot-Cavity Coupling
authors: Arka Majumdar, Yiyang Gong, Erik D. Kim, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3125
abstract: A theoretical model for the phonon-mediated off-resonant coupling between a quantum dot and a cavity, under resonant excitation of the quantum dot, is presented. We show that the coupling is caused by electron-phonon interaction in the quantum dot and is enhanced by the cavity. We analyze recently observed resonant quantum dot spectroscopic data by our theoretical model.

id: 1012.3147
title: Some attempts at proving the non-existence of a full set of mutually unbiased bases in dimension 6
authors: Guo Chuan Thiang
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3147
abstract: Complete sets of mutually unbiased bases are only known to exist in prime-power dimensions. We will describe a few approaches to the problem proving the (non)-existence of four mutually unbiased bases in dimension 6. These will include the notions of Grassmannian distance, quadratic matrix programming, semidefinite relaxations to polynomial programming, as well as various tools from algebraic geometry.

id: 1012.3170
title: Chiral Rashba spin textures in ultra-cold Fermi gases
authors: Jay D. Sau, Rajdeep Sensarma, Stephen Powell, I. B. Spielman, S. Das Sarma
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 140510(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3170
abstract: Spin-orbit coupling is an important ingredient in many recently discovered phenomena such as the spin-Hall effect and topological insulators. Of particular interest is topological superconductivity, with its potential application in topological quantum computation. The absence of disorder in ultra-cold atomic systems makes them ideal for quantum computation applications, however, the spin-orbit (SO) coupling schemes proposed thus far are experimentally impractical owing to large spontaneous emission rates in the alkali fermions. In this paper, we develop a scheme to generate Rashba SO coupling with a low spontaneous emission extension to a recent experiment. We show that this scheme generates a Fermi surface spin texture for $^{40}\rm{K}$ atoms, which is observable in time-of-flight measurements. The chiral spin texture, together with conventional $s$-wave interactions leads to topological superconductivity and non-Abelian Majorana quasiparticles.

id: 1012.3197
title: Normal completely positive maps on the space of quantum operations
authors: G. Chiribella, A. Toigo, V. Umanit¨¤
comments: 47 pages (in one-column format), including new results about quantum operations on separable von Neumann algebras
journal: Open Systems and Information Dynamics 20 (1), 1350003 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3197
abstract: Quantum supermaps are higher-order maps transforming quantum operations into quantum operations. Here we extend the theory of quantum supermaps, originally formulated in the finite dimensional setting, to the case of higher-order maps transforming quantum operations with input in a separable von Neumann algebra and output in the algebra of the bounded operators on a given separable Hilbert space. In this setting we prove two dilation theorems for quantum supermaps that are the analogues of the Stinespring and Radon-Nikodym theorems for quantum operations. Finally, we consider the case of quantum superinstruments, namely measures with values in the set of quantum supermaps, and derive a dilation theorem for them that is analogue to Ozawa's theorem for quantum instruments. The three dilation theorems presented here show that all the supermaps defined in this paper can be implemented by connecting devices in quantum circuits.

id: 1012.3319
title: A note about a partial no-go theorem for quantum PCP
authors: Itai Arad
comments: 7 pages, comments are welcome! revised version with very minor corrections
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, Vol.11, (2011), pp 1019
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3319
abstract: This is not a disproof of the quantum PCP conjecture! In this note we use perturbation on the commuting Hamiltonian problem on a graph, based on results by Bravyi and Vyalyi, to provide a partial no-go theorem for quantum PCP. Specifically, we derive an upper bound on how large the promise gap can be for the quantum PCP still to hold, as a function of the non-commuteness of the system. As the system becomes more and more commuting, the maximal promise gap shrinks. We view these results as possibly a preliminary step towards disproving the quantum PCP conjecture. A different way to view these results is actually as indications that a critical point exists, beyond which quantum PCP indeed holds; in any case, we hope that these results will lead to progress on this important open problem.

id: 1012.3339
title: Quantum heating of a parametrically modulated oscillator: spectral signatures
authors: M. I. Dykman, M. Marthaler, V. Peano
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052115 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3339
abstract: We show that the noise spectrum of a parametrically excited nonlinear oscillator can display a fine structure. It emerges from the interplay of the nonequidistance of the oscillator quasienergy levels and quantum heating that accompanies relaxation. The heating leads to a finite-width distribution over the quasienergy, or Floquet states even for zero temperature of the thermal reservoir coupled to the oscillator. The fine structure is due to transitions from different quasienergy levels, and thus it provides a sensitive tool for studying the distribution. For larger damping, where the fine structure is smeared out, quantum heating can be detected from the characteristic double-peak structure of the spectrum, which results from transitions accompanied by the increase or decrease of the quasienergy.

id: 1012.3341
title: Supersolid phase in atomic gases with magnetic dipole interaction
authors: Adam B¨¹hler, Hans Peter B¨¹chler
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 023607 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3341
abstract: A major obstacle for the experimental realization of a supersolid phase with cold atomic gases in an optical lattice is the weakness of the nearest-neighbor interactions achievable via magnetic dipole-dipole interactions. In this letter, we show that using a large filling of atoms within each well the characteristic energy scales are strongly enhanced. Within this regime, the system is well described by the rotor model, and the qualitative behavior of the phase diagram derives from mean-field theory. We find a stable supersolid phase for realistic parameters with chromium atoms.

id: 1012.3368
title: Information storing by biomagnetites
authors: Istvan Bokkon, Vahid Salari
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of Biological Physics, 36: 109-120, 2010
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3368
abstract: Since the discovery of the presence of biogenic magnetites in living organisms, there have been speculations on the role that these biomagnetites play in cellular processes. It seems that the formation of biomagnetite crystals is a universal phenomenon and not an exception in living cells. Many experimental facts show that features of organic and inorganic processes could be indistinguishable at nanoscale levels. Living cells are quantum "devices" rather than simple electronic devices utilizing only the charge of conduction electrons. In our opinion, due to their unusual biophysical properties, special biomagnetites must have a biological function in living cells in general and in the brain in particular. In this paper we advance a hypothesis that while biomagnetites are developed jointly with organic molecules and cellular electromagnetic fields in cells, they can record information about the Earth's magnetic vector potential of the entire flight in migratory birds.

id: 1012.3371
title: Emission of Mitochondrial Biophotons and their Effect on Electrical Activity of Membrane via Microtubules
authors: M. Rahnama, I. Bokkon, J. Tuszynski, M. Cifra, P. Sardar, V. Salari
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures
journal: J Integrative Neuroscience, Vol. 10, No. 1, pages 65-88, 2011
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3371
abstract: In this paper we argue that, in addition to electrical and chemical signals propagating in the neurons of the brain, signal propagation takes place in the form of biophoton production. This statement is supported by recent experimental confirmation of photon guiding properties of a single neuron. We have investigated the interaction of mitochondrial biophotons with microtubules from a quantum mechanical point of view. Our theoretical analysis indicates that the interaction of biophotons and microtubules causes transitions/fluctuations of microtubules between coherent and incoherent states. A significant relationship between the fluctuation function of microtubules and alpha-EEG diagrams is elaborated on in this paper. We argue that the role of biophotons in the brain merits special attention.

id: 1012.3472
title: Localization of particles in quantum field theory
authors: W. Westra
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3472
abstract: We put forward an interpretation of scalar quantum field theory as relativistic quantum mechanics by curing well known problems related to locality. A probabilistic interpretation of quantum field theory similar to quantum mechanics is difficult if particle localization is defined using the Newton-Wigner position operator as it is non-local and non-covariant. An alternative bilinear covariant position operator is discussed which incorporates a time operator that can be exponentiated to a unitary operator. Moreover, it satisfies an algebra that unifies special relativity and quantum mechanics and has the same form for particles with spin. Higher power position operators are derived which yield Heisenberg's uncertainty relations. Our ideas are illustrated with a relativistic wave function whose probability density can be perfectly localized.

id: 1012.3473
title: A Causal Alternative to Feynman's Propagator
authors: Jurjen F. Koksma, W. Westra
comments: 31 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3473
abstract: The Feynman propagator used in the conventional in-out formalism in quantum field theory is not a causal propagator as wave packets are propagated virtually instantaneously outside the causal region of the initial state. We formulate a causal in-out formalism in quantum field theory by making use of the Wheeler propagator, the time ordered commutator propagator, which is manifestly causal. Only free scalar field theories and their first quantization are considered. We identify the real Klein Gordon field itself as the wave function of a neutral spinless relativistic particle. Furthermore, we derive a probability density for our relativistic wave packet using the inner product between states that live on a suitably defined Hilbert space of real quantum fields. We show that the time evolution of our probability density is governed by the Wheeler propagator, such that it behaves causally too.

id: 1012.3557
title: Lasing without Inversion in Circuit Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: M. Marthaler, Y. Utsumi, D. S. Golubev, A. Shnirman, Gerd Sch?n
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 093901 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3557
abstract: We study the photon generation in a transmission line oscillator coupled to a driven qubit in the presence of a dissipative electromagnetic environment. It has been demonstrated previously that a population inversion in the qubit may lead to a lasing state of the oscillator. Here we show that the circuit can also exhibit the effect of "lasing without inversion". This is possible since the coupling to the dissipative environment enhances photon emission as compared to absorption, similar to the recoil effect which was predicted for atomic systems. While the recoil effect is very weak, and so far elusive, the effect described here should be observable with present circuits. We analyze the requirements for the system parameters and environment.

id: 1012.3587
title: Remarks on the notion of quantum integrability
authors: J.-S. Caux, J. Mossel
comments: 22 pages, no figures, Proceedings of Statphys 24
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2011) P02023
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3587
abstract: We discuss the notion of integrability in quantum mechanics. Starting from a review of some definitions commonly used in the literature, we propose a different set of criteria, leading to a classification of models in terms of different integrability classes. We end by highlighting some of the expected physical properties associated to models fulfilling the proposed criteria.

id: 1012.3593
title: Phase Estimation from Atom Position Measurements
authors: Jan Chwedenczuk, Francesco Piazza, Augusto Smerzi
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3593
abstract: We study the measurement of the position of atoms as a means to estimate the relative phase between two Bose-Einstein condensates. First, we consider $N$ atoms released from a double-well trap, forming an interference pattern, and show that a simple least-squares fit to the density gives a shot-noise limited sensitivity. The shot-noise limit can instead be overcome by using correlation functions of order $\sqrt{N}$ or larger. The measurement of the $N\mathrm{th}$-order correlation function allows to estimate the relative phase at the Heisenberg limit. Phase estimation through the measurement of the center-of-mass of the interference pattern can also provide sub-shot-noise sensitivity. Finally, we study the effect of the overlap between the two clouds on the phase estimation, when Mach-Zehnder interferometry is performed in a double-well.

id: 1012.3600
title: Ultrafast screening and carrier dynamics in ZnO: Theory and experiment
authors: Marijn A.M. Versteegh, Tim Kuis, H.T.C. Stoof, Jaap I. Dijkhuis
comments: 44 pages, 18 figures. To appear in Physical Review B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 035207 (2011)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3600
abstract: At carrier densities above the Mott density Coulomb screening destroys the exciton resonance. This, together with band-gap renormalization and band filling, severely affects the optical spectra. We have experimentally studied these effects by ultrafast pump-probe reflectivity measurements on a ZnO single crystal at various wavelengths around the exciton resonance and in a broad carrier-density range. Theoretically we determined the Mott density in ZnO to be $1.5\times10^{24}$ m$^{-3}$ at 300 K. Taking a field-theoretical approach, we derived and solved the Bethe-Salpeter ladder equation and we computed the density-dependent reflectivity and absorption spectra. A carrier dynamics model has been developed, containing three-photon absorption, carrier cooling, and carrier trapping near the surface. The agreement between the theoretical reflectivity based on our model and the experimental data is excellent.

id: 1012.3634
title: On the electron scattering on the one-dimensional complexes: the vertex amplitudes method
authors: Alexander F. Klinskikh, Anton V. Dolgikh, Peter A. Meleshenko, Sergey A. Sviridov
comments: 14 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3634
abstract: The problem of electron scattering on the one-dimensional complexes is considered. We propose a novel theoretical approach to solution of the transport problem for a quantum graph. In the frame of the developed approach the solution of the transport problem is equivalent to the solution of a linear system of equations for the \emph{vertex amplitudes} $\mathbf{\Psi}$. All major properties, such as transmission and reflection amplitudes, wave function on the graph, probability current, are expressed in terms of one $\mathbf{\Gamma}$-matrix that determines the transport through the graph. The transmission resonances are analyzed in detail and comparative analysis with known results is carried out.

id: 1012.3646
title: Minimum-Time Frictionless Atom Cooling in Harmonic Traps
authors: Dionisis Stefanatos, Heinz Schaettler, Jr-Shin Li
comments: To appear in SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization
journal: SIAM J. Control Optim., Vol. 49, pp. 2440-2462, 2011
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3646
abstract: Frictionless atom cooling in harmonic traps is formulated as a time-optimal control problem and a synthesis of optimal controlled trajectories is obtained.

id: 1012.3813
title: Long-lived periodic revivals of coherence in an interacting Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Mikhail Egorov, Russell P. Anderson, Valentin Ivannikov, Bogdan Opanchuk, Peter Drummond, Brenton V. Hall, Andrei I. Sidorov
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 021605(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3813
abstract: We observe the coherence of an interacting two-component Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) surviving for seconds in a trapped Ramsey interferometer. Mean-field driven collective oscillations of two components lead to periodic dephasing and rephasing of condensate wave functions with a slow decay of the interference fringe visibility. We apply spin echo synchronous with the self-rephasing of the condensate to reduce the influence of state-dependent atom losses, significantly enhancing the visibility up to 0.75 at the evolution time of 1.5s. Mean-field theory consistently predicts higher visibility than experimentally observed values. We quantify the effects of classical and quantum noise and infer a coherence time of 2.8 s for a trapped condensate of 5.5e4 interacting atoms.

id: 1012.3857
title: Localized endomorphisms in Kitaev's toric code on the plane
authors: Pieter Naaijkens
comments: 26 pages, 5 figures. v2: proof of Prop. 2.2 fixed, other minor corrections
journal: Rev. Math. Phys. 23 (2011), 347-373
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3857
abstract: We consider various aspects of Kitaev's toric code model on a plane in the C^*-algebraic approach to quantum spin systems on a lattice. In particular, we show that elementary excitations of the ground state can be described by localized endomorphisms of the observable algebra. The structure of these endomorphisms is analyzed in the spirit of the Doplicher-Haag-Roberts program (specifically, through its generalization to infinite regions as considered by Buchholz and Fredenhagen). Most notably, the statistics of excitations can be calculated in this way. The excitations can equivalently be described by the representation theory of D(Z_2), i.e., Drinfel'd's quantum double of the group algebra of Z_2.

id: 1012.3879
title: Plausibility of Quantum Coherent States in Biological Systems
authors: V. Salari, J. Tuszynski, M. Rahnama, G. Bernroider
comments: 10 pages, no figures. DICE 2010, In press in Journal of Physics, Conf. Ser
journal: JPCS, 306 (2011) 012075
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3879
abstract: In this paper we briefly discuss the necessity of using quantum mechanics as a fundamental theory applicable to some key functional aspects of biological systems. This is especially relevant to three important parts of a neuron in the human brain, namely the cell membrane, microtubules (MT) and ion channels. We argue that the recently published papers criticizing the use of quantum theory in these systems are not convincing.

id: 1012.3911
title: Accelerating the Fourier split operator method via graphics processing units
authors: Heiko Bauke, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: 
journal: Computer Physics Communications, vol. 182, nr. 12, pp. 2454-2463 (2011)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3911
abstract: Current generations of graphics processing units have turned into highly parallel devices with general computing capabilities. Thus, graphics processing units may be utilized, for example, to solve time dependent partial differential equations by the Fourier split operator method. In this contribution, we demonstrate that graphics processing units are capable to calculate fast Fourier transforms much more efficiently than traditional central processing units. Thus, graphics processing units render efficient implementations of the Fourier split operator method possible. Performance gains of more than an order of magnitude as compared to implementations for traditional central processing units are reached in the solution of the time dependent Schr\"odinger equation and the time dependent Dirac equation.

id: 1012.3928
title: Collective electromagnetic response of discrete metamaterial systems
authors: S. D. Jenkins, J. Ruostekoski
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3928
abstract: We develop a general formalism to describe the interactions between a discrete set of plasmonic resonators mediated by the electromagnetic field. The resulting system of equations for closely-spaced meta-atoms represents a cooperative metamaterial response and we find that collective interactions between asymmetric split-ring resonators arranged in a 2D lattice explains the recent experimental observations of system-size dependent narrowing of the transmission resonance linewidth. We further show that this cooperative narrowing depends sensitively on the lattice spacing.

id: 1012.3964
title: Electro thermal simulation of superconducting nanowire avalanche photodetectors
authors: Francesco Marsili, Faraz Najafi, Charles Herder, Karl K. Berggren
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3964
abstract: We developed an electro thermal model of NbN superconducting nanowire avalanche photodetectors (SNAPs) on sapphire substrates. SNAPs are single photon detectors consisting of the parallel connection of N superconducting nanowires. We extrapolated the physical constants of the model from experimental data and we simulated the time evolution of the device resistance, temperature and current by solving two coupled electrical and thermal differential equations describing the nanowires. The predictions of the model were in good quantitative agreement with the experimental results.

id: 1012.4167
title: Robust states of ultra-cold bosons in tilted optical lattices
authors: Moritz Hiller, Hannah Venzl, Tobias Zech, Bartlomiej Ole?, Florian Mintert, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures, amended and revised manuscript
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4167
abstract: We identify regular structures in the globally chaotic spectra of an interacting bosonic quantum gas in tilted periodic potentials. The associated eigenstates exhibit strong localization properties on the lattice, and are dynamically robust against external perturbations.

id: 1012.4264
title: A physics pathway to the Riemann hypothesis
authors: German Sierra
comments: 7 pages
journal: Julio Abad, "in Memoriam", edited by Manuel Asorey Carballeira, Jos\'e Vicente Garc\'ia Esteve, Manuel F. Ra\~nada, J. Sesma, 2009, ISBN 978-84-92774-04-3
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4264
abstract: We present a brief review of the spectral approach to the Riemann hypothesis, according to which the imaginary part of the non trivial zeros of the zeta function are the eigenvalues of the Hamiltonian of a quantum mechanical system.

id: 1012.4287
title: Divergence on the Horizon
authors: Judy Kupferman
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. Contribution to the proceedings of DICE 2010
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 306 012025, 2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4287
abstract: Black hole entropy has been shown by 't Hooft to diverge at the horizon, whereas entanglement entropy in general does not. We show that because the region near the horizon is a thermal state, entropy is linear to energy, and energy at a barrier is inversely proportional to barrier slope, and diverges at an infinitely sharp barrier as a result of position/momentum uncertainty. We show that 't Hooft's divergence at the black hole is also an example of momentum/position uncertainty, as seen by the fact that the "brick wall" which corrects it in fact smooths the sharp boundary into a more gradual slope. This removes a major obstacle to identification of black hole entropy with entanglement entropy.

id: 1012.4332
title: Quantum structural phase transition in chains of interacting atoms
authors: Efrat Shimshoni, Giovanna Morigi, Shmuel Fishman
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A83:032308,2011
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4332
abstract: A quasi one--dimensional system of trapped, repulsively interacting atoms (e.g., an ion chain) exhibits a structural phase transition from a linear chain to a zigzag structure, tuned by reducing the transverse trap potential or increasing the particle density. Since it is a one dimensional transition, it takes place at zero temperature and therefore quantum fluctuations dominate. In [Fishman, et al., Phys. Rev. B 77, 064111 (2008)] it was shown that the system close to the linear-zigzag instability is described by a $\phi^4$ model. We propose a mapping of the $\phi^4$ field theory to the well known Ising chain in a transverse field, which exhibits a quantum critical point. Based on this mapping, we estimate the quantum critical point in terms of the system parameters. This estimate gives the critical value of the transverse trap frequency for which the quantum phase transition occurs, and which has a finite, measurable deviation from the critical point evaluated within the classical theory. A measurement is suggested for atomic systems which can probe the critical trap frequency at sufficiently low temperatures T. We focus in particular on a trapped ion system, and estimate the implied limitations on T and on the interparticle distance. We conclude that the experimental observation of the quantum critical behavior is in principle accessible.

id: 1012.4492
title: Interaction ramps in a trapped Bose condensate
authors: F. E. Zimmer, Masudul Haque
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4492
abstract: Non-adiabatic interaction ramps are considered for trapped Bose-Einstein condensates. The deviation from adiabaticity is characterized through the heating or residual energy produced during the ramp. We find that the dependence of the heat on the ramp time is very sensitive to the ramp protocol. We explain features of this dependence through a single-parameter effective description based on the dynamics of the condensate size.

id: 1012.4526
title: On the functor l^2
authors: Chris Heunen
comments: 13 pages
journal: Computation, Logic, Games, and Quantum Foundations: 107-121, 2013
subjects: Category Theory (math.CT); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4526
abstract: We study the functor l^2 from the category of partial injections to the category of Hilbert spaces. The former category is finitely accessible, and in both categories homsets are algebraic domains. The functor preserves daggers, monoidal structures, enrichment, and various (co)limits, but has no adjoints. Up to unitaries, its direct image consists precisely of the partial isometries, but its essential image consists of all continuous linear maps between Hilbert spaces.

id: 1012.4589
title: Information Geometric Modeling of Scattering Induced Quantum Entanglement
authors: D.-H. Kim, S. A. Ali, C. Cafaro, S. Mancini
comments: 7 pages; v2 is better than v1
journal: Physics Letters A375, 2868 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4589
abstract: We present an information geometric analysis of entanglement generated by an s-wave scattering between two Gaussian wave packets. We conjecture that the pre and post-collisional quantum dynamical scenarios related to an elastic head-on collision are macroscopic manifestations emerging from microscopic statistical structures. We then describe them by uncorrelated and correlated Gaussian statistical models, respectively. This allows us to express the entanglement strength in terms of scattering potential and incident particle energies. Furthermore, we show how the entanglement duration can be related to the scattering potential and incident particle energies. Finally, we discuss the connection between entanglement and complexity of motion.

id: 1012.4613
title: A Closed Formula for the Barrier Transmission Coefficient in Quaternionic Quantum mechanics
authors: Stefano De Leo, Gisele Ducati, Vinicius Leonardi, Kenia Pereira
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 51, 113504-10 (2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4613
abstract: In this paper, we analyze, by using a matrix approach, the dynamics of a non-relativistic particle in presence of a quaternionic potential barrier. The matrix method used to solve the quaternionic Schrodinger equation allows to obtain a closed formula for the transmission coefficient. Up to now, in quaternionic quantum mechanics, almost every discussion on the dynamics of non-relativistic particle was motived by or evolved from numerical studies. A closed formula for the transmission coefficient stimulates an analysis of qualitative differences between complex and quaternionic quantum mechanics, and, by using the stationary phase method, gives the possibility to discuss transmission times.

id: 1012.4660
title: Atomic interferometer measurements of Berry's and Aharonov-Anandan's phases for isolated spins S > 1/2 non-linearly coupled to external fields
authors: Marie-Anne Bouchiat, Claude Bouchiat
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures, modifications in the introduction, two paragraphs added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052126 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4660
abstract: The aim of the present paper is to propose experiments for observing the significant features of Berry's phases for S>1, generated by spin-Hamiltonians endowed with two couplings, a magnetic dipole and an electric quadrupole one with external B and E fields, as theoretically studied in our previous work. The fields are assumed orthogonal, this mild restriction leading to geometric and algebraic simplifications. Alkali atoms appear as good candidates for interferometric measurements but there are challenges to be overcome. The only practical way to generate a suitable E-field is to use the ac Stark effect which induces an instability of the dressed atom. Besides atom loss, this might invalidate Berry's phase derivation but this latter problem can be solved by an appropriate detuning. The former puts an upper limit to the cycle duration, which is bounded below by the adiabatic condition. By relying upon our previous analysis of the non-adiabatic corrections, we have been able to reach a compromise for the $^{87}$Rb hf level F=2, m=0 state, which is our candidate for an interferometric measurement of the exotic Berry's phase generated by a rotation of the E-field around the fixed B-field. By a numerical simulation we have shown that the non-adiabatic corrections can be kept below the 0.1% level. As an alternative candidate, we discuss the chromium ground state J=S=3, where the instability problem is easily solved. We make a proposal to extend the measurement of Aharonov-Anandan's phase beyond S=1/2 to the $^{87}$Rb hf level F=m=1, by constructing, with the help of light-shifts, a Hamiltonian able to perform a parallel transport along a closed circuit upon the density matrix space, without any adiabatic constraint. In Appendix A, Berry's phase difference for S=3/2 and 1/2, m=1/2 states is used to perform an entanglement of 3 Qbits.

id: 1012.4663
title: Optimization of electron pumping by harmonic mixing
authors: Niklas Rohling, Frank Grossmann
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, accepted at Phys. Rev. B, this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 205310 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4663
abstract: For a symmetric bridge coupled to infinite leads, in the presence of a dipole-coupled external ac-field with harmonic mixing, we solve the Schr\"odinger equation in the time-domain using open boundary conditions as well as in the energy-domain using Floquet scattering theory. As this potential breaks parity and generalized parity, we find a non-vanishing average current. We then optimize the relative amplitude ratio between the fundamental and the second harmonic leading to a maximum in the pump current.

id: 1012.4708
title: The Nature and Origin of Time-asymmetric Spacetime Structures
authors: H. D. Zeh
comments: 21 pages pdf (3 figures). V2: Causal arguments regarding information loss paradox pointed out (Sect. 3). V3: Minor changes, one reference added. V4: Further comments. V5 required because of further delay of Handbook and the ongoing debate about the fate of black holes. Written for Springer Handbook of Spacetime Physics, A. Ashtekar and V. Petkov, edts., (Springer, Heidelberg, 2014)
journal: Springer Handbook of Spacetime, A. Ashtekar and V. Petkov, edts., (Springer, Berlin 2014), 185-196
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4708
abstract: Time-asymmetric spacetime structures, in particular those representing black holes and the expansion of the universe, are intimately related to other arrows of time, such as the second law and the retardation of radiation. The nature of the quantum arrow, often attributed to a collapse of the wave function, is essential, in particular, for understanding the much discussed "black hole information loss paradox". This paradox assumes a new form and can possibly be avoided in a consistent causal treatment that may be able to avoid horizons and singularities. The master arrow that would combine all arrows of time does not have to be identified with a direction of the formal time parameter that serves to formulate the dynamics as a succession of global states (a trajectory in configuration or Hilbert space). It may even change direction with respect to a fundamental physical clock such as the cosmic expansion parameter if this was formally extended either into a future contraction era or to negative "pre-big-bang" values.

id: 1012.4783
title: Dalgarno-Lewis Method Revisited
authors: A.B. Balantekin, A. Malkus
comments: 6 pages of LATEX
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4783
abstract: Proving the existence of an operator that connects non-perturbed states to perturbed states, an alternative derivation of the Dalgarno-Lewis method is given. To illustrate that the Dalgarno-Lewis method is an apt tool for algebraic Hamiltonians, the method is applied to one class of such systems, namely deep three-dimensional potentials with positive parity.

id: 1012.4873
title: Remnants of semiclassical bistability in the few-photon regime of cavity QED
authors: Joseph Kerckhoff, Michael A. Armen, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: Optics Express Vol. 19, Iss. 24, pp. 24468--24482 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4873
abstract: Broadband homodyne detection of the light transmitted by a Fabry-Perot cavity containing a strongly-coupled $^{133}$Cs atom is used to probe the dynamic optical response in a regime where semiclassical theory predicts bistability but strong quantum corrections should apply. While quantum fluctuations destabilize true equilibrium bistability, our observations confirm the existence of metastable states with finite lifetimes and a hysteretic response is apparent when the optical drive is modulated on comparable timescales. Our experiment elucidates remnant semiclassical behavior in the attojoule ($\sim10$ photon) regime of single-atom cavity QED, of potential significance for ultra-low power photonic signal processing.

id: 1012.4957
title: Bound Dimers in Bilayers of Cold Polar Molecules
authors: A. G. Volosniev, N. T. Zinner, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, B. Wunsch
comments: 25 pages, 9 figures, final version
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 125301
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4957
abstract: The exploration of cold polar molecules in different geometries is a rapidly developing experimental and theoretical pursuit. Recently, the implementation of optical lattices has enabled confinement in stacks of planes, the number of which is also controllable. Here we consider the bound state structure of two polar molecules confined in two adjacent planes as function of the polarization angle of the dipole moment of the molecules. We prove analytically and present numerical evidence for the existence of bound states for arbitrary dipole moments and polarization directions in this two-dimensional geometry. The spatial structure of the bound states is dominated by two-dimensional s- and p-waves, where the latter exceeds 40 percent over a large range of polarization angles for intermediate or strong dipole strength. Finally, we consider the influence of the dimer bound states on the potential many-body ground-state of the system.

id: 1012.4958
title: Applications of density matrix in the fractional quantum mechanics
authors: Jianping Dong
comments: 1 figure
journal: Physics Letters A, 375 (2011) 2787-2792
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4958
abstract: The many-body space fractional quantum system is studied using the density matrix method. We give the new results of the Thomas-Fermi model, and obtain the quantum pressure of the free electron gas. We also show the validity of the Hohenberg-Kohn theory in the space fractional quantum mechanics and generalize the density functional theory to the fractional quantum mechanics.

id: 1012.4990
title: CHSH and local hidden causality
authors: J.F. Geurdes
comments: 5 pages 0 figures
journal: Adv Studies Theor. Phys., Vol. 4, 2010, no. 20, 945 - 949
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4990
abstract: Mathematics equivalent to Bell's derivation of the inequalities, also allows a local hidden variables explanation for the correlation between distant measurements.

id: 1012.5026
title: Manipulation of electron orbitals in hard-wall InAs/InP nanowire quantum dots
authors: Stefano Roddaro, Andrea Pescaglini, Daniele Ercolani, Lucia Sorba, Fabio Beltram
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5026
abstract: We present a novel technique for the manipulation of the energy spectrum of hard-wall InAs/InP nanowire quantum dots. By using two local gate electrodes, we induce a strong electric dipole moment on the dot and demonstrate the controlled modification of its electronic orbitals. Our approach allows us to dramatically enhance the single-particle energy spacing between the first two quantum levels in the dot and thus to increment the working temperature of our InAs/InP single-electron transistors. Our devices display a very robust modulation of the conductance even at liquid nitrogen temperature, while allowing an ultimate control of the electron filling down to the last free carrier. Potential further applications of the technique to time-resolved spin manipulation are also discussed.

id: 1012.5116
title: Measuring entanglement using quantum quenches
authors: John Cardy
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. v2: references added, minor text changes
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:150404,2011
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5116
abstract: We show that block entanglement entropies in one-dimensional systems close to a quantum critical point can in principle be measured in terms of the population of low-lying energy levels following a certain type of local quantum quench.

id: 1012.5166
title: DNA waves and water
authors: L. Montagnier, J. Aissa, E. Del Giudice, C. Lavallee, A. Tedeschi, G. Vitiello
comments: Invited talk at the DICE2010 Conference, Castiglioncello, Italy September 2010
journal: 
subjects: Other Quantitative Biology (q-bio.OT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5166
abstract: Some bacterial and viral DNA sequences have been found to induce low frequency electromagnetic waves in high aqueous dilutions. This phenomenon appears to be triggered by the ambient electromagnetic background of very low frequency. We discuss this phenomenon in the framework of quantum field theory. A scheme able to account for the observations is proposed. The reported phenomenon could allow to develop highly sensitive detection systems for chronic bacterial and viral infections.

id: 1012.5194
title: Strong-coupling superconductivity beyond BCS and the key pairing interaction in cuprate superconductors
authors: A. S. Alexandrov
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure, extended abstract for IOP CMMP10 conference (14-16 December 2010, University of Warwick, UK)
journal: 2011 J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 286 012012
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5194
abstract: It has been now over 20 years since the discovery of the first high temperature superconductor by Georg Bednorz and Alex Mueller in 1986 and yet, despite intensive effort, no universally accepted theory exists about the origin of high-temperature superconductivity. A controversial issue on whether the electron-phonon interaction (EPI) is crucial for high-temperature superconductivity or weak and inessential has been one of the most challenging problems of contemporary condensed matter physics. I briefly review our recent theoretical results, which in conjunction with a great number of experimental observations including isotope effects, angle-resolved photoemission (ARPES), pumpprobe and tunnelling spectroscopies, normal state diamagnetism and magnetic quantum oscillations provide the definite answer to this fundamental question. The true origin of high-temperature superconductivity is found in a significant finite-range Froehlich EPI of nonadibatic polaronic carriers which is beyond the conventional BCS-Migdal-Eliashberg approximation.

id: 1012.5260
title: Hanbury Brown and Twiss correlations across the Bose-Einstein condensation threshold
authors: Aur¨¦lien Perrin, Robert B¨¹cker, Stephanie manz, Thomas Betz, Christian Koller, Thomas Plisson, Thorsten Schumm, J?rg Schmiedmayer
comments: 
journal: Nat. Phys. 8, 195 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5260
abstract: Hanbury Brown and Twiss (HBT) correlations, i.e. correlations in far-field intensity fluctuations, yield fundamental information on the quantum statistics of light sources, as highlighted after the discovery of photon bunching. Drawing on the analogy between photons and atoms, similar measurements have been performed for matter-wave sources, probing density fluctuations of expanding ultracold Bose gases. Here we use two-point density correlations to study how coherence is gradually established when crossing the Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) threshold. Our experiments reveal a persistent multimode character of the emerging matter-wave as seen in the non-trivial spatial shape of the correlation functions for all probed source geometries from nearly isotropic to quasi-one-dimensional (quasi-1D), and for all probed temperatures. The qualitative features of our observations are captured by ideal Bose gas theory, the quantitative differences illustrate the role of particle interactions.

id: 1012.5350
title: On affine maps on non-compact convex sets and some characterizations of finite-dimensional solid ellipsoids
authors: Gen Kimura, Koji Nuida
comments: 25 pages, a part of this work is to be presented at QIP 2011, Singapore, January 10-14, 2011; (v2) References updated (v3) Introduction and references updated (v4) Re-organization of the paper (results not added)
journal: 
subjects: Geometric Topology (math.GT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5350
abstract: Convex geometry has recently attracted great attention as a framework to formulate general probabilistic theories. In this framework, convex sets and affine maps represent the state spaces of physical systems and the possible dynamics, respectively. In the first part of this paper, we present a result on separation of simplices and balls (up to affine equivalence) among all compact convex sets in two- and three-dimensional Euclidean spaces, which focuses on the set of extreme points and the action of affine transformations on it. Regarding the above-mentioned axiomatization of quantum physics, our result corresponds to the case of simplest (2-level) quantum system. We also discuss a possible extension to higher dimensions. In the second part, towards generalizations of the framework of general probabilistic theories and several existing results including ones in the first part from the case of compact and finite-dimensional physical systems as in most of the literatures to more general cases, we study some fundamental properties of convex sets and affine maps that are relevant to the above subject.

id: 1012.5384
title: The Geometry of (non) abelian adiabatic pumping
authors: R. Leone
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: J.Phys.A44:295301,2011
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5384
abstract: We give a gauge description of the adiabatic charge pumping in closed systems, both in Abelian and non-Abelian processes, and by means of asymptotic Wilson loops in a suitable parameter manifold. Our geometric formulation provides new insights into this issue, and a very simple algorithm for numerical computations. Indeed, as we show first, discretized Berry--Wilczeck--Zee holonomies are easy to implement. Finally, we study non-Abelian pumping in a solvable four-state model, already used in several contexts, to demonstrate the relevance of our approach.

id: 1012.5391
title: Virial Theorem and Hypervirial Theorem in a spherical geometry
authors: Yan Li, Fu-Lin Zhang, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 13 pages 1 fig
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 365306 (11pp)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5391
abstract: The Virial Theorem in the one- and two-dimensional spherical geometry are presented, in both classical and quantum mechanics. Choosing a special class of Hypervirial operators, the quantum Hypervirial relations in the spherical spaces are obtained. With the aid of the Hellmann-Feynman Theorem, these relations can be used to formulate a \emph{perturbation theorem without wave functions}, corresponding to the Hypervirial-Hellmann-Feynman Theorem perturbation theorem of Euclidean geometry. The one-dimensional harmonic oscillator and two-dimensional Coulomb system in the spherical spaces are given as two sample examples to illustrate the perturbation method.

id: 1012.5395
title: Decoherence of the two-level system coupled to a fermionic reservoir and the information transfer from it to the environment
authors: Pei Wang
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5395
abstract: We study the evolution of reduced density matrix of an impurity coupled to a Fermi sea after the coupling is switched on at time $t=0$. We find the non-diagonal elements of the reduced density matrix decay exponentially, and the decay constant is the impurity level width $\Gamma$. And we study the information transfer rate between the impurity and the Fermi sea, which also decays exponentially. And the decay constant is $k\Gamma$ with $k=2\sim 4$. Our results reveal the relation between information transfer rate and decoherence rate.

id: 1012.5514
title: Molecular dynamics simulations of oxide memristors: thermal effects
authors: S. E. Savel'ev, A. S. Alexandrov, A. M. Bratkovsky, R. Stanley Williams
comments: submit/0169777; 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Applied Physics A: Materials Science & Processing (2011) Volume 102, Number 4, 891
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5514
abstract: We have extended our recent molecular-dynamic simulations of memristors to include the effect of thermal inhomogeneities on mobile ionic species appearing during operation of the device. Simulations show a competition between an attractive short-ranged interaction between oxygen vacancies and an enhanced local temperature in creating/destroying the conducting oxygen channels. Such a competition would strongly affect the performance of the memristive devices.

id: 1012.5581
title: Similarity between quantum mechanics and thermodynamics: Entropy, temperature, and Carnot cycle
authors: Sumiyoshi Abe, Shinji Okuyama
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 021121 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5581
abstract: Similarity between quantum mechanics and thermodynamics is discussed. It is found that if the Clausius equality is imposed on the Shannon entropy and the analogue of the heat quantity, then the value of the Shannon entropy comes to formally coincide with that of the von Neumann entropy of the canonical density matrix, and pure-state quantum mechanics apparently transmutes into quantum thermodynamics. The corresponding quantum Carnot cycle of a simple two-state model of a particle confined in a one-dimensional infinite potential well is studied, and its efficiency is shown to be identical to the classical one.

id: 1012.5583
title: Maximum-power quantum-mechanical Carnot engine
authors: Sumiyoshi Abe
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 041117 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5583
abstract: In their work [J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 33, 4427 (2000)], Bender, Brody, and Meister have shown by employing a two-state model of a particle confined in the one-dimensional infinite potential well that it is possible to construct a quantum-mechanical analog of the Carnot engine through the changes of both the width of the well and the quantum state in a specific manner. Here, a discussion is developed about realizing the maximum power of such an engine, where the width of the well moves at low but finite speed. The efficiency of the engine at the maximum power output is found to be universal independently of any of the parameters contained in the model.

id: 1012.5712
title: Graphical Method for Effective Interaction with a New Vertex Function
authors: K. Suzuki, R. Okamoto, H. Kumagai, S. Fujii
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.C83:024304,2011
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5712
abstract: Introducing a new vertex function, Z(E), of an energy variable E, we derive a new equation for the effective interaction. The equation is obtained by replacing the Q-box in the Krenciglowa-Kuo (KK) method by Z(E). This new approach can be viewed as an extension of the KK method. We show that this equation can be solved both in iterative and non-iterative ways. We observe that the iteration procedure with Z(E) brings about fast convergence compared to the usual KK method. It is shown that, as in the KK approach, the procedure of calculating the effective interaction can be reduced to determining the true eigenvalues of the original Hamiltonian H and they can be obtained as the positions of intersections of graphs generated from Z(E). We find that this graphical method yields always precise results and reproduces any of the true eigenvalues of H. The calculation in the present approach can be made regardless of overlaps with the model space and energy differences between unperturbed energies and the eigenvalues of H. We find also that Z(E) is a well-behaved function of E and has no singularity. These characteristics of the present approach ensure stability in actual calculations and would be helpful to resolve some difficulties due to the presence of poles in the Q-box. Performing test calculations we verify numerically theoretical predictions made in the present approach.

id: 1012.5761
title: Probing non-Abelian statistics of Majorana fermions in ultracold atomic superfluid
authors: Shi-Liang Zhu, L. B. Shao, Z. D. Wang, Lu-Ming Duan
comments: 4 pages; Add detailed discussion of feasibility of the scheme;add refs
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:100404,2011
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5761
abstract: We propose an experiment to directly probe the non-Abelian statistics of Majorana fermions by braiding them in an s-wave superfluid of ultracold atoms. We show different orders of braiding operations give orthogonal output states that can be distinguished through Raman spectroscopy. Realization of Majorana bound states in an s-wave superfluid requires strong spin-orbital coupling and a controllable Zeeman field in the perpendicular direction. We present a simple laser configuration to generate the artificial spin-orbital coupling and the required Zeeman field in the dark state subspace.

id: 1012.5848
title: Photonic spectral density of coupled microwave cavities
authors: K. Ziegler
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Laser Physics 22, 331 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5848
abstract: We study a pair of anharmonic microwave cavities that is connected by an optical fiber. The photonic spectral density characterizes the evolution of the coupled cavities after the system has been prepared in a Fock or N00N state. We evaluate the photonic spectral density within the recursive projection method and find that the anharmonicity has no substantial effect on the spectral properties. In all cases the photonic spectral density has a Gaussian envelope for large photon numbers.

id: 1012.6035
title: Models of quantum computation and quantum programming languages
authors: J. A. Miszczak
comments: 23 pages, 10 figures, 9 listings
journal: Bull. Pol. Acad. Sci.-Tech. Sci., Vol. 59, No. 3 (2011), pp. 305-324
subjects: Programming Languages (cs.PL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.6035
abstract: The goal of the presented paper is to provide an introduction to the basic computational models used in quantum information theory. We review various models of quantum Turing machine, quantum circuits and quantum random access machine (QRAM) along with their classical counterparts. We also provide an introduction to quantum programming languages, which are developed using the QRAM model. We review the syntax of several existing quantum programming languages and discuss their features and limitations.

id: 1012.4665
title: Riemann hypothesis and Quantum Mechanics
authors: Michel Planat, Patrick Sol¨¦, Sami Omar
comments: version to appear in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J.Phys.A44:145203,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Number Theory (math.NT); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4665
abstract: In their 1995 paper, Jean-Beno\^{i}t Bost and Alain Connes (BC) constructed a quantum dynamical system whose partition function is the Riemann zeta function $\zeta(\beta)$, where $\beta$ is an inverse temperature. We formulate Riemann hypothesis (RH) as a property of the low temperature Kubo-Martin-Schwinger (KMS) states of this theory. More precisely, the expectation value of the BC phase operator can be written as $$\phi_{\beta}(q)=N_{q-1}^{\beta-1} \psi_{\beta-1}(N_q), $$ where $N_q=\prod_{k=1}^qp_k$ is the primorial number of order $q$ and $ \psi_b $ a generalized Dedekind $\psi$ function depending on one real parameter $b$ as $$ \psi_b (q)=q \prod_{p \in \mathcal{P,}p \vert q}\frac{1-1/p^b}{1-1/p}.$$ Fix a large inverse temperature $\beta >2.$ The Riemann hypothesis is then shown to be equivalent to the inequality $$ N_q |\phi_\beta (N_q)|\zeta(\beta-1) >e^\gamma \log \log N_q, $$ for $q$ large enough. Under RH, extra formulas for high temperatures KMS states ($1.5< \beta <2$) are derived.

id: 1012.3357
title: Some Properties of an Infinite Family of Deformations of the Harmonic Oscillator
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 10 pages, no figure; to be published in Proceedings Symmetries in Nature: Symposium in Memoriam of Marcos Moshinsky, Cuernavaca, Mexico, Aug. 9-13, 2010
journal: Symmetries in Nature - Symposium in Memoriam of Marcos Moshinsky, AIP Conf. Proc., Vol. 1323, Amer. Inst. Phys., Melville, NY, 2010, 275-282
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3357
abstract: In memory of Marcos Moshinsky, who promoted the algebraic study of the harmonic oscillator, some results recently obtained on an infinite family of deformations of such a system are reviewed. This set, which was introduced by Tremblay, Turbiner, and Winternitz, consists in some Hamiltonians $H_k$ on the plane, depending on a positive real parameter $k$. Two algebraic extensions of $H_k$ are described. The first one, based on the elements of the dihedral group $D_{2k}$ and a Dunkl operator formalism, provides a convenient tool to prove the superintegrability of $H_k$ for odd integer $k$. The second one, employing two pairs of fermionic operators, leads to a supersymmetric extension of $H_k$ of the same kind as the familiar Freedman and Mende super-Calogero model. Some connection between both extensions is also outlined.

id: 1012.4206
title: Magnetic field-induced control of transport in multiterminal focusing quantum billiards
authors: Christian Morfonios, Daniel Buchholz, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 205316 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4206
abstract: By exploring the four-terminal transmission of a semi-elliptic open quantum billiard in dependence of its geometry and an applied magnetic field, it is shown that a controllable switching of currents between the four terminals can be obtained. Depending on the eccentricity of the semi-ellipse and the width and placement of the leads, high transmittivity at zero magnetic field is reached either through states guided along the curved boundary or focused onto the straight boundary of the billiard. For small eccentricity, attachment of leads at the ellipse foci can yield optimized corresponding transmission, while departures from this behavior demonstrate the inapplicability of classical considerations in the deep quantum regime. The geometrically determined transmission is altered by the phase-modulating and deflecting effect of the magnetic field, which switches the pairs of leads connected by high transmittivity. It is shown that the elliptic boundary is responsible for these very special transport properties. At higher field strengths edge states form and the multiterminal transmission coefficients are determined by the topology of the billiard. The combination of magnetotransport with geometrically optimized transmission behavior leads to an efficient control of the current through the multiterminal structure.

id: 1012.5182
title: First-order quantum correction to the Larmor radiation from a moving charge in a spatially homogeneous time-dependent electric field
authors: Kazuhiro Yamamoto, Gen Nakamura
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication in Physical Review D
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:045030,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.5182
abstract: First-order quantum correction to the Larmor radiation is investigated on the basis of the scalar QED on a homogeneous background of time-dependent electric field, which is a generalization of a recent work by Higuchi and Walker so as to be extended for an accelerated charged particle in a relativistic motion. We obtain a simple approximate formula for the quantum correction in the limit of the relativistic motion when the direction of the particle motion is parallel to that of the electric field.

id: 1012.4529
title: Exotic supersymmetry of the kink-antikink crystal, and the infinite period limit
authors: Mikhail S. Plyushchay, Adrian Arancibia, Luis-Miguel Nieto
comments: 34 pages, 3 figures; matches the published version
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:065025,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.4529
abstract: Some time ago, Thies et al. showed that the Gross-Neveu model with a bare mass term possesses a kink-antikink crystalline phase. Corresponding self-consistent solutions, known earlier in polymer physics, are described by a self-isospectral pair of one-gap periodic Lame potentials with a Darboux displacement depending on the bare mass. We study an unusual supersymmetry of such a second order Lame system, and show that the associated first order Bogoliubov-de Gennes Hamiltonian possesses the own nonlinear supersymmetry. The Witten index is ascertained to be zero for both of the related exotic supersymmetric structures, each of which admits several alternatives for the choice of a grading operator. A restoration of the discrete chiral symmetry at zero value of the bare mass, when the kink-antikink crystalline condensate transforms into the kink crystal, is shown to be accompanied by structural changes in both of the supersymmetries. We find that the infinite period limit may or may not change the index. We also explain the origin of the Darboux dressing phenomenon recently observed in a non-periodic self-isospectral one-gap Poschl-Teller system, which describes kink-antikink baryons of Dashen, Hasslacher and Neveu.

id: 1012.2612
title: Exciton polarization, fine structure splitting and quantum dot asymmetry under uniaxial stress
authors: Ming Gong, Weiwei Zhang, Guang-Can Guo, Lixin He
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 227401 (2011)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.2612
abstract: We derive a general relation between the fine structure splitting (FSS) and the exciton polarization angle of self-assembled quantum dots (QDs) under uniaxial stress. We show that the FSS lower bound under external stress can be predicted by the exciton polarization angle and FSS under zero stress. The critical stress can also be determined by monitoring the change in exciton polarization angle. We confirm the theory by performing atomistic pseudopotential calculations for the InAs/GaAs QDs. The work provides a deep insight into the dots asymmetry and their optical properties, and a useful guide in selecting QDs with smallest FSS which are crucial in entangled photon sources applications.

id: 1012.0563
title: Intravalley Multiple Scattering of Quasiparticles in Graphene
authors: J. Y. Vaishnav, Justin Q. Anderson, Jamie D. Walls
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 165437 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.0563
abstract: We develop a theoretical description of intravalley scattering of quasiparticles in graphene from multiple short-range scatterers of size much greater than the carbon-carbon bond length. Our theory provides a method to rapidly calculate the Green's function in graphene for arbitrary configurations of scatterers. We demonstrate that non-collinear multiple scattering trajectories generate pseudospin rotations that alter quasiparticle interference, resulting in significant modifications to the shape, intensity, and pattern of the interference fringes in the local density of states (LDOS). We illustrate these effects via theoretical calculations of the LDOS for a variety of scattering configurations in single layer graphene. A clear understanding of impurity scattering in graphene is a step towards exploiting graphene's unique properties to build future devices.

id: 1012.3431
title: Bosonic and fermionic dipoles on a ring
authors: Sascha Z?llner, G. M. Bruun, C. J. Pethick, S. M. Reimann
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 035301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1012.3431
abstract: We show that dipolar bosons and fermions confined in a quasi-one-dimensional ring trap exhibit a rich variety of states because their interaction is inhomogeneous. For purely repulsive interactions, with increasing strength of the dipolar coupling there is a crossover from a gas-like state to an inhomogeneous crystal-like one. For small enough angles between the dipoles and the plane of the ring, there are regions with attractive interactions, and clustered states can form.

