id: 1101.0024
title: Dynamical Decoupling of Qubits in Spin Bath under Periodic Quantum Control
authors: Jun-Ting Kao, Jo-Tzu Hung, Pochung Chen, Chung-Yu Mou
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062120 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0024
abstract: We investigate the feasibility for the preservation of coherence and entanglement of one and two spin qubits coupled to an interacting quantum spin-1/2 chain within the dynamical decoupling (DD) scheme. The performance is examined by counting number of computing pulses that can be applied periodically with period of $T$ before qubits become decoherent, while identical decoupling pulse sequence is applied within each cycle. By considering pulses with mixed directions and finite width controlled by magnetic fields, it is shown that pulse-width accumulation degrades the performance of sequences with larger number of pulses and feasible magnetic fields in practice restrict the consideration to sequences with number of decoupling pulses being less than 10 within each cycle. Furthermore, within each cycle $T$, exact nontrivial pulse sequences are found for the first time to suppress the qubit-bath coupling to $O(T^{N+1})$ progressively with minimum number of pulses being $4,7,12$ for $N=1,2,3$. These sequences, when applied to all qubits, are shown to preserve both the entanglement and coherence. Based on time-dependent density matrix renormalization, our numerical results show that for modest magnetic fields (10-40 Tesla) available in laboratories, the overall performance is optimized when number of pulses in each cycle is 4 or 7 with pulse directions be alternating between x and z. Our results provide useful guides for the preservation of coherence and entanglement of spin qubits in solid state.

id: 1101.0025
title: Non-Adiabatic Solution to the Time Dependent Quantum Harmonic Oscillator
authors: C. A. M. de Melo, B. M. Pimentel, J. A. Ramirez
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0025
abstract: Using Schwinger Variational Principle we solve the problem of quantum harmonic oscillator with time dependent frequency. Here, we do not take the usual approach which implicitly assumes an adiabatic behavior for the frequency. Instead, we propose a new solution where the frequency only needs continuity in its first derivative or to have a finite set of removable discontinuities.

id: 1101.0032
title: Quantum dynamics of spatial decoherence of two atoms in a ring cavity
authors: Li Zheng, Chui-Ping Yang, Franco Nori
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062106 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0032
abstract: We study the spatial decoherence dynamics for the relative position of two atoms in a singlemode ring cavity. We find that the spatial decoherence of the two atoms depends strongly on their relative position. Taking into account the spatial degrees of freedom, we investigate the entanglement dynamics of the internal states of the two atoms. It is shown that the entanglement decays to almost zero in a finite time, and the disentanglement time depends on the width of the wave packets describing the atomic spatial distribution.

id: 1101.0064
title: Dual universality of hash functions and its applications to quantum cryptography
authors: Toyohiro Tsurumaru, Masahito Hayashi
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures; revised argument concerning the relation with the \delta-biased family
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, Volume 59, Issue 7, 4700 - 4717 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0064
abstract: In this paper, we introduce the concept of dual universality of hash functions and present its applications to quantum cryptography. We begin by establishing the one-to-one correspondence between a linear function family {\cal F} and a code family {\cal C}, and thereby defining \varepsilon-almost dual universal_2 hash functions, as a generalization of the conventional universal_2 hash functions. Then we show that this generalized (and thus broader) class of hash functions is in fact sufficient for the security of quantum cryptography. This result can be explained in two different formalisms. First, by noting its relation to the \delta-biased family introduced by Dodis and Smith, we demonstrate that Renner's two-universal hashing lemma is generalized to our class of hash functions. Next, we prove that the proof technique by Shor and Preskill can be applied to quantum key distribution (QKD) systems that use our generalized class of hash functions for privacy amplification. While Shor-Preskill formalism requires an implementer of a QKD system to explicitly construct a linear code of the Calderbank-Shor-Steane type, this result removes the existing difficulty of the construction a linear code of CSS code by replacing it by the combination of an ordinary classical error correcting code and our proposed hash function. We also show that a similar result applies to the quantum wire-tap channel. Finally we compare our results in the two formalisms and show that, in typical QKD scenarios, the Shor-Preskill--type argument gives better security bounds in terms of the trace distance and Holevo information, than the method based on the \delta-biased family.

id: 1101.0073
title: Entanglement Swapping Model of DNA Replication
authors: Onur Pusuluk, Cemsinan Deliduman
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures; v2: some clarifications, references added; v3: Swapping protocol revised, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0073
abstract: Molecular biology explains function of molecules by their geometrical and electronical structures that are mainly determined by utilization of quantum effects in chemistry. However, further quantum effects are not thought to play any significant role in the essential processes of life. On the contrary, consideration of quantum circuits/protocols and organic molecules as software and hardware of living systems that are co-optimized during evolution, may be useful to overcome the difficulties raised by biochemical complexity and to understand the physics of life. In this sense, we review quantum information-theoretic approaches to the process of DNA replication and propose a new model in which 1) molecular recognition of a nucleobase is assumed to trigger an intrabase entanglement corresponding to a superposition of different tautomer forms and 2) pairing of complementary nucleobases is described by swapping intrabase entanglements with interbase entanglements. We examine possible biochemical realizations of quantum circuits/protocols to be used to obtain intrabase and interbase entanglements. We deal with the problem of cellular decoherence by using the theory of decoherence-free subspaces and subsystems. Lastly, we discuss feasibility of the computational or experimental verification of the model and future research directions.

id: 1101.0074
title: Room-temperature steady-state optomechanics entanglement on a chip
authors: Chang-Ling Zou, Xu-Bo Zou, Fang-Wen Sun, Zheng-Fu Han, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physics Review A 84, 032317 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0074
abstract: A potential experimental system, based on the Silicon Nitride (SiN) material, is proposed to generate steady-state room-temperature optomechanical entanglement. In the proposed structure, the nanostring interacts dispersively and reactively with the microdisk cavity via the evanescent field. We study the role of both dispersive and reactive coupling in generating optomechanical entanglement, and show that the room-temperature entanglement can be effectively obtained through the dispersive couplings within the reasonable experimental parameters. In particular, we find, in the high Temperature ($T$) and high mechanical qualify factor ($Q_{m}$) limit, the logarithmic entanglement depends only on the ratio $T/Q_{m}$. This means that improvements in the material quantity and structure design may lead to more efficient generation of stationary high-temperature entanglement.

id: 1101.0083
title: Flux qubits shed a new light on BCS theory and high-$T_c$ superconductivity
authors: Robert Alicki
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0083
abstract: A simple microscopic model of a small superconducting loop interrupted by Josephson junction (flux qubit) allows to compute from the experimental data of Wal et.al \cite{Wal} an important parameter - the density of Cooper pairs at zero temperature. This density is determined by the cut-off energy in the BCS model and agrees with the original BCS suggestion but is lower by two orders of magnitude than the value accepted in the modern literature. The immediate consequences of this result are: the validity of the strong coupling BCS model, a plausible picture of electrons recombination into Cooper pairs, and a much weaker condition for the appearance of high-temperature superconductivity. Another consequence is that the popular interpretation of Josephson qubits as macroscopic quantum systems is replaced by a picture of qubit states being superpositions of the ground state and the state containing only a single excited Cooper pair.

id: 1101.0146
title: Ultrahigh-Q mechanical oscillators through optical trapping
authors: D.E. Chang, K.-K. Ni, O. Painter, H.J. Kimble
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0146
abstract: Rapid advances are being made toward optically cooling a single mode of a micro-mechanical system to its quantum ground state and observing quantum behavior at macroscopic scales. Reaching this regime in room-temperature environments requires a stringent condition on the mechanical quality factor $Q_m$ and frequency $f_m$, $Q_{m}f_{m}{\gtrsim}k_{B}T_{{bath}}/h$, which so far has been marginally satisfied only in a small number of systems. Here we propose and analyze a new class of systems that should enable unprecedented $Q_{m}f_m$ values. The technique is based upon using optical forces to "trap" and stiffen the motion of a tethered mechanical structure, thereby freeing the resultant mechanical frequencies and decoherence rates from underlying material properties.

id: 1101.0199
title: Amplifying Single-Photon Nonlinearity Using Weak Measurement
authors: Amir Feizpour, Xingxing Xing, Aephraim M. Steinberg
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 133603 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0199
abstract: We show that weak measurement can be used to "amplify" optical nonlinearities at the single- photon level, such that the effect of one properly post-selected photon on a classical beam may be as large as that of many un-post-selected photons. We find that "weak-value amplification" offers a marked improvement in signal-to-noise ratio in the presence of technical noise with long correlation times. Unlike previous weak measurement experiments, our proposed scheme has no classical equivalent.

id: 1101.0205
title: Multiqubit tunable phase gate of one qubit simultaneously controlling $n$ qubits in a cavity
authors: Chui-Ping Yang, Shi-Biao Zheng, Franco Nori
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 062326 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0205
abstract: We propose how to realize a multiqubit tunable phase gate of one qubit simultaneously controlling $n$ qubits with four-level quantum systems in a cavity or coupled to a resonator. Each of the $n$ two-qubit controlled-phase (CP) gates involved in this multiqubit phase gate has a shared control qubit but a {\it different} target qubit. In this propose, the two lowest levels of each system represent the two logical states of a qubit while the two higher-energy intermediate levels are used for the gate implementation. The method presented here operates essentially by creating a single photon through the control qubit, which then induces a phase shift to the state of each target qubit. The phase shifts on each target qubit can be adjusted by changing the Rabi frequencies of the pulses applied to the target qubit systems. The operation time for the gate implementation is independent of the number of qubits, and neither adjustment of the qubit level spacings nor adjustment of the cavity mode frequency during the gate operation is required by this proposal. It is also noted that this approach can be applied to implement certain types of significant multiqubit phase gates, e.g., the multiqubit phase gate consisting of $n$ two-qubit CP gates which are key elements in quantum Fourier transforms. A possible physical implementation of our approach is presented. Our proposal is quite general, and can be applied to physical systems such as various types of superconducting devices coupled to a resonator and trapped atoms in a cavity.

id: 1101.0264
title: Subadditivity of the minimum output entropy and superactivation of the classical capacity of quantum multiple access channels
authors: Lukasz Czekaj
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042304 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0264
abstract: We study subadditivity of the minimum output entropy ($H_{min}$) of quantum multiple access channels (MACs). We provide an example of violation of the additivity theorem for $H_{min}$ known in classical information theory. Our result is based on a fundamental property of $MACs$ i.e. independence of each sender. The channels used in the example can be constructed explicitly. On the basis of subadditivity of $H_{min}$ we also provide an example of extremal superadditivity (super activation) of the classical capacity region of MACs.

id: 1101.0292
title: Aperiodic dynamical decoupling sequences in presence of pulse errors
authors: Zhi-Hui Wang, V. V. Dobrovitski
comments: updated references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0292
abstract: Dynamical decoupling (DD) is a promising tool for preserving the quantum states of qubits. However, small imperfections in the control pulses can seriously affect the fidelity of decoupling, and qualitatively change the evolution of the controlled system at long times. Using both analytical and numerical tools, we theoretically investigate the effect of the pulse errors accumulation for two aperiodic DD sequences, the Uhrig's DD UDD) protocol [G. S. Uhrig, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 98}, 100504 (2007)], and the Quadratic DD (QDD) protocol [J. R. West, B. H. Fong and D. A. Lidar, Phys. Rev. Lett {\bf 104}, 130501 (2010)]. We consider the implementation of these sequences using the electron spins of phosphorus donors in silicon, where DD sequences are applied to suppress dephasing of the donor spins. The dependence of the decoupling fidelity on different initial states of the spins is the focus of our study. We investigate in detail the initial drop in the DD fidelity, and its long-term saturation. We also demonstrate that by applying the control pulses along different directions, the performance of QDD protocols can be noticeably improved, and explain the reason of such an improvement. Our results can be useful for future implementations of the aperiodic decoupling protocols, and for better understanding of the impact of errors on quantum control of spins.

id: 1101.0303
title: Model-Checking Linear-Time Properties of Quantum Systems
authors: Mingsheng Ying, Yangjia Li, Nengkun Yu, Yuan Feng
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0303
abstract: We define a formal framework for reasoning about linear-time properties of quantum systems in which quantum automata are employed in the modeling of systems and certain closed subspaces of state (Hilbert) spaces are used as the atomic propositions about the behavior of systems. We provide an algorithm for verifying invariants of quantum automata. Then automata-based model-checking technique is generalized for the verification of safety properties recognizable by reversible automata and omega-properties recognizable by reversible Buechi automata.

id: 1101.0308
title: Spin Squeezing and Quantum Correlations
authors: A.R. Usha Devi, Sudha
comments: 13 pages, No figures; To be published in Asian Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0308
abstract: Recent years have witnessed revolutionary improvement in the production, manipulation, characterization and quantification of multiatom (multiqubit) states - because of their promising applications in high precision atomic clocks, atomic interferrometry, quantum metrology and quantum information protocols. In the characterization and quantification of non-classical atomic correlations, two concepts namely, spin squeezing and quantum entanglement emerge. While spin squeezing originates from the uncertainty relation between atomic collective angular momentum operators, entanglement is a peculiar phenomena arising due to superpositions in the multiparticle Hilbert space. Here, we outline different quantitative measures of spin squeezing and discuss the intrinsic relation of spin squeezing with quantum entanglement in multiqubit systems.

id: 1101.0351
title: A physical interpretation for the non-Hermitian Hamiltonian
authors: L. Jin, Z. Song
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 375304 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0351
abstract: We explore a way of finding the link between a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian and a Hermitian one. Based on the analysis of Bethe Ansatz solutions for a class of non-Hermitian Hamiltonians and the scattering problems for the corresponding Hermitian Hamiltonians. It is shown that a scattering state of an arbitrary Hermitian lattice embedded in a chain as the scattering center shares the same wave function with the corresponding non-Hermitian tight binding lattice, which consists of the Hermitian lattice with two additional on-site complex potentials, no matter the non-Hermitian is broken PT symmetry or even non-PT. An exactly solvable model is presented to demonstrate the main points of this article.

id: 1101.0354
title: Quantum nondemolition measurements of a flux qubit coupled to a noisy detector
authors: Wei Jiang, Yang Yu, Lianfu Wei
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0354
abstract: We theoretically study the measurement-induced dephasing caused by back action noise in quantum nondemolition measurements of a superconducting flux qubit which is coupled to a superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID). Our analytical results indicate that information on qubit flows from qubit to detector, while quantum fluctuations which may cause dephasing of the qubit also inject to qubit. Furthermore, the measurement probability is frequency dependent in a short time scale and has a close relationship with the measurement-induced dephasing. When the detuning between driven and bare resonator equals coupling strength, we will access the state of qubit more easily. In other words, we obtain the maximum measurement rate. Finally, we analyzed mixed effect caused by coupling between non-diagonal term and external variable. We found that the initial information of qubit is destroyed due to quantum tunneling between the qubit states.

id: 1101.0360
title: Resonant tunneling controlled by laser and constant electric fields
authors: J. Z. Kaminski, E. Saczuk
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0360
abstract: We develop the concept of scattering matrix and we use it to perform stable numerical calculations of resonant tunneling of electrons through a multiple potential barrier in a semiconductor heterostructure. Electrons move in two external nonperturbative electric fields: constant and oscillating in time. We apply our algorithm for different strengths and spatial configurations of the fields.

id: 1101.0403
title: Impossibility of Succinct Quantum Proofs for Collision-Freeness
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0403
abstract: We show that any quantum algorithm to decide whether a function f:[n]->[n] is a permutation or far from a permutation must make Omega(n^{1/3}/w) queries to f, even if the algorithm is given a w-qubit quantum witness in support of f being a permutation. This implies that there exists an oracle A such that SZK^A is not contained in QMA^A, answering an eight-year-old open question of the author. Indeed, we show that relative to some oracle, SZK is not in the counting class A0PP defined by Vyalyi. The proof is a fairly simple extension of the quantum lower bound for the collision problem.

id: 1101.0404
title: Quantum gates using electronic and nuclear spins of Yb$^{+}$ in a magnetic field gradient
authors: Kunling Wang, Michael Johanning, Mang Feng, Florian Mintert, Christof Wunderlich
comments: 
journal: European Physical Journal D 63 157-164 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0404
abstract: An efficient scheme is proposed to carry out gate operations on an array of trapped Yb$^+$ ions, based on a previous proposal using both electronic and nuclear degrees of freedom in a magnetic field gradient. For this purpose we consider the Paschen-Back regime (strong magnetic field) and employ a high-field approximation in this treatment. We show the possibility to suppress the unwanted coupling between the electron spins by appropriately swapping states between electronic and nuclear spins. The feasibility of generating the required high magnetic field is discussed.

id: 1101.0413
title: Unitary Quantum Error Correction without Error Detection
authors: Hiroyuki Tomita, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0413
abstract: We propose a quantum error correction without error detection. A quantum state $\rho_0$ combined with an ancilla state $\sigma$ is encoded unitarily and an error operator is applied on the encoded state. The recovery operation then produces a tensor product state $\rho_0 \otimes \sigma'$. The decoding operation is combined with the recovery operation and the state $\rho_0$ is directly reproduced without referring to the code word. A higher rank projection operator required for a conventional operator quantum error correction is not necessary to implement. Encoding and the recovery operations are implemented with unitary operators only, which makes quantum error correction much easier than any other proposals.

id: 1101.0448
title: Planar quantum squeezing and atom interferometry
authors: Q. Y. He, Shi-Guo Peng, P. D. Drummond, M. D. Reid
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022107 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0448
abstract: We obtain a lower bound on the sum of two orthogonal spin component variances in a plane. This gives a novel planar uncertainty relation which holds even when the Heisenberg relation is not useful. We investigate the asymptotic, large $J$ limit, and derive the properties of the planar quantum squeezed states that saturate this uncertainty relation. These states extend the concept of spin squeezing to any two conjugate spin directions. We show that planar quantum squeezing can be achieved experimentally as the ground state of a Bose-Einstein condensate in two coupled potential wells with a critical attractive interaction. These states reduce interferometric phase noise at all phase angles simultaneously. This is useful for one-shot interferometric phase-measurements where the measured phase is completely unknown. Our results can also be used to derive entanglement criteria for multiple spins $J$ at separated sites, with applications in quantum information.

id: 1101.0451
title: Quantum dynamics of a four-well Bose-Hubbard model with two different tunneling rates
authors: C.V. Chianca, M.K. Olsen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0451
abstract: We consider a theoretical model of a four-mode Bose-Hubbard model consisting of two pairs of wells coupled via two processes with two different rates. The model is naturally divided into two subsystems with strong intra-system coupling and much weaker coupling between the two subsystems and has previously been introduced as a model for Josephson heat oscillations by Strzys and Anglin [\pra {\bf 81}, 043616 (2010) ]. We examine the quantum dynamics of this model for a range of different initial conditions, in terms of both the number distribution among the wells and the quantum statistics. We find that the time evolution is different to that predicted by a mean-field model and that this system exhibits a wide range of interesting behaviours. We find that the system equilibriates to a maximum entropy state and is thus a useful model for quantum thermalisation. As our model may be realised to a good approximation in the laboratory, it becomes a candidate for experimental investigation.

id: 1101.0477
title: Common entanglement witnesses and their characteristics
authors: Nirman Ganguly, Satyabrata Adhikari, A.S.Majumdar
comments: 12 pages, 2 tables, Title and abstract has been changed. A new section has been added
journal: Quantum Information Processing 12, 425 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0477
abstract: We investigate the issue of finding common entanglement witness for certain class of states and extend this study to the case of Schmidt number witnesses. We also introduce the notion of common decomposable and non-decomposable witness operators which is specially useful for constructing a common witness where one of the entangled states is with a positive partial transpose. Our approach is illustrated with the help of suitable examples of qutrit systems.

id: 1101.0503
title: On the Quantum Structure
authors: Dong-Sheng Wang
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0503
abstract: Quantum mechanics is a special kind of description of motion. The concept of wave function itself implies the openness of quantum system. We show that quantum mechanics describes the quantum correlation, i.e., entanglement, and information in a new kind of space, tangnet T^2, where exist the basic quantum structure of qubit and the universal out-in symmetry. This work tries to form a new view to the fundamental problems of the foundation of quantum mechanics.

id: 1101.0542
title: Photoassociation of a cold atom-molecule pair II: second order perturbation approach
authors: M. Lepers, R. Vexiau, N. Bouloufa, O. Dulieu, V. Kokoouline
comments: 6 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0542
abstract: The electrostatic interaction between an excited atom and a diatomic ground state molecule in an arbitrary rovibrational level at large mutual separations is investigated with a general second-order perturbation theory, in the perspective of modeling the photoassociation between cold atoms and molecules. We find that the combination of quadrupole-quadrupole and van der Waals interactions compete with the rotational energy of the dimer, limiting the range of validity of the perturbative approach to distances larger than 100 a.u.. Numerical results are given for the long-range interaction between Cs and Cs$_2$, showing that the photoassociation is probably efficient whatever the Cs$_2$ rotational energy.

id: 1101.0563
title: Quantum Vacuum Energy in Graphs and Billiards
authors: L. Kaplan
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: AIP Conf.Proc.1323:153-163,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0563
abstract: The vacuum (Casimir) energy in quantum field theory is a problem relevant both to new nanotechnology devices and to dark energy in cosmology. The crucial question is the dependence of the energy on the system geometry under study. Despite much progress since the first prediction of the Casimir effect in 1948 and its subsequent experimental verification in simple geometries, even the sign of the force in nontrivial situations is still a matter of controversy. Mathematically, vacuum energy fits squarely into the spectral theory of second-order self-adjoint elliptic linear differential operators. Specifically, one promising approach is based on the small-t asymptotics of the cylinder kernel e^(-t sqrt(H)), where H is the self-adjoint operator under study. In contrast with the well-studied heat kernel e^(-tH), the cylinder kernel depends in a non-local way on the geometry of the problem. We discuss some results by the Louisiana-Oklahoma-Texas collaboration on vacuum energy in model systems, including quantum graphs and two-dimensional cavities. The results may shed light on general questions, including the relationship between vacuum energy and periodic or closed classical orbits, and the contribution to vacuum energy of boundaries, edges, and corners.

id: 1101.0576
title: Bell Violations through Independent Bases Games
authors: Oded Regev
comments: Minor updates
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0576
abstract: In a recent paper, Junge and Palazuelos presented two two-player games exhibiting interesting properties. In their first game, entangled players can perform notably better than classical players. The quantitative gap between the two cases is remarkably large, especially as a function of the number of inputs to the players. In their second game, entangled players can perform notably better than players that are restricted to using a maximally entangled state (of arbitrary dimension). This was the first game exhibiting such a behavior. The analysis of both games is heavily based on non-trivial results from Banach space theory and operator space theory. Here we present two games exhibiting a similar behavior, but with proofs that are arguably simpler, using elementary probabilistic techniques and standard quantum information arguments. Our games also give better quantitative bounds.

id: 1101.0611
title: Implementation of Single-qubit and CNOT Gates by Anyonic Excitations of Two-body Topological Color Code
authors: Mehdi Kargarian
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 376, 3540 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0611
abstract: The anyonic excitations of topological two-body color code model are used to implement a set of gates. Because of two-body interactions, the model can be simulated in optical lattices. The excitations have nontrivial mutual statistics, and are coupled to nontrivial gauge fields. The underlying lattice structure provides various opportunities for encoding the states of a logical qubit in anyonic states. The interactions make the transition between different anyonic states, so being logical operation in the computational bases of the encoded qubit. Two-qubit gates can be performed in a topological way using the braiding of anyons around each other.

id: 1101.0658
title: Quantum storage via refractive index control
authors: Alexey Kalachev, Olga Kocharovskaya
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0658
abstract: Off-resonant Raman interaction of a single-photon wave packet and a classical control field in an atomic medium with controlled refractive index is investigated. It is shown that a continuous change of refractive index during the interaction leads to the mapping of a single photon state to a superposition of atomic collective excitations (spin waves) with different wave vectors and visa versa. The suitability of refractive index control for developing multichannel quantum memories is discussed and possible schemes of implementation are considered.

id: 1101.0660
title: Quantum key distribution using intra-particle entanglement
authors: S. Adhikari, Dipankar Home, A. S. Majumdar, A. K. Pan, Akshata Shenoy H., R. Srikanth
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0660
abstract: We propose the use of intra-particle entanglement to enhance the security of a practical implementation of the Bennett-Brassard-1984 (BB84) quantum key distribution scheme. Intra-particle entanglement is an attractive resource since it can be easily generated using only linear optics. Security is studied under a simple model of incoherent attack for protocols involving two or all five mutually unbiased bases. In terms of efficiency of secret key generation and tolerable error rate, the latter is found to be superior to the former. We find that states that allow secrecy distillation are necessarily entangled, though they may be local. Since more powerful attacks by Eve obviously exist, our result implies that security is a strictly stronger condition than entanglement for these protocols.

id: 1101.0672
title: The gravity-related decoherence master equation from hybrid dynamics
authors: Lajos Di¨®si
comments: 9pp, extended version of invited talk at Fifth International Workshop DICE2010 (Castello Pasquini/Castiglioncello/Tuscany, Sept. 13-17, 2010)
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser. 306 (2011) 012006 -(9)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0672
abstract: Canonical coupling between classical and quantum systems cannot result in reversible equations, rather it leads to irreversible master equations. Coupling of quantized non-relativistic matter to gravity is illustrated by a simplistic example. The heuristic derivation yields the theory of gravity-related decoherence proposed longtime ago by Penrose and the author.

id: 1101.0688
title: The Quantum Wave Packet and the Feynman De Broglie Bohm Propagator of the Linearized Sussmann Hasse Albrecht Kostin Nassar Equation along a Classical Trajetory
authors: J. M. F. Bassalo, P. T. S. Alencar, D. G. da Silva, A. B. Nassar, M. Cattani
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0688
abstract: In this paper we study the quantum wave packet and the Feynman-de Broglie_Bohm propagator of the linearized Sussmann_Hasse_Albrecht_Kostin_Nassar equation along a classical trajetory

id: 1101.0712
title: Observation of magneto-electric non-reciprocity in molecular nitrogen gas
authors: Bruno Pelle, Hugo Bitard, Gilles Bailly, C¨¦cile Robilliard
comments: 4 pages, accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Physical Review Letters 106, 19 (2011) 193003 (4 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0712
abstract: We report the direct observation of the non-reciprocity of the velocity of light, induced in a gas by electric and magnetic fields. This bilinear magneto-electro-optical phenomenon appears in the presence of crossed electric and magnetic fields perpendicular to the light wavevector, as a refractive index difference between two counterpropagating directions. Using a high finesse ring cavity, we have measured this magneto-electric non-reciprocity in molecular Nitrogen at ambient temperature and atmospheric pressure; for light polarized parallel to the magnetic field it is $2\eta_{\parallel \;{\mathrm{exp}}}(\mathrm{N_2})= (4.7\pm 1)\times 10^{-23}\;{m.V}^{-1}{.T}^{-1}$ for $\lambda =1064\;$nm, in agreement with the expected order of magnitude. Our measurement opens the way to a deeper insight into light-matter interaction, since bilinear magneto-electric effects correspond to a coupling beyond the electric dipole approximation. We were able to measure a magneto-electric non-reciprocity as small as $\Delta n = (5\pm 2) \times 10^{-18}$, which makes its observation in quantum vacuum a conceivable challenge.

id: 1101.0749
title: Strong coupling between quantum dot exciton spin states and a photonic crystal cavity
authors: Hyochul Kim, Thomas C. Shen, Deepak Sridharan, Glenn S. Solomon, Edo Waks
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0749
abstract: We apply magnetic fields of up to 7 T to an indium arsenide (InAs) quantum dot (QD) strongly coupled to a photonic crystal cavity. The field lifts the degeneracy of QD exciton spin states, and tune their emission energy by a combination of diamagnetic and Zeeman energy shifts. We use magnetic field tuning to shift the energies of the two spin states to be selectively on resonance with the cavity. Strong coupling between the cavity and both spin states is observed. Magnetic field tuning enables energy shifts as large as 0.83 meV without significant degradation of the QD-cavity coupling strength.

id: 1101.0757
title: Randomly poled crystals as a source of photon pairs
authors: Jan Perina Jr, Jiri Svozilik
comments: 13 pages, 29 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, (2011) 033808
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0757
abstract: Generation of photon pairs from randomly poled nonlinear crystals is investigated using analytically soluble model and numerical calculations. Randomly poled crystals are discovered as sources of entangled ultra broad-band signal and idler fields. Their photon-pair generation rates scale linearly with the number of domains. Entanglement times as short as several fs can be reached. Comparison with chirped periodically-poled structures is given and reveals close similarity.

id: 1101.0765
title: Robust Dynamical Recurrences Based on Floquet Spectrum
authors: Muhammad Ayub, Khalid Naseer, Farhan Saif
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D Vol 64 491 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0765
abstract: Recurrence behavior of wave packets in coupled higher dimensional systems and periodically driven systems is analyzed, which takes place in the realm of higher coupling/modulation strength. We analyze the wave packet dynamics close to nonlinear resonances developed in the systems and provide the analytical understanding of recurrence times.We apply these analytical results to investigate the recurrence times of matter waves in optical lattice in the presence of external periodic forcing. The obtained analytical results can experimentally be observed using currently available experimental setups.

id: 1101.0796
title: Super-Polynomial Quantum Speed-ups for Boolean Evaluation Trees with Hidden Structure
authors: Bohua Zhan, Shelby Kimmel, Avinatan Hassidim
comments: 30 pages, 2 figures, v3: clarified exposition, matches journal reference
journal: ITCS 2012 Proceedings of the 3rd Innovations in Theoretical Computer Science, ACM, Pages 249-265
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0796
abstract: We give a quantum algorithm for evaluating a class of boolean formulas (such as NAND trees and 3-majority trees) on a restricted set of inputs. Due to the structure of the allowed inputs, our algorithm can evaluate a depth $n$ tree using $O(n^{2+\log\omega})$ queries, where $\omega$ is independent of $n$ and depends only on the type of subformulas within the tree. We also prove a classical lower bound of $n^{\Omega(\log\log n)}$ queries, thus showing a (small) super-polynomial speed-up.

id: 1101.0797
title: Quantum Adversary (Upper) Bound
authors: Shelby Kimmel
comments: Journal version. Edited for clarity and conciseness. Haar transform algorithm removed
journal: Chicago Journal of Theoretical Computer Science vol 2013, no. 4
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0797
abstract: We describe a method to upper bound the quantum query complexity of Boolean formula evaluation problems, using fundamental theorems about the general adversary bound. This nonconstructive method can give an upper bound on query complexity without producing an algorithm. For example, we describe an oracle problem which we prove (non-constructively) can be solved in $O(1)$ queries, where the previous best quantum algorithm uses a polylogarithmic number of queries. We then give an explicit $O(1)$-query algorithm for this problem based on span programs.

id: 1101.0798
title: Speed from Repetition
authors: Shelby Kimmel
comments: This paper has been withdrawn because it has been subsumed by arXiv:1101.0797 (Quantum Adversary (Upper) Bound)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0798
abstract: We present an oracle problem, which we call the Repeated Randomness problem, that a quantum algorithm can solve in one query, while any classical algorithm requires $\Omega(\log n)$ queries, where the oracle function has $2^n$ inputs. This problem has connections to the parity problem introduced by Bernstein and Vazirani \cite{Bernstein1993} and to a variation of the NAND tree described by Zhan et al \cite{Zhan}.

id: 1101.0846
title: Verifying entanglement in the Hong-Ou-Mandel dip
authors: Megan R. Ray, Steven J. van Enk
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0846
abstract: The Hong-Ou-Mandel interference dip is caused by an entangled state, a delocalized bi-photon state. We propose a method of detecting this entanglement by utilizing inverse Hong-Ou-Mandel interference, while taking into account vacuum and multi-photon contaminations, phase noise, and other imperfections. The method uses just linear optics and photodetectors, and for single-mode photodetectors we find a lower bound on the amount of entanglement.

id: 1101.0871
title: Continuous-variable quantum key distribution with Gaussian source noise
authors: Yujie Shen, Xiang Peng, Jian Yang, Hong Guo
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052304 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0871
abstract: Source noise affects the security of continuous-variable quantum key distribution (CV QKD), and is diffcult to analyze. We propose a model to characterize Gaussian source noise through introducing a neutral party (Fred) who induces the noise with a general unitary transformation. Without knowing Fred's exact state, we derive the security bounds for both reverse and direct reconciliations and show that the bound for reverse reconciliation is tight.

id: 1101.0882
title: Entanglement distribution in $V$ and $¦«$ systems
authors: S. N. Sandhya
comments: major revisions in the analysis part of the lambda system is required
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0882
abstract: We determine the two mode fock state of the radiation emitted by $V$ type three level atomic systems using the method of tomography described in our previous work. Utilizing the knowledge of the atomic/two photon state we provide a complete description of the entanglement distribution in the full parameter space in the case of the $V$ system. The $V$ system shows weak entanglement and is predominantly in a mixed state in two dimensional subspace. Unlike the case of $V$ and the ladder systems, atomic state tomography of the $\Lambda$ system requires the measurement of anti-normal ordered operators and more importantly, there is no equivalence between the atomic and the two photon density matrix. Tomography of this atomic state is not possible with existing types of measurements. However the two photon state may be determined when it is not in a dark state.

id: 1101.0890
title: Suppressing non-Markovian noises by coupling the qubit to a chaotic device
authors: Jing Zhang, Yu-xi Liu, Wei-Min Zhang, Re-Bing Wu, Tzyh-Jong Tarn
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to big changes in the title, the author list, and the content. The new version of the manuscript has been reuploaded as a new manuscript
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0890
abstract: To suppress decoherence of solid-state qubits which are coupled to the non-Markovian noises, we propose a strategy to couple the qubit with a chaotic device, of which the broad power distribution in the high-frequency domain can be used to freeze the noises just like the dynamical decoupling control (DDC) method. Compared with the DDC, high-frequency components can be generated by the chaotic device even driven by a low-frequency field and we do not need to optimize the control fields to generate complex control pulses. As an application to superconducting circuits, we find that various noises in a wide frequency domain, including low-frequency $1/f$, high-frequency Ohmic, sub-Ohmic, and super-Ohmic noises, can be efficiently suppressed by coupling the qubit to a Duffing oscillator, and the decoherence rate of the qubit is efficiently decreased for about 100 times in magnitude.

id: 1101.0909
title: Study of classical mechanical systems with complex potentials
authors: A. Sinha, D. Dutta, P. Roy
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physics Letters A : vol. 375 (2011) p 452-457
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0909
abstract: We apply the factorization technique developed by Kuru and Negro [Ann. Phys. 323 (2008) 413] to study complex classical systems. As an illustration we apply the technique to study the classical analogue of the exactly solvable PT symmetric Scarf II model, which exhibits the interesting phenomenon of spontaneous breakdown of PT symmetry at some critical point. As the parameters are tuned such that energy switches from real to complex conjugate pairs, the corresponding classical trajectories display a distinct characteristic feature - the closed orbits become open ones.

id: 1101.0957
title: Quantum scattering by Wronskians
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0957
abstract: We show that Wronskians between properly chosen linearly independent solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation greatly facilitate the study of quantum scattering in one dimension. They enable one to obtain the necessary relationships between the coefficients that determine the asymptotic behavior of the wavefunction. As illustrative examples we calculate the transmission probability for the penetration of a Gaussian barrier and the scattering resonances for a Gaussian well.

id: 1101.0972
title: A Computable Criterion for Partial Entanglement in Continuous Variable Quantum Systems
authors: Andreas Gabriel, Marcus Huber, Sasa Radic, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052318 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0972
abstract: A general and computable criterion for k-(in)separability in continuous multipartite quantum systems is presented. The criterion can be experimentally implemented with a finite and comparatively low number of local observables. We discuss in detail how the detection quality can be optimised.

id: 1101.1009
title: Faithful entanglement swapping based on sum-frequency generation
authors: Nicolas Sangouard, Bruno Sanguinetti, Noe Curtz, Nicolas Gisin, Rob Thew, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 120403 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1009
abstract: We show that the entanglement resulting from an entanglement swapping operation performed with spontaneous parametric down-conversion can be made faithful without post-selection using sum-frequency generation. This invites us to revisit the sum-frequency process and from a proof-of-principle experiment, we demonstrate that it provides a realistic solution for non-linear optics at the single-photon level. This opens the way to attractive alternatives to six-photon protocols based on linear optics used e.g. for the heralded creation of maximally entangled pairs or for the implementation of device-independent quantum key distribution.

id: 1101.1015
title: Cryptohermitian Hamiltonians on graphs. II. Hermitizations
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 25 pp., 2 figs
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys., 50 (2011) 1614-1627
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1015
abstract: Non-hermitian quantum graphs possessing real (i.e., in principle, observable) spectra are studied via their discretization. The discretized Hamiltonians are assigned, constructively, an elementary pseudometric and/or a more complicated metric. Both these constructions make the Hamiltonian Hermitian, respectively, in an auxiliary (Krein or Pontryagin) vector space or in a less friendly (but more useful) Hilbert space of quantum mechanics.

id: 1101.1039
title: The extended Heine-Stieltjes polynomials associated with a special LMG model
authors: Feng Pan, Lina Bao, Liyuan Zhai, Xiaoyue Cui, J. P. Draayer
comments: 11 pages, LaTeX
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor.44:395305, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1039
abstract: New polynomials associated with a special Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick (LMG) model corresponding to the standard two-site Bose-Hubbard model are derived based on the Stieltjes correspondence. It is shown that there is a one-to-one correspondence between zeros of this new polynomial and solutions of the Bethe ansatz equations for the LMG model.A one-dimensional classical electrostatic analogue corresponding to the special LMG model is established according to Stieltjes early work. It shows that any possible configuration of equilibrium positions of the charges in the electrostatic problem corresponds uniquely to one set of roots of the Bethe ansatz equations for the LMG model, and the number of possible configurations of equilibrium positions of the charges equals exactly to the number of energy levels in the LMG model. Some relations of sums of powers and inverse powers of zeros of the new polynomials related to the eigenenergies of the LMG model are derived.

id: 1101.1040
title: Non-isospectrality of the generalized Swanson Hamiltonian and harmonic oscillator
authors: Bikashkali Midya, Partha Pratim Dube, Rajkumar Roychoudhury
comments: Accepted in Journal of Physics A. Comments are welcome
journal: Journal of Physics A 44 (2011) 062001 (Fast Track Communication)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1040
abstract: The generalized Swanson Hamiltonian $H_{GS} = w (\tilde{a}\tilde{a}^\dag+ 1/2) + \alpha \tilde{a}^2 + \beta \tilde{a}^{\dag^2}$ with $\tilde{a} = A(x)d/dx + B(x)$, can be transformed into an equivalent Hermitian Hamiltonian with the help of a similarity transformation. It is shown that the equivalent Hermitian Hamiltonian can be further transformed into the harmonic oscillator Hamiltonian so long as $[\tilde{a},\tilde{a}^\dag]=$ constant. However, the main objective of this paper is to show that though the commutator of $\tilde{a}$ and $\tilde{a}^\dag$ is constant, the generalized Swanson Hamiltonian is not necessarily isospectral to the harmonic oscillator. Reason for this anomaly is discussed in the frame work of position dependent mass models by choosing $A(x)$ as the inverse square root of the mass function.

id: 1101.1053
title: An Improved Query for the Hidden Subgroup Problem
authors: Asif Shakeel
comments: 26 pages. Expanded the introduction
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1053
abstract: An equal superposition query with |0> in the response register is used in the "standard method" of single-query algorithms for the hidden subgroup problem (HSP). Here we introduce a different query, the character query, generalizing the well-known phase kickback trick. This query maximizes the success probability of subgroup identification under a uniform prior, for the HSP in which the oracle functions take values in a finite abelian group. We then apply our results to the case when the subgroups are drawn from a set of conjugate subgroups and obtain a success probability greater than that found by Moore and Russell.

id: 1101.1065
title: Simplified instantaneous non-local quantum computation with applications to position-based cryptography
authors: Salman Beigi, Robert Koenig
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures. V2: clarified results of the crypto section, improved readability
journal: New Journal of Physics 13 (2011) 093036
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1065
abstract: Instantaneous measurements of non-local observables between space-like separated regions can be performed without violating causality. This feat relies on the use of entanglement. Here we propose novel protocols for this task and the related problem of multipartite quantum computation with local operations and a single round of classical communication. Compared to previously known techniques, our protocols reduce the entanglement consumption by an exponential amount. We also prove a linear lower bound on the amount of entanglement required for the implementation of a certain non-local measurement. These results relate to position-based cryptography: an amount of entanglement scaling exponentially in the number of communicated qubits is sufficient to render any such scheme insecure. Furthermore, we show that certain schemes are secure under the assumption that the adversary has less entanglement than a given linear bound and is restricted to classical communication.

id: 1101.1117
title: Entanglement dynamics of a strongly driven trapped atom
authors: Maryam Roghani, Hanspeter Helm, Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, to appear in the Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 040502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1117
abstract: We study the entanglement between the internal electronic and the external vibrational degrees of freedom of a trapped atom which is driven by two lasers into electromagnetically-induced transparency. It is shown that basic features of the intricate entanglement dynamics can be traced to Landau-Zener splittings (avoided crossings) in the spectrum of the atom-laser field Hamiltonian. We further construct an effective Hamiltonian that describes the behavior of entanglement under dissipation induced by spontaneous emission processes. The proposed approach is applicable to a broad range of scenarios for the control of entanglement between electronic and translational degrees of freedom of trapped atoms through suitable laser fields.

id: 1101.1139
title: Demonstration of reversible phase-insensitive optical amplifier
authors: Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Yoshichika Miwa, Radim Filip, Akira Furusawa
comments: 16 pages, 17 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052307 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1139
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate phase-insensitive linear optical amplification which preserves the idler at the output. Since our amplification operation is unitary up to small excess noise, it is reversible beyond the classical limit. The entanglement between the two output modes is the resource for the reversibility. The amplification gain of 2.0 is demonstrated. In addition, combining this amplifier with a beamsplitter, we also demonstrate approximate cloning of coherent states where an anticlone is present. We investigate the reversibility by reconstructing the initial state from the output correlations, and the results are slightly beyond the cloning limit. Furthermore, full characterization of the amplifier and cloner is given by using coherent states with several different mean values as inputs. Our amplifier is based on linear optics, offline preparation of nonclassical ancillas, and homodyne measurements followed by feedforward. Squeezed states are used as the ancillas, and nonlinear optical effects are exploited only for their generation. The ancillas introduce nonclassicality into the amplifying operation, making entanglement at the output.

id: 1101.1140
title: All-Optical BEC in a 1.06 micron dipole trap
authors: K. J. Arnold, M. D. Barrett
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Communications, Volume 284, Issue 13, 15 June 2011, Pages 3288-3291
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1140
abstract: We report the all-optical production of a Rb87 Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) in a simple 1.06 micron dipole trap experiment. We load a single beam dipole trap directly from a magneto-optic trap (MOT) using an optimized loading sequence. After evaporation in the single beam, a second crossed beam is used for compression. The intensity in both beams is then reduced for evaporation to BEC. We obtain a BEC with 3.5E4 atoms after 3 seconds of total evaporation time. We also give a detailed account of the thermal distribution in cross beam traps. This account highlights the possible difficulties in using shorter wavelength lasers to condense all optically.

id: 1101.1156
title: All Possible Coupling Schemes in XY Spin Chains for Perfect State Transfer
authors: Yaoxiong Wang, Feng Shuang, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 4 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1156
abstract: We investigate quantum state transfer in XY spin chains and propose a recursive procedure to construct the nonuniform couplings of these chains with arbitrary length to achieve perfect state transfer(PST). We show that this method is capable of finding all possible coupling schemes for PST. These schemes, without external control fields, only involve preengineered couplings but not dynamical control of them, so they can be simply realized experimentally. The analytical solutions provide all information for coupling design.

id: 1101.1174
title: Towards a first observation of magneto-electric directional anisotropy and linear birefringence in gases
authors: C¨¦cile Robilliard, Gilles Bailly
comments: Proceedings of PSAS'2010, to be published in Canadian Journal of Physics, 2011 Jan
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1174
abstract: In this contribution to PSAS'2010 we report on recent progress on an experiment aimed at measuring small optical directional anisotropies by frequency metrology in a high finesse ring cavity. We focus on our first experimental goal, the measurement of magneto-electric effects in gases. After a review of the expected effects in our set-up, we present the apparatus and the measurement procedure, showing that we already have the necessary sensitivity to start novel experiments.

id: 1101.1209
title: Quantification of Macroscopic Quantum Superpositions within Phase Space
authors: Chang-Woo Lee, Hyunseok Jeong
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 220401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1209
abstract: Based on phase-space structures of quantum states, we propose a novel measure to quantify macroscopic quantum superpositions. Our measure simultaneously quantifies two different kinds of essential information for a given quantum state in a harmonious manner: the degree of quantum coherence and the effective size of the physical system that involves the superposition. It enjoys remarkably good analytical and algebraic properties. It turns out to be the most general and inclusive measure ever proposed that it can be applied to any types of multipartite states and mixed states represented in phase space.

id: 1101.1220
title: Generation of topologically useful entangled states
authors: Neil B. Lovett, Benjamin T. H. Varcoe
comments: Accepted for publication in International Journal of Unconventional Computing - special issue: New Worlds of Computation, 20 pages, 20 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1220
abstract: Measurement based quantum computation requires the generation of a cluster state (quantum resource) prior to starting a computation. Generation of this entangled state can be difficult with many schemes already proposed. We present an abstract scheme which can create 2D cluster states as a universal resource for quantum computing. We find a linear scaling of grid size with cluster depth. The scheme is also capable of creating more exotic topologies including 3D structures and the unit cell for topological error correction. We note its relevance to the cavity QED scheme in [30] although it could be applied to various architectures.

id: 1101.1241
title: Casimir Friction in Terms of Moving Harmonic Oscillators: Equivalence Between Two Different Formulations
authors: Johan S. H?ye, Iver Brevik
comments: 7 pages, no figures; discussion expanded, references added. To appear in Eur. Phys. J. D
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 64, 1 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1241
abstract: The Casimir friction problem can be dealt with in a simplified way by considering two harmonic oscillators moving with constant relative velocity. Recently we calculated the energy dissipation for such a case, [EPL {\bf 91}, 60003 (2010); Europ. Phys. J. D {\bf 61}, 335 (2011)]. A recent study of Barton [New J. Phys. {\bf 12}, 113044 (2010)] seemingly leads to a different result for the dissipation. If such a discrepancy really were true, it would imply a delicate difficulty for the basic theory of Casimir friction. In the present note we show that the expressions for the dissipation are in fact physically equivalent, at T=0.

id: 1101.1242
title: A simple mathematical formulation of the correspondence principle
authors: J. Bernal, Alberto Mart¨ªn-Ruiz, J. C. Garc¨ªa-Melgarejo
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1242
abstract: In this paper we suggest a simple mathematical procedure to derive the classical probability density of quantum systems via Bohr's correspondence principle. Using Fourier expansions for the classical and quantum distributions, we assume that the Fourier coefficients coincide for the case of large quantum numbers $n$. We illustrate the procedure by analyzing the classical limit for the quantum harmonic oscillator, although the method is quite general. We find, in an analytical fashion, the classical distribution arising from the quantum one as the zeroth order term in an expansion in powers of Planck's constant. We interpret the correction terms as residual quantum effects at the microscopic-macroscopic boundary.

id: 1101.1283
title: Millikelvin cooling of an optically trapped microsphere in vacuum
authors: Tongcang Li, Simon Kheifets, Mark G. Raizen
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures, references updated
journal: Nature Phys.7:527-530,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1283
abstract: The apparent conflict between general relativity and quantum mechanics remains one of the unresolved mysteries of the physical world. According to recent theories, this conflict results in gravity-induced quantum state reduction of "Schr\"odinger cats", quantum superpositions of macroscopic observables. In recent years, great progress has been made in cooling micromechanical resonators towards their quantum mechanical ground state. This work is an important step towards the creation of Schr\"odinger cats in the laboratory, and the study of their destruction by decoherence. A direct test of the gravity-induced state reduction scenario may therefore be within reach. However, a recent analysis shows that for all systems reported to date, quantum superpositions are destroyed by environmental decoherence long before gravitational state reduction takes effect. Here we report optical trapping of glass microspheres in vacuum with high oscillation frequencies, and cooling of the center-of-mass motion from room temperature to a minimum temperature of 1.5 mK. This new system eliminates the physical contact inherent to clamped cantilevers, and can allow ground-state cooling from room temperature. After cooling, the optical trap can be switched off, allowing a microsphere to undergo free-fall in vacuum. During free-fall, light scattering and other sources of environmental decoherence are absent, so this system is ideal for studying gravitational state reduction. A cooled optically trapped object in vacuum can also be used to search for non-Newtonian gravity forces at small scales, measure the impact of a single air molecule, and even produce Schr\"odinger cats of living organisms.

id: 1101.1325
title: Heat-to-work conversion by exploiting full or partial correlations of quantum particles
authors: Lev B Levitin, Tommaso Toffoli
comments: 4 pp, 1 fig
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1325
abstract: It is shown how information contained in the pairwise correlations (in general, partial) between atoms of a gas can be used to completely convert heat taken from a thermostat into mechanical work in a process of relaxation of the system to its thermal equilibrium state. Both classical correlations and quantum correlations (entanglement) are considered. The amount of heat converted into work is proportional to the entropy defect of the initial state of the system. For fully correlated particles, in the case of entanglement the amount of work obtained per particle is twice as large as in the case of classical correlations. However, in the case of entanglement, the amount of work does not depend on the degree of correlation, in contrast to the case of classical correlations. The results explicitly demonstrate the equivalence relation between information and work for the case of two-particle correlations.

id: 1101.1366
title: Two-polariton bound states in the Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard model
authors: M. T. C. Wong, C. K. Law
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1366
abstract: We examine the eigenstates of the one-dimensional Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard (JCH) model in the two-excitation subspace. We discover that two-excitation bound states emerge when the ratio of vacuum Rabi frequency to the tunneling rate between cavities exceeds a critical value. We determine the critical ratio as a function of the quasi-momentum quantum number, and indicate that the bound states carry a strong correlation in which the two polaritons appear to be spatially confined together.

id: 1101.1367
title: Triangular nanobeam photonic cavities in single crystal diamond
authors: Igal Bayn, Boris Meyler, Joseph Salzman, Rafi Kalish
comments: 18 pages,7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1367
abstract: Diamond photonics provides an attractive architecture to explore room temperature cavity quantum electrodynamics and to realize scalable multi-qubit computing. Here we review the present state of diamond photonic technology. The design, fabrication and characterization of a novel triangular cross section nanobeam cavity produced in a single crystal diamond is demonstrated. The present cavity design, based on a triangular cross section allows vertical confinement and better signal collection efficiency than that of slab-based nanocavities, and eliminates the need for a pre-existing membrane. The nanobeam is fabricated by Focused-Ion-Beam (FIB) patterning. The cavity is characterized by a confocal photoluminescence. The modes display quality factors of Q ~220 and are deviated in wavelength by only ~1.7nm from the NV- color center zero phonon line (ZPL). The measured results are found in good agreement with 3D Finite-Difference-Time-Domain (FDTD) calculations. A more advanced cavity design with Q=22,000 is modeled, showing the potential for high-Q implementations using the triangular cavity design. The prospects of this concept and its application to spin non-demolition measurement and quantum computing are discussed.

id: 1101.1376
title: Information, fidelity, and reversibility in single-qubit measurements
authors: Hiroaki Terashima
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A83 (2011) 032114
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1376
abstract: We explicitly calculate information, fidelity, and reversibility of an arbitrary single-qubit measurement on a completely unknown state. These quantities are expressed as functions of a single parameter, which is the ratio of the two singular values of the measurement operator corresponding to the obtained outcome. Thus, our results give information tradeoff relations to the fidelity and to the reversibility at the level of a single outcome rather than that of an overall outcome average.

id: 1101.1401
title: Purcell factor for point-like dipolar emitter coupling to 2D-plasmonic waveguides
authors: J. Barthes, G. Colas des Francs, A. Bouhelier, J-C. Weeber, A. Dereux
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 073403 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1401
abstract: We theoretically investigate the spontaneous emission of a point--like dipolar emitter located near a two--dimensional (2D) plasmonic waveguide of arbitrary form. We invoke an explicite link with the density of modes of the waveguide describing the electromagnetic channels into which the emitter can couple. We obtain a closed form expression for the coupling to propagative plasmon, extending thus the Purcell factor to plasmonic configurations. Radiative and non-radiative contributions to the spontaneous emission are also discussed in details.

id: 1101.1420
title: Overcoming decoherence in the collapse and revival of spin Schr?dinger cats
authors: M. J. Everitt, W. J. Munro, T. P. Spiller
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022113 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1420
abstract: In addition to being a very interesting quantum phenomenon, Schr\"odinger cat swapping has the potential for application in the preparation of quantum states that could be used in metrology and other quantum processing. We study in detail the effects of field decoherence on a cat-swapping system comprising a set of identical qubits, or spins, all coupled to a field mode. We demonstrate that increasing the number of spins actually mitigates the effects of field decoherence on the collapse and revival of a spin Schr\"odinger cat, which could be of significant utility in quantum metrology and other quantum processing.

id: 1101.1429
title: Optimal Control of the Electronic Current Density - An application to one- and two-dimensional one-electron systems
authors: David Kammerlander, Alberto Castro, Miguel A. L. Marques
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1429
abstract: Quantum optimal control theory is a powerful tool for engineering quantum systems subject to external fields such as the ones created by intense lasers. The formulation relies on a suitable definition for a target functional, that translates the intended physical objective to a mathematical form. We propose the use of target functionals defined in terms of the one-particle density and its current. A strong motivation for this is the possibility of using time-dependent density-functional theory for the description of the system dynamics. We exemplify this idea by defining an objective functional that on one hand attempts a large overlap with a target density and on the other hand minimizes the current. The latter requirement leads to optimized states with increased stability, which we prove with a few examples of one- and two-dimensional one-electron systems.

id: 1101.1433
title: Localized tendency for the superfluid and Mott insulator state in the array of dissipative cavities
authors: Lei Tan, Ke Liu, Chun-Hai lv, Wu-Ming Liu
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1433
abstract: The features of superfluid-Mott insulator phase transition in the array of dissipative cavities is analyzed. Employing a kind of quasi-boson and a mean-filed approach, we show analytically how dissipation and decoherence influence the critical behaviors and the time evolution of the system. We find that there is a localized tendency, which could lead to the break of superfluidity for a superfluid state and suppress the appearance of the long-range order form a Mott state. Eventually, a collection of mixture states localized on each site will arise.

id: 1101.1455
title: Van der Waals interactions: Evaluations by use of a statistical mechanical method
authors: Johan S. H?ye
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1455
abstract: In this work the induced van der Waals interaction between a pair of neutral atoms or molecules is considered by use of a statistical mechanical method. Commonly this interaction is obtained by standard quantum mechanical perturbation theory to second order. However, the latter is restricted to electrostatic interactions between charges and dipole moments. So with radiating dipole-dipole interaction where retardation effects are important for large separations of the particles, other methods are needed, and the resulting induced interaction is the Casimir-Polder interaction usually obtained by field theory. It can also be evaluated, however, by a statistical mechanical method that utilizes the path integral representation. We here show explicitly by use of the statistical mechanical method the equivalence of the Casimir-Polder and van der Waals interactions to leading order for short separations where retardation effects can be neglected. Physically this is well known, but in our opinion the mathematics of this transition process is not so obvious. The evaluations needed mean a transform of the statistical mechanical free energy expression to a form that can be identified with second order perturbation theory. In recent works [H{\o}ye 2010] the Casimir-Polder or Casimir energy has been added as a correction to calculations of systems like the electron clouds of molecules. The equivalence to van der Waals interactions to leading order indicates that the added Casimir energy will improve the accuracy of calculated molecular energies. We here also give numerical estimates of this energy including analysis and estimates for the uniform electron gas.

id: 1101.1464
title: Precision frequency measurements with interferometric weak values
authors: David J. Starling, P. Ben Dixon, Andrew N. Jordan, John C. Howell
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 063822 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1464
abstract: We demonstrate an experiment which utilizes a Sagnac interferometer to measure a change in optical frequency of 129 kHz per root Hz with only 2 mW of continuous wave, single mode input power. We describe the measurement of a weak value and show how even higher frequency sensitivities may be obtained over a bandwidth of several nanometers. This technique has many possible applications, such as precision relative frequency measurements and laser locking without the use of atomic lines.

id: 1101.1476
title: Results from electrostatic calibrations for measuring the Casimir force in the cylinder-plane geometry
authors: Q. Wei, D.A.R. Dalvit, F.C. Lombardo, F.D. Mazzitelli, R. Onofrio
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 81, 052115 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1476
abstract: We report on measurements performed on an apparatus aimed to study the Casimir force in the cylinder-plane configuration. The electrostatic calibrations evidence anomalous behaviors in the dependence of the electrostatic force and the minimizing potential upon distance. We discuss analogies and differences of these anomalies with respect to those already observed in the sphere-plane configuration. At the smallest explored distances we observe frequency shifts of non-Coulombian nature preventing the measurement of the Casimir force in the same range. We also report on measurement performed in the parallel plane configuration, showing that the dependence on distance of the minimizing potential, if present at all, is milder than in the sphere-plane or cylinder-plane geometries. General considerations on the interplay between the distance-dependent minimizing potential and the precision of Casimir force measurements in the range relevant to detect the thermal corrections for all geometries are finally reported.

id: 1101.1480
title: Edge effects in electrostatic calibrations for the measurement of the Casimir force
authors: Qun Wei, Roberto Onofrio
comments: 
journal: Phys.Lett.A374:2230,2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1480
abstract: We have performed numerical simulations to evaluate the effect on the capacitance of finite size boundaries realistically present in the parallel plane, sphere-plane, and cylinder-plane geometries. The potential impact of edge effects in assessing the accuracy of the parameters obtained in the electrostatic calibrations of Casimir force experiments is then discussed.

id: 1101.1511
title: On Wheeler's delayed-choice Gedankenexperiment and its laboratory realization
authors: M. Bozic, L. Vuskovic, M. Davidovic, A. S. Sanz
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. T143, 014007 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1511
abstract: Here, we present an analysis and interpretation of the experiment performed by Jacques et al. (2007 Science 315, 966), which represents a realization of Wheeler's delayed-choice Gedankenexperiment. Our analysis is based on the evolution of the photon state, since the photon enters into the Mach-Zehnder interferometer with a removable beam-splitter until it exits. Given the same incident photon state onto the output beam-splitter, BS_output, the photon's state at the exit will be very different depending on whether BS_output is on or off. Hence, the statistics of photon counts collected by the two detectors, positioned along orthogonal directions at the exit of the interferometer, is also going to be very different in either case. Therefore, it is not that the choice of inserting (on) or removing (off) a beam-splitter leads to a delayed influence on the photon behavior before arriving at the beam-splitter, but that such a choice influences the photon state at and after BS_output, i.e., after it has exited from the Mach-Zehnder interferometer. The random on/off choice at BS_output has no delayed effect on the photon to behave as a wave or a corpuscle at the entrance and inside the interferometer, but influences the subsequent evolution of the photon state incident onto BS_output.

id: 1101.1519
title: Standard Form of Qudit Stabilizer Groups
authors: Vlad Gheorghiu
comments: RevTeX 4.1, 6 pages, 3 tables. Any comments are welcome!
journal: Physics Letters A 378 (2014) 505-509
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1519
abstract: We investigate stabilizer codes with carrier qudits of equal dimension $D$, an arbitrary integer greater than 1. We prove that there is a direct relation between the dimension of a qudit stabilizer code and the size of its corresponding stabilizer, and this implies that the code and its stabilizer are dual to each other. We also show that any qudit stabilizer can be put in a standard, or canonical, form using a series of Clifford gates, and we provide an explicit efficient algorithm for doing this. Our work generalizes known results that were valid only for prime dimensional systems and may be useful in constructing efficient encoding/decoding quantum circuits for qudit stabilizer codes and better qudit quantum error correcting codes.

id: 1101.1550
title: Structured optical receivers to attain superadditive capacity and the Holevo limit
authors: Saikat Guha
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 240502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1550
abstract: When classical information is sent over a quantum channel, attaining the ultimate limit to channel capacity requires the receiver to make joint measurements over long codeword blocks. For a pure-state channel, we construct a receiver that can attain the ultimate capacity by applying a single-shot unitary transformation on the received quantum codeword followed by simultaneous (but separable) projective measurements on the single-modulation-symbol state spaces. We study the ultimate limits of photon-information-efficient communications on a lossy bosonic channel. Based on our general results for the pure-state quantum channel, we show some of the first concrete examples of codes and structured joint-detection optical receivers that can achieve fundamentally higher (superadditive) channel capacity than conventional receivers that detect each modulation symbol individually.

id: 1101.1570
title: Band structure loops and multistability in cavity-QED
authors: B.Prasanna Venkatesh, J.Larson, D.H.J. O'Dell
comments: 26 pages, 22 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A83:063606,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1570
abstract: We calculate the band structure of ultracold atoms located inside a laser-driven optical cavity. For parameters where the atom-cavity system exhibits bistability, the atomic band structure develops loop structures akin to the ones predicted for Bose-Einstein condensates in ordinary (non-cavity) optical lattices. However, in our case the nonlinearity derives from the cavity back-action rather than from direct interatomic interactions. We find both bi- and tri-stable regimes associated with the lowest band, and show that the multistability we observe can be analyzed in terms of swallowtail catastrophes. Dynamic and energetic stability of the mean-field solutions is also discussed, and we show that the bistable solutions have, as expected, one unstable and two stable branches. The presence of loops in the atomic band structure has important implications for proposals concerning Bloch oscillations of atoms inside optical cavities [Peden et al., Phys. Rev. A 80, 043803 (2009), Prasanna Venkatesh et al., Phys. Rev. A 80, 063834 (2009)].

id: 1101.1636
title: Two-dimensional imaging of gauge fields in optical lattices
authors: Jaeyoon Cho, M. S. Kim
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 260402 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1636
abstract: We propose a scheme to generate an arbitrary Abelian vector potential for atoms trapped in a two-dimensional optical lattice. By making the optical lattice potential dependent on the atomic state, we transform the problem into that of a two-dimensional imaging. It is shown that an arbitrarily fine pattern of the gauge field in the lattice can be realized without need of diffraction-limited imaging.

id: 1101.1671
title: Entanglement resonances of driven multi-partite quantum systems
authors: Simeon Sauer, Florian Mintert, Clemens Gneiting, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 32 pages, 13 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 (2012) 154011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1671
abstract: We show how to create maximally entangled dressed states of a weakly interacting multi-partite quantum system by suitably tuning an external, periodic driving field. Floquet theory allows us to relate, in a transparent manner, the occurrence of entanglement resonances to avoided crossings in the spectrum of quasi-energies, tantamount of well-defined conditions for the controlled, resonant interaction of particles. We demonstrate the universality of the phenomenon for periodically driven, weakly interacting two-level systems, by considering different interaction mechanisms and driving profiles. In particular, we show that entanglement resonances are a generic feature of driven, multi-partite systems, widely independent of the details of the interaction mechanism. Our results are therefore particularly relevant for experiments on interacting two-level systems, in which the microscopic realization of the inter-particle coupling is unknown.

id: 1101.1689
title: Optical tomography of Fock state superpositions
authors: S. N. Filippov, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physica Scripta 83 (2011) 058101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1689
abstract: We consider optical tomography of photon Fock state superpositions in connection with recent experimental achievements. The emphasis is put on the fact that it suffices to represent the measured tomogram as a main result of the experiment. We suggest a test for checking the correctness of experimental data. Explicit expressions for optical tomograms of Fock state superpositions are given in terms of Hermite polynomials. Particular cases of vacuum and low photon-number state superposition are considered as well as influence of thermal noise on state purity is studied.

id: 1101.1717
title: Non-negative discord strengthens the subadditivity of quantum entropy functions
authors: Patrick J. Coles
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1717
abstract: The definition of quantum discord is generalized to allow for any concave entropy function, and its non-negativity strengthens the subadditivity condition for that entropy function. In a sense, this condition is intermediate in strength between subadditivity and strong subadditivity, hence called firm subadditivity, allowing one to further classify entropy functions based on whether they satisfy this intermediate condition. It is proven that the quadratic entropy $1-\Tr(\rho^2)$ satisfies the firm subadditivity condition, whereas some other subadditive Tsallis entropies are not firmly subadditive.

id: 1101.1741
title: Nonclassicality Quasiprobability of Single-Photon Added Thermal States
authors: T. Kiesel, W. Vogel, M. Bellini, A. Zavatta
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032116 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1741
abstract: We report the experimental reconstruction of a nonclassicality quasiprobability for a single-photon added thermal state. This quantity has significant negativities, which is necessary and sufficient for the nonclassicality of the quantum state. Our method presents several advantages compared to the reconstruction of the P function, since the nonclassicality filters used in this case can regularize the quasiprobabilities as well as their statistical uncertainties. A-priori assumptions about the quantum state are therefore not necessary. We also demonstrate that, in principle, our method is not limited by small quantum efficiencies.

id: 1101.1770
title: On the Coupling-Strength Growth of the Rabi Model in the Light of SUSYQM
authors: Masao Hirokawa
comments: 46 pages, 11 figures, and 2 tables: We changed the title, and rewrote the paper from the point of the view of SUSYQM
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1770
abstract: We consider the coupling-strength growth of the Rabi model from the point of the view of SUSYQM. We show that the Rabi model takes the supersymmetric system to the spontaneous supersymmetry breaking as its coupling strength g grows lager from the case g=0 to the case g\approx\infty. We study a kind of chirality quantum phase transition in this process.

id: 1101.1785
title: QCWAVE, a Mathematica quantum computer simulation update
authors: Frank Tabakin, Bruno Julia-Diaz
comments: package available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1785
abstract: This Mathematica 7.0/8.0 package upgrades and extends the quantum computer simulation code called QDENSITY. Use of the density matrix was emphasized in QDENSITY, although that code was also applicable to a quantum state description. In the present version, the quantum state version is stressed and made amenable to future extensions to parallel computer simulations. The add-on QCWAVE extends QDENSITY in several ways. The first way is to describe the action of one, two and three- qubit quantum gates as a set of small ($2 \times 2, 4\times 4$ or $8\times 8$) matrices acting on the $2^{n_q}$ amplitudes for a system of $n_q$ qubits. This procedure was described in our parallel computer simulation QCMPI and is reviewed here. The advantage is that smaller storage demands are made, without loss of speed, and that the procedure can take advantage of message passing interface (MPI) techniques, which will hopefully be generally available in future Mathematica versions. Another extension of QDENSITY provided here is a multiverse approach, as described in our QCMPI paper. This multiverse approach involves using the present slave-master parallel processing capabilities of Mathematica 7.0/8.0 to simulate errors and error correction. The basic idea is that parallel versions of QCWAVE run simultaneously with random errors introduced on some of the processors, with an ensemble average used to represent the real world situation. Within this approach, error correction steps can be simulated and their efficacy tested. This capability allows one to examine the detrimental effects of errors and the benefits of error correction on particular quantum algorithms.

id: 1101.1794
title: How Quantum is the Classical World?
authors: Gary Bruno Schmid, Rudolf M. Duenki
comments: 24 pages, 7 tables, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1794
abstract: It has been experimentally confirmed that quantum physical phenomena can violate the Information Bell Inequalities. A violation of the one or the other of these Information Bell Inequalites is equivalent to a violation of local realism meaning that either objectivity or locality, or both, do not hold for the phenomena under investigation. We propose (1) an experimental design for carrying out classical measurements in the absence of ontological complementarity; (2) a rational way to extract epistemologically complementary (pseudocomplementary) data from it; (3) a statistical approach which can reject stochastic and/or suspected violations of local realism in measurements of such data.

id: 1101.1818
title: The scalable quantum computation based on quantum dot systems
authors: Jian-Qi Zhang, Ya-Fei Yu, Xun-Li Feng, Zhi-Ming Zhang
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures; All suggestions are welcome, Email: boing777@qq.com
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1818
abstract: We propose a scheme for realizing the scalable quantum computation based on nonidentical quantum dots trapped in a single-mode waveguide. In this system, the quantum dots simultaneously interact with a large detuned waveguide and classical light fields. During the process, neither the waveguide mode nor the quantum dots are excited, while the sub-system composed of any two quantum dots can acquire phases conditional upon the states of these two quantum dots and the certain detunings between the waveguide mode and corresponding external light fields. Therefore, it can be used to realize selective quantum phase gates, graph states, $N$-qubit controlled phase $\pi $ gates, and cluster states.

id: 1101.1842
title: Strongly coupling a cavity to inhomogeneous ensembles of emitters : potential for long lived solid-state quantum memories
authors: I. Diniz, S. Portolan, R. Ferreira, J.M. G¨¦rard, P. Bertet, A. Auff¨¨ves
comments: 10 Pages, 6 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 063810 (2011) [9 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1842
abstract: We investigate theoretically the coupling of a cavity mode to a continuous distribution of emitters. We discuss the influence of the emitters inhomogeneous broadening on the existence and on the coherence properties of the polaritonic peaks. We find that their coherence depends crucially on the shape of the distribution and not only on its width. Under certain conditions the coupling to the cavity protects the polaritonic states from inhomogeneous broadening, resulting in a longer storage time for a quantum memory based on emitters ensembles. When two different ensembles of emitters are coupled to the resonator, they support a peculiar collective dark state, also very attractive for the storage of quantum information.

id: 1101.1874
title: Tensor network methods with graph enhancement
authors: R. H¨¹bener, C. Kruszynska, L. Hartmann, W. D¨¹r, M. B. Plenio, J. Eisert
comments: 26 pages, 14 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 125103 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1874
abstract: We present applications of the renormalization algorithm with graph enhancement (RAGE). This analysis extends the algorithms and applications given for approaches based on matrix product states introduced in [Phys. Rev. A 79, 022317 (2009)] to other tensor-network states such as the tensor tree states (TTS) and projected entangled pair states (PEPS). We investigate the suitability of the bare TTS to describe ground states, showing that the description of certain graph states and condensed matter models improves. We investigate graph-enhanced tensor-network states, demonstrating that in some cases (disturbed graph states and for certain quantum circuits) the combination of weighted graph states with tensor tree states can greatly improve the accuracy of the description of ground states and time evolved states. We comment on delineating the boundary of the classically efficiently simulatable states of quantum many-body systems.

id: 1101.1886
title: Classical and Quantum Electrodynamics Concept Based on Maxwell Equations' Symmetry
authors: Dmitri Yerchuck, Alla Dovlatova, Andrey Alexandrov
comments: 44 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1102.2619, arXiv:cond-mat/0106126, arXiv:0902.0173, arXiv:cond-mat/9911146
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1886
abstract: The symmetry studies of Maxwell equations gave new insight on the nature of electromagnetic (EM) field. It has in general case quaternion single structure, consisting of four independent field constituents, which differ with each other by the parities under space inversion and time reversal. Generalized Maxwell equations for quaternion four-component EM-field are obtained. Invariants for EM-field, consisting of dually symmetric parts are found. It is shown, that there exists physical conserving quantity, which is simultaneously invariant under both Rainich dual and additional hyperbolic dual symmetry transformation of Maxwell equations. It is spin in general case and spirality in the geometry, when electrical and magnetic vectors $\vec{E}$, $\vec{H}$ are directed along coordinate axes in ($\vec{E}$, $\vec{H}$) functional space. It is additional proof for quaternion four component structure of EM-field to be a single whole. Canonical Dirac quantization method is developed in two aspects. The first aspect is its application the only to observable quantities. The second aspect is the realization along with well known time-local quantization of space-local quantization and space-time-local quantization. It is also shown, that Coulomb field can be quantized in 1D and 2D systems. New model of photons is proposed. The photons in quantized EM-field are main excitations in oscillator structure of EM-field, which is equivalent to spin S = 1 "boson-atomic" structure, like matematically to well known spin S = 1 boson matter structure - carbon atomic backbone chain structure in many conjugated polymers. They have two kind nature. The photons of the first kind and the second kind represent themselves respectively neutral chargeless EM-solitons and charged spinless EM-solitons of Su-Schrieffer-Heeger family.

id: 1101.1950
title: The Fidelity of an Encoded [7,1,3] Logical Zero
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein
comments: Numerous updates, to be published PRA, 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012323 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1950
abstract: I calculate the fidelity of a [7,1,3] CSS quantum error correction code logical zero state constructed in a non-equiprobable Pauli operator error environment for two methods of encoding. The first method is to apply fault tolerant error correction to an arbitrary state of 7 qubits utilizing Shor states for syndrome measurement. The Shor states are themselves constructed in the non-equiprobable Pauli operator error environment and their fidelity depends on the number of verifications done to ensure multiple errors will not propagate into the encoded quantum information. Surprisingly, performing these verifications may lower the fidelity of the constructed Shor states. The second encoding method is to simply implement the $[7,1,3]$ encoding gate sequence also in the non-equiprobable Pauli operator error environment. Perfect error correction is applied after both methods to determine the correctability of the implemented errors. I find that which method attains a higher fidelity depends on the which of Pauli operator errors is dominant. Nevertheless, perfect error correction supresses errors to at least first order for both methods.

id: 1101.1958
title: What Really Sets the Upper Bound on Quantum Correlations?
authors: Joy Christian
comments: 23 pages; Forthcoming in a FQXi sponsored book on Bell's Theorem and Quantum Entanglement (2011); Provides foundations to the examples worked out in arXiv:0904.4259, arXiv:quant-ph/0703179, and arXiv:1005.4932
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1958
abstract: The discipline of parallelization in the manifold of all possible measurement results is shown to be responsible for the existence of all quantum correlations, with the upper bound on their strength stemming from the maximum of possible torsion within all norm-composing parallelizable manifolds. A profound interplay is thus uncovered between the existence and strength of quantum correlations and the parallelizability of the spheres S^0, S^1, S^3, and S^7 necessitated by the four real division algebras. In particular, parallelization within a unit 3-sphere is shown to be responsible for the existence of EPR and Hardy type correlations, whereas that within a unit 7-sphere is shown to be responsible for the existence of all GHZ type correlations. Moreover, parallelizability in general is shown to be equivalent to the completeness criterion of EPR, in addition to necessitating the locality condition of Bell. It is therefore shown to predetermine both the local outcomes as well as the quantum correlations among the remote outcomes, dictated by the infinite factorizability of points within the spheres S^3 and S^7. The twin illusions of quantum entanglement and non-locality are thus shown to stem from the topologically incomplete accountings of the measurement results.

id: 1101.1962
title: Local stabilizer codes in three dimensions without string logical operators
authors: Jeongwan Haah
comments: 18 pages, 12 figures; clarified intermidiate steps in the proof
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042330 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1962
abstract: We suggest concrete models for self-correcting quantum memory by reporting examples of local stabilizer codes in 3D that have no string logical operators. Previously known local stabilizer codes in 3D all have string-like logical operators, which make the codes non-self-correcting. We introduce a notion of "logical string segments" to avoid difficulties in defining one dimensional objects in discrete lattices. We prove that every string-like logical operator of our code can be deformed to a disjoint union of short segments, and each segment is in the stabilizer group. The code has surface-like logical operators whose partial implementation has unsatisfied stabilizers along its boundary.

id: 1101.1975
title: How to spell out the epistemic conception of quantum states
authors: Simon Friederich
comments: 20 pages, to appear (possibly with minor changes) in Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics
journal: Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics 42 (3), 149-157 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1975
abstract: The paper investigates the epistemic conception of quantum states---the view that quantum states are not descriptions of quantum systems but rather reflect the assigning agents' epistemic relations to the systems. This idea, which can be found already in the works of Copenhagen adherents Heisenberg and Peierls, has received increasing attention in recent years because it promises an understanding of quantum theory in which neither the measurement problem nor a conflict between quantum non-locality and relativity theory arises. Here it is argued that the main challenge for proponents of this idea is to make sense of the notion of a state assignment being performed correctly without thereby acknowledging the notion of a true state of a quantum system---a state it is in. An account based on the epistemic conception of states is proposed that fulfills this requirement by interpreting the rules governing state assignment as constitutive rules in the sense of John Searle.

id: 1101.2001
title: Measure of genuine multipartite entanglement with computable lower bounds
authors: Zhi-Hao Ma, Zhi-Hua Chen, Jing-Ling Chen, Christoph Spengler, Andreas Gabriel, Marcus Huber
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062325 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2001
abstract: We introduce an intuitive measure of genuine multipartite entanglement which is based on the well-known concurrence. We show how lower bounds on this measure can be derived that also meet important characteristics of an entanglement measure. These lower bounds are experimentally implementable in a feasible way enabling quantification of multipartite entanglement in a broad variety of cases.

id: 1101.2009
title: Eavesdropping on the improved three-party quantum secret sharing protocol
authors: Gan Gao
comments: 7 pages
journal: Opt. Commun. 284 (2011)902
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2009
abstract: Lin et al. [S. Lin, F. Gao, Q.-y. Wen, F.-c. Zhu, Opt. Commun. 281 (2008) 4553] pointed that the multiparty quantum secret sharing protocol [Z.-j. Zhang, G. Gao, X. Wang, L.-f. Han, S.-h. Shi, Opt. Commun. 269 (2007) 418] is insecure and proposed an improved three-party quantum secret sharing protocol. In this paper, we study the security of the improved three-party quantum secret sharing protocol and find that it is still insecure. Finally, a further improved three-party quantum secret sharing protocol is proposed.

id: 1101.2058
title: Generalized coherent states for solvable quantum systems with degenerate discrete spectra and their nonclassical properties
authors: G.R. Honarasa, M.K. Tavassoly, M. Hatami, R. Roknizadeh
comments: 17 pages, 10 figures,Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications, Article in Press
journal: Physica A 390 (2011) 1381-1392
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2058
abstract: In this paper, the generalized coherent state for quantum systems with degenerate spectra is introduced. Then, the nonclassicality features and number-phase entropic uncertainty relation of two particular degenerate quantum systems are studied. Finally, using the Gazeau-Klauder coherent states approach, time evolution of some of the nonclassical properties of the coherent states corresponding to the considered physical systems are discussed.

id: 1101.2090
title: Simulation of anyonic fractional statistics of Kitaev's toric model in circuit QED
authors: Zheng-Yuan Xue
comments: Typos corrected
journal: EPL 93, 20007 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2090
abstract: Since the anyonic excitations in the Kitaev toric model are perfectly localized quasiparticles, it is possible to generate dynamically the ground state and the excitations of the model Hamiltonian to simulate the anyonic interferometry. We propose a scheme in circuit QED to simulate the interferometry. The qubit-cavity interaction can be engineered to realize effective state control as well as the controlled dynamics of qubits, which are sufficient to prepare the ground states, create and remove the anyonic excitation, and simulate the anyonic interferometry. The simplicity and high fidelity of the operations used open the very promising possibility of simulating fractional statistics of anyons in a macroscopic material in the near future.

id: 1101.2115
title: Analog of Electromagnetically Induced Transparency Effect for Two Nano/Micro-mechanical Resonators Coupled With Spin Ensemble
authors: Yue Chang, C. P. Sun
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 053834 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2115
abstract: We study a hybrid nano-mechanical system coupled to a spin ensemble as a quantum simulator to favor a quantum interference effect, the electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). This system consists of two nano-mechanical resonators (NAMRs), each of which coupled to a nuclear spin ensemble. It could be regarded as a crucial element in the quantum network of NAMR arrays coupled to spin ensembles. Here, the nuclear spin ensembles behave as a long-lived transducer to store and transfer the NAMRs' quantum information. This system shows the analog of EIT effect under the driving of a probe microwave field. The double-EIT phenomenon emerges in the large $N$ (the number of the nuclei) limit with low excitation approximation, because the interactions between the spin ensemble and the two NAMRs are reduced to the coupling of three harmonic oscillators. Furthermore, the group velocity is reduced in the two absorption windows.

id: 1101.2128
title: The sudden birth and sudden death of thermal fidelity in a two-qubit XY model
authors: Li-Jun Tian, Li-Guo Qin, Ying Jiang, Hong-Biao Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2128
abstract: We study the energy level crossings of the states and thermal fidelity for a two-qubit system in the presence of a transverse and inhomogeneous magnetic field. It is shown clearly the effects of the anisotropic factor of the magnetic field through the contour figures of energy level crossing in two subspaces, the isotropy subspace and anisotropy subspace. We calculate the quantum fidelity between the ground state and the state of the system at temperature $T$, and the results show the strong effect of the anisotropic factor again. In addition, by making use of the transition of Yangian generators in the tensor product space, we study the evolution of the thermal fidelity after the transition. The potential applications of Yangian algebra, as a switch to turn on or off the fidelity, are proposed.

id: 1101.2133
title: Simulation of Quantum Mechanics Using Reactive Programming
authors: Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Boussinot
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cellular Automata and Lattice Gases (nlin.CG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2133
abstract: We implement in a reactive programming framework a simulation of three aspects of quantum mechanics: self-interference, state superposition, and entanglement. The simulation basically consists in a cellular automaton embedded in a synchronous environment which defines global discrete instants and broadcast events. The implementation shows how a simulation of fundamental aspects of quantum mechanics can be obtained from the synchronous parallel combination of a small number of elementary components.

id: 1101.2136
title: Photon State Tomography for Two-Mode Correlated Itinerant Microwave Fields
authors: C. Eichler, D. Bozyigit, C. Lang, M. Baur, L. Steffen, J. M. Fink, S. Filipp, A. Wallraff
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 113601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2136
abstract: Continuous variable entanglement between two modes of a radiation field is usually studied at optical frequencies. As an important step towards the observation of entanglement between propagating microwave photons we demonstrate the experimental state reconstruction of two field modes in the microwave domain. In particular, we generate two-mode correlated states with a Josephson parametric amplifier and detect all four quadrature components simultaneously in a two-channel heterodyne setup using amplitude detectors. Analyzing two-dimensional phase space histograms for all possible pairs of quadratures allows us to determine the full covariance matrix and reconstruct the four-dimensional Wigner function. We demonstrate strong correlations between the quadrature amplitude noise in the two modes. Under ideal conditions two-mode squeezing below the standard quantum limit should be observable in future experiments.

id: 1101.2163
title: Optimal quasi-free approximation:reconstructing the spectrum from ground state energies
authors: Lorenzo Campos Venuti
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures. One figure added showing convergence speed
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 045118 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2163
abstract: The sequence of ground state energy density at finite size, e_{L}, provides much more information than usually believed. Having at disposal e_{L} for short lattice sizes, we show how to re-construct an approximate quasi-particle dispersion for any interacting model. The accuracy of this method relies on the best possible quasi-free approximation to the model, consistent with the observed values of the energy e_{L}. We also provide a simple criterion to assess whether such a quasi-free approximation is valid. As a side effect, our method is able to assess whether the nature of the quasi-particles is fermionic or bosonic together with the effective boundary conditions of the model. When applied to the spin-1/2 Heisenberg model, the method produces a band of Fermi quasi-particles very close to the exact one of des Cloizeaux and Pearson. The method is further tested on a spin-1/2 Heisenberg model with explicit dimerization and on a spin-1 chain with single ion anisotropy. A connection with the Riemann Hypothesis is also pointed out.

id: 1101.2167
title: Propagation properties and limitations on the attainable entanglement in a driven harmonic chain
authors: Fernando Galve
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012318 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2167
abstract: The limitations on the production and profitability of entanglement in a harmonic chain under strong driving are considered. We report on the limits of attainable entanglement for a given set of squeezings of the eigenmodes, showing that the higher the entanglement the more oscillatory and thus less easy to profit from. We also comment on propagation properties of entanglement, discussing the role of fast rotating terms and illustrating several issues with the example of a sudden switch of the coupling.

id: 1101.2223
title: Remote-Sensing Quantum Hyperspace by Entangled Photon Interferometry
authors: Gergely A. Nagy
comments: 7+1 pages, including the 'Multi-dimensional hyperwaves theory'
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2223
abstract: Even though ideas of extracting future-related, or Faster-Than-Light (FTL) information from hyperspace using quantum entanglement have generally been refuted in the last ten years, in this paper we show that the original 'Delayed Choice Quantum Eraser Experiment', 1st performed by Yoon-Ho Kim, R. Yu, S.P. Kulik, Y.H. Shih, designed by Marlan O. Scully & Druhl in 1982-1999, still features hidden topological properties that may have been overlooked by previous analysis, and which prohibit, by principle, the extraction of future-related or real-time information from the detection of the signal particle on the delayed choice of its entangled idler twin(s). We show that such properties can be removed, and quantum-level information from certain hypersurfaces of past, present or future spacetime may be collected real-time, without resulting in any paradox or violation of causality.

id: 1101.2298
title: Disordered Quantum Walks in one lattice dimension
authors: Andre Ahlbrecht, Volkher B. Scholz, Albert H. Werner
comments: minor changes
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 102201 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2298
abstract: We study a spin-1/2-particle moving on a one dimensional lattice subject to disorder induced by a random, space-dependent quantum coin. The discrete time evolution is given by a family of random unitary quantum walk operators, where the shift operation is assumed to be deterministic. Each coin is an independent identically distributed random variable with values in the group of two dimensional unitary matrices. We derive sufficient conditions on the probability distribution of the coins such that the system exhibits dynamical localization. Put differently, the tunneling probability between two lattice sites decays rapidly for almost all choices of random coins and after arbitrary many time steps with increasing distance. Our findings imply that this effect takes place if the coin is chosen at random from the Haar measure, or some measure continuous with respect to it, but also for a class of discrete probability measures which support consists of two coins, one of them being the Hadamard coin.

id: 1101.2313
title: Various quantum nonlocality tests with a simple 2-photon entanglement source
authors: Enrico Pomarico, Jean-Daniel Bancal, Bruno Sanguinetti, Anas Rochdi, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 83, 052104 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2313
abstract: Nonlocality is a fascinating and counterintuitive aspect of Nature, revealed by the violation of a Bell inequality. The standard and easiest configuration in which Bell inequalities can be measured has been proposed by Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH). However, alternative nonlocality tests can also be carried out. In particular, Bell inequalities requiring multiple measurement settings can provide deeper fundamental insights about quantum nonlocality as well as offering advantages in the presence of noise and detection inefficiency. In this article we show how these nonlocality tests can be performed using a commercially available source of entangled photon pairs. We report the violation of a series of these nonlocality tests (I3322, I4422 and chained inequalities). With the violation of the chained inequality with 4 settings per side we put an upper limit at 0.49 on the local content of the states prepared by the source (instead of 0.63 attainable with CHSH). We also quantify the amount of true randomness that has been created during our experiment (assuming fair sampling of the detected events).

id: 1101.2386
title: Dynamics of a driven spin coupled to an antiferromagnetic spin bath
authors: Xiao-Zhong Yuan, Hsi-Sheng Goan, Ka-Di Zhu
comments: Accepted for publication in New Journal of Physics (19 pages, 4 figures)
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 023018 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2386
abstract: We study the behavior of the Rabi oscillations of a driven central spin (qubit) coupled to an antiferromagnetic spin bath (environment). It is found that the decoherence behavior of the central spin depends on the detuning, driving strength, the qubit-bath coupling and an important factor, associated with the number of the coupled atoms, the detailed lattice structure, and the temperature of the environment. If the detuning exists, the Rabi oscillations may show the behavior of collapses and revivals; however, if the detuning is zero, such a behavior will not appear. We investigate the weighted frequency distribution of the time evolution of the central spin inversion and give this phenomenon of collapses and revivals a reasonable explanation. We also discuss the decoherence and the pointer states of the qubit from the perspectives of the von Neumann entropy. It is found that the eigenstates of the qubit self-Hamiltonian emerge as the pointer states in the weak system-environment coupling limit.

id: 1101.2388
title: Simulation of continuous variable quantum games without entanglement
authors: Shang-Bin Li
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, RevTex, some contents have been revised
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 295302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2388
abstract: A simulation scheme of quantum version of Cournot's Duopoly is proposed, in which there is a new Nash equilibrium that may be also Pareto optimal without any entanglement involved. The unique property of this simulation scheme is decoherence-free against the symmetric photon loss. Furthermore, we analyze the effects of the asymmetric information on this simulation scheme and investigate the case of asymmetric game caused by asymmetric photon loss. A second-order phase transition-like behavior of the average profits of the firm 1 and firm 2 in Nash equilibrium can be observed with the change of the degree of asymmetry of the information or the degree of "virtual cooperation". It is also found that asymmetric photon loss in this simulation scheme plays a similar role with the asymmetric entangled states in the quantum game. PACS numbers: 02.50.Le, 03.67.-a

id: 1101.2409
title: Quantifying the Performance of Quantum Codes
authors: C. Cafaro, S. L'Innocente, C. Lupo, S. Mancini
comments: 21 pages, 10 figures
journal: Open Sys. & Information Dyn. 18, 1 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2409
abstract: We study the properties of error correcting codes for noise models in the presence of asymmetries and/or correlations by means of the entanglement fidelity and the code entropy. First, we consider a dephasing Markovian memory channel and characterize the performance of both a repetition code and an error avoiding code in terms of the entanglement fidelity. We also consider the concatenation of such codes and show that it is especially advantageous in the regime of partial correlations. Finally, we characterize the effectiveness of the codes and their concatenation by means of the code entropy and find, in particular, that the effort required for recovering such codes decreases when the error probability decreases and the memory parameter increases. Second, we consider both symmetric and asymmetric depolarizing noisy quantum memory channels and perform quantum error correction via the five qubit stabilizer code. We characterize this code by means of the entanglement fidelity and the code entropy as function of the asymmetric error probabilities and the degree of memory. Specifically, we uncover that while the asymmetry in the depolarizing errors does not affect the entanglement fidelity of the five qubit code, it becomes a relevant feature when the code entropy is used as a performance quantifier.

id: 1101.2426
title: A three step laser stabilisation scheme for excitation to Rydberg levels in 85Rb
authors: L. A. M. Johnson, H. O. Majeed, B. T. H. Varcoe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2426
abstract: We demonstrate a three step laser stabilisation scheme for excitation to nP and nF Rydberg states in 85Rb, with all three lasers stabilised using active feedback to independent Rb vapour cells. The setup allows stabilisation to the Rydberg states 36P3/2 to 70P3/2 and 33F7/2 to 90F7/2, with the only limiting factor being the available third step laser power. We study the scheme by monitoring the three laser frequencies simultaneously against a self-referenced optical frequency comb. The third step laser, locked to the Rydberg transition, displays an Allan deviation of 30 kHz over 1 second and < 80 kHz over 1 hour. The scheme is very robust and affordable, and it would be ideal for carrying out a range of quantum information experiments.

id: 1101.2452
title: Hamiltonian Control of Quantum Dynamical Semigroups: Stabilization and Convergence Speed
authors: Francesco Ticozzi, Riccardo Lucchese, Paola Cappellaro, Lorenza Viola
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: IEEE Transactions of Automatic Control, 57(8): 1931-1944, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2452
abstract: We consider finite-dimensional Markovian open quantum systems, and characterize the extent to which time-independent Hamiltonian control may allow to stabilize a target quantum state or subspace and optimize the resulting convergence speed. For a generic Lindblad master equation, we introduce a dissipation-induced decomposition of the associated Hilbert space, and show how it serves both as a tool to analyze global stability properties for given control resources and as the starting point to synthesize controls that ensure rapid convergence. The resulting design principles are illustrated in realistic Markovian control settings motivated by quantum information processing, including quantum-optical systems and nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond.

id: 1101.2477
title: Extremal correlations of the tripartite no-signaling polytope
authors: Stefano Pironio, Jean-Daniel Bancal, Valerio Scarani
comments: The list of extremal points is available in electronic format at this http URL
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 065303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2477
abstract: The no-signaling polytope associated to a Bell scenario with three parties, two inputs, and two outputs is found to have 53856 extremal points, belonging to 46 inequivalent classes. We provide a classification of these points according to various definitions of multipartite non-locality and briefly discuss other issues like the interconversion between extremal points seen as a resource and the relation of the extremal points to Bell-type inequalities.

id: 1101.2514
title: On the algebra of local unitary invariants of pure and mixed quantum states
authors: Peter Vrana
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2514
abstract: We study the structure of the inverse limit of the graded algebras of local unitary invariant polynomials using its Hilbert series. For k subsystems, we conjecture that the inverse limit is a free algebra and the number of algebraically independent generators with homogenous degree 2m equals the number of conjugacy classes of index m subgroups in a free group on k-1 generators. Similarly, we conjecture that the inverse limit in the case of k-partite mixed state invariants is free and the number of algebraically independent generators with homogenous degree m equals the number of conjugacy classes of index m subgroups in a free group on k generators. The two conjectures are shown to be equivalent. To illustrate the equivalence, using the representation theory of the unitary groups, we obtain all invariants in the m=2 graded parts and express them in a simple form both in the case of mixed and pure states. The transformation between the two forms is also derived. Analogous invariants of higher degree are also introduced.

id: 1101.2535
title: Entanglement, decoherence and thermal relaxation in exactly solvable models
authors: Oleg Lychkovskiy
comments: talk at the Fifth International Workshop DICE-2010, Castiglioncello (Italy), September 13-17
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 306 (2011) 012028
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2535
abstract: Exactly solvable models provide an opportunity to study different aspects of reduced quantum dynamics in detail. We consider the reduced dynamics of a single spin in finite XX and XY spin 1/2 chains. First we introduce a general expression describing the evolution of the reduced density matrix. This expression proves to be tractable when the combined closed system (i.e. open system plus environment) is integrable. Then we focus on comparing decoherence and thermalization timescales in the XX chain. We find that for a single spin these timescales are comparable, in contrast to what should be expected for a macroscopic body. This indicates that the process of quantum relaxation of a system with few accessible states can not be separated in two distinct stages - decoherence and thermalization. Finally, we turn to finite-size effects in the time evolution of a single spin in the XY chain. We observe three consecutive stages of the evolution: regular evolution, partial revivals, irregular (apparently chaotic) evolution. The duration of the regular stage is proportional to the number of spins in the chain. We observe a "quiet and cold period" in the end of the regular stage, which breaks up abruptly at some threshold time.

id: 1101.2537
title: Probability representation of quantum evolution and energy level equations for optical tomograms
authors: Ya. A. Korennoy, V.I.Man'ko
comments: 14 pages submitted to Journal of Russian Laser Research
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2537
abstract: The von Neumann evolution equation for density matrix and the Moyal equation for the Wigner function are mapped onto evolution equation for optical tomogram of quantum state. The connection with known evolution equation for symplectic tomogram of the quantum state is clarified. The stationary states corresponding to quantum energy levels are associated with the probability representation of the von Neumann and Moyal equations written for the optical tomograms. Classical Liouville equation for optical tomogram is obtained. Example of parametric oscillator is considered in detail.

id: 1101.2540
title: Spin Correlations in $e^{+}e^{-}$ Pair Creation by Two-Photons and Entanglement in QED
authors: N. Yongram
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.50:838-849,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2540
abstract: Spin correlations of $e^{+}e^{-}$ pair productions of two colliding photons are investigated and explicit expressions for their corresponding probabilities are derived and found to be \textit{energy} (speed) dependent, for initially \textit{linearly} and \textit{circularly polarized} photons, different from those obtained by simply combining the spins of the relevant particles, for initially \textit{polarized} photons. These expressions also depend on the angles of spin of $e^{+}$ (and/or of $e^{-}$), for initially {\it linearly polarized} photons, but not for {\it circularly polarized} photons, as a function of the energy. It is remarkable that these explicit results obtained from quantum field theory show a clear violation of Bell's inequality of Local Hidden Variables theories at all {\it energies} beyond that of the threshold one for particle production, in support of quantum field theory in the relativistic regime. We hope that our explicit expression will lead to experiments, of the type described in the bulk of this paper, which can monitor energy (and speed) in polarization correlation experiments.

id: 1101.2550
title: Testing Bell inequalities with circuit QEDs by joint spectral measurements
authors: Hao Yuan, L. F. Wei, J. S. Huang, X. H. Wang, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2550
abstract: We propose a feasible approach to test Bell's inequality with the experimentally-demonstrated circuit QED system, consisting of two well-separated superconducting charge qubits (SCQs) dispersively coupled to a common one-dimensional transmission line resonator (TLR). Our proposal is based on the joint spectral measurements of the two SCQs, i.e., their quantum states in the computational basis $\{|kl>,\,k,l=0,1\}$ can be measured by detecting the transmission spectra of the driven TLR: each peak marks one of the computational basis and its relative height corresponds to the probability superposed. With these joint spectral measurements, the generated Bell states of the two SCQs can be robustly confirmed without the standard tomographic technique. Furthermore, the statistical nonlocal-correlations between these two distant qubits can be directly read out by the joint spectral measurements, and consequently the Bell's inequality can be tested by sequentially measuring the relevant correlations related to the suitably-selected sets of the classical local variables $\{\theta_j,\theta_j', j=1,2\}$. The experimental challenges of our proposal are also analyzed.

id: 1101.2559
title: Interaction-enhanced double resonance in cold gases
authors: Alexander Safonov, Irina Safonova, Igor Yasnikov
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2559
abstract: A new type of double-resonance spectroscopy of a quantum gas based on interaction-induced frequency modulation of a probe transition has been considered. Interstate interaction of multilevel atoms causes a coherence-dependent collisional shift of the transition between the atomic states |1> and |2> due to a nonzero population of the state |3>. Thus, the frequency of the probe transition |1>-|2> experiences oscillations associated with the Rabi oscillations between the states |1> and |3> under continuous excitation of the drive resonance |1>-|3>. Such a dynamic frequency shift leads to a change in the electromagnetic absorption at the probe frequency and, consequently, greatly enhances the sensitivity of double-resonance spectroscopy as compared to traditional "hole burning", which is solely due to a decrease in the population of the initial state |1>. In particular, it has been shown that the resonance linewidth is determined by the magnitude of the contact shift and the amplitude of the drive field and does not depend on the static field gradient. The calculated line shape and width agree with the low-temperature electron-nuclear double-resonance spectra of two-dimensional atomic hydrogen.

id: 1101.2561
title: Magnet field sensing beyond the standard quantum limit under the effect of decoherence
authors: Yuichiro Matsuzaki, Simon C. Benjamin, Joseph Fitzsimons
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2561
abstract: Entangled states can potentially be used to outperform the standard quantum limit which every classical sensor is bounded by. However, entangled states are very susceptible to decoherence, and so it is not clear whether one can really create a superior sensor to classical technology via a quantum strategy which is subject to the effect of realistic noise. This paper presents an investigation of how a quantum sensor composed of many spins is affected by independent dephasing. We adopt general noise models including non-Markovian effects, and in these noise models the performance of the sensor depends crucially on the exposure time of the sensor to the field. We have found that, by choosing an appropriate exposure time within non-Markovian time region, an entangled sensor does actually beat the standard quantum limit. Since independent dephasing is one of the most typical sources of noise in many systems, our results suggest a practical and scalable approach to beating the standard quantum limit.

id: 1101.2565
title: Extraction of timelike entanglement from the quantum vacuum
authors: S. Jay Olson, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2565
abstract: Recently, it has been shown that the massless quantum vacuum state contains entanglement between timelike separated regions of spacetime, in addition to the entanglement between the spacelike separated regions usually considered. Here, we show that timelike entanglement can be extracted from the Minkowski vacuum and converted into ordinary entanglement between two inertial, two-state detectors at the same spatial location -- one coupled to the field in the past and the other coupled to the field in the future. The procedure used here demonstrates a clear time correlation as a requirement for extraction, e.g. if the past detector was active at a quarter to 12:00, then the future detector must wait to become active at precisely a quarter past 12:00 in order to achieve entanglement.

id: 1101.2568
title: Dynamics of quantum discord in the purification process
authors: Wei Song, Lin Chen, Ming Yang, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physica A, 391, 4186 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2568
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of quantum discord during the purification process. In the case of Werner states, it is shown that quantum discord is increased after a round of purification protocol. Furthermore, quantum mutual information and classical correlation is also increased during this process.Wealso give an analytic expression for a class of higher dimensional states which have additive quantum discord.

id: 1101.2572
title: Continuous-Time Quantum Walks: Models for Coherent Transport on Complex Networks
authors: Oliver Muelken, Alexander Blumen
comments: review article to appear in Physics Reports, 39 pages, 44 figures
journal: Physics Reports 502, 37-87 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2572
abstract: This paper reviews recent advances in continuous-time quantum walks (CTQW) and their application to transport in various systems. The introduction gives a brief survey of the historical background of CTQW. After a short outline of the theoretical ideas behind CTQW and of its relation to classical continuous-time random walks (CTRW) in Sec.~2, implications for the efficiency of the transport are presented in Sec.~3. The fourth section gives an overview of different types of networks on which CTQW have been studied so far. Extensions of CTQW to systems with long-range interactions and with static disorder are discussed in section V. Systems with traps, i.e., systems in which the walker's probability to remain inside the system is not conserved, are presented in section IV. Relations to similar approaches to the transport are studied in section VII. The paper closes with an outlook on possible future directions.

id: 1101.2598
title: Universal quantum computing with nanowire double quantum dots
authors: P. Xue
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. 84 045002 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2598
abstract: We show a method for implementing universal quantum computing using of a singlet and triplets of nanowire double quantum dots coupled to a one-dimensional transmission line resonator. This method is attractive for both quantum computing and quantum control with inhibition of spontaneous emission, enhanced spin qubit lifetime, strong coupling and quantum nondemolition measurements of spin qubits. We analyze the performance and stability of all required operations and emphasize that all techniques are feasible with current experimental technology.

id: 1101.2620
title: Directly integrating the Schroedinger to determine tunneling rates for arbitrary one-dimensional potential barriers
authors: Andy Rundquist
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, submitted to the American Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2620
abstract: By directly integrating the Schroedinger starting in the transmission region and working backwards through the barrier, the tunneling probability can be determined for arbitrary potential barriers. The method employs techniques familiar to undergraduates and is used here to study resonant tunneling.

id: 1101.2635
title: Consistent quantum theory as a realistic formulation of quantum mechanics
authors: P. C. Hohenberg
comments: This paper has been withdrawn, pending a significant revision entitled 'Compatible Quantum Theory',which will appear in 2014 under the authorship of R Friedberg and P C Hohenberg
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2635
abstract: The foundations of quantum mechanics have been plagued by controversy throughout the 85 year history of the field. It is argued that lack of clarity in the formulation of basic philosophical questions leads to unnecessary obscurity and controversy and an attempt is made to identify the main forks in the road that separate the most important interpretations of quantum theory. The consistent histories formulation, also known as "consistent quantum theory", is described as one particular way (favored by the author) to answer the essential questions of interpretation. The theory is shown to be a realistic formulation of quantum mechanics, in contrast to the orthodox or Copenhagen formulation which will be referred to as an operationalist theory.

id: 1101.2638
title: Decoherence and disorder in quantum walks: From ballistic spread to localization
authors: A. Schreiber, K. N. Cassemiro, V. Poto?ek, A. G¨¢bris, I. Jex, Ch. Silberhorn
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 180403 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2638
abstract: We investigate the impact of decoherence and static disorder on the dynamics of quantum particles moving in a periodic lattice. Our experiment relies on the photonic implementation of a one-dimensional quantum walk. The pure quantum evolution is characterized by a ballistic spread of a photon's wave packet along 28 steps. By applying controlled time-dependent operations we simulate three different environmental influences on the system, resulting in a fast ballistic spread, a diffusive classical walk and the first Anderson localization in a discrete quantum walk architecture.

id: 1101.2649
title: Enhanced Quantum Communication via Optical Refocusing
authors: Cosmo Lupo, Vittorio Giovannetti, Stefano Pirandola, Stefano Mancini, Seth Lloyd
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 010303(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2649
abstract: We consider the problem of quantum communication mediated by an optical refocusing system, which is schematized as a thin lens with a finite pupil. This model captures the basic features of all those situations in which a signal is either refocused by a repeater for long distance communication, or it is focused on a detector prior to the information decoding process. Introducing a general method for linear optical systems, we compute the communication capacity of the refocusing apparatus. Although the finite extension of the pupil may cause loss of information, we show that the presence of the refocusing system can substantially enhance the rate of reliable communication with respect to the free-space propagation.

id: 1101.2657
title: Optical Phase-Space-Time-Frequency Tomography
authors: Paul Rojas, Rachel Blaser, Yong Meng Sua, Kim Fook Lee
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2657
abstract: We present a new approach for constructing optical phase-space-time-frequency tomography (OPSTFT) of an optical wave field. This tomography can be measured by using a novel four-window optical imaging system based on two local oscillator fields balanced heterodyne detection. The OPSTFT is a Wigner distribution function of two independent Fourier Transform pairs, i.e., phase-space and time-frequency. From its theoretical and experimental aspects, it can provide information of position, momentum, time and frequency of a spatial light field with precision beyond the uncertainty principle. We simulate the OPSTFT for a light field obscured by a wire and a single-line absorption filter. We believe that the four-window system can provide spatial and temporal properties of a wave field for quantum image processing and biophotonics.

id: 1101.2668
title: Initial state preparation with dynamically generated system-environment correlations
authors: C. H. Fleming, B. L. Hu, Albert Roura
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 84, 021106 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2668
abstract: The dependence of the dynamics of open quantum systems upon initial correlations between the system and environment is an utterly important yet poorly understood subject. For technical convenience most prior studies assume factorizable initial states where the system and its environments are uncorrelated, but these conditions are not very realistic and give rise to peculiar behaviors. One distinct feature is the rapid build up or a sudden jolt of physical quantities immediately after the system is brought in contact with its environments. The ultimate cause of this is an initial imbalance between system-environment correlations and coupling. In this note we demonstrate explicitly how to avoid these unphysical behaviors by proper adjustments of correlations and/or the coupling, for setups of both theoretical and experimental interest. We provide simple analytical results in terms of quantities that appear in linear (as opposed to affine) master equations derived for factorized initial states.

id: 1101.2683
title: Visualizing quantum mechanics in phase space
authors: Heiko Bauke, Noya Ruth Itzhak
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2683
abstract: We examine the visualization of quantum mechanics in phase space by means of the Wigner function and the Wigner function flow as a complementary approach to illustrating quantum mechanics in configuration space by wave functions. The Wigner function formalism resembles the mathematical language of classical mechanics of non-interacting particles. Thus, it allows a more direct comparison between classical and quantum dynamical features.

id: 1101.2688
title: Distant entanglement protected through artificially increased local temperature
authors: Andre R. R. Carvalho, Marcelo Fran?a Santos
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 13 013010 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2688
abstract: In composed quantum systems, the presence of local dissipative channels causes loss of coherence and entanglement at a rate that grows with the temperature of the reservoirs. However, here we show that if temperature is artificially added to the system, entanglement decay can be significantly slowed down or even suppressed conditioned on suitable local monitoring of the reservoirs. We propose a scheme to implement the joint reservoir monitoring applicable in different experimental setups like trapped ions, circuit and cavity QED or quantum dots coupled to nanowires and we analyze its general robustness against detection inefficiencies and non-zero temperature of the natural reservoir.

id: 1101.2716
title: Quantum process tomography of molecular dimers from two-dimensional electronic spectroscopy I: General theory and application to homodimers
authors: Joel Yuen-Zhou, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2716
abstract: Is it possible to infer the time evolving quantum state of a multichromophoric system from a sequence of two-dimensional electronic spectra (2D-ES) as a function of waiting time? Here we provide a positive answer for a tractable model system: a coupled dimer. After exhaustively enumerating the Liouville pathways associated to each peak in the 2D-ES, we argue that by judiciously combining the information from a series of experiments varying the polarization and frequency components of the pulses, detailed information at the amplitude level about the input and output quantum states at the waiting time can be obtained. This possibility yields a quantum process tomography (QPT) of the single-exciton manifold, which completely characterizes the open quantum system dynamics through the reconstruction of the process matrix. This is the first of a series of two articles. In this manuscript, we specialize our results to the case of a homodimer, where we prove that signals stemming from coherence to population transfer and viceversa vanish upon isotropic averaging, and therefore, only a partial QPT is possible in this case. However, this fact simplifies the spectra, and it follows that only two polarization controlled experiments (and no pulse-shaping requirements) suffice to yield the elements of the process matrix which survive under isotropic averaging. The angle between the two site transition dipole moments is self-consistently obtained from the 2D-ES. Model calculations are presented, as well as an error analysis in terms of the angle between the dipoles and peak overlap. In the second article accompanying this study, we numerically exemplify the theory for heterodimers and carry out a detailed error analysis for such case. This investigation provides an important benchmark for more complex proposals of quantum process tomography (QPT) via multidimensional spectroscopic experiments.

id: 1101.2736
title: Low frequency phase signal measurement with high frequency squeezing
authors: Zehui Zhai, Jiangrui Gao
comments: 11 pages, 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2736
abstract: We calculate the utility of high-frequency squeezed-state enhanced two-frequency interferometry for low-frequency phase measurement. To use the high-frequency sidebands of the squeezed light, a two-frequency intense laser is used in the interferometry instead of a single-frequency laser as usual. We find that the readout signal can be contaminated by the high-frequency phase vibration, but this is easy to check and avoid. A proof-of-principle experiment is in the reach of modern quantum optics technology.

id: 1101.2739
title: Cavity cooling of atoms: Within and without a cavity
authors: Andr¨¦ Xuereb, Peter Domokos, Peter Horak, Tim Freegarde
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J D 65, 273 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2739
abstract: We compare the efficiencies of two optical cooling schemes, where a single particle is either inside or outside an optical cavity, under experimentally-realisable conditions. We evaluate the cooling forces using the general solution of a transfer matrix method for a moving scatterer inside a general one-dimensional system composed of immobile optical elements. Assuming the same atomic saturation parameter, we find that the two cooling schemes provide cooling forces and equilibrium temperatures of comparable magnitude.

id: 1101.2766
title: Passivity breaking of a local vacuum state in a quantum Hall system
authors: Go Yusa, Wataru Izumida, Masahiro Hotta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2766
abstract: We propose an experimental method for extracting the zero-point energy from a local vacuum state by performing local operations and classical communication (LOCC). We model a quantum Hall edge channel as a quantum entangled many-body channel and the zero-point fluctuation in the charge density of the channel as the vacuum state. We estimate the order of the energy gain using reasonable experimental parameters. Such a quantum feedback system breaks the passivity of a local vacuum state. It can be used to demonstrate Maxwell's demon or quantum energy teleportation in which no physical entity transports energy.

id: 1101.2794
title: Textures of Superfluid 3He-B in Applied Flow and Comparison with Hydrostatic Theory
authors: R. de Graaf, V.B. Eltsov, J.J. Hosio, P.J. Heikkinen, M.Krusius
comments: 
journal: Journal of Low Temperature Physics, 163, 238-261 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2794
abstract: Measurements of the order parameter texture of rotating superfluid 3He-B have been performed as a function of the applied azimuthal counterflow velocity down to temperatures of 0.2Tc. The results are compared to the hydrostatic theory of 3He-B. Good agreement is found at all measured temperatures and rotation velocities when the flow anisotropy contribution to the textural free energy is adjusted. This gives a superfluid energy gap Delta(T) which agrees with that measured by Todoshchenko et al., with Delta(0)=1.97kBTc at 29.0 bar. The B-phase susceptibility, longitudinal resonance frequency, and textural phase transition have been extracted from the measurements as a function of temperature and azimuthal counterflow velocity. Owing to decreasing absorption intensities the present measuring method, based on the line shape analysis of the NMR spectrum, loses its sensitivity with decreasing temperature. However, we find that in practice the measurement of vortex numbers and counterflow velocities is still feasible down to 0.2Tc.

id: 1101.2825
title: Production of optical phase space vortices with non-locally distributed mode converters
authors: R. M. Gomes, A. Salles, F. Toscano, P. H. Souto Ribeiro, S. P. Walborn
comments: To appear in upcoming special issue "Orbital Angular Momentum" of the Journal of Optics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2825
abstract: Optical vortices have been observed in a wide variety of optical systems. They can be observed directly in the wavefront of optical beams, or in the correlations between pairs of entangled photons. We present a novel optical vortex which appears in a non-local plane of the two-photon phase space, composed of a single degree of freedom of each photon of an entangled pair. The preparation of this vortex can be viewed as a "non-local" or distributed mode converter. We show how these novel optical vortices of arbitrary order can be prepared in the spatial degrees of freedom of entangled photons.

id: 1101.2828
title: Entanglement in the symmetric sector of $n$ qubits
authors: P. Ribeiro, R. Mosseri
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2828
abstract: We discuss the entanglement properties of symmetric states of $n$ qubits. The Majorana representation maps a generic such state into a system of $n$ points on a sphere. Entanglement invariants, either under local unitaries (LU) or stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC), can then be addressed in terms of the relative positions of the Majorana points. In the LU case, an over complete set of invariants can be built from the inner product of the radial vectors pointing to these points; this is detailed for the well documented three-qubits case. In the SLOCC case, cross ratio of related M^bius transformations are shown to play a central role, examplified here for four qubits. Finally, as a side result, we also analyze the manifold of maximally entangled 3 qubit state, both in the symmetric and generic case.

id: 1101.2853
title: Coincidence Rates for Photon Pairs in WDM Environment
authors: Jungmi Oh, Cristian Antonelli, Misha Brodsky
comments: 
journal: J.Lightwave Tech.29:324-329,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2853
abstract: We demonstrate the flexibility that a wavelength selective switch could offer to bandwidth provisioning of potential multi-user quantum key distribution networks based on entangled pair sources. We derive an analytical expression relating the coincidence detection rates of the photon pairs to the switch bandwidth characteristics. Experimentally measured coincidence rates verify the theory in three distinct network configurations.

id: 1101.2942
title: Universal Quantum Degeneracy Point for Superconducting Qubits
authors: Xiu-Hao Deng, Yong Hu, Lin Tian
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Supercond. Sci. Technol. 26 114002(2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2942
abstract: The quantum degeneracy point approach [D. Vion et al., Science 296, 886 (2002)] effectively protects superconducting qubits from low-frequency noise that couples with the qubits as transverse noise. However, low-frequency noise in superconducting qubits can originate from various mechanisms and can couple with the qubits either as transverse or as longitudinal noise. Here, we present a quantum circuit containing a universal quantum degeneracy point that protects an encoded qubit from arbitrary low-frequency noise. We further show that universal quantum logic gates can be performed on the encoded qubit with high gate fidelity. The proposed scheme is robust against small parameter spreads due to fabrication errors in the superconducting qubits.

id: 1101.2944
title: Entropic uncertainty relations in multidimensional position and momentum spaces
authors: Yichen Huang
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 83, 052124 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2944
abstract: Commutator-based entropic uncertainty relations in multidimensional position and momentum spaces are derived, twofold generalizing previous entropic uncertainty relations for one-mode states. The lower bound in the new relation is optimal, and the new entropic uncertainty relation implies the famous variance-based uncertainty principle for multimode states. The article concludes with an open conjecture.

id: 1101.2946
title: Quantum Kolmogorov Complexity and Information-Disturbance Theorem
authors: Takayuki Miyadera
comments: Special issue: Kolmogorov Complexity
journal: Entropy 13, 778-789 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2946
abstract: In this paper, a representation of the information-disturbance theorem based on the quantum Kolmogorov complexity that was defined by P. Vitanyi has been examined. In the quantum information theory, the information-disturbance relationship, which treats the trade-off relationship between information gain and its caused disturbance, is a fundamental result that is related to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle. The problem was formulated in a cryptographic setting and quantitative relationships between complexities have been derived.

id: 1101.2971
title: Bound on genuine multipartite correlations from the principle of information causality
authors: Yang Xiang, Wei Ren
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 11, No. 11&12 (2011) 0948--0956
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2971
abstract: Quantum mechanics is not the unique no-signaling theory which is endowed with stronger-than-classical correlations, and there exists a broad class of no-signaling theories allowing even stronger-than-quantum correlations. The principle of information causality has been suggested to distinguish quantum theory from these nonphysical theories, together with an elegant information-theoretic proof of the quantum bound of two-particle correlations. In this work, we extend this to genuine $N$-particle correlations that cannot be reduced to mixtures of states in which a smaller number of particles are entangled. We first express Svetlichny's inequality in terms of multipartite no-signaling boxes, then prove that the strongest genuine multipartite correlations lead to the maximal violation of information causality. The maximal genuine multipartite correlations under the constraint of information causality is found to be equal to the quantum mechanical bound. This result consolidates information causality as a physical principle defining the possible correlations allowed by nature, and provides intriguing insights into the limits of genuine multipartite correlations in quantum theory.

id: 1101.2988
title: Quantum memory in non-inertial frames
authors: M. Ramzan, M. K. Khan
comments: 20 pages, 7 .eps figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2988
abstract: We study the effect of quantum memory in non-inertial frames under the influence of amplitude damping, depolarizing, phase flip and bit-phase flip channels. It is shown that the entanglement of initial state is heavily influenced by quantum correlations. It is seen that quantum memory compensates the loss of entanglement generated caused by the Unruh effect. It is interesting to note that the sudden death of entanglement disappears for any acceleration for higher values of memory. Therefore, it is possible to avoid ESD in non-inertial frames due to the presence of quantum memory. Furthermore, the degree of entanglement is enhanced as we increase the degree of memory and it maximizes for maximum correlations.

id: 1101.3008
title: Continuous-variable quantum key distribution protocols with a non-Gaussian modulation
authors: Anthony Leverrier, Philippe Grangier
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042312 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3008
abstract: In this paper, we consider continuous-variable quantum key distribution (QKD) protocols which use non-Gaussian modulations. These specific modulation schemes are compatible with very efficient error correction procedures, hence allowing the protocols to outperform previous protocols in terms of achievable range. In their simplest implementation, these protocols are secure for any linear quantum channels (hence against Gaussian attacks). We also show how the use of decoy states makes the protocols secure against arbitrary collective attacks, which implies their unconditional security in the asymptotic limit.

id: 1101.3011
title: The Dirac-Moshinsky Oscillator: Theory and Applications
authors: Emerson Sadurni
comments: Lecture notes from the course "The Dirac-Moshinsky Oscillator: Theory and Applications". To appear in the proceedings of ELAF 2010, Mexico. 28 figures, 45 pages
journal: AIP Conf.Proc.1334:249-290,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3011
abstract: This work summarizes the most important developments in the construction and application of the Dirac-Moshinsky oscillator (DMO) with which the author has come in contact. The literature on the subject is voluminous, mostly because of the avenues that exact solvability opens towards our understanding of relativistic quantum mechanics. Here we make an effort to present the subject in chronological order and also in increasing degree of complexity of its parts. We start our discussion with the seminal paper by Moshinsky and Szczepaniak and the immediate implications stemming from it. Then we analyze the extensions of this model to many particles. The one-particle DMO is revisited in the light of the Jaynes-Cummings model in quantum optics and exactly solvable extensions are presented. Applications and implementations in hexagonal lattices are given, with a particular emphasis in the emulation of graphene in electromagnetic billiards.

id: 1101.3183
title: Curve Crossing Problem with Arbitrary Coupling: Analytically Solvable Model
authors: Aniruddha Chakraborty
comments: 
journal: Mol. Phys. 110, 2197 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3183
abstract: We give a general method for finding an exact analytical solution for the two state curve crossing problem. The solution requires the knowledge of the Green's function for the motion on the uncoupled potential. We use the method to find the solution of the problem in the case of parabolic potentials coupled by Gaussian interaction. Our method is applied to this model system to calculate the effect of curve crossing on electronic absorption spectrum and resonance Raman excitation profile.

id: 1101.3194
title: Chaos can act as a decoherence suppressor
authors: Jing Zhang, Yu-xi Liu, Wei-Min Zhang, Lian-Ao Wu, Re-Bing Wu, Tzyh-Jong Tarn
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 214304 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3194
abstract: We propose a strategy to suppress decoherence of a solid-state qubit coupled to non-Markovian noises by attaching the qubit to a chaotic setup with the broad power distribution in particular in the high-frequency domain. Different from the existing decoherence control methods such as the usual dynamics decoupling control, high-frequency components of our control are generated by the chaotic setup driven by a low-frequency field, and the generation of complex optimized control pulses is not necessary. We apply the scheme to superconducting quantum circuits and find that various noises in a wide frequency domain, including low-frequency $1/f$, high-frequency Ohmic, sub-Ohmic, and super-Ohmic noises, can be efficiently suppressed by coupling the qubits to a Duffing oscillator as the chaotic setup. Significantly, the decoherence time of the qubit is prolonged approximately $100$ times in magnitude.

id: 1101.3207
title: Microfabricated Ion Traps
authors: Marcus D. Hughes, Bjoern Lekitsch, Jiddu A. Broersma, Winfried K. Hensinger
comments: 
journal: Contemporary Physics 52:6, 505-529 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3207
abstract: Ion traps offer the opportunity to study fundamental quantum systems with high level of accuracy highly decoupled from the environment. Individual atomic ions can be controlled and manipulated with electric fields, cooled to the ground state of motion with laser cooling and coherently manipulated using optical and microwave radiation. Microfabricated ion traps hold the advantage of allowing for smaller trap dimensions and better scalability towards large ion trap arrays also making them a vital ingredient for next generation quantum technologies. Here we provide an introduction into the principles and operation of microfabricated ion traps. We show an overview of material and electrical considerations which are vital for the design of such trap structures. We provide guidance in how to choose the appropriate fabrication design, consider different methods for the fabrication of microfabricated ion traps and discuss previously realized structures. We also discuss the phenomenon of anomalous heating of ions within ion traps, which becomes an important factor in the miniaturization of ion traps.

id: 1101.3209
title: Wronskian method for bound states
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3209
abstract: We propose a simple and straightforward method based on Wronskians for the calculation of bound--state energies and wavefunctions of one--dimensional quantum--mechanical problems. We explicitly discuss the asymptotic behavior of the wavefunction and show that the allowed energies make the divergent part vanish. As illustrative examples we consider an exactly solvable model and the Gaussian potential well.

id: 1101.3234
title: Effect of phase fluctuation and dephasing on the dynamics of entanglement generation in a correlated emission laser
authors: Sintayehu tesfa
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3234
abstract: A detailed study of the effects of phase fluctuation and dephasing on the dynamics of the entanglement generated from a coherently pumped correlated emission laser is presented. It is found that the time evolution of the entanglement is significantly reliant on the phase fluctuation and dephasing, particularly, at early stages of the lasing process. In the absence of external driving radiation, the degree of entanglement and intensity turns out to attain a maximum value just before starting to exhibit oscillation which dies at longer time scale. However, in case the driving mechanism is on, the oscillatory nature disappears due to the additional induced coherent superposition and the degree of entanglement would be larger at steady state. Moreover, the degree of entanglement as predicted by the logarithmic negativity and the Duan-Giedke-Cirac-Zoller criteria exhibits a similar nature when there is no driving radiation, although such a trend is eroded with increasing strength of the pumping radiation at longer time scale. The other important aspect of the phase fluctuation and dephasing is the possibility of relaxing the time at which the maximum entanglement is detected.

id: 1101.3248
title: Noise and Controllability: suppression of controllability in large quantum systems
authors: Michael Khasin, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3248
abstract: A closed quantum system is defined as completely controllable if an arbitrary unitary transformation can be executed using the available controls. In practice, control fields are a source of unavoidable noise. Can one design control fields such that the effect of noise is negligible on the time-scale of the transformation? Complete controllability in practice requires that the effect of noise can be suppressed for an arbitrary transformation. The present study considers a paradigm of control, where the Lie-algebraic structure of the control Hamiltonian is fixed, while the size of the system increases, determined by the dimension of the Hilbert space representation of the algebra. We show that for large quantum systems, generic noise in the controls dominates for a typical class of target transformations i.e., complete controllability is destroyed by the noise.

id: 1101.3256
title: A study of separability criteria for mixed three-qubit states
authors: Szil¨¢rd Szalay
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures, PRA style
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062337 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3256
abstract: We study the noisy GHZ-W mixture. We demonstrate some necessary but not sufficient criteria for different classes of separability of these states. It turns out that the partial transposition criterion of Peres and the criteria of G\"uhne and Seevinck dealing with matrix elements are the strongest ones for different separability classes of this 2 parameter state. As a new result we determine a set of entangled states of positive partial transpose.

id: 1101.3263
title: Witnessing entanglement beyond decoherence
authors: Felipe Caycedo-Soler, Ferney J. Rodr¨ªguez, Luis Quiroga
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3263
abstract: We address the witnessing of quantum correlations beyond the limits imposed by an ensemble statistical average. By relying upon the continuous observation of a single quantum open system under the action of classical or quantum noise, we show how the statistical distribution of outcomes of physically measurable quantities provides enough information to detect entanglement in situations where a simple averaging procedure yields to a vanishing value. In this way, we are able to specify the meaning of decoherence when single read-out measurements are available, to demonstrate that these distributions are capable to predict/detect entanglement well beyond the ensemble average provided by a dephasing-sensitive mixed state. Few-spin and fluorescent systems are used to illustrate entanglement survival when a mixed state average predicts none or under the conditions where the sudden-death of entanglement is expected.

id: 1101.3275
title: Quantum computing with mixed states
authors: Michael Siomau, Stephan Fritzsche
comments: 2 figures, 52 references
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 62, 449 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3275
abstract: We discuss a model for quantum computing with initially mixed states. Although such a computer is known to be less powerful than a quantum computer operating with pure (entangled) states, it may efficiently solve some problems for which no efficient classical algorithms are known. We suggest a new implementation of quantum computation with initially mixed states in which an algorithm realization is achieved by means of optimal basis independent transformations of qubits.

id: 1101.3288
title: Spontaneous emission of a quantum particle under strong Stark interaction with resonant vacuum field
authors: A. M. Basharov
comments: 6 pages
journal: A.M. Basharov, Phys.Lett.A. v.375, n.3, p. 784 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3288
abstract: It has been shown that strong Stark interaction of a quantum particle with a vacuum electromagnetic field reduces the speed of the one-quantum spontaneous radiation and leads to additional shift of frequency of radiation transition.

id: 1101.3380
title: Quantum Correlated Equilibria in Classical Complete Information Games
authors: Alan Deckelbaum
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3380
abstract: We study the scenario where the players of a classical complete information game initially share an entangled pure quantum state. Each player may perform arbitrary local operations on his own qubits, but no direct communication is allowed. In this framework, we define the concept of quantum correlated equilibrium (QCE) for both normal and extensive form games of complete information. We show that in a normal form game, any outcome distribution implementable by a QCE can also be implemented by a classical correlated equilibrium (CE). We prove that the converse is surprisingly false: we give an example of an outcome distribution of a normal form game which is implementably by a CE, yet we prove that in any attempted quantum protocol beginning with a partition of a pure quantum state, at least one of the players will have incentive to deviate. We extend our analysis to extensive form games, and find that the relation between classical and quantum correlated equilibria becomes less clear. We compare the outcome distributions implementable in our quantum model to those implementable by a classical extensive form correlated equilibrium (EFCE). For example, we show that there exists an extensive form complete information game and a distribution of outcomes which can be implemented by a QCE but not by any EFCE, in contrast to the result for normal form games. We also consider the concept of an immediate-revelation extensive form correlated equilibrium (IR-EFCE) and compare the power of IR-EFCE to EFCE and to QCE.

id: 1101.3392
title: On adiabatic evolution for a general time-dependent quantum system
authors: Kyu Hwang Yeon, Jeong Ryeol Choi, Shou Zhang, Thomas F. George
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3392
abstract: The unitary operator corresponding to the classical canonical transformation that connects a general closed system to an open system under adiabatic conditions is found. The quantum invariant operator of the adiabatic open system is derived from the unitary transformation of the quantum Hamiltonian of the closed system. On the basis of these results, we investigate the evolution of the general quantum adiabatic system and construct a revised adiabatic theorem. The adiabatic theorem developed here exactly reduces to the well-known Berry adiabatic theorem when the control parameter

id: 1101.3405
title: The Stark interaction of identical particles with vacuum electromagnetic field as quantum Poisson process suppressing collective spontaneous emission
authors: A. M. Basharov
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3405
abstract: The effective Hamiltonian describing resonant interaction of an ensemble of identical quantum particles with a photon-free vacuum electromagnetic field has been obtained with allowance for the second-order terms over the coupling constant (the Stark interaction) by means of the perturbation theory on the basis of the unitary transformation of the system quantum state. It has been shown that in the Markov approximation the effective Hamiltonian terms of the first-order coupling constant are represented as the quantum Wiener process, whereas the second-order terms are expressed by the quantum Poisson process. In the course of investigation it was established that the Stark interaction played a significant role in the ensemble dynamics, thus influencing the collective spontaneous decay of the ensemble of an appreciably high number of identical particles. New fundamental effects have been discovered, i.e., the excitation conservation in a sufficiently dense ensemble of identical particles and superradiance suppression in the collective decaying process of an excited ensemble with the determined number of particles.

id: 1101.3408
title: Geometric measure of quantum discord over two-sided projective measurements
authors: Jianwei Xu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3408
abstract: The original definition of quantum discord of bipartite states was defined over one-sided projective measurements, it describes quantum correlation more extensively than entanglement. Dakic, Vedral, and Brukner [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105 (2010) 190502] introduced a geometric measure for this quantum discord, and Luo, Fu [Phys. Rev. A 82 (2010) 034302] simplified the variation expression of it. In this paper we introduce a geometric measure for the quantum discord over two-sided projective measurements. A simplified expression and a lower bound of this geometric measure are derived and explicit expressions are obtained for some special cases.

id: 1101.3435
title: Quantum Mechanics without an Equation of Motion
authors: A. D. Alhaidari
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, and 3 tables
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 062107 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3435
abstract: We propose a formulation of quantum mechanics in three dimensions with spherical symmetry for a finite level system whose dynamics is not governed by a differential equation of motion. The wavefunction is written as an infinite sum in a complete set of square integrable functions. Interaction in the theory is introduced in function space by a real finite tridiagonal symmetric matrix. Information about the structure and dynamics of the system is contained in the scattering matrix, which is defined in the usual way.

id: 1101.3461
title: Coherent-feedback control strategy to suppress spontaneous switching in ultra-low power optical bistability
authors: Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 8 pages, 4 color figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3461
abstract: An optical resonator with intracavity Kerr nonlinearity can exhibit dispersive bistability suitable for all-optical switching. With nanophotonic elements it may be possible to achieve attojoule switching energies, which would be very attractive for ultra-low power operation but potentially problematic because of quantum fluctuation-induced spontaneous switching. In this manuscript I derive a quantum-optical model of two Kerr-nonlinear ring resonators connected in a coherent feedback loop, and show via numerical simulation that a properly designed `controller' cavity can significantly reduce the spontaneous switching rate of a bistable `plant' cavity in a completely embedded and autonomous manner.

id: 1101.3508
title: Photonic Quantum Computation with Waveguide-Linked Optical Cavities and Quantum Dots
authors: Makoto Yamaguchi, Takashi Asano, Yoshiya Sato, Susumu Noda
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3508
abstract: We propose a new scheme for solid-state photonic quantum computation in which trapped photons in optical cavities are taken as a quantum bit. Quantum gates can be realized by coupling the cavities with quantum dots through waveguides. The proposed scheme allows programmable and deterministic gate operations and the system can be scaled up to many quantum bits.

id: 1101.3519
title: Physical realization of Photonic Klein Tunneling
authors: S. Esposito
comments: revtex4, 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3519
abstract: General physical conditions for the occurrence of photonic Klein tunneling are studied, where (controlled) spontaneous emission from the devices considered plays a key role. The specific example of a simple dielectric slab bounded by two dielectric half spaces with arbitrary refractive indices is worked out quite in detail, the measured reflection and transmission probabilities being calculated analytically. It is found that, in given cases, the measured reflection probability may be arbitrarily large (for large incident wavelengths) irrespective of the fact that the transmission probability is exponentially suppressed or not. Other interesting features of photonic Klein tunneling driven by (controlled) spontaneous emission are as well envisaged for practical applications.

id: 1101.3521
title: Counting Steps: A New Approach to Objective Probability in Physics
authors: Amit Hagar, Giuseppe Sergioli
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3521
abstract: We propose a new interpretation of objective deterministic chances in statistical physics based on physical computational complexity. This notion applies to a single physical system (be it an experimental set--up in the lab, or a subsystem of the universe), and quantifies (1) the difficulty to realize a physical state given another, (2) the `distance' (in terms of physical resources) of a physical state from another, and (3) the size of the set of time--complexity functions that are compatible with the physical resources required to reach a physical state from another. This view (a) exorcises "ignorance" from statistical physics, and (b) underlies a new interpretation to non--relativistic quantum mechanics.

id: 1101.3543
title: Decisions in elections --- transitive or intransitive quantum preferences
authors: Marcin Makowski, Edward W. Piotrowski
comments: 11 pages 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3543
abstract: Our preferences depend on the circumstances in which we reveal them. We will introduce a dependency which allows us to illustrate the relation between the possibility of winning of particular candidates in a quantum election and the type of preference. It occurs that if voters start to clearly prefer one of the candidates, the significance of intransitive preferences in the quantum model decreases. This dynamic change cannot be observed in the case of the classical model.

id: 1101.3558
title: Anomalous strong exchange narrowing in excitonic systems
authors: J. Roden, A. Eisfeld
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 134, 034901 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3558
abstract: We investigate theoretically the phenomenon of exchange narrowing in the absorption spectrum of a chain of monomers, which are coupled via resonant dipole-dipole interaction. The individual (uncoupled) monomers exhibit a broad absorption line shape due to the coupling to an environment consisting of a continuum of vibrational modes. Upon increasing the interaction between the monomers, the absorption spectrum of the chain narrows. For a non-Markovian environment with a Lorentzian spectral density, we find a narrowing of the peak width (full width at half maximum (FWHM)) by a factor 1/N, where N is the number of monomers. This is much stronger than the usual 1/sqrt{N} narrowing. Furthermore it turns out that for a Markovian environment no exchange narrowing at all occurs. The relation of different measures of the width (FWHM, standard deviation) is discussed.

id: 1101.3564
title: Entangled topological features of light
authors: J. Romero, J. Leach, B. Jack, M.R. Dennis, S. Franke-Arnold, S.M. Barnett, M.J. Padgett
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3564
abstract: We report the entanglement of topological features, namely, isolated, linked optical vortex loops in the light from spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC). In three dimensions, optical vortices are lines of phase singularity and vortices of energy flow which percolate through all optical fields. This example of entanglement is between features that extend over macroscopic and finite volumes, furthermore, topological features are robust to perturbation . The entanglement of photons in complex three-dimensional(3D) topological states suggests the possibility of entanglement of similar structures in other quantum systems describable by complex scalar functions, such as superconductors, superfluids and Bose-Einstein condensates.

id: 1101.3568
title: Transitivity of an entangled choice
authors: Marcin Makowski, Edward W. Piotrowski
comments: will appear in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 075301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3568
abstract: We describe a quantum model of simple choice game (constructed upon entangled state of two qubits), which involves the fundamental problem of transitive - intransitive preferences. We compare attainability of optimal intransitive strategies in both classical and quantum models with the use of geometrical interpretation.

id: 1101.3579
title: Robust high-fidelity universal set of quantum gates through non-adiabatic rapid passage
authors: Ran Li, Frank Gaitan
comments: 11 pages; no figures; two tables; updated tables; version to appear in J. Mod. Optics
journal: J. Mod. Optics 58, 1922 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3579
abstract: We show how a robust high-fidelity universal set of quantum gates can be implemented using a single form of non-adiabatic rapid passage whose parameters are optimized to maximize gate fidelity and reward gate robustness. Each gate in the universal set is found to operate with a fidelity F in the range 0.99988 < F < 0.99999, and to require control parameters with no more than 14-bit (1 part in 10,000) precision. Such precision is within reach of commercially available arbitrary waveform generators, so that an experimental study of this approach to high-fidelity universal quantum control appears feasible.

id: 1101.3604
title: Phonon number quantum jumps in an optomechanical system
authors: A. A. Gangat, T. M. Stace, G. J. Milburn
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures. minor revisions since first version
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 043024
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3604
abstract: We describe an optomechanical system in which the mean phonon number of a single mechanical mode conditionally displaces the amplitude of the optical field. Using homodyne detection of the output field we establish the conditions under which phonon number quantum jumps can be inferred from the measurement record: both the cavity damping rate and the measurement rate of the phonon number must be much greater than the thermalization rate of the mechanical mode. We present simulations of the conditional dynamics of the measured system using the stochastic master equation. In the good-measurement limit, the conditional evolution of the mean phonon number shows quantum jumps as phonons enter and exit the mechanical resonator via the bath.

id: 1101.3674
title: Robustness of spatial Penning trap modes against environment-assisted entanglement
authors: Michael Genkin, Alexander Eisfeld
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics, vol. 44, p. 035502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3674
abstract: The separability of the spatial modes of a charged particle in a Penning trap in the presence of an environment is studied by means of the positive partial transpose (PPT) criterion. Assuming a weak Markovian environment, described by linear Lindblad operators, our results strongly suggest that the environmental coupling of the axial and cyclotron degrees of freedom does not lead to entanglement at experimentally realistic temperatures. We therefore argue that, apart from unavoidable decoherence, the presence of such an environment does not alter the effectiveness of recently suggested quantum information protocols in Penning traps, which are based on the combination of a spatial mode with the spin of the particle.

id: 1101.3690
title: Large Deviation Strategy for Inverse Problem
authors: Izumi Ojima, Kazuya Okamura
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3690
abstract: Taken traditionally as a no-go theorem against the theorization of inductive processes, Duhem-Quine thesis may interfere with the essence of statistical inference. This difficulty can be resolved by Micro-Macro duality \cite{Oj03, Oj05} which clarifies the importance of specifying the pertinent aspects and accuracy relevant to concrete contexts of scientific discussions and which ensures the matching between what to be described and what to describe in the form of the validity of duality relations. This consolidates the foundations of the inverse problem, induction method, and statistical inference crucial for the sound relations between theory and experiments. To achieve the purpose, we propose here Large Deviation Strategy (LDS for short) on the basis of Micro-Macro duality, quadrality scheme, and large deviation principle. According to the quadrality scheme emphasizing the basic roles played by the dynamics, algebra of observables together with its representations and universal notion of classifying space, LDS consists of four levels and we discuss its first and second levels in detail, aiming at establishing statistical inference concerning observables and states. By efficient use of the central measure, we will establish a quantum version of Sanov's theorem, the Bayesian escort predictive state and the widely applicable information criteria for quantum states in LDS second level. Finally, these results are reexamined in the context of quantum estimation theory, and organized as quantum model selection, i.e., a quantum version of model selection.

id: 1101.3700
title: Multiparty hierarchical quantum-information splitting
authors: Xin-Wen Wang, Deng-Yu Zhang, Shi-Qing Tang, Li-Jun Xie
comments: 6 pages, 2 tables
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 035505
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3700
abstract: We propose a scheme for multiparty hierarchical quantum-information splitting (QIS) with a multipartite entangled state, where a boss distributes a secret quantum state to two grades of agents asymmetrically. The agents who belong to different grades have different authorities for recovering boss's secret. Except for boss's Bell-state measurement, no nonlocal operation is involved. The presented scheme is also shown to be secure against eavesdropping. Such a hierarchical QIS is expected to find useful applications in the field of modern multipartite quantum cryptography.

id: 1101.3739
title: Suppression of polarization decoherence for traveling light pulses via bang-bang dynamical decoupling
authors: M. Lucamarini, G. Di Giuseppe, S. Damodarakurup, D. Vitali, P. Tombesi
comments: 14 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032320 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3739
abstract: In the propagation of optical pulses through dispersive media, the frequency degree of freedom acts as an effective decohering environment on the polarization state of the pulse. Here we discuss the application of open-loop dynamical-decoupling techniques for suppressing such a polarization decoherence in one-way communication channels. We describe in detail the experimental proof of principle of the "bang-bang" protection technique recently applied to flying qubits in [Damodarakurup et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 040502]. Bang-bang operations are implemented through appropriately oriented waveplates and dynamical decoupling is shown to be potentially useful to contrast a generic decoherence acting on polarization qubits propagating in dispersive media like, e.g., optical fibers.

id: 1101.3760
title: Multimode mean-field model for the quantum phase transition of a Bose-Einstein condensate in an optical resonator
authors: G. Konya, G. Szirmai, P. Domokos
comments: 10 pages
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 65, 33--42 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3760
abstract: We develop a mean-field model describing the Hamiltonian interaction of ultracold atoms and the optical field in a cavity. The Bose-Einstein condensate is properly defined by means of a grand-canonical approach. The model is efficient because only the relevant excitation modes are taken into account. However, the model goes beyond the two-mode subspace necessary to describe the self-organization quantum phase transition observed recently. We calculate all the second-order correlations of the coupled atom field and radiation field hybrid bosonic system, including the entanglement between the two types of fields.

id: 1101.3764
title: Quantum Computing over Finite Fields
authors: Roshan P. James, Gerardo Ortiz, Amr Sabry
comments: 10 pages. Submitted to LICS 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3764
abstract: In recent work, Benjamin Schumacher and Michael~D. Westmoreland investigate a version of quantum mechanics which they call "modal quantum theory" but which we prefer to call "discrete quantum theory". This theory is obtained by instantiating the mathematical framework of Hilbert spaces with a finite field instead of the field of complex numbers. This instantiation collapses much the structure of actual quantum mechanics but retains several of its distinguishing characteristics including the notions of superposition, interference, and entanglement. Furthermore, discrete quantum theory excludes local hidden variable models, has a no-cloning theorem, and can express natural counterparts of quantum information protocols such as superdense coding and teleportation. Our first result is to distill a model of discrete quantum computing from this quantum theory. The model is expressed using a monadic metalanguage built on top of a universal reversible language for finite computations, and hence is directly implementable in a language like Haskell. In addition to superpositions and invertible linear maps, the model includes conventional programming constructs including pairs, sums, higher-order functions, and recursion. Our second result is to relate this programming model to relational programming, e.g., a pure version of Prolog over finite relations. Surprisingly discrete quantum computing is identical to conventional logic programming except for a small twist that is responsible for all the ``quantum-ness.'' The twist occurs when merging sets of answers computed by several alternatives: the answers are combined using an "exclusive" version of logical disjunction. In other words, the two branches of a choice junction exhibit an "interference" effect: an answer is produced from the junction if it occurs in one or the other branch but not both.

id: 1101.3766
title: Quantum coherence between two atoms beyond Q=10^15
authors: C. W. Chou, D. B. Hume, M. J. Thorpe, D. J. Wineland, T. Rosenband
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3766
abstract: We place two atoms in quantum superposition states and observe coherent phase evolution for 3.4x10^15 cycles. Correlation signals from the two atoms yield information about their relative phase even after the probe radiation has decohered. This technique was applied to a frequency comparison of two Al+ ions, where a fractional uncertainty of 3.7+1.0-0.8x10^-16/\sqrt{\tau/s} was observed. Two measures of the Q-factor are reported: The Q-factor derived from quantum coherence is 3.4+2.4-1.1x10^16, and the spectroscopic Q-factor for a Ramsey time of 3 s is 6.7x10^15. As part of this experiment, we demonstrate a method to detect the individual quantum states of two Al+ ions in a Mg+-Al+-Al+ linear ion chain without spatially resolving the ions.

id: 1101.3768
title: Recovering quantum information through partial access to the environment
authors: Laleh Memarzadeh, Chiara Macchiavello, Stefano Mancini
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 103031
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3768
abstract: We investigate the possibility of correcting errors occurring on a multipartite system through a feedback mechanism that acquires information from partial access to the environment. A partial control scheme of this kind might be useful when dealing with correlated errors. In fact, in such a case, it could be enough to gather local information to decide what kind of global recovery to perform. Then, we apply this scheme to the depolarizing and correlated errors, and quantify its performance by means of the entanglement fidelity.

id: 1101.3790
title: Entanglement Enhanced Information Transfer through Strongly Correlated Systems and its Application to Optical Lattices
authors: Song Yang, Abolfazl Bayat, Sougato Bose
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 020302(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3790
abstract: We show that the inherent entanglement of the ground state of strongly correlated systems can be exploited for both classical and quantum communications. Our strategy is based on a single qubit rotation which encodes information in the entangled nature of the ground state. In classical communication, our mechanism conveys more than one bit of information in each shot, just as dense coding does, without demanding long range entanglement. In our scheme for quantum communication, which may more appropriately be considered as a remote state preparation, the quality is higher than the highly studied attaching scenarios. Moreover, we propose to implement this new way of communication in optical lattices where all the requirements of our proposal have already been achieved.

id: 1101.3812
title: Time-resolved detection and mode-mismatch in a linear optics quantum gate
authors: Peter P. Rohde, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 053036
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3812
abstract: Linear optics is a promising candidate for the implementation of quantum information processing protocols. In such systems single photons are employed to represent qubits. In practice, single photons produced from different sources will not be perfectly temporally and frequency matched. Therefore understanding the effects of temporal and frequency mismatch is important for characterising the dynamics of the system. In this paper we discuss the effects of temporal and frequency mismatch, how they differ, and what their effect is upon a simple linear optics quantum gate. We show that temporal and frequency mismatch exhibit inherently different effects on the operation of the gate. We also consider the spectral effects of the photo-detectors, focusing on time-resolved detection, which we show has a strong impact on the operation of such protocols.

id: 1101.3817
title: Fidelity Between Unitary Operators and the Generation of Gates Robust Against Off-Resonance Perturbations
authors: Renan Cabrera, Ofer M. Shir, Rebing Wu, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 095302, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3817
abstract: We perform a functional expansion of the fidelity between two unitary matrices in order to find the necessary conditions for the robust implementation of a target gate. Comparison of these conditions with those obtained from the Magnus expansion and Dyson series shows that they are equivalent in first order. By exploiting techniques from robust design optimization, we account for issues of experimental feasibility by introducing an additional criterion to the search for control pulses. This search is accomplished by exploring the competition between the multiple objectives in the implementation of the NOT gate by means of evolutionary multi-objective optimization.

id: 1101.3852
title: Robust quantum enhanced phase estimation in a multimode interferometer
authors: J. J. Cooper, D. W. Hallwood, J. A. Dunningham, J. Brand
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, replaced by final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 130402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3852
abstract: By exploiting the correlation properties of ultracold atoms in a multi-mode interferometer, we show how quantum enhanced measurement precision can be achieved with strong robustness to particle loss. While the potential for enhanced measurement precision is limited for even moderate loss in two-mode schemes, multi-mode schemes can be more robust. A ring interferometer for sensing rotational motion with non-interacting fermionic atoms can realize an uncertainty scaling of $1/(N\sqrt{\eta})$ for $N$ particles with a fraction $\eta$ remaining after loss, which undercuts the shot noise limit of two mode interferometers. A second scheme with strongly-interacting bosons achieves a comparable measurement precision and improved readout.

id: 1101.3855
title: Photon-added Coherent States in Parametric Down-conversion
authors: S. Sivakumar
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3855
abstract: Photon-added coherent states have been realized in optical parametric down-conversion by Zavatta {\em et al} [Science 306 (2004) 660-662]. In this report, it is established that the states generated in the process are {\em ideal} photon-added coherent states. It is shown that the scheme can generate higher order photon-added coherent states. A comparative study of the down-conversion process and atom-cavity interaction in generating the photon-added coherent states is presented.

id: 1101.3884
title: Approximation algorithms for QMA-complete problems
authors: Sevag Gharibian, Julia Kempe
comments: 22 pages, comments welcome
journal: SIAM Journal on Computing 41(4): 1028-1050, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3884
abstract: Approximation algorithms for classical constraint satisfaction problems are one of the main research areas in theoretical computer science. Here we define a natural approximation version of the QMA-complete local Hamiltonian problem and initiate its study. We present two main results. The first shows that a non-trivial approximation ratio can be obtained in the class NP using product states. The second result (which builds on the first one), gives a polynomial time (classical) algorithm providing a similar approximation ratio for dense instances of the problem. The latter result is based on an adaptation of the "exhaustive sampling method" by Arora et al. [J. Comp. Sys. Sci. 58, p.193 (1999)] to the quantum setting, and might be of independent interest.

id: 1101.3888
title: Many-body singlets by dynamic spin polarization
authors: Wang Yao
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 201308(R), (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3888
abstract: We show that dynamic spin polarization by collective raising and lowering operators can drive a spin ensemble from arbitrary initial state to many-body singlets, the zero-collective-spin states with large scale entanglement. For an ensemble of $N$ arbitrary spins, both the variance of the collective spin and the number of unentangled spins can be reduced to O(1) (versus the typical value of O(N)), and many-body singlets can be occupied with a population of $\sim 20 %$ independent of the ensemble size. We implement this approach in a mesoscopic ensemble of nuclear spins through dynamic nuclear spin polarization by an electron. The result is of two-fold significance for spin quantum technology: (1) a resource of entanglement for nuclear spin based quantum information processing; (2) a cleaner surrounding and less quantum noise for the electron spin as the environmental spin moments are effectively annihilated.

id: 1101.3893
title: Excitation spectrum for an inhomogeneously dipole-field-coupled superconducting qubit chain
authors: Hou Ian, Yu-xi Liu, Franco Nori
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, with 3 appendices
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053833 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3893
abstract: When a chain of superconducting qubits couples to a coplanar resonator in a cavity, each of its N qubits (equally-spaced with distance l) experiences a different dipole-field coupling strength due to the waveform of the cavity field. We find that this inhomogeneous coupling leads to a pair of l-dependent ladder operators for the angular momentum of the spin chain. Varying the qubit spacing l changes the transition amplitudes between the angular momentum levels. We derive an exact diagonalization of the general N-qubit Hamiltonian and, through the N=4 case, demonstrate how the l-dependent operators lead to a denser one-excitation spectrum and a probability redistribution of the eigenstates. Moreover, it will be shown that the variation of l between its two limiting values coincides with the crossover between Frenkel- and Wannier-type excitons in the superconducting spin chain.

id: 1101.3908
title: Entanglement of finite cyclic chains at factorizing fields
authors: R.Rossignoli, N. Canosa, J.M. Matera
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Rossignoli, R., Canosa, N., Matera J.M., Phys. Rev. A 77, 052322(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3908
abstract: We examine the entanglement of cyclic spin 1/2 chains with anisotropic XY Z Heisenberg couplings of arbitrary range at transverse factorizing magnetic fields. At these fields the system exhibits a degenerate symmetry-breaking separable ground state (GS). It is shown, however, that the side limits of the GS pairwise entanglement at these fields are actually non-zero in finite chains, corresponding such fields to a GS spin-parity transition. These limits exhibit universal properties like being independent of the pair separation and interaction range, and are directly related to the magnetization jump. Illustrative exact results are shown for chains with I) full range and II) nearest neighbor couplings. Global entanglement properties at such points are also discussed.

id: 1101.3917
title: Faithful test of non-local realism with entangled coherent states
authors: Chang-Woo Lee, Mauro Paternostro, Hyunseok Jeong
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022102 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3917
abstract: We investigate the violation of Leggett's inequality for non-local realism using entangled coherent states and various types of local measurements. We prove mathematically the relation between the violation of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt form of Bell's inequality and Leggett's one when tested by the same resources. For Leggett inequalities, we generalize the non-local realistic bound to systems in Hilbert spaces larger than bidimensional ones and introduce an optimization technique that allows to achieve larger degrees of violation by adjusting the local measurement settings. Our work describes the steps that should be performed to produce a self-consistent generalization of Leggett's original arguments to continuous-variable states.

id: 1101.3954
title: Quantum Energy Teleportation: An Introductory Review
authors: Masahiro Hotta
comments: 51 pages, 15 figures. Lecture Note for Kusatsu Winter Workshop on Non-Equilibrium Fluctuation in Physics and Informatics, Gunma, Japan, Mar. 7-10, 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3954
abstract: The development of techniques for manipulation of quantum information has opened the door to a variety of protocols for accomplishing unprecedented tasks. In particular, a new protocol of quantum teleportation was proposed in 2008 to achieve effective energy transportation simply via local operations and classical communication without breaking any known physical laws. This is achieved by extracting zero-point energy of entangled many-body systems by local operations dependent on information obtained by a distant measurement. The concept is reviewed from an introductory viewpoint herein.

id: 1101.3969
title: Study of a self-adjoint operator indicating the direction of time within standard quantum mechanics
authors: Y. Strauss, J. Silman, S. Machnes, L.P. Horwitz
comments: This paper presents a mathematically rigorous reworking of some of the results appearing in arXiv:0802.2448 [quant-ph]
journal: C. R. Math. 349, 1117 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3969
abstract: In [J. Math. Phys. 51 (2010) 022104] a self-adjoint operator was introduced that has the property that it indicates the direction of time within the framework of standard quantum mechanics, in the sense that as a function of time its expectation value decreases monotonically for any initial state. In this paper we study some of this operator's properties. In particular, we derive its spectrum and generalized eigenstates, and treat the example of the free particle.

id: 1101.3986
title: Decoherence and entanglement degradation of a qubit-qutrit system in non-inertial frames
authors: M. Ramzan, M. K. Khan
comments: 16 pages, 5 .eps figures, 1 table; Quantum Information Processing, published online, 5 July, 2011
journal: Quant. Inf. Process. 11, 443 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3986
abstract: We study the effect of decoherence on a qubit-qutrit system under the influence of global, local and multilocal decoherence in non-inertial frames. We show that the entanglement sudden death can be avoided in non-inertial frames in the presence of amplitude damping, depolarizing and phase damping channels. However, degradation of entanglement is seen due to Unruh effect. It is shown that for lower level of decoherence, the depolarizing channel degrades the entanglement more heavily as compared to the amplitude damping and phase damping channels. However, for higher values of decoherence parameters, amplitude damping channel heavily degrades the entanglement of the hybrid system. Further more, no ESD is seen for any value of Rob's acceleration.

id: 1101.3993
title: Solution of the time-dependent Dirac equation for describing multiphoton ionization of highly-charged hydrogenlike ions
authors: Yulian V. Vanne, Alejandro Saenz
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3993
abstract: A theoretical study of the intense-field multiphoton ionization of hydrogenlike systems is performed by solving the time-dependent Dirac equation within the dipole approximation. It is shown that the velocity-gauge results agree to the ones in length gauge only if the negative-energy states are included in the time propagation. On the other hand, for the considered laser parameters, no significant difference is found in length gauge if the negative-energy states are included or not. Within the adopted dipole approximation the main relativistic effect is the shift of the ionization potential. A simple scaling procedure is proposed to account for this effect.

id: 1101.4089
title: Resonant Regeneration in the Sub-Quantum Regime -- A demonstration of fractional quantum interference
authors: John G. Hartnett, Joerg Jaeckel, Rhys G. Povey, Michael E. Tobar
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Lett.B698:346-352,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4089
abstract: Light shining through wall experiments (in the optical as well as in the microwave regime) are a powerful tool to search for light particles coupled very weakly to photons such as axions or extra hidden sector photons. Resonant regeneration, where a resonant cavity is employed to enhance the regeneration rate of photons, is one of the most promising techniques to improve the sensitivity of the next generation of experiments. However, doubts have been voiced if such methods work at very low regeneration rates where on average the cavity contains less than one photon. In this note we report on a demonstration experiment using a microwave cavity driven with extremely low power, to show that resonant amplification works also in this regime. In accordance with standard quantum mechanics this is a demonstration that interference also works at the level of less than one quantum. As an additional benefit this experiment shows that thermal photons inside the cavity cause no adverse effects.

id: 1101.4105
title: Entropic characterization of quantum operations
authors: Wojciech Roga, Mark Fannes, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, 9, pp. 1031 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4105
abstract: We investigate decoherence induced by a quantum channel in terms of minimal output entropy and of map entropy. The latter is the von Neumann entropy of the Jamiolkowski state of the channel. Both quantities admit q-Renyi versions. We prove additivity of the map entropy for all q. For the case q = 2, we show that the depolarizing channel has the smallest map entropy among all channels with a given minimal output Renyi entropy of order two. This allows us to characterize pairs of channels such that the output entropy of their tensor product acting on a maximally entangled input state is larger than the sum of the minimal output entropies of the individual channels. We conjecture that for any channel {\Phi}1 acting on a finite dimensional system there exists a class of channels {\Phi}2 sufficiently close to a unitary map such that additivity of minimal output entropy for {\Psi}1 x {\Psi}2 holds.

id: 1101.4131
title: Tomographic reconstruction of the Wigner function on the Bloch sphere
authors: Roman Schmied, Philipp Treutlein
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures; minor modifications
journal: New Journal of Physics 13:065019 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4131
abstract: We present a filtered backprojection algorithm for reconstructing the Wigner function of a system of large angular momentum j from Stern-Gerlach-type measurements. Our method is advantageous over the full determination of the density matrix in that it is insensitive to experimental fluctuations in j, and allows for a natural elimination of high-frequency noise in the Wigner function by taking into account the experimental uncertainties in the determination of j, its projection m, and the quantization axis orientation. No data binning and no arbitrary smoothing parameters are necessary in this reconstruction. Using recently published data [Riedel et al., Nature 464:1170 (2010)] we reconstruct the Wigner function of a spin-squeezed state of a Bose-Einstein condensate of about 1250 atoms, demonstrating that measurements along quantization axes lying in a single plane are sufficient for performing this tomographic reconstruction. Our method does not guarantee positivity of the reconstructed density matrix in the presence of experimental noise, which is a general limitation of backprojection algorithms.

id: 1101.4133
title: The "Ghostly" Quantum Worlds
authors: M. Dugic, D. Rakovic, J. Jeknic-Dugic, M. Arsenijevic
comments: no figures or tables; NeuroQuantology 2012; Volume 10: December, Issue 3
journal: NeuroQuantology, 2012, Volume 10, Issue 4, Page 619-628
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4133
abstract: We present the foundations of a new emerging interpretation of quantum theory bearing wide-range implications. Physical basis of the interpretation is non-questionable yet relatively new--it relies on the different structures (decompositions into parts, subsystems) of the quantum Universe. We compare the mutually irreducible structures of the Universe and recognize them as the different facets of the one and the same quantum Universe. Physical picture is interesting and non-reducible to the existing interpretations. As a particularly interesting topic in this context appears the 'free will' topic of current interest in the interpretation of quantum theory. To this end, we arrive at the following interesting observation. The freely chosen actions (e.g. quantum measurements) performed by a (conscious) agent that are still locally observable in the alternate Worlds could seem physically unexplainable ('non-physical', 'ghostly').

id: 1101.4159
title: On swapping the states of two qudits
authors: Colin Wilmott
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4159
abstract: The SWAP gate has become an integral feature of quantum circuit architectures and is designed to permute the states of two qubits through the use of the well-known controlled-NOT gate. We consider the question of whether a two-qudit quantum circuit composed entirely from instances of the generalised controlled-NOT gate can be constructed to permute the states of two qudits. Arguing via the signature of a permutation, we demonstrate the impossibility of such circuits for dimensions $d \equiv 3$ (mod 4).

id: 1101.4171
title: Coherent states on the circle
authors: G. Chadzitaskos, P. Luft, J. Tolar
comments: 7 pages, presented at GROUP28 - "28th International Colloquium on Group Theoretical Methods in Physics", Newcastle upon Tyne, July 2010. Accepted in Journal of Physics Conference Series
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4171
abstract: We present a possible construction of coherent states on the unit circle as configuration space. In our approach the phase space is the product Z x S^1. Because of the duality of canonical coordinates and momenta, i.e. the angular variable and the integers, this formulation can also be interpreted as coherent states over an infinite periodic chain. For the construction we use the analogy with our quantization over a finite periodic chain where the phase space was Z_M x Z_M. Properties of the coherent states constructed in this way are studied and the coherent states are shown to satisfy the resolution of unity.

id: 1101.4180
title: Transition Decomposition of Quantum Mechanical Evolution
authors: Y. Strauss, J. Silman, S. Machnes, L.P. Horwitz
comments: Accepted for publication in Int. J. Theor. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4180
abstract: We show that the existence of the family of self-adjoint Lyapunov operators introduced in [J. Math. Phys. 51, 022104 (2010)] allows for the decomposition of the state of a quantum mechanical system into two parts: A past time asymptote, which is asymptotic to the state of the system at t goes to minus infinity and vanishes at t goes to plus infinity, and a future time asymptote, which is asymptotic to the state of the system at t goes to plus infinity and vanishes at t goes to minus infinity. We demonstrate the usefulness of this decomposition for the description of resonance phenomena by considering the resonance scattering of a particle off a square barrier potential. We show that the past time asymptote captures the behavior of the resonance. In particular, it exhibits the expected exponential decay law and spatial probability distribution.

id: 1101.4250
title: Space-time qubits
authors: J.L. Pienaar, C.R. Myers, T.C. Ralph
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, added references, added appendix, moved some text from introduction to conclusion, made minor corrections to text and figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022315 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4250
abstract: We construct a qubit algebra from field creation and annihilation operators acting on a global vacuum state. Particles to be used as qubits are created from the vacuum by a near-deterministic single particle source. Our formulation makes the space-time dependence of the qubits explicit, preparing the way for quantum computation within a field framework. The method can be generalized to deal with interacting qubits whose wavepackets are not perfectly matched to each other. We give an example of how to calculate the Heisenberg evolution of a simple two-qubit circuit, taking expectation values in the field vacuum state.

id: 1101.4300
title: Scalable Neutral Atom Quantum Computer with Interaction on Demand: Proposal for Selective Application of Two-Qubit Gate
authors: Elham Hosseini Lapasar, Kenichi Kasamatsu, Yasushi Kondo, Mikio Nakahara, Tetsuo Ohmi
comments: 10 pages, 9 figure
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 80, 114003 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4300
abstract: We propose a scalable neutral atom quantum computer with an on-demand interaction through a selective two-qubit gate operation. Atoms are trapped by a lattice of near field Fresnel diffraction lights so that each trap captures a single atom. One-qubit gate operation is implemented by a gate control laser beam which is applied to an individual atom. Two-qubit gate operation between an arbitrary pair of atoms is implemented by sending these atoms to a state-dependent optical lattice and making them collide so that a particular two-qubit state acquires a dynamical phase. We give numerical evaluations corresponding to these processes, from which we estimate the upper bound of a two-qubit gate operation time and corresponding gate fidelity. Our proposal is feasible within currently available technology developed in cold atom gas, MEMS, nanolithography, and various areas in optics.

id: 1101.4308
title: To make a nanomechanical Schr?dinger-cat mew
authors: Tam¨¢s Geszti
comments: For Proc. DICE-2010 (Castiglioncello), to be published in J. Phys. Conf. Ser., 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4308
abstract: By an explicite calculation of Michelson interferometric output intensities in the optomechanical scheme proposed by Marshall et al. (2003), an oscillatory factor is obtained that may go down to zero just at the time a visibility revival ought to be observed. Including a properly tuned phase shifter offers a simple amendment to the situation. By using a Pockels phase shifter with fast time-dependent modulation in one arm, one may obtain further possibilities to enrich the quantum state preparation and reconstruction abilities of the original scheme, thereby improving the chances to reliably detect genuine quantum behaviour of a nanomechanical oscillator.

id: 1101.4321
title: Distributed Phase Acquisition in a Wave Function
authors: Robert Englman, Asher Yahalom
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: EPL, 93 (2011) 20001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4321
abstract: A separable $x-y$ model is solved for a specialized vector potential (no magnetic and weak electric fields) penetrating slowly\textbf{,} adiabatically into and across a rectangular box to which an electron is confined. The time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation has adiabatic solutions, in which gradual phase acquisitions occur for {\it parts} of the electronic wave function. For a closed trajectory of the source, the initial and after-return wave functions are shown to be simultaneously co-degenerate solutions of the Hamiltonian, which situation repeats itself for further cyclic motion of the source.

id: 1101.4325
title: "Which-path information" and partial polarization in single-photon interference experiments
authors: Mayukh Lahiri
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 045803 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4325
abstract: It is shown that the degree of polarization of light, generated by superposition in a single-photon interference experiment, may depend on the indistinguishability of the photon-paths.

id: 1101.4327
title: Generating and stabilizing the GHZ state in circuit QED: Joint measurement, Zeno effect and feedback
authors: Wei Feng, Peiyue Wang, Xinmei Ding, Luting Xu, Xin-Qi Li
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042313 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4327
abstract: In solid-state circuit QED system, we extend the previous study of generating and stabilizing two-qubit Bell state [Phys. Rev. A 82, 032335 (2010)], to three-qubit GHZ state. In dispersive regime, we employ the homodyne joint readout for multiple qubits to infer the state for further processing, and in particular use it to stabilize the state directly by means of an alternate-flip-interrupted Zeno (AFIZ) scheme. Moreover, the state-of-the-art feedback action based on the filtered current enables not only a deterministic generation of the pre-GHZ state in the initial stage, but also a fast recovery from the environment-caused degradation in the later stabilization process. We show that the proposed scheme can maintain the state with high fidelity if the efficient quantum measurement and rapid single-qubit rotations are available.

id: 1101.4354
title: Complete Reconstruction of the Wavefunction of a Reacting Molecule by Four-Wave Mixing Spectroscopy
authors: David Avisar, David J. Tannor
comments: The article includes 5 pages. One page of supplementary material is also included. The paper was submitted and now resubmitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4354
abstract: Probing the real time dynamics of a reacting molecule remains one of the central challenges in chemistry. In this letter we show how the time-dependent wavefunction of an excited-state reacting molecule can be completely reconstructed from resonant coherent anti-Stokes Raman spectroscopy. The method assumes knowledge of the ground-state potential but not of any excited-state potential, although we show that the latter can be computed once the time-dependent excited-state wavefunction is known. The formulation applies to polyatomics as well as diatomics and to bound as well as dissociative excited potentials. We demonstrate the method on the Li$_2$ molecule with its bound first excited-state, and on a model Li$_2$-like system with a dissociative excited state potential.

id: 1101.4359
title: Mechanism of the quantum speed-up
authors: Giuseppe Castagnoli
comments: Added "light and shade" effects, improving understandability; positioned the approach against state of the art; 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4359
abstract: We explain the mechanism of the quantum speed-up - quantum algorithms requiring fewer computation steps than their classical equivalent - for a family of algorithms. Bob chooses a function and gives to Alice the black box that computes it. Alice, without knowing Bob's choice, should find a character of the function (e. g. its period) by computing its value for different arguments. There is naturally correlation between Bob's choice and the solution found by Alice. We show that, in quantum algorithms, this correlation becomes quantum. This highlights an overlooked measurement problem: sharing between two measurements the determination of correlated (thus redundant) measurement outcomes. Solving this problem explains the speed-up. All is like Alice, by reading the solution at the end of the algorithm, contributed to the initial choice of Bob, for half of it in quantum superposition for all the possible ways of taking this half. This contribution, back evolved to before running the algorithm, where Bob's choice is located, becomes Alice knowing in advance half of this choice. The quantum algorithm is the quantum superposition of all the possible ways of taking half of Bob's choice and, given the advanced knowledge of it, classically computing the missing half. This yields a speed-up with respect to the classical case where, initially, Bob's choice is completely unknown to Alice.

id: 1101.4366
title: Efficient quantum state tomography
authors: Marcus Cramer, Martin B. Plenio, Steven T. Flammia, David Gross, Stephen D. Bartlett, Rolando Somma, Olivier Landon-Cardinal, Yi-Kai Liu, David Poulin
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. Combines many of the results in arXiv:1002.3780, arXiv:1002.3839, and arXiv:1002.4632 into one unified exposition
journal: Nat. Commun., 1 (9) 149, Dec 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4366
abstract: Quantum state tomography, the ability to deduce the state of a quantum system from measured data, is the gold standard for verification and benchmarking of quantum devices. It has been realized in systems with few components, but for larger systems it becomes infeasible because the number of quantum measurements and the amount of computation required to process them grows exponentially in the system size. Here we show that we can do exponentially better than direct state tomography for a wide range of quantum states, in particular those that are well approximated by a matrix product state ansatz. We present two schemes for tomography in 1-D quantum systems and touch on generalizations. One scheme requires unitary operations on a constant number of subsystems, while the other requires only local measurements together with more elaborate post-processing. Both schemes rely only on a linear number of experimental operations and classical postprocessing that is polynomial in the system size. A further strength of the methods is that the accuracy of the reconstructed states can be rigorously certified without any a priori assumptions.

id: 1101.4367
title: Generation of Photon Pairs in Dispersion Shift Fibers through Spontaneous Four Wave Mixing: Influence of Self-phase Modulation
authors: Xiaoxin Ma, Lei Yang, Xueshi Guo, Xiaoying Li
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4367
abstract: Correlated signal and idler photon pairs with small detuning in the telecom band can be generated through spontaneous four-wave mixing in dispersion shift fibers. However, photons originated from other nonlinear processes in optical fibers, such as Raman scattering and self-phase modulation, may contaminate the photon pairs. It has been proved that photons produced by Raman scattering are the background noise of photon pairs. Here we show that photons induced by self-phase modulation of pump pulses are another origin of background noise. After studying the dependence of self-phase modulation induced photons in signal and idler bands, we demonstrate that the quantum correlation of photon pairs can be degraded by the self-phase modulation effect. The investigations are useful for characterizing and optimizing an all fiber source of photon pairs.

id: 1101.4384
title: Detection and Elimination of Non-Trivial Reversible Identities
authors: Ahmed Younes
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4384
abstract: Non-Trivial Reversible Identities (NTRIs) are reversible circuits that have equal inputs and outputs. NTRIs cannot be detected using optimization algorithms in the literature. Existence of NTRIs in a circuit will cause a slow down by increasing the number of gates and the quantum cost. NTRIs might arise due to integration between two or more optimal reversible circuits. In this paper, an algorithm that detects and removes NTRIs in polynomial time will be proposed. Experiments that show the bad effect of NTRIs and the enhancement using the proposed algorithm will be presented.

id: 1101.4443
title: Wavelength-Scale Imaging of Trapped Ions using a Phase Fresnel lens
authors: A. Jechow, E. W. Streed, B. G. Norton, M. J. Petrasiunas, D. Kielpinski
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 36, Issue 8, pp. 1371-1373 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4443
abstract: A microfabricated phase Fresnel lens was used to image ytterbium ions trapped in a radio frequency Paul trap. The ions were laser cooled close to the Doppler limit on the 369.5 nm transition, reducing the ion motion so that each ion formed a near point source. By detecting the ion fluorescence on the same transition, near diffraction limited imaging with spot sizes of below 440 nm (FWHM) was achieved. This is the first demonstration of imaging trapped ions with a resolution on the order of the transition wavelength.

id: 1101.4498
title: Direct generation of a multi-transverse mode non-classical state of light
authors: Beno?t Chalopin, Francesco Scazza, Claude Fabre, Nicolas Treps
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4498
abstract: Quantum computation and communication protocols require quantum resources which are in the continuous variable regime squeezed and/or quadrature entangled optical modes. To perform more and more complex and robust protocols, one needs sources that can produce in a controlled way highly multimode quantum states of light. One possibility is to mix different single mode quantum resources. Another is to directly use a multimode device, either in the spatial or in the frequency domain. We present here the first experimental demonstration of a device capable of producing simultanuously several squeezed transverse modes of the same frequency and which is potentially scalable. We show that this device, which is an Optical Parametric Oscillator using a self-imaging cavity, produces a multimode quantum resource made of three squeezed transverse modes.

id: 1101.4509
title: Long-range interactions and information transfer in spin chains
authors: Rebecca Ronke, Tim Spiller, Irene D'Amico
comments: Accepted into the CMMP10 proceedings
journal: 2011 J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 286 012020
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4509
abstract: One of the main proposed tools to transfer information in a quantum computational context are spin chains. While spin chains have shown to be convenient and reliable, it has to be expected that, as with any implementation of a physical system, they will be subject to various errors and perturbative factors. In this work we consider the transfer of entangled as well as unentangled states to investigate the effects of various errors, paying particular attention to unwanted long-range interactions.

id: 1101.4510
title: Efficient quantum computing with weak measurements
authors: A. P. Lund
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 13 053024 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4510
abstract: Projective measurements with high quantum efficiency is often assumed to be required for efficient circuit based quantum computing. We argue that this is not the case and show that this fact has actually be known previously though not deeply explored. We examine this issue by giving an example of how to perform the quantum ordering finding algorithm efficiently using non-local weak measurements given that the measurements used are of bounded weakness and some fixed but arbitrary probability of success less than unity is required. We also show that it is possible to perform the same computation with only local weak measurements but this must necessarily introduce an exponential overhead.

id: 1101.4513
title: From a 1D completed scattering and double slit diffraction to the quantum-classical problem for isolated systems
authors: N. L. Chuprikov
comments: 20 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4513
abstract: By probability theory the probability space to underlie the set of statistical data described by the squared modulus of a coherent superposition of microscopically distinct (sub)states (CSMDS) is non-Kolmogorovian and, thus, such data are mutually incompatible. For us this fact means that the squared modulus of a CSMDS cannot be unambiguously interpreted as the probability density and quantum mechanics itself, with its current approach to CSMDSs, does not allow a correct statistical interpretation. By the example of a 1D completed scattering and double slit diffraction we develop a new quantum-mechanical approach to CSMDSs, which requires the decomposition of the non-Kolmogorovian probability space associated with the squared modulus of a CSMDS into the sum of Kolmogorovian ones. We adapt to CSMDSs the presented by Khrennikov ({\it Found. of Phys., 35, No. 10, p.1655 (2005)}) concept of real contexts (complexes of physical conditions) to determine uniquely the properties of quantum ensembles. Namely we treat the context to create a time-dependent CSMDS as a complex one consisting of elementary (sub)contexts to create alternative subprocesses. For example, in the two-slit experiment each slit generates its own elementary context and corresponding subprocess. We show that quantum mechanics, with a new approach to CSMDSs, allows a correct statistical interpretation and becomes compatible with classical physics.

id: 1101.4515
title: Generation of Dicke states using adiabatic passage
authors: K. Toyoda, T. Watanabe, T. Kimura, S. Nomura, S. Haze, S. Urabe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4515
abstract: Entangled states of two ions are realized by using an adiabatic process. Based on the proposal by Linington and Vitanov, we have generated Dicke states in optical qubits of two $^{40}$Ca$^+$ ions by applying frequency-chirped optical pulses with time-dependent envelopes to perform rapid adiabatic passage on sideband transitions. One of the biggest advantages of adiabatic approaches is their robustness against variations in experimental parameters, which is verified by performing experiments for different pulse widths or peak Rabi frequencies. Fidelities exceeding 0.5, which is the threshold for inseparable states, are obtained over wide ranges of parameter values.

id: 1101.4517
title: Heisenberg's Uncertainty Relation and Bell Inequalities in High Energy Physics
authors: A. Di Domenico, A. Gabriel, B.C. Hiesmayr, F. Hipp, M. Huber, G. Krizek, K. M¨¹hlbacher, S. Radic, Ch. Spengler, L. Theussl
comments: 17 pages
journal: Foundations of Physics 42 (6), 778 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4517
abstract: An effective formalism is developed to handle decaying two-state systems. Herewith, observables of such systems can be described by a single operator in the Heisenberg picture. This allows for using the usual framework in quantum information theory and, hence, to enlighten the quantum feature of such systems compared to non-decaying systems. We apply it to systems in high energy physics, i.e. to oscillating meson-antimeson systems. In particular, we discuss the entropic Heisenberg uncertainty relation for observables measured at different times at accelerator facilities including the effect of CP violation, i.e. the imbalance of matter and antimatter. An operator-form of Bell inequalities for systems in high energy physics is presented, i.e. a Bell-witness operator, which allows for simple analysis of unstable systems.

id: 1101.4522
title: Highly Entangled States With Almost No Secrecy
authors: Matthias Christandl, Norbert Schuch, Andreas Winter
comments: 5 pages, short version of arXiv:0910.4151
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 240405 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4522
abstract: In this paper we illuminate the relation between entanglement and secrecy by providing the first example of a quantum state that is highly entangled, but from which, nevertheless, almost no secrecy can be extracted. More precisely, we provide two bounds on the bipartite entanglement of the totally antisymmetric state in dimension d x d. First, we show that the amount of secrecy that can be extracted from the state is low, to be precise it is bounded by O(1/d). Second, we show that the state is highly entangled in the sense that we need a large amount of singlets to create the state: entanglement cost is larger than a constant, independent of d. In order to obtain our results we use representation theory, linear programming and the entanglement measure known as squashed entanglement. Our findings also clarify the relation between the squashed entanglement and the relative entropy of entanglement.

id: 1101.4545
title: Quantum Physics and Reality
authors: Bernard d'Espagnat
comments: final version accepted in Found. Phys. (2 slight changes with respect to the former submission)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4545
abstract: Contrary to classical physics, which was strongly objective i.e. could be interpreted as a description of mind-independent reality, standard quantum mechanics (SQM) is only weakly objective, that is to say, its statements, though intersubjectively valid, still merely refer to operations of the mind. Essentially, in fact, they are predictive of observations. On the view that SQM is universal conventional realism is thereby refuted. It is shown however that this does not rule out a broader form of realism, called here 'open realism', restoring the notion of mind-independent reality.

id: 1101.4575
title: Reality and the Role of the Wavefunction in Quantum Theory
authors: Sheldon Goldstein, Nino Zangh¨¬
comments: 23 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4575
abstract: The most puzzling issue in the foundations of quantum mechanics is perhaps that of the status of the wave function of a system in a quantum universe. Is the wave function objective or subjective? Does it represent the physical state of the system or merely our information about the system? And if the former, does it provide a complete description of the system or only a partial description? We shall address these questions here mainly from a Bohmian perspective, and shall argue that part of the difficulty in ascertaining the status of the wave function in quantum mechanics arises from the fact that there are two different sorts of wave functions involved. The most fundamental wave function is that of the universe. From it, together with the configuration of the universe, one can define the wave function of a subsystem. We argue that the fundamental wave function, the wave function of the universe, has a law-like character.

id: 1101.4587
title: Quantum key distribution based on orthogonal states allows secure quantum bit commitment
authors: Guang Ping He
comments: Published version plus an appendix showing how to defeat the counterfactual attack, more references [76,77,90,118-120] cited, and other minor changes
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 445305 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4587
abstract: For more than a decade, it was believed that unconditionally secure quantum bit commitment (QBC) is impossible. But basing on a previously proposed quantum key distribution scheme using orthogonal states, here we build a QBC protocol in which the density matrices of the quantum states encoding the commitment do not satisfy a crucial condition on which the no-go proofs of QBC are based. Thus the no-go proofs could be evaded. Our protocol is fault-tolerant and very feasible with currently available technology. It reopens the venue for other "post-cold-war" multi-party cryptographic protocols, e.g., quantum bit string commitment and quantum strong coin tossing with an arbitrarily small bias. This result also has a strong influence on the Clifton-Bub-Halvorson theorem which suggests that quantum theory could be characterized in terms of information-theoretic constraints.

id: 1101.4612
title: A No-summoning theorem in Relativistic Quantum Theory
authors: Adrian Kent
comments: Tiny typos corrected. Titles added to some references. To appear in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Information Processing 12 (2) pp 1023-1032 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4612
abstract: Alice gives Bob an unknown localized physical state at some point P. At some point Q in the causal future of P, Alice will ask Bob for the state back. Bob knows this, but does not know at which point Q until the request is made. Bob can satisfy Alice's summons, with arbitrarily short delay, for a quantum state in Galilean space-time or a classical state in Minkowski space-time. However, given an unknown quantum state in Minkowski space-time, he cannot generally fulfil her summons. This {\it no-summoning theorem} is a fundamental feature of, and intrinsic to, relativistic quantum theory. It follows from the no-signalling principle and the no-cloning theorem, but not from either alone.

id: 1101.4620
title: Unconditionally Secure Bit Commitment with Flying Qudits
authors: Adrian Kent
comments: To appear in New J. Phys. Edits in response to referee comments. Protocol unaltered. Security proofs unaltered but expanded for clarity. Added discussion of strategies for countering errors and losses. Discussions of practicality expanded and qualified, leaving open challenges for experimental implementations
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 113015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4620
abstract: In the task cryptographers call bit commitment, one party encrypts a prediction in a way that cannot be decrypted until they supply a key, but has only one valid key. Bit commitment has many applications, and has been much studied, but completely and provably secure schemes have remained elusive. Here we report a new development in physics-based cryptography which gives a completely new way of implementing bit commitment that is perfectly secure. The technique involves sending a quantum state (for instance one or more photons) at light speed in one of two or more directions, either along a secure channel or by quantum teleportation. Its security proof relies on the no-cloning theorem of quantum theory and the no superluminal signalling principle of special relativity.

id: 1101.4634
title: Upper Bound on Fidelity of Classical Sagnac Gyroscope
authors: Thomas B. Bahder
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4634
abstract: Numerous quantum mechanical schemes have been proposed that are intended to improve the sensitivity to rotation provided by the classical Sagnac effect in gyroscopes. A general metric is needed that can compare the performance of the new quantum systems with the classical systems. The fidelity (Shannon mutual information between the measurement and the rotation rate) is proposed as a metric that is capable of this comparison. A theoretical upper bound is derived for the fidelity of an ideal classical Sagnac gyroscope. This upper bound for the classical Sagnac gyroscope should be used as a benchmark to compare the performance of proposed enhanced classical and quantum rotation sensors. In fact, the fidelity is general enough to compare the quality of two different apparatuses (two different experiments) that attempt to measure the same quantity.

id: 1101.4694
title: Degree of information accessibility: a precursor of the quantum--classical transition
authors: J. G. Oliveira Junior, J. G. Peixoto de Faria, M. C. Nemes
comments: 04 pages and 02 figures. Submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4694
abstract: One of the fundamental problems with the interpretation of Quantum Mechanics, according to Bohr, is the fact that "our usual description of physical phenomena is based entirely on the idea that the phenomena concerned may be observed without disturbing them appreciably". Furthermore in his articles discussing the subject Bohr argues that the action of the probe will be affected by the system and inasmuch the system will be affected by the probe. Specifically in Gedanken experiments he tests the wave-particle duality of the system and implicitly assumes that the probe is also a quantum system. A universal character can only be attributed to Quantum Mechanics provided a complementarity relation is also valid for the probe. As a consequence the state system-probe becomes entangled. In the past fourty years complementarity tests have been proposed. However, much less attention has been paid to the study of an arbitrary probe system. In the present contribution, we fill in this gap and show that the key ingredient for the quantum-classical transition is not necessarily the information generated by the system-probe interaction but rather by its accessibility. Our results have been successfully tested in the interferometric experiment. Our results also allow for a simple physical interpretation of the physics of Ramsey Zones where one photon (average) interacts with a two level atom in a classical manner, i.e., no entanglement is generated.

id: 1101.4703
title: Binary Subdivision for Quantum Search
authors: M Nordin Zakaria
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4703
abstract: We consider in this paper the possibility of embedding a quantum search algorithm within a classical binary search framework. The result appears promising: taking full advantage of quantum parallelism, we show that it may actually be possible to search an unstructured list in O(lg(N)), provided we are willing to restart the quantum search multiple times with a different sequence of qubits and perform a series of non-unitary measurements at the end of each.

id: 1101.4706
title: Quantum interference in spontaneous emission from a V-type three-level atom in photonic crystals
authors: Chih-Hsien Huang Jing-Nuo Wu, Yen-Yin Li, Szu-Cheng Cheng, Wen-Feng Hsieh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4706
abstract: Studying the spontaneous emission of a V-type three-level atom embedded in a photonic crystal (PC) by fractional calculus, we found that the atomic excited states in the anisotropic PC can be expressed as a superposition of four dressed states analytically. Through detuning two allowed atomic transition energies with respect to the photonic band edge, the coupling between these two transitions leads to three dynamic regimes, namely non-Markovian decay, damped quantum interference and quantum interference, classified by the numbers of contributed bounded dressed states. From the degree of quantum interference of two atomic transitions, we found the energy exchange between the atom and PC reservoir is the lowest as the excited states become degenerate but with maximum quantum interference when the atom is prepared at one of the excited states. The results also show that excited states prefer to stay out of phase at all detuning energy except for near degenerate. Therefore, we can control the spontaneous emission rate not only by the amount of detuning frequencies but also the relative phase of initial states.

id: 1101.4722
title: Quantum picturalism for topological cluster-state computing
authors: Clare Horsman
comments: 18 pages, 21 figures. Expanded explanations and figures in line with referee suggestions. To be published in New J. Phys. special issue on topological quantum computing
journal: New J. Phys. 13 095011 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4722
abstract: Topological quantum computing is a way of allowing precise quantum computations to run on noisy and imperfect hardware. One implementation uses surface codes created by forming defects in a highly-entangled cluster state. Such a method of computing is a leading candidate for large-scale quantum computing. However, there has been a lack of sufficiently powerful high-level languages to describe computing in this form without resorting to single-qubit operations, which quickly become prohibitively complex as the system size increases. In this paper we apply the category-theoretic work of Abramsky and Coecke to the topological cluster-state model of quantum computing to give a high-level graphical language that enables direct translation between quantum processes and physical patterns of measurement in a computer - a "compiler language". We give the equivalence between the graphical and topological information flows, and show the applicable rewrite algebra for this computing model. We show that this gives us a native graphical language for the design and analysis of topological quantum algorithms, and finish by discussing the possibilities for automating this process on a large scale.

id: 1101.4736
title: Wigner distribution function and entanglement of generalized quantum optical vortex
authors: Abir Bandyopadhyay, Shashi Prabhakar, R. P. Singh
comments: 6 pages. AIP format. To be published
journal: AIP conference proceedings on "75 Years of Quantum Entanglement -- Foundations and Information Theoretic applications" at Kolkata, India, 06-10.01.2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4736
abstract: We calculate the Wigner (quasi)probability distribution function of the quantum optical elliptical vortex (QEV), generated by coupling squeezed vacuum states of two modes. The coupling between the two modes is performed by using beam splitter (BS) or a dual channel directional coupler (DCDC). The quantum interference due to the coupling between the two modes promises the generation of controlled entanglement for quantum computation and quantum tomography. We compute the entanglement of such QEV formed by non-classical radiation field, using Wigner function. We report a critical squeezing parameter above which the entanglement is less for higher vorticity, which is counter intuitive.

id: 1101.4751
title: Quantum phase transitions for two coupled sites with dipole-coupled effective Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Lei Tan, Yu Qing Zhang, Wu Ming Liu
comments: 7 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4751
abstract: The nature of the ground states for a system composed of two coupled cavities with each containing a pair of dipole-coupled two-level atoms are studied over a wide range of detunings and dipole coupling strengths. The cases for three limits of exact resonance, large positive and negative detunings are discussed, and four types of the ground states are revealed. Then the phase diagrams of the ground state are plotted by choosing three different "order parameters". We find that the phase space, determined by the combinative action of detuning and the dipole coupling strength, is divided into four regions. This is different from the general Bose-Hubbard model and more richer physics are presented in the two-site coupled cavities system. That is, the insulator region may be polaritonic or atomic and the superfluid region may be polaritonic or photonic in nature.

id: 1101.4762
title: Optical realization of the two-site Bose-Hubbard model in waveguide lattices
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: to be published, J Phys. B (Fast Track Communication)
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 051001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4762
abstract: A classical realization of the two-site Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian, based on light transport in engineered optical waveguide lattices, is theoretically proposed. The optical lattice enables a direct visualization of the Bose-Hubbard dynamics in Fock space.

id: 1101.4808
title: Excitation transfer through open quantum networks: a few basic mechanisms
authors: Lorenzo Campos Venuti, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 134206 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4808
abstract: A variety of open quantum networks are currently under intense examination to model energy transport in photosynthetic systems. Here we study the coherent transfer of a quantum excitation over a network incoherently coupled with a structured and small environment that effectively models the photosynthetic reaction center. Our goal is to distill a few basic, possibly universal, mechanisms or "effects" that are featured in simple energy-transfer models. In particular, we identify three different phenomena: the congestion effect, the asymptotic unitarity and the staircase effects. We begin with few-site models, in which these effects can be fully understood, and then proceed to study more complex networks similar to those employed to model energy transfer in light-harvesting complexes. Our numerical studies on such networks seem to suggest that some of the effects observed in simple networks may be of relevance for biological systems, or artificial analogues of them as well.

id: 1101.4828
title: Spectroscopic properties of inhomogeneously broadened spin ensembles in a cavity
authors: Z. Kurucz, J. H. Wesenberg, K. M?lmer
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 053852 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4828
abstract: In large ensembles of identical atoms or spins, the interaction with a mode of the electromagnetic radiation field concentrates in a single superradiant degree of freedom with a collectively enhanced coupling. Given a controllable inhomogeneous broadening, such ensembles may be used for multi-mode storage of quantum states of the radiation field with applications in quantum communication networks and quantum computers. In this paper we analyze how the width and shape of the inhomogeneous broadening influence the collective enhancement and the dynamics of the cavity-ensemble system with focus on the consequences for the ensemble's applicability for quantum information processing tasks.

id: 1101.4885
title: Single Ion Quantum Lock-In Amplifier
authors: Shlomi Kotler, Nitzan Akerman, Yinnon Glickman, Anna Keselman, Roee Ozeri
comments: 4 figures, Supplementary Information available soon on this http URL
journal: Nature Volume: 473, Pages: 61-65, 05 May 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4885
abstract: We report on the implementation of a quantum analog to the classical lock-in amplifier. All the lock-in operations: modulation, detection and mixing, are performed via the application of non-commuting quantum operators on the electronic spin state of a single trapped Sr+ ion. We significantly increase its sensitivity to external fields while extending phase coherence by three orders of magnitude, to more than one second. With this technique we measure magnetic fields with sensitivity of 25 pT/sqrt(Hz) and light shifts with an uncertainty below 140 mHz after 1320 seconds of averaging. These sensitivities are limited by quantum projection noise and, to our knowledge, are more than two orders of magnitude better than with other single-spin probe technologies. In fact, our reported sensitivity is sufficient for the measurement of parity non-conservation, as well as the detection of the magnetic field of a single electronic-spin one micrometer from an ion-detector with nanometer resolution. As a first application we perform light shift spectroscopy of a narrow optical quadruple transition. Finally, we emphasize that the quantum lock-in technique is generic and can potentially enhance the sensitivity of any quantum sensor.

id: 1101.4889
title: Extremal quantum protocols
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti, Michal Sedlak
comments: 26 pages (JMP style), 1 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 082202 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4889
abstract: Generalized quantum instruments correspond to measurements where the input and output are either states or more generally quantum circuits. These measurements describe any quantum protocol including games, communications, and algorithms. The set of generalized quantum instruments with a given input and output structure is a convex set. Here we investigate the extremal points of this set for the case of finite dimensional quantum systems and generalized instruments with finitely many outcomes. We derive algebraic necessary and sufficient conditions for extremality.

id: 1101.4893
title: Bell inequalities with no quantum violation and unextendible product bases
authors: R. Augusiak, J. Stasi¨½ska, C. Hadley, J. K. Korbicz, M. Lewenstein, A. Ac¨ªn
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 070401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4893
abstract: The strength of classical correlations is subject to certain constraints, commonly known as Bell inequalities. Violation of these inequalities is the manifestation of nonlocality---displayed, in particular, by quantum mechanics, meaning that quantum mechanics can outperform classical physics at tasks associated with such Bell inequalities. Interestingly, however, there exist situations in which this is not the case. We associate an intriguing class of bound entangled states, constructed from unextendable product bases (UPBs) with a wide family of tasks, for which (i) quantum correlations do not outperform the classical ones but (ii) there exist supraquantum nonsignalling correlations that do provide an advantage.

id: 1101.4917
title: Experimental Violation of Two-Party Leggett-Garg Inequalities with Semi-weak Measurements
authors: J. Dressel, C. J. Broadbent, J. C. Howell, A. N. Jordan
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:040402,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4917
abstract: We generalize the derivation of Leggett-Garg inequalities to systematically treat a larger class of experimental situations by allowing multi-particle correlations, invasive detection, and ambiguous detector results. Furthermore, we show how many such inequalities may be tested simultaneously with a single setup. As a proof of principle, we violate several such two-particle inequalities with data obtained from a polarization-entangled biphoton state and a semi-weak polarization measurement based on Fresnel reflection. We also point out a non- trivial connection between specific two-party Leggett-Garg inequality violations and convex sums of strange weak values.

id: 1101.4956
title: Sudden vanishing and reappearance of nonclassical effects: General occurrence of finite-time decays and periodic vanishings of nonclassicality and entanglement witnesses
authors: Monika Bartkowiak, Adam Miranowicz, Xiaoguang Wang, Yu-xi Liu, Wieslaw Leonski, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 053814 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4956
abstract: Analyses of phenomena exhibiting finite-time decay of quantum entanglement have recently attracted considerable attention. Such decay is often referred to as sudden vanishing (or sudden death) of entanglement, which can be followed by its sudden reappearance (or sudden rebirth). We analyze various finite-time decays (for dissipative systems) and analogous periodic vanishings (for unitary systems) of nonclassical correlations as described by violations of classical inequalities and the corresponding nonclassicality witnesses (or quantumness witnesses), which are not necessarily entanglement witnesses. We show that these sudden vanishings are universal phenomena and can be observed: (i) not only for two- or multi-mode but also for single-mode nonclassical fields, (ii) not solely for dissipative systems, and (iii) at evolution times which are usually different from those of sudden vanishings and reappearances of quantum entanglement.

id: 1101.4983
title: Nullity of quantum discord of two-qubit X-state systems
authors: Gao-xiang Li, Zhen Yi, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4983
abstract: The conditions are established for nullity of quantum discord for mixed states of a general two-qubit system whose dynamical behaviour is given by an X-state form density matrix. It is found that quantum discord can vanish at a finite time even in the presence of correlations between qubits. The degeneracy of the populations of the combined states of the qubits and the multi-qubit quantum coherences are shown to be responsible for vanishing of the discord. We illustrate our considerations by examining the coherent-state Tavis-Cummings model in which two qubits interact dispersively with the cavity field. The disappearance of the discord is shown to be dependent on the initial atomic conditions that it may occur at a discrete instance or periodically at discrete instances redistributed over whole range of the evolution time. The nullity of the discord is interpreted as resulting from equal preparation of the spin anti-correlated and spin correlated product states in superposition~states.

id: 1101.4993
title: Quantum Kolmogorov Complexity and Bounded Quantum Memory
authors: Takayuki Miyadera
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042316 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4993
abstract: In this study, the effect of bounded quantum memory in a primitive information protocol has been examined using the quantum Kolmogorov complexity as a measure of information. We employed a toy two-party protocol in which Bob by using a bounded quantum memory and an unbounded classical memory estimates a message that was encoded in qubits by Alice in one of the bases X or Z. Our theorem gave a nontrivial effect of the memory boundedness. In addition, a generalization of the uncertainty principle in the presence of quantum memory has been obtained.

id: 1101.5002
title: Superposition and Entanglement from Quantum Scope
authors: Dong-Sheng Wang
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5002
abstract: The abstract framework of quantum mechanics (QM) causes the well-known weirdness, which leads to the field of foundation of QM. We constructed the new concept, i.e., scope, to lay the foundation of quantum coherence and openness, also the principles of superposition and entanglement. We studied analytically and quantitatively the quantum correlations and information, also we discussed the physical essence of the existed entanglement measures. We compared with several other approaches to the foundation of QM, and we stated that the concept of scope is unique and has not been demonstrated before.

id: 1101.5044
title: Quantum metrology with entangled coherent states
authors: Jaewoo Joo, William J. Munro, Timothy P. Spiller
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 083601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5044
abstract: We present an improved phase estimation scheme employing entangled coherent states and demon- strate that the states give the smallest variance in the phase parameter in comparison to NOON, BAT and "optimal" states under perfect and lossy conditions. As these advantages emerge for very modest particle numbers, the optical version of entangled coherent state metrology is achievable with current technology.

id: 1101.5075
title: Detecting the quantum discord of an unknown state by a single observable
authors: Chengjie Zhang, Sixia Yu, Qing Chen, C.H. Oh
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032122 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5075
abstract: We propose a single observable to witness the nonzero quantum discord of an unknown quantum state provided that we have four copies of the state. The expectation value of this observable provides a necessary and sufficient condition for nonzero quantum discord in $2\times N$ systems and a necessary condition in higher finite-dimensional bipartite systems. Furthermore, a nontrivial lower bound of quantum discord can be obtained from this expectation value. The proposed observable can be experimentally measured in exactly the same easy manner as that of the entanglement witness, moreover a quantum circuit is designed to determine the expectation value of our observable with four simultaneous local qubit-measurements.

id: 1101.5081
title: Quantum anticentrifugal potential in a bent waveguide
authors: R. Dandoloff, V. Atanasov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5081
abstract: We show the existence of an anticentrifugal force for a quantum particle in a bent waveguide. This counterintuitive force due to dimensionality was shown to exist in a flat $R^2$ space but there it needs an additional $\delta$-like potential at the origin in order to brake the translational invariance and to exhibit localized states. In the case of the bent waveguide there is no need of any additional potential since here the boundary conditions break the symmetry. The effect may be observed in interference experiments which are sensitive to the additional phase of the wavefunction gained in the bent regions and can find application in distinguishing between straight and bent geometries.

id: 1101.5086
title: Fully Distrustful Quantum Cryptography
authors: J. Silman, A. Chailloux, N. Aharon, I. Kerenidis, S. Pironio, S. Massar
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 220501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5086
abstract: In the distrustful quantum cryptography model the different parties have conflicting interests and do not trust one another. Nevertheless, they trust the quantum devices in their labs. The aim of the device-independent approach to cryptography is to do away with the necessity of making this assumption, and, consequently, significantly increase security. In this paper we enquire whether the scope of the device-independent approach can be extended to the distrustful cryptography model, thereby rendering it `fully' distrustful. We answer this question in the affirmative by presenting a device-independent (imperfect) bit-commitment protocol, which we then use to construct a device-independent coin flipping protocol.

id: 1101.5134
title: Distillability and PPT entanglement of low-rank quantum states
authors: Lin Chen, Dragomir Z. Djokovic
comments: 20 pages, minor revision, new reference added
journal: 2011 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 285303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5134
abstract: It is known that he bipartite quantum states, with rank strictly smaller than the maximum of the ranks of its two reduced states, are distillable by local operations and classical communication. Our first main result is that this is also true for NPT states with rank equal to this maximum. (A state is PPT if the partial transpose of its density matrix is positive semidefinite, and otherwise it is NPT.) This was conjectured first in 1999 in the special case when the two local ranks are equal. Our second main result provides a complete solution of the separability problem for bipartite states of rank 4. Namely, we show that such a state is separable if and only if it is PPT and its range contains at least one product state. We also prove that the so called checkerboard states are distillable if and only if they are NPT.

id: 1101.5166
title: Quantum correlations by four-wave-mixing in atomic vapor. Theory and Experiments
authors: Quentin Glorieux
comments: PhD thesis. (French version); tel-00558505, version 1, 2010 this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5166
abstract: We study both theoretically and experimentally the generation of quantum correlations in the continuous variable regime by way of four-wave mixing in a hot atomic vapor. Two theoretical approaches have been developed. On one side, we study the four-wave mixing under the "classical" non-linear optics point of view. In such a way we obtain the evolution equation for an ideal linear amplifier in a {\chi}^(3) medium. On the other side, we present a microscopic model with 4 levels in the double-{\Lambda} configuration to calculate the {\chi}^(3) coefficient in a atomic vapor dressed with a laser. This calculation allows us to derive the spectra of intensity noise for interesting parameters. The experimental part of this work describes the demonstration of this effect on the D1 line of rubidium 85. We present a measurement of relative intensity squeezing as high as -9.2dB below the standard quantum limit, and an original regime where quantum correlations have been measured without amplification.These results have broad applications in the field of multimode quantum optics, e.g. quantum imaging or the multimode quantum memories.

id: 1101.5198
title: Phase shift spectra of a fiber-microsphere system at the single photon level
authors: Akira Tanaka, Takeshi Asai, Kiyota Toubaru, Hideaki Takashima, Masazumi Fujiwara, Ryo Okamoto, Shigeki Takeuchi
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 19, Issue 3, pp. 2278-2285 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5198
abstract: We succeeded in measuring phase shift spectra of a microsphere cavity coupled with a tapered fiber using a weak coherent probe light at the single photon level. We utilized a tapered fiber with almost no depolarization and constructed a very stable phase shift measurement scheme based on polarization analysis using photon counting. Using a very weak probe light (\bar{n} = 0:41), we succeeded in observing the transition in the phase shift spectrum between undercoupling and overcoupling (at gap distances of 500 and 100 nm, respectively).We also used quantum state tomography to obtain a 'purity spectrum'. Even in the overcoupling regime, the average purity was 0.982 \pm 0.024 (minimum purity: 0.892), suggesting that the coherence of the fiber-microsphere system was well preserved. Based on these results, we believe this system is applicable to quantum phase gates using single light emitters such as diamond nitrogen vacancy centers.

id: 1101.5222
title: The auxiliary field method in quantum mechanics
authors: Bernard Silvestre-Brac, Claude Semay, Fabien Buisseret
comments: Improved sect. 5.6 and new sect. 5.7
journal: J. Phys. Math. 4 (2012) P120601
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5222
abstract: The auxiliary field method is a new technique to obtain closed formulae for the solutions of eigenequations in quantum mechanics. The idea is to replace a Hamiltonian $H$ for which analytical solutions are not known by another one $\tilde H$, including one or more auxiliary fields. For instance, a potential $V(r)$ not solvable is replaced by another one $P(r)$ more familiar, or a semirelativistic kinetic part is replaced by an equivalent nonrelativistic one. The approximation comes from the replacement of the auxiliary fields by pure real constants. The approximant solutions for $H$, eigenvalues and eigenfunctions, are then obtained by the solutions of $\tilde H$ in which the auxiliary parameters are eliminated by an extremization procedure for the eigenenergies. If $H=T(\bm p)+V(r)$ and if $P(r)$ is a power law, the approximate eigenvalues can be written $T(p_0)+V(r_0)$, where the mean impulsion $p_0$ is a function of the mean distance $r_0$ and where $r_0$ is determined by an equation which is linked to the generalized virial theorem. The general properties of the method are studied and the connections with the envelope theory presented. This method is first applied to nonrelativistic and semirelativistic two-body systems, with a great variety of potentials. Closed formulae are produced for energies, eigenstates, various observables and critical constants, with sometimes a very good accuracy. The method is then used to solve nonrelativistic and semirelativistic many-body systems with one-body and two-body interactions. For such cases, analytical solutions can only be obtained for systems of identical particles, but several systems of interest for atomic and hadronic physics are studied. General results concerning the many-body critical constants are presented, as well as duality relations existing between approximate and exact eigenvalues.

id: 1101.5226
title: Testing Hardy nonlocality proof with genuine energy-time entanglement
authors: G. Vallone, I. Gianani, E. B. Inostroza, C. Saavedra, G. Lima, A. Cabello, P. Mataloni
comments: 5 pages, revtex4, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042105 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5226
abstract: We show two experimental realizations of Hardy ladder test of quantum nonlocality using energy-time correlated photons, following the scheme proposed by A. Cabello \emph{et al.} [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{102}, 040401 (2009)]. Unlike, previous energy-time Bell experiments, these tests require precise tailored nonmaximally entangled states. One of them is equivalent to the two-setting two-outcome Bell test requiring a minimum detection efficiency. The reported experiments are still affected by the locality and detection loopholes, but are free of the post-selection loophole of previous energy-time and time-bin Bell tests.

id: 1101.5252
title: On a recent proof of nonlocality without inequalities
authors: GianCarlo Ghirardi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5252
abstract: Recently a quite stimulating paper [1] dealing with the possibility of exploiting the nonlocal aspects of a superposition of states of a single photon appeared. We regard as greatly relevant the results which have been obtained. However we think that the presentation of the matter and the way to derive the conclusion are not fully satisfactory and do not put the necessary emphasis on some subtle basic aspects like locality and realism. In view of its interest we consider it useful to reconsider the line of reasoning of ref.[1] and to derive once more its results by following a procedure which seems to us more lucid and which makes fully clear the role of the various conceptual aspects of the treatment. We hope that our analysis will contribute to clarify and to deepen the interesting results of ref.[1].

id: 1101.5258
title: Casimir interaction between a dielectric nanosphere and a metallic plane
authors: Antoine Canaguier-Durand, Antoine G¨¦rardin, Romain Gu¨¦rout, Paulo A. Maia Neto, Valery V. Nesvizhevsky, Alexei Yu. Voronin, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032508 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5258
abstract: We study the Casimir interaction between a dielectric nanosphere and a metallic plane, using the multiple scattering theory. Exact results are obtained with the dielectric described by a Sellmeier model and the metal by a Drude model. Asymptotic forms are discussed for small spheres, large or small distances. The well-known Casimir-Polder formula is recovered at the limit of vanishingly small spheres, while an expression better behaved at small distances is found for any finite value of the radius. The exact results are of particular interest for the study of quantum states of nanospheres in the vicinity of surfaces.

id: 1101.5276
title: "Weak Quantum Chaos" and its resistor network modeling
authors: Alexander Stotland, Louis M. Pecora, Doron Cohen
comments: 18 pages, 11 figures, improved PRE accepted version
journal: Phys.Rev.E83:066216,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5276
abstract: Weakly chaotic or weakly interacting systems have a wide regime where the common random matrix theory modeling does not apply. As an example we consider cold atoms in a nearly integrable optical billiard with displaceable wall ("piston"). The motion is completely chaotic but with small Lyapunov exponent. The Hamiltonian matrix does not look like one taken from a Gaussian ensemble, but rather it is very sparse and textured. This can be characterized by parameters $s$ and $g$ that reflect the percentage of large elements, and their connectivity, respectively. For $g$ we use a resistor network calculation that has a direct relation to the semi-linear response characteristics of the system, hence leading to a novel prediction regarding the rate of heating of cold atoms in optical billiards with vibrating walls.

id: 1101.5286
title: Extending quantum control of time-independent systems to time-dependent systems
authors: Zhen-Yu Wang, Ren-Bao Liu
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062313 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5286
abstract: We establish that if a scheme can control a time-independent system arbitrarily coupled to a generic finite bath over a short period of time $T$ with control precision $O(T^{N+1})$, it can also realize the control with the same order of precision on smoothly time-dependent systems. This result extends the validity of various universal dynamical control schemes to arbitrary analytically time-dependent systems.

id: 1101.5289
title: Quantum Eavesdropping without Interception: An Attack Exploiting the Dead Time of Single Photon Detectors
authors: Henning Weier, Harald Krauss, Markus Rau, Martin Fuerst, Sebastian Nauerth, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 073024 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5289
abstract: The security of quantum key distribution (QKD) can easily be obscured if the eavesdropper can utilize technical imperfections of the actual implementation. Here we describe and experimentally demonstrate a very simple but highly effective attack which even does not need to intercept the quantum channel at all. Only by exploiting the dead time effect of single photon detectors the eavesdropper is able to gain (asymptotically) full information about the generated keys without being detected by state-of-the-art QKD protocols. In our experiment, the eavesdropper inferred up to 98.8% of the key correctly, without increasing the bit error rate between Alice and Bob significantly. Yet, we find an evenly simple and effective countermeasure to inhibit this and similar attacks.

id: 1101.5300
title: Superradiance of cold atoms coupled to a superconducting circuit
authors: Daniel Braun, Jonathan Hoffman, Eite Tiesinga
comments: 26 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5300
abstract: We investigate superradiance of an ensemble of atoms coupled to an integrated superconducting LC-circuit. Particular attention is paid to the effect of inhomogeneous coupling constants. Combining perturbation theory in the inhomogeneity and numerical simulations we show that inhomogeneous coupling constants can significantly affect the superradiant relaxation process. Incomplete relaxation terminating in "dark states" can occur, from which the only escape is through individual spontaneous emission on a much longer time scale. The relaxation dynamics can be significantly accelerated or retarded, depending on the distribution of the coupling constants. On the technical side, we also generalize the previously known propagator of superradiance for identical couplings in the completely symmetric sector to the full exponentially large Hilbert space.

id: 1101.5314
title: Operational and harmonic-analytic aspects of quasi-probability distributions
authors: Ryo Harada
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5314
abstract: Husimi distributions and Wigner distributions are well-known quasi-probability distributions which appear in several contexts. In this paper, we show some remarkable aspects of these distribution functions related to geometric structures of generalized coherent state systems and operational quantum physics, and a scheme of formulating generalized version of quasi-probability distributions. Our scheme gives concrete formulae of quasi-probability distributions in more direct way from the theory of coherent state systems and clarify their operational meanings, especially of Husimi distributions and mutual relation between Husimi distributions and other classes of quasi-probability distributions.

id: 1101.5323
title: Decoherence and Dynamical Entropy Generation in Quantum Field Theory
authors: Jurjen F. Koksma, Tomislav Prokopec, Michael G. Schmidt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5323
abstract: We formulate a novel approach to decoherence based on neglecting observationally inaccessible correlators. We apply our formalism to a renormalised interacting quantum field theoretical model. Using out-of-equilibrium field theory techniques we show that the Gaussian von Neumann entropy for a pure quantum state increases to the interacting thermal entropy. This quantifies decoherence and thus measures how classical our pure state has become. The decoherence rate is equal to the single particle decay rate in our model. We also compare our approach to existing approaches to decoherence in a simple quantum mechanical model. We show that the entropy following from the perturbative master equation suffers from physically unacceptable secular growth.

id: 1101.5355
title: Advice Coins for Classical and Quantum Computation
authors: Scott Aaronson, Andrew Drucker
comments: 23 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5355
abstract: We study the power of classical and quantum algorithms equipped with nonuniform advice, in the form of a coin whose bias encodes useful information. This question takes on particular importance in the quantum case, due to a surprising result that we prove: a quantum finite automaton with just two states can be sensitive to arbitrarily small changes in a coin's bias. This contrasts with classical probabilistic finite automata, whose sensitivity to changes in a coin's bias is bounded by a classic 1970 result of Hellman and Cover. Despite this finding, we are able to bound the power of advice coins for space-bounded classical and quantum computation. We define the classes BPPSPACE/coin and BQPSPACE/coin, of languages decidable by classical and quantum polynomial-space machines with advice coins. Our main theorem is that both classes coincide with PSPACE/poly. Proving this result turns out to require substantial machinery. We use an algorithm due to Neff for finding roots of polynomials in NC; a result from algebraic geometry that lower-bounds the separation of a polynomial's roots; and a result on fixed-points of superoperators due to Aaronson and Watrous, originally proved in the context of quantum computing with closed timelike curves.

id: 1101.5361
title: Certifying entangled measurements in known Hilbert spaces
authors: Tamas Vertesi, Miguel Navascues
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, 2 tables; modified title
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062112 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5361
abstract: We study under which conditions it is possible to assert that a joint demolition measurement cannot be simulated by Local Operations and Classical Communication. More concretely, we consider a scenario where two parties, Alice and Bob, send each an unknown state to a third party, Charlie, who in turn interacts with the states in some undisclosed way and then announces an outcome. We show that, under the assumption that Alice and Bob know the dimensionality of their systems, there exist situations where the statistics of the outcomes reveals the nature of Charlie's measurement.

id: 1101.5369
title: Dynamical Gauge Fields on Optical Lattices: A Lattice Gauge Theorist Point of View
authors: Yannick Meurice
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, based on a poster presented at the KITP Conference: Frontiers of Ultracold Atoms and Molecules (Oct 11-15, 2010)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5369
abstract: Dynamical gauge fields are essential to capture the short and large distance behavior of gauge theories (confinement, mass gap, chiral symmetry breaking, asymptotic freedom). I propose two possible strategies to use optical lattices to mimic simulations performed in lattice gauge theory. I discuss how new developments in optical lattices could be used to generate local invariance and link composite operators with adjoint quantum numbers that could play a role similar to the link variables used in lattice gauge theory. This is a slightly expanded version of a poster presented at the KITP Conference: Frontiers of Ultracold Atoms and Molecules (Oct 11-15, 2010) that I plan to turn into a more comprehensive tutorial that could be used by members of the optical lattice and lattice gauge theory communities. Suggestions are welcome.

id: 1101.5378
title: Erratum: Dynamics of the Bounds of Squared Concurrence [Phys. Rev. A 79, 032306 (2009)]
authors: Zhao Liu, Heng Fan
comments: a little different from the published version
journal: Phys.Rev.A,83 019903(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5378
abstract: This is an erratum to our paper.

id: 1101.5417
title: Sudden Death of Entanglement induced by Polarization Mode Dispersion
authors: Cristian Antonelli, Mark Shtaif, Misha Brodsky
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 080404 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5417
abstract: We study the decoherence of polarization-entangled photon pairs subject to the effects of polarization mode dispersion, the chief polarization decoherence mechanism in optical fibers. We show that fiber propagation reveals an intriguing interplay between the concepts of entanglement sudden death, decoherence-free sub-spaces and non-locality. We define the boundaries in which entanglement-based quantum communications protocols relying on fiber propagation can be applied.

id: 1101.5429
title: Sudden death and robustness of quantum discord and entanglement of two atoms in dissipative cavities in dispersive limit
authors: Jian-Song Zhang, Lin Chen, M. Abdel-Aty, Ai-Xi Chen
comments: Ref.[46](Phys. Rev. A 81,042105 (2010)) of the original version is replaced by Phys. Rev. A, 77 (2008) 042303(see Ref.[36] of the revised version). Quantum discord is calculated using the results of Phys. Rev. A, 77 (2008) 042303. The results of our present paper are not effected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5429
abstract: The quantum dynamics of two entangled two-level atoms initially in extended Werner-like (EWL) states is studied. Each of the two atoms is located within an isolated and dissipative cavity. If the interaction time of atoms and cavities is not very long, the amount of quantum discord and entanglement between two atoms decreases as the system evolves. The sudden death of quantum discord and entanglement of two atoms occurs within a short interaction time. However, after a long interaction time, quantum discord and entanglement of two atoms could be partially preserved due to the long-lived nature of quantum discord and entanglement. Surprisingly, we find the amount of long-lived quantum discord could be smaller than that of long-lived entanglement. Thus, entanglement may be more robust than quantum discord against decoherence.

id: 1101.5430
title: Efficiency of dynamical decoupling sequences in presence of pulse errors
authors: Zhihao Xiao, Lewei He, Wen-ge Wang
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys.Rev.A, 83, 032322 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5430
abstract: For a generic dynamical decoupling sequence employing a single-axis control, we study its efficiency in the presence of small errors in direction of the controlling-pulses. In the case that the corresponding ideal dynamical-decoupling sequence produces good results, the impact of the errors is found to scale as $\xi^2$, with negligible first-order effect, where $\xi$ is the dispersion of the random errors. This analytical prediction is numerically tested in a model, in which the environment is modeled by one qubit coupled to a quantum kicked rotator in chaotic motion. In this model, with periodic pulses applied to the qubit in the environment, it is shown numerically that Uhrig dynamical decoupling is not necessarily better than the bang-bang control.

id: 1101.5432
title: Electronic Transport in Monolayer Graphene with Extreme Physical Deformation: ab Initio Density Functional Calculation
authors: Haiyuan Gao, Yang Xu, Meijiao Li, Zhendong Guo, Hongshen Chen, Zhonghe Jin, Bin Yu
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5432
abstract: Electronic transport properties of monolayer graphene with extreme physical bending up to 90o angle are studied using ab Initio first-principle calculations. The importance of key structural parameters including step height, curvature radius and bending angle are discussed how they modify the transport properties of the deformed graphene sheet comparing to the corresponding flat ones. The local density of state reveals that energy state modification caused by the physical bending is highly localized. It is observed that the transport properties of bent graphene with a wide range of geometrical configurations are insensitive to the structural deformation in the low-energy transmission spectra, even in the extreme case of bending. The results support that graphene, with its superb electromechanical robustness, could serve as a viable material platform in a spectrum of applications such as photovoltaics, flexible electronics, OLED, and 3D electronic chips.

id: 1101.5480
title: Atom phase controlled noise-free photon echoes
authors: Byoung S. Ham
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5480
abstract: Rephasing in photon echoes is a fundamental mechanism of retrieving optical information stored in a collective ensemble of atoms or ions. With an extremely weak quantum optical data, population inversion by the rephasing process is inevitable resulting in serious quantum noise. Here, an inversion-free rephasing method in photon echoes is presented by using deshelving-based atom phase control. The present method makes photon echoes directly applicable to quantum memories with benefits of extended photon storage time and nearly perfect retrieval efficiency.

id: 1101.5484
title: Theoretical comparison of quantum and thermal noise squeezing in silicon and graphene nanoresonators
authors: Sheping Yan, Yang Xu, Zhonghe Jin, Yuelin Wang
comments: 4pages,5figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5484
abstract: We theoretically compared quantum noise squeezing differences between silicon and graphene nanoresonators based on experimental structure parameters. The conditions to achieve squeezed states of silicon and graphene have been discussed. According to our theoretical analysis, graphene nanoresonators can obtain a much smaller squeezing factor than silicon, taking advantage of their thin thickness. Both the quantum noise and thermal noise (Brownian motion) of typical monolayer graphene nanoresonator can be reduced by 12.58 dB at T = 5 K with a pump voltage of 5 V.

id: 1101.5496
title: Coherent State Topological Cluster State Production
authors: C.R. Myers, T.C. Ralph
comments: 9 pages, 17 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5496
abstract: We present results illustrating the construction of 3D topological cluster states with coherent state logic. Such a construction would be ideally suited to wave-guide implementations of quantum optical processing. We investigate the use of a ballistic CSign gate, showing that given large enough initial cat states, it is possible to build large 3D cluster states. We model X and Z basis measurements by displaced photon number detections and x-quadrature homodyne detections, respectively. We investigate whether teleportation can aid cluster state construction and whether the introduction of located loss errors fits within the topological cluster state framework.

id: 1101.5512
title: Measurement-induced disturbance and thermal entanglement in spin models
authors: Guo-Feng Zhang, Zhao-Tan Jiang, Ahmad Abliz
comments: 6 eps figures
journal: Annals of Physics 326 (2011) 867-875
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5512
abstract: Quantum correlation in two-qubit spin models is investigated by use of measurement-induced disturbance [S. Luo, Phys. Rev. A, 77(2008) 022301]. Its dependences on external magnetic field, spin-spin coupling, and Dzyaloshinski-Moriya (DM) interactions are presented in detail. We also compare measurement-induced disturbance and thermal entanglement in spin models and illustrate their different characteristics.

id: 1101.5522
title: Entanglement between two atoms in a damping Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Guo-Feng Zhang, Xin-Chen Xie
comments: 7 eps figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 60, 423-427 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5522
abstract: The entanglement between two atoms in a damping Jaynes-Cummings model is investigated with different decay coefficients of the atoms from the upper level to other levels under detuning between the atomic frequency and the quantized light field frequency. The results indicate that the larger the decay coefficient is, the more quickly the entanglement decays. The detuning enhances the entanglement's average value at long times. More importantly, the results show that the so-called sudden death effect can be avoided by enhancing the detuning or the decay coefficient.

id: 1101.5542
title: Dynamics of coherent and incoherent emission from an artificial atom in a 1D space
authors: A. A. Abdumalikov, O. V. Astafiev, Y. Nakamura, J. S. Tsai
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5542
abstract: We study dynamics of an artificial two-level atom in an open 1D space by measuring evolution of its coherent and incoherent emission. States of the atom -- a superconducting flux qubit coupled to a transmission line -- are fully controlled by resonant excitation microwave pulses. The coherent emission -- a direct measure of superposition in the atom -- exhibits decaying oscillations shifted by $\pi/2$ from oscillations of the incoherent emission, which, in turn, is proportional to the atomic population. The emission dynamics provides information about states and properties of the atom. By measuring the coherent dynamics, we derive two-time correlation function of fluctuations and, using quantum regression formula, reconstruct the incoherent spectrum of the resonance fluorescence triplet, which is in a good agreement with the directly measured one.

id: 1101.5556
title: Mode expansions in the quantum electrodynamics of photonic media with disorder
authors: M. Wubs, N. A. Mortensen
comments: 7 pages; accepted in Photonics and Nanostructures
journal: Photonics Nanostr. 10, 296-303 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5556
abstract: We address two issues in the quantum electrodynamical description of photonic media with some disorder, neglecting material dispersion. When choosing a gauge in which the static potential vanishes, the normal modes of the medium with disorder satisfy another transversality condition than the modes of the ideal medium. Our first result is an integral equation for optical modes such that all perturbation-theory solutions automatically satisfy the desired transversality condition. Secondly, when expanding the vector potential for the medium with disorder in terms of the normal modes of the ideal structure, we find the gauge transformation that makes the static potential zero, thereby generalizing work by Glauber and Lewenstein [Phys. Rev. A 43, 467 (1991)]. Our results are relevant for the quantum optics of disordered photonic crystals.

id: 1101.5558
title: Polynomial invariants for discrimination and classification of four-qubit entanglement
authors: Oliver Viehmann, Christopher Eltschka, Jens Siewert
comments: 9 pages, 3 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052330 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5558
abstract: It is well known that the number of entanglement classes in SLOCC (stochastic local operations and classical communication) classifications increases with the number of qubits and is already infinite for four qubits. Bearing in mind the rapid evolution of experimental technology, criteria for explicitly discriminating and classifying pure states of four and more qubits are highly desirable and therefore in the focus of intense theoretical research. In this article we develop a general criterion for the discrimination of pure N-partite entangled states in terms of polynomial SL(d,C) invariants. By means of this criterion, existing SLOCC classifications of four-qubit entanglement are reproduced. Based on this we propose a polynomial classification scheme in which families are identified through 'tangle patterns', thus bringing together qualitative and quantitative description of entanglement.

id: 1101.5655
title: Parametric generation of quadrature squeezing of mirrors in cavity optomechanics
authors: Jie-Qiao Liao, C. K. Law
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 033820 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5655
abstract: We propose a method to generate quadrature squeezed states of a moving mirror in a Fabry-Perot cavity. This is achieved by exploiting the fact that when the cavity is driven by an external field with a large detuning, the moving mirror behaves as a parametric oscillator. We show that parametric resonance can be reached approximately by modulating the driving field amplitude at a frequency matching the frequency shift of the mirror. The parametric resonance leads to an efficient generation of squeezing, which is limited by the thermal noise of the environment.

id: 1101.5665
title: Integral Transforms in Relativistic Quantum Constraint Mechanics
authors: Robert J. Ducharme
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5665
abstract: In relativistic quantum constraint mechanics the state of a physical system is constrained to a 3-dimensional subspace of Minkowski 4-space. Fourier transformation can be used to relate this state between constraint spaces in 4-position and 4-momentum space. It is shown that integral transforms of this nature can be carried out using Lorentz-invariant 3-dimensional constraint space coordinates such that a complete equivalence class of 4-space representations can be constructed from the transform. This method is further applied to develop a relativistic generalization of the Segal-Bargmann transformation that leads to the representation of quantum systems in a three-dimensional subspace of Bargmann 4-space.

id: 1101.5690
title: Division Algebras and Quantum Theory
authors: John C. Baez
comments: 30 pages, 3 encapsulated Postscript figures
journal: Found. Phys. 42 (2012), 819-855
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5690
abstract: Quantum theory may be formulated using Hilbert spaces over any of the three associative normed division algebras: the real numbers, the complex numbers and the quaternions. Indeed, these three choices appear naturally in a number of axiomatic approaches. However, there are internal problems with real or quaternionic quantum theory. Here we argue that these problems can be resolved if we treat real, complex and quaternionic quantum theory as part of a unified structure. Dyson called this structure the "three-fold way". It is perhaps easiest to see it in the study of irreducible unitary representations of groups on complex Hilbert spaces. These representations come in three kinds: those that are not isomorphic to their own dual (the truly "complex" representations), those that are self-dual thanks to a symmetric bilinear pairing (which are "real", in that they are the complexifications of representations on real Hilbert spaces), and those that are self-dual thanks to an antisymmetric bilinear pairing (which are "quaternionic", in that they are the underlying complex representations of representations on quaternionic Hilbert spaces). This three-fold classification sheds light on the physics of time reversal symmetry, and it already plays an important role in particle physics. More generally, Hilbert spaces of any one of the three kinds - real, complex and quaternionic - can be seen as Hilbert spaces of the other kinds, equipped with extra structure.

id: 1101.5698
title: Secure gated detection scheme for quantum cryptography
authors: Lars Lydersen, Vadim Makarov, Johannes Skaar
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032306 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5698
abstract: Several attacks have been proposed on quantum key distribution systems with gated single-photon detectors. The attacks involve triggering the detectors outside the center of the detector gate, and/or using bright illumination to exploit classical photodiode mode of the detectors. Hence a secure detection scheme requires two features: The detection events must take place in the middle of the gate, and the detector must be single-photon sensitive. Here we present a technique called bit-mapped gating, which is an elegant way to force the detections in the middle of the detector gate by coupling detection time and quantum bit error rate. We also discuss how to guarantee single-photon sensitivity by directly measuring detector parameters. Bit-mapped gating also provides a simple way to measure the detector blinding parameter in security proofs for quantum key distribution systems with detector efficiency mismatch, which up until now has remained a theoretical, unmeasurable quantity. Thus if single-photon sensitivity can be guaranteed within the gates, a detection scheme with bit-mapped gating satisfies the assumptions of the current security proofs.

id: 1101.5723
title: Study of the spectral properties of spin ladders in different representations via a renormalization procedure
authors: Tarek Khalil, Jean Richert
comments: to be published in Physica B
journal: Physica B406:1395-1402, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5723
abstract: We implement an algorithm which is aimed to reduce the dimensions of the Hilbert space of quantum many-body systems by means of a renormalization procedure. We test the role and importance of different representations on the reduction process by working out and analyzing the spectral properties of strongly interacting frustrated quantum spin systems.

id: 1101.5736
title: Local unitary equivalent consistence for n-party states and their (n-1)-party reduced density matrices
authors: Zhen Wang, He-Ping Wang, Zhi-Xi Wang, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 6 pages, no figures
journal: CHIN. PHYS. LETT. Vol. 28, No. 2 (2011) 020302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5736
abstract: We present that the local unitary equivalence of n-party pure states is consistent with the one of their (n-1)-party reduced density matrices. As an application, we obtain the local invariants for a class of tripartite pure qudits.

id: 1101.5750
title: Dissipative Chaos in Quantum Distributions
authors: T. V. Gevorgyan, A. R. Shahinyan, G. Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures, proceeding of Modern Optics And Photonics
journal: MODERN OPTICS AND PHOTONICS Atoms and Structured Media Proceedings of the International Advanced Research Workshop, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5750
abstract: We discuss some problems of dissipative chaos for open quantum systems in the framework of semiclassical and quantum distributions. For this goal, we propose a driven nonlinear oscillator with time-dependent coefficients, i.e. with time-dependent Kerr-nonlinearity and time-modulated driving field. This model showing both regular and chaotic dynamics in the classical limit is realized in several experimental schemes. Quantum dissipative chaos is analyzed on the base of numerical method of quantum trajectories. Three quantities are studied: the Wigner function of oscillatory mode from the point of view of quantum-assemble theory and both semiclassical Poincare section and quantum Poincare section calculated on a single quantum trajectory. The comparatively analysis of these distributions for various operational chaotic regimes of the models is performed, as well as scaling invariance in dissipative chaos and quantum interference effects assisted by chaos are discussed.

id: 1101.5754
title: A family of generalized Horodecki-like entangled states
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Adam Rutkowski
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375, 2793 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5754
abstract: We provide a multi-parameter family of 2-qudit PPT entangled states which generalizes the celebrated Horodecki state in 3 x 3. The entanglement of this family is identified via semidefinite programming based on "PPT symmetric extensions" by Doherty et al.

id: 1101.5774
title: An answer to the Wallstrom objection against Nelsonian stochastics
authors: I. Schmelzer
comments: Considerations about the relevance and rejection of Smolin's attempt added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5774
abstract: A serious objection made by Wallstrom against quantum interpretations based flow variables, in particular Nelsonian stochastics, is their empirical inequivalence with quantum theory: They are unable to obtain a quantization condition for flows around zeros which is automatically fulfilled by the wave function. It is found that the quantization condition follows from a simple additional postulate: The Laplace operator of the density has to be finite and positive at zeros of the density. This postulate is a quite natural consequence of subquantum theories, as far as they conform to a simple principle of minimal distortion of the quantum solutions.

id: 1101.5777
title: Geometry of perturbed Gaussian states and quantum estimation
authors: Marco G. Genoni, Paolo Giorda, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, revised version
journal: J. Phys. A 44, 152001 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5777
abstract: We address the nonGaussianity (nG) of states obtained by weakly perturbing a Gaussian state and investigate the relationships with quantum estimation. For classical perturbations, i.e. perturbations to eigenvalues, we found that nG of the perturbed state may be written as the quantum Fisher information (QFI) distance minus a term depending on the infinitesimal energy change, i.e. it provides a lower bound to statistical distinguishability. Upon moving on isoenergetic surfaces in a neighbourhood of a Gaussian state, nG thus coincides with a proper distance in the Hilbert space and exactly quantifies the statistical distinguishability of the perturbations. On the other hand, for perturbations leaving the covariance matrix unperturbed we show that nG provides an upper bound to the QFI. Our results show that the geometry of nonGaussian states in the neighbourhood of a Gaussian state is definitely not trivial and cannot be subsumed by a differential structure. Nevertheless, the analysis of perturbations to a Gaussian state reveals that nG may be a resource for quantum estimation. The nG of specific families of perturbed Gaussian states is analyzed in some details with the aim of finding the maximally non Gaussian state obtainable from a given Gaussian one.

id: 1101.5784
title: Dynamics of entanglement in a two-dimensional spin system
authors: Qing Xu, Gehad Sadiek, Sabre Kais
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062312 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5784
abstract: We consider the time evolution of entanglement in a finite two dimensional transverse Ising model. The model consists of a set of 7 localized spin-1/2 particles in a two dimensional triangular lattice coupled through nearest neighbor exchange interaction in presence of an external time dependent magnetic field. The magnetic field is applied in different function forms: step, exponential, hyperbolic and periodic. We found that the time evolution of the entanglement shows an ergodic behavior under the effect of the time dependent magnetic fields. Also we found that while the step magnetic field causes great disturbance to the system creating rabid oscillations, the system shows great controllability under the effect of the other magnetic fields where the entanglement profile follows closely the shape of the applied field even with the same frequency for periodic fields. This follow up trend breaks down as the strength of the field, the transition constant for exponential and hyperbolic, or frequency for periodic field increase leading to rapid oscillations. We observed that the entanglement is very sensitive to the initial value of the applied periodic field, the smaller the initial value the less distorted is the entanglement profile. Furthermore, the effect of thermal fluctuations is very devastating to the entanglement which decays very rapidly as the temperature increases. Interestingly, although large value of the magnetic field strength may yield small entanglement, it was found to be more persistent against thermal fluctuations than the small field strengths.

id: 1101.5819
title: Pilot-wave approaches to quantum field theory
authors: Ward Struyve
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, LaTex; prepared for DICE2010 conference proceedings
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.306:012047,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5819
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to present an overview of recent work on pilot-wave approaches to quantum field theory. In such approaches, systems are not only described by their wave function, as in standard quantum theory, but also by some additional variables. In the non-relativistic pilot-wave theory of de Broglie and Bohm those variables are particle positions. In the context of quantum field theory, there are two natural choices, namely particle positions and fields. The incorporation of those variables makes it possible to provide an objective description of nature in which rather ambiguous notions such as `measurement' and `observer' play no fundamental role. As such, the theory is free of the conceptual difficulties, such as the measurement problem, that plague standard quantum theory.

id: 1101.5839
title: Phase dependent interference effects on atomic excitation
authors: Pankaj K. Jha, Hebin Li, Vladimir A. Sautenkov, Yuri V. Rostovtsev, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Opt. Commun. 284, 2538 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5839
abstract: We present an experimental and theoretical study of phase-dependent interference effects in multi-photon excitation under bichromatic radio-frequency (rf) field. Using an intense rf pulse, we study the interference between the three-photon and one-photon transition between the Zeeman sub-levels of the ground state of $^{87}$Rb that allows us to determine the carrier-envelope phase of the fields even for long pulses.

id: 1101.5841
title: Low power inelastic light scattering at small detunings in silicon wire waveguides at telecom wavelengths
authors: S. Clemmen, A. Perret, J. Saffioui, W. Bogaerts, R. Baets, S.-P. Gorza, Ph. Emplit, S. Massar
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, to submit to Journal of the Optical Society B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5841
abstract: When a pump beam is propagating through a silicon nanophotonic waveguide, a very small fraction of the light is scattered to other frequencies. At very low intensity, the amount of scattered light is proportional to the power of the pump beam. We show that the scattering intensity increases linearly within the temperature range 300-575 K and that the photon flux decreases as the inverse of the frequency detuning {\nu} over the investigated bandwidth 0.4 THz < |{\nu}| < 2.5 THz. The simplest interpretation of these observations is that the pump beam is scattered on a 1 dimensional thermal bath of excitations. Finally, the implications of this scattering process for quantum optics applications of silicon nanophotonic structures are discussed.

id: 1101.5852
title: Landau-Zener-Stuckelberg interference in a multi-anticrossing system
authors: Jindan Chen, Xueda Wen, Guozhu Sun, Yang Yu
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5852
abstract: We propose a universal analytical method to study the dynamics of a multi-anticrossing system subject to driving by one single large-amplitude triangle pulse, within its time scales smaller than the dephasing time. Our approach can explain the main features of the Landau-Zener-Stuckelberg interference patterns recently observed in a tripartite system [Nature Communications 1:51 (2010)]. In particular, we focus on the effects of the size of anticrossings on interference and compare the calculated interference patterns with numerical simulations. In addition, Fourier transform of the patterns can extract information on the energy level spectrum.

id: 1101.5877
title: Fiber-coupled single ion as an efficient quantum light source
authors: Alex Wilson, Hiroki Takahashi, Andrew Riley-Watson, Fedja Orucevic, Peter Blythe, Anders Mortensen, Daniel R. Crick, Nicolas Seymour-Smith, Elisabeth Brama, Matthias Keller, Wolfgang Lange
comments: 4 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 15, 053011 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5877
abstract: We have realized a compact system to efficiently couple the fluorescent light emitted by a single trapped ion to two opposing optical fibers. The fibers are tightly integrated in the center electrodes of a miniature endcap trap. They capture light from the ion with a numerical aperture of 0.34 each, corresponding to 6% of the solid angle in total. The high collection efficiency and high signal-to-background ratio make the setup an ideal quantum light source. We have observed strong antibunching of the photons emitted from the two fibers. The system has a range of applications from single-ion state detection in quantum information processing to strong coupling cavity-QED with ions.

id: 1101.5900
title: Bringing order through disorder: Localization of errors in topological quantum memories
authors: James R. Wootton, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. To appear in PRL. Presented as a contributed talk at QIP 2011
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 030503 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5900
abstract: Anderson localization emerges in quantum systems when randomised parameters cause the exponential suppression of motion. Here we consider this phenomenon in topological models and establish its usefulness for protecting topologically encoded quantum information. For concreteness we employ the toric code. It is known that in the absence of a magnetic field this can tolerate a finite initial density of anyonic errors, but in the presence of a field anyonic quantum walks are induced and the tolerable density becomes zero. However, if the disorder inherent in the code is taken into account, we demonstrate that the induced localization allows the topological quantum memory to regain a finite critical anyon density, and the memory to remain stable for arbitrarily long times. We anticipate that disorder inherent in any physical realisation of topological systems will help to strengthen the fault-tolerance of quantum memories.

id: 1101.5937
title: Entanglement in the classical limit: quantum correlations from classical probabilities
authors: Alex Matzkin
comments: 10 pages 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022111 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5937
abstract: We investigate entanglement for a composite closed system endowed with a scaling property allowing to keep the dynamics invariant while the effective Planck constant hbar_eff of the system is varied. Entanglement increases as hbar_eff goes to 0. Moreover for sufficiently low hbar_eff the evolution of the quantum correlations, encapsulated for example in the quantum discord, can be obtained from the mutual information of the corresponding \emph{classical} system. We show this behavior is due to the local suppression of path interferences in the interaction that generates the entanglement. This behavior should be generic for quantum systems in the classical limit.

id: 1101.5978
title: Dynamics of the intensity-dependent Jaynes-Cummings model analyzed via Fisher information
authors: S. Abdel-Khalek, A. Plastino, A-S F. Obada
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5978
abstract: The dynamics of the Buck and Sukumar model [B. Buck and C.V. Sukumar, Phys. Lett. A 81 (1981) 132] are investigated using different semi-classical information-theory tools. Interesting aspects of the periodicity inherent to the model are revealed and somewhat unexpected features are revealed that seem to be related to the classical-quantum transition.

id: 1101.5995
title: Quantum key distribution based on frequency-time coding: security and feasibility
authors: Bing Qi
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5995
abstract: We establish a security proof of frequency-time coding quantum key distribution (FT-QKD) protocol by showing its connection to the squeezed state quantum key distribution protocol, which has been proven to be unconditionally secure. We also extend the prepare-and-measure FT-QKD protocol to an entanglement based FT-QKD protocol which is more appealing in practice. Furthermore, we propose a correlated frequency measurement scheme of entangled photon pair by using time resolving single photon detector. Simulation results show that the FT-QKD protocol can be implemented with today's technology.

id: 1101.6005
title: A photon-pair source with controllable delay based on shaped inhomogeneous broadening of rare-earth doped solids
authors: Pavel Sekatski, Nicolas Sangouard, Nicolas Gisin, Hugues de Riedmatten, Mikael Afzelius
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83 053840 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.6005
abstract: Spontaneous Raman emission in atomic gases provides an attractive source of photon pairs with a controllable delay. We show how this technique can be implemented in solid state systems by appropriately shaping the inhomogeneous broadening. Our proposal is eminently feasible with current technology and provides a realistic solution to entangle remote rare-earth doped solids in a heralded way.

id: 1101.6028
title: Localization of Toric Code Defects
authors: Cyril Stark, Lode Pollet, Atac Imamoglu, Renato Renner
comments: Author added (Lode Pollet). Quantum Monte Carlo simulation for the analsis of positive defect densities added. Correction of the proof of Theorem 1 and strengthening of the statement of Theorem 1
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 030504 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.6028
abstract: We explore the possibility of passive error correction in the toric code model. We first show that even coherent dynamics, stemming from spin interactions or the coupling to an external magnetic field, lead to logical errors. We then argue that Anderson localization of the defects, arising from unavoidable fluctuations of the coupling constants, provides a remedy. This protection is demonstrated using general analytical arguments that are complemented with numerical results which demonstrate that self-correcting memory can in principle be achieved in the limit of a nonzero density of identical defects.

id: 1101.6031
title: Time-dependent Schr?dinger equation from the Hamilton-Jacobi equation
authors: Donald H. Kobe
comments: Withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.6031
abstract: This paper and abstract have been withdrawn.

id: 1101.6039
title: Electromagnetically induced transparency in inhomogeneously broadened Lambda-transition with multiple excited levels
authors: O.S. Mishina, M. Scherman, P. Lombardi, J. Ortalo, D. Felinto, A.S. Sheremet, A. Bramati, D.V. Kupriyanov, J. Laurat, E. Giacobino
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 83 (2011) 053809
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.6039
abstract: Electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) has mainly been modelled for three-level systems. In particular, a considerable interest has been dedicated to the Lambda-configuration, with two ground states and one excited state. However, in the alkali-metal atoms, which are commonly used, hyperfine interaction in the excited state introduces several levels which simultaneously participate in the scattering process. When the Doppler broadening is comparable with the hyperfine splitting in the upper state, the three-level Lambda model does not reproduce the experimental results. Here we theoretically investigate the EIT in a hot vapor of alkali-metal atoms and demonstrate that it can be strongly reduced due to the presence of multiple excited levels. Given this model, we also show that a well-designed optical pumping enables to significantly recover the transparency.

id: 1101.6040
title: Generating GHZ state in 2m-qubit spin network
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, R. Sufiani, F. Eghbalifam, M. Azimi, S. F. Taghavi, E. Barati
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.6040
abstract: We consider a pure 2m-qubit initial state to evolve under a particular quantum me- chanical spin Hamiltonian, which can be written in terms of the adjacency matrix of the Johnson network J(2m;m). Then, by using some techniques such as spectral dis- tribution and strati?cation associated with the graphs, employed in [1, 2], a maximally entangled GHZ state is generated between the antipodes of the network. In fact, an explicit formula is given for the suitable coupling strengths of the hamiltonian, so that a maximally entangled state can be generated between antipodes of the network. By using some known multipartite entanglement measures, the amount of the entanglement of the ?nal evolved state is calculated, and ?nally two examples of four qubit and six qubit states are considered in details.

id: 1101.6057
title: Quantum discord and multipartite correlations
authors: Ma?gorzata Okrasa, Zbigniew Walczak
comments: 7 pages
journal: EPL, 96 (2011) 60003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.6057
abstract: Recently, it was realized that quantum discord can be seen as the minimal amount of correlations which are lost when some local quantum operations are performed. Based on this formulation of quantum discord, we provide a systematical analysis of quantum and classical correlations present in both bipartite and multipartite quantum systems. As a natural result of this analysis, we introduce a new measure of the overall quantum correlations which is lower bounded by quantum discord.

id: 1101.6060
title: From quantum pulse gate to quantum pulse shaper -- enigneered frequency conversion in nonlinear optical waveguides
authors: Benjamin Brecht, Andreas Eckstein, Andreas Christ, Hubertus Suche, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 065029
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.6060
abstract: Full control over the spatio-temporal structure of quantum states of light is an important goal in quantum optics, to generate for instance single-mode quantum pulses or to encode information on multiple modes, enhancing channel capacities. Quantum light pulses feature an inherent, rich spectral broadband-mode structure. In recent years, exploring the use of integrated optics as well as source-engineering has led to a deep understanding of the pulse-mode structure of guided quantum states of light. In addition, several groups have started to investigate the manipulation of quantum states by means of single-photon frequency conversion. In this paper we explore new routes towards complete control of the inherent pulse-modes of ultrafast pulsed quantum states by employing specifically designed nonlinear waveguides with adapted dispersion properties. Starting from our recently proposed quantum pulse gate (QPG) we further generalize the concept of spatio-spectral engineering for arbitrary $\chitwo$-based quantum processes. We analyse the sum-frequency generation based QPG and introduce the difference-frequency generation based quantum pulse shaper (QPS). Together, these versatile and robust integrated optics devices allow for arbitrary manipulations of the pulse-mode structure of ultrafast pulsed quantum states. The QPG can be utilized to select an arbitrary pulse mode from a multimode input state, whereas the QPS enables the generation of specific pulse modes from an input wavepacket with Gaussian-shaped spectrum.

id: 1101.0010
title: Modified-scaled hierarchical equation of motion approach for the study of quantum coherence in photosynthetic complexes
authors: Jing Zhu, Sabre Kais, Patrick Rebentrost, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures. Accepted by J Phys Chem B
journal: Journal of Physical Chemistry B, 2011, 115, 1531-1537
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0010
abstract: We present a detailed theoretical study of the transfer of electronic excitation energy through the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) pigment-protein complex, using the new developed modified scaled hierarchical approach [Shi Q. et al, J Chem Phys 2009, 130, 084105]. We show that this approach is computationally more efficient than the original hierarchical approach. The modified approach reduces the truncation levels of the auxiliary density operators and the correlation function. We provide a systematic study of how the number of auxiliary density operators and the higher-order correlation functions affect the exciton dynamics. The time scales of the coherent beating are consistent with experimental observations. Furthermore, our theoretical results exhibit population beating at physiological temperature. Additionally, the method does not require a low-temperature correction to obtain the correct thermal equilibrium at long times.

id: 1101.0016
title: Perfect Microwave Photodetection in Circuit QED
authors: B. Peropadre, G. Romero, G. Johansson, C. M. Wilson, E. Solano, J. J. Garc¨ªa-Ripoll
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 063834 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0016
abstract: In this work we propose a microwave photon detector which successfully reaches 100% efficiency with only one absorber. Our design consists of a metastable quantum circuit coupled to a semi-infinite transmission line which performs highly efficient photodetection in a simplified manner as compared to previous proposals. We extensively study the scattering properties of realistic wavepackets against this device, thereby computing the efficiency of the detector. We find that the detector has many operating modes, can detect detuned photons, is robust against design imperfections and can be made broadband by using more than one absorbing element in the design.

id: 1101.0030
title: Corrections to Bekenstein-Hawking entropy --- Quantum or not-so quantum?
authors: S. Shankaranarayanan
comments: 10 pages; Article for the Special Issue "Entropy in Quantum Gravity" in the Journal Entropy
journal: Entropy 13(1), 11-16 (2011);
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0030
abstract: Hawking radiation and Bekenstein--Hawking entropy are the two robust predictions of a yet unknown quantum theory of gravity. Any theory which fails to reproduce these predictions is certainly incorrect. While several approaches lead to Bekenstein--Hawking entropy, they all lead to different sub-leading corrections. In this article, we ask a question that is relevant for any approach: Using simple techniques, can we know whether an approach contains quantum or semi-classical degrees of freedom? Using naive dimensional analysis, we show that the semi-classical black-hole entropy has the same dimensional dependence as the gravity action. Among others, this provides a plausible explanation for the connection between Einstein's equations and thermodynamic equation of state, and that the quantum corrections should have a different scaling behavior.

id: 1101.0055
title: Solvable rational extensions of the isotonic oscillator
authors: Yves Grandati
comments: 
journal: Annals Phys.326:2074-2090,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0055
abstract: Combining recent results on rational solutions of the Riccati-Schr\"odinger equations for shape invariant potentials to the finite difference B\"acklund algorithm and specific symmetries of the isotonic potential, we show that it is possible to generate the three infinite sets (L1, L2 and L3 families) of regular rational solvable extensions of this potential in a very direct and transparent way.

id: 1101.0110
title: Tailoring photon emission patterns in nanostructures
authors: Shi-Fang Guo, Suqing Duan, Yan Xie, Wei-Dong Chu, Wei Zhang
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0110
abstract: We investigate the photon emission in coupled quantum dots based on symmetry considerations. With the help of a new theorem we proved, we reveal the origin of the various emission patterns, which is the combinative symmetry in the time domain and spectrum domain. We are able to tailor the emission patterns and obtain emission spectra with odd harmonics only, even harmonics only, both odd and even harmonic components, or even the quenching of all components. These interesting emission patterns can be obtained in experiments by careful design of the nanostructures, which are of many applications in optical-electric nanodevices.

id: 1101.0129
title: Pfaffian Circuits
authors: Jason Morton
comments: 33 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0129
abstract: It remains an open question whether the apparent additional power of quantum computation derives inherently from quantum mechanics, or merely from the flexibility obtained by "lifting" Boolean functions to linear operators and evaluating their composition cleverly. Holographic algorithms provide a useful avenue for exploring this question. We describe a new, simplified construction of holographic algorithms in terms of Pfaffian circuits. Novel proofs of some key results are provided, and we extend the approach of [34] to nonsymmetric, odd, and homogenized signatures, circuits, and various models of execution flow. This shows our approach is as powerful as the matchgate approach. Holographic algorithms provide in general $O(n^{\omega_p})$ time algorithms, where $\omega_p$ is the order of Pfaffian evaluation in the ring of interest (with $1.19 \leq \omega_p \leq 3$ depending on the ring) and $n$ is the number of inclusions of variables into clauses. Our approach often requires just the evaluation of an $n \times n$ Pfaffian, and at most needs an additional two rows per gate, whereas the matchgate approach is quartic in the arity of the largest gate. We give examples (even before any change of basis) including efficient algorithms for certain lattice path problems and an $O(n^{\omega_p})$ algorithm for evaluation of Tutte polynomials of lattice path matroids. Finally we comment on some of the geometric considerations in analyzing Pfaffian circuits under arbitrary basis change. Connections are made to the sum-product algorithm, classical simulation of quantum computation, and SLOCC equivalent entangled states.

id: 1101.0130
title: Amplified optomechanics in a unidirectional ring cavity
authors: Andr¨¦ Xuereb, Peter Horak, Tim Freegarde
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 58, 1342 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0130
abstract: We investigate optomechanical forces on a nearly lossless scatterer, such as an atom pumped far off-resonance or amicromirror, inside an optical ring cavity. Our model introduces two additional features to the cavity: an isolator is used to prevent circulation and resonant enhancement of the pump laser field and thus to avoid saturation of or damage to the scatterer, and an optical amplifier is used to enhance the effective $Q$-factor of the counterpropagating mode and thus to increase the velocity-dependent forces by amplifying the back-scattered light. We calculate friction forces, momentum diffusion, and steady-state temperatures to demonstrate the advantages of the proposed setup.

id: 1101.0141
title: Relaxation and dephasing in open quantum systems time-dependent density functional theory: Properties of exact functionals from an exactly-solvable model system
authors: David G. Tempel, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0141
abstract: The dissipative dynamics of many-electron systems interacting with a thermal environment has remained a long-standing challenge within time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT). Recently, the formal foundations of open quantum systems time-dependent density functional theory (OQS-TDDFT) within the master equation approach were established. It was proven that the exact time-dependent density of a many-electron open quantum system evolving under a master equation can be reproduced with a closed (unitarily evolving) and non-interacting Kohn-Sham system. This potentially offers a great advantage over previous approaches to OQS-TDDFT, since with suitable functionals one could obtain the dissipative open-systems dynamics by simply propagating a set of Kohn-Sham orbitals as in usual TDDFT. However, the properties and exact conditions of such open-systems functionals are largely unknown. In the present article, we examine a simple and exactly-solvable model open quantum system: one electron in a harmonic well evolving under the Lindblad master equation. We examine two different representitive limits of the Lindblad equation (relaxation and pure dephasing) and are able to deduce a number of properties of the exact OQS-TDDFT functional. Challenges associated with developing approximate functionals for many-electron open quantum systems are also discussed.

id: 1101.0231
title: Coulomb Blockade due to Quantum Phase-Slips Illustrated with Devices
authors: A. M. Hriscu, Yu. V. Nazarov
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B 83, 174511 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0231
abstract: In order to illustrate the emergence of Coulomb blockade from coherent quantum phase-slip processes in thin superconducting wires, we propose and theoretically investigate two elementary setups, or "devices". The setups are derived from Cooper-pair box and Cooper-pair transistor, so we refer to them as QPS-box and QPS-transistor, respectively. We demonstrate that the devices exhibit sensitivity to a charge induced by a gate electrode, this being the main signature of Coulomb blockade. Experimental realization of these devices will unambiguously prove the Coulomb blockade as an effect of coherence of phase-slip processes. We analyze the emergence of discrete charging in the limit strong phase-slips. We have found and investigated six distinct regimes that are realized depending on the relation between three characteristic energy scales: inductive and charging energy, and phase-slip amplitude. For completeness, we include a brief discussion of dual Josephson-junction devices.

id: 1101.0247
title: Fluctuation induced non-canonical BCS states: a mechanism for pseudogap
authors: Lei Gu
comments: 3 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0247
abstract: We pose the question of what effect the statistical fluctuation causes if it induces a non-unitary evolution. We apply this idea to the BCS model and study fluctuation around the mean-field average. We find that, dynamics of the thermalization influences the equilibrium besides the non-unitary evolution, and the resulting equilibrium state is no longer the canonical one. The pseudogap phenomenon can exist in this model.

id: 1101.0320
title: Edge modes in band topological insulators
authors: Lukasz Fidkowski, T. S. Jackson, Israel Klich
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; v4 minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0320
abstract: We characterize gapless edge modes in translation invariant topological insulators. We show that the edge mode spectrum is a continuous deformation of the spectrum of a certain gluing function defining the occupied state bundle over the Brillouin zone (BZ). Topologically non-trivial gluing functions, corresponding to non-trivial bundles, then yield edge modes exhibiting spectral flow. We illustrate our results for the case of chiral edge states in two dimensional Chern insulators, as well as helical edges in quantum spin Hall states.

id: 1101.0328
title: Irreversible Behaviour and Collapse of Wave Packets in a Quantum System with Point Interactions
authors: Italo Guarneri
comments: New version: an error in a proof in the original version has been corrected with no prejudice for the conclusions. New results about generalized functions have been added. The text has been expanded . To appear in J.Phys. A Math. Gen
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 485304
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0328
abstract: A system of a particle and a harmonic oscillator, which have pure point spectrum if uncoupled, is known to acquire absolutely continuous spectrum when the particle and the oscillator are coupled by a sufficiently strong point interaction. Here the simple dynamical mechanism underlying this phenomenon is exposed. The energy of the oscillator is proven to exponentially diverge in time, while the spatial probability distribution of the particle collapses into a delta function in the interaction point. On account of this result, a generalized model with many oscillators which interact with the particle at different points is argued to provide a formal model for approximate measurement of position, and collapse of wave packets.

id: 1101.0337
title: Electron Spin Precession for the Time Fractional Pauli Equation
authors: Hosein Nasrolahpour
comments: 
journal: Prespacetime Journal | December 2011 | Vol. 2 | Issue 13 | pp. 2053-2059
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0337
abstract: In this work, we aim to extend the application of the fractional calculus in the realm of quantum mechanics. We present a time fractional Pauli equation containing Caputo fractional derivative. By use of the new equation we study the electron spin precession problem in a homogeneous constant magnetic field.

id: 1101.0367
title: Observables in the General Boundary Formulation
authors: Robert Oeckl
comments: 20 pages, LaTeX + AMS + birkjour (included), contribution to the proceedings of the conference "Quantum Field Theory and Gravity" (Regensburg, 2010); v2: minor corrections
journal: Quantum Field Theory and Gravity (Regensburg, 2010), 2012, pp. 137-156
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0367
abstract: We develop a notion of quantum observable for the general boundary formulation of quantum theory. This notion is adapted to spacetime regions rather than to hypersurfaces and naturally fits into the topological quantum field theory like axiomatic structure of the general boundary formulation. We also provide a proposal for a generalized concept of expectation value adapted to this type of observable. We show how the standard notion of quantum observable arises as a special case together with the usual expectation values. We proceed to introduce various quantization schemes to obtain such quantum observables including path integral quantization (yielding the time-ordered product), Berezin-Toeplitz (antinormal ordered) quantization and normal ordered quantization, and discuss some of their properties.

id: 1101.0378
title: Universality and scaling limit of weakly-bound tetramers
authors: M. R. Hadizadeh, M. T. Yamashita, Lauro Tomio, A. Delfino, T. Frederico
comments: 6 pages (two-columns), 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 135304 (2011)
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0378
abstract: The occurrence of a new limit cycle in few-body physics, expressing a universal scaling function relating the binding energies of two consecutive tetramer states, is revealed, considering a renormalized zero-range two-body interaction applied to four identical bosons. The tetramer energy spectrum is obtained when adding a boson to an Efimov bound state with energy $B_3$ in the unitary limit (for zero two-body binding, or infinite two-body scattering length). Each excited $N-$th tetramer energy $B_4^{(N)}$ is shown to slide along a scaling function as a short-range four-body scale is changed, emerging from the 3+1 threshold for a universal ratio $B_4^ {(N)}/B_3 \simeq 4.6$, which does not depend on $N$. The new scale can also be revealed by a resonance in the atom-trimer recombination process.

id: 1101.0430
title: Finite Temperature Critical Behavior of Mutual Information
authors: Rajiv R. P. Singh, Matthew B. Hastings, Ann B. Kallin, Roger G. Melko
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 1 table. To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 135701 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0430
abstract: We study mutual information for Renyi entropy of arbitrary index n, in interacting quantum systems at finite-temperature critical points, using high-temperature expansion, quantum Monte Carlo simulations and scaling theory. We find that for n>1, the critical behavior is manifest at two temperatures T_c and n*T_c. For the XXZ model with Ising anisotropy, the coefficient of the area-law has a t*ln(t) singularity, whereas the subleading correction from corners has a logarithmic divergence, with a coefficient related to the exact results of Cardy and Peschel. For T<n*T_c there is a constant term associated with broken symmetries that jumps at both T_c and n*T_c, which can be understood in terms of a scaling function analogous to the boundary entropy of Affleck and Ludwig.

id: 1101.0439
title: Molecular zero-range potential method and its application to cyclic structures
authors: Dmitry V. Ponomarev, Sergey B. Leble
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0439
abstract: The zero-range potentials of the radial Schrodinger equation are investigated from a point of Darboux transformations scheme. The dressing procedure is realized as a sequence of Darboux transformations in a way similar to that used to obtain the generalized zero-range potentials of Huang-Derevianko by specific choice of a family of parameters. In the present approach we stay within the framework of conventional zero-range potential method whilst the potential parameter (scattering length) is modified taken into account spectral molecular properties. This allows to introduce molecular zero-range potential once the corresponding discrete spectrum is known. The results are illustrated on example of flat cyclic molecular structures, with particular focus on a benzene molecule, which bounded states energies are first found using atomic zero-range potentials, compared with the Huckel method, and then used to introduce single zero-range potential describing the entire molecule. Reasonable scattering behavior for newly introduced potential gives a possibility to tackle many-molecule problems representing molecules as appropriate single zero-range potentials.

id: 1101.0454
title: Conformal flatness, non-Abelian Kaluza-Klein and the Quaternions
authors: Paolo Maraner, Jiannis K. Pachos
comments: 13 pages, no figures, minor typo corrections
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0454
abstract: Maximally symmetric manifolds with holonomy in the unitary quaternionic group Sp(d/4) emerge from the non-Abelian Kaluza-Klein reduction of conformally flat spaces. Thus, all special manifolds with constant properly `holonomy-related' sectional curvature, are in natural correspondence with conformally flat, possibly non-Abelian, Kaluza-Klein spaces.

id: 1101.0499
title: Quasiequilibrium Mixture of Itinerant and Localized Bose Atoms in Optical Lattice
authors: V.I. Yukalov, A. Rakhimov, S. Mardonov
comments: Latex file, 15 pages, one figure
journal: Laser Phys. 21 (2011) 264-270
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0499
abstract: Conditions are studied under which there can exist a quasiequilibrium mixture of itinerant and localized bosonic atoms in an optical lattice, even at zero temperature and at integer filling factor, when such a coexistence is impossible for an equilibrium lattice. The consideration is based on a model having the structure of a two-band, or two-component, boson Hubbard Hamiltonian. The minimal value for the ratio of on-site repulsion to tunneling parameter, necessary for the occurrence of such a mixture, is found.

id: 1101.0523
title: On Arthur Merlin Games in Communication Complexity
authors: Hartmut Klauck
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0523
abstract: We show several results related to interactive proof modes of communication complexity. First we show lower bounds for the QMA-communication complexity of the functions Inner Product and Disjointness. We describe a general method to prove lower bounds for QMA-communication complexity, and show how one can 'transfer' hardness under an analogous measure in the query complexity model to the communication model using Sherstov's pattern matrix method. Combining a result by Vereshchagin and the pattern matrix method we find a communication problem with AM-communication complexity $O(\log n)$, PP-communication complexity $\Omega(n^{1/3})$, and QMA-communication complexity $\Omega(n^{1/6})$. Hence in the world of communication complexity noninteractive quantum proof systems are not able to efficiently simulate co-nondeterminism or interaction. These results imply that the related questions in Turing machine complexity theory cannot be resolved by 'algebrizing' techniques. Finally we show that in MA-protocols there is an exponential gap between one-way protocols and two-way protocols (this refers to the interaction between Alice and Bob). This is in contrast to nondeterministic, AM-, and QMA-protocols, where one-way communication is essentially optimal.

id: 1101.0527
title: From entanglement renormalisation to the disentanglement of quantum double models
authors: Miguel Aguado
comments: 46 pages, 25 eps figures
journal: Annals Phys.326:2444-2473,2011
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0527
abstract: We describe how the entanglement renormalisation approach to topological lattice systems leads to a general procedure for treating the whole spectrum of these models, in which the Hamiltonian is gradually simplified along a parallel simplification of the connectivity of the lattice. We consider the case of Kitaev's quantum double models, both Abelian and non-Abelian, and we obtain a rederivation of the known map of the toric code to two Ising chains; we pay particular attention to the non-Abelian models and discuss their space of states on the torus. Ultimately, the construction is universal for such models and its essential feature, the lattice simplification, may point towards a renormalisation of the metric in continuum theories.

id: 1101.0528
title: Construction of CASCI-type wave functions for very large active spaces
authors: Katharina Boguslawski, Konrad H. Marti, Markus Reiher
comments: 41 pages, 10 figures, 4 tables
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 134, 224101 (2011)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0528
abstract: We present a procedure to construct a configuration-interaction expansion containing arbitrary excitations from an underlying full-configuration-interaction-type wave function defined for a very large active space. Our procedure is based on the density-matrix renormalization group (DMRG) algorithm that provides the necessary information in terms of the eigenstates of the reduced density matrices to calculate the coefficient of any basis state in the many-particle Hilbert space. Since the dimension of the Hilbert space scales binomially with the size of the active space, a sophisticated Monte Carlo sampling routine is employed. This sampling algorithm can also construct such configuration-interaction-type wave functions from any other type of tensor network states. The configuration-interaction information obtained serves several purposes. It yields a qualitatively correct description of the molecule's electronic structure, it allows us to analyze DMRG wave functions converged for the same molecular system but with different parameter sets (e.g., different numbers of active-system (block) states), and it can be considered a balanced reference for the application of a subsequent standard multi-reference configuration-interaction method.

id: 1101.0543
title: Density profile of interacting Fermions in a one-dimensional optical trap
authors: Stefan A. Soeffing, Sebastian Eggert, Michael Bortz
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Published version. See also this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 021602(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0543
abstract: The density distribution of the one-dimensional Hubbard model in a harmonic trapping potential is investigated in order to study the effect of the confining trap. Strong superimposed oscillations are always present on top of a uniform density cloud, which show universal scaling behavior as a function of increasing interactions. An analytical formula is proposed on the basis of bosonization, which describes the density oscillations for all interaction strengths. The wavelength of the dominant oscillation changes with interaction, which indicates the crossover to a spin-incoherent regime. Using the Bethe ansatz the shape of the uniform fermion cloud is analyzed in detail, which can be described by a universal scaling form.

id: 1101.0623
title: Zitterbewegung (trembling motion) of electrons in semiconductors: a Review
authors: Wlodek Zawadzki, Tomasz M. Rusin
comments: 20 pages, 12 figures, Review article
journal: J. Phys. Condens. Matter 23 143201 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0623
abstract: We review recent research on Zitterbewegung (ZB, trembling motion) of electrons in semiconductors. A brief history of the subject is presented, the trembling motion in semirelativistic and spin systems is considered and its main features are emphasized. Zitterbewegung of charge carriers in monolayer and bilayer graphene as well as in carbon nanotubes is elaborated in some detail. We describe effects of an external magnetic field on ZB using monolayer graphene as an example. Nature of electron ZB in crystalline solids is explained. We also review various simulations of the trembling motion in a vacuum and in semiconductors, and mention ZB-like wave phenomena in sonic and photonic periodic structures. An attempt is made to quote all the relevant literature on the subject.

id: 1101.0625
title: From Geometric Quantum Mechanics to Quantum Information
authors: P. Aniello, J. Clemente-Gallardo, G. Marmo, G. F. Volkert
comments: 24 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0625
abstract: We consider the geometrization of quantum mechanics. We then focus on the pull-back of the Fubini-Study metric tensor field from the projective Hibert space to the orbits of the local unitary groups. An inner product on these tensor fields allows us to obtain functions which are invariant under the considered local unitary groups. This procedure paves the way to an algorithmic approach to the identification of entanglement monotone candidates. Finally, a link between the Fubini-Study metric and a quantum version of the Fisher information metric is discussed.

id: 1101.0627
title: Can rapidity become a gauge variable? Dirac Hamiltonian method and Relativistic Rotators
authors: ?ukasz Bratek
comments: 9 pages
journal: 2012 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 055204
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0627
abstract: The minimal Hamiltonian for a family of relativistic rotators is constructed by a direct application of the Dirac procedure for constrained systems. The Hamiltonian equations can be easily solved. It is found that the resulting motion is unique and qualitatively the same for all phenomenological rotators, only the relation between mass and spin is different. There is a critical point in the construction when such a relation cannot be established, implying that the number of primary constraints is greater. In that case the mass and the spin become unrelated, separately fixed parameters, and the corresponding Hamiltonian changes qualitatively. Furthermore, a genuine physical observable becomes a gauge variable. This paradoxical result is consistent with the fact already known at the Lagrangian level that the Hessian rank is lower than expected, and the equations of motion indeterminate on $\mathbb{R}^3\times\mathbb{S}^2$.

id: 1101.0692
title: Numerical Continuation of Bound and Resonant States of the Two Channel Schr?dinger Equation
authors: Przemys?aw K?osiewicz, Wim Vanroose, Jan Broeckhove
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012709 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0692
abstract: Resonant solutions of the quantum Schr\"odinger equation occur at complex energies where the S-matrix becomes singular. Knowledge of such resonances is important in the study of the underlying physical system. Often the Schr\"odinger equation is dependent on some parameter and one is interested in following the path of the resonances in the complex energy plane as the parameter changes. This is particularly true in coupled channel systems where the resonant behavior is highly dependent on the strength of the channel coupling, the energy separation of the channels and other factors. In previous work it was shown that numerical continuation, a technique familiar in the study of dynamical systems, can be brought to bear on the problem of following the resonance path in one dimensional problems and multi-channel problems without energy separation between the channels. A regularization can be defined that eliminates coalescing poles and zeros that appear in the S-matrix at the origin due to symmetries. Following the zeros of this regularized function then traces the resonance path. In this work we show that this approach can be extended to channels with energy separation, albeit limited to two channels. The issue here is that the energy separation introduces branch cuts in the complex energy domain that need to be eliminated with a so-called uniformization. We demonstrate that the resulting approach is suitable for investigating resonances in two-channel systems and provide an extensive example.

id: 1101.0773
title: Factorization Method in Curvilinear Coordinates and Pairing of Levels for Matrix Potentials
authors: A.A.Andrianov, M.V.Ioffe, Tsu Zhun-Pin
comments: 9 p.p., translated from Russian (see journal reference below)
journal: Vestn.Leningrad.Univ.(Ser.4 Fiz.Khim.),4:3-9,1988
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0773
abstract: Multidimensional factorization method is formulated in arbitrary curvilinear coordinates. Particular cases of polar and spherical coordinates are considered and matrix potentials with separating variables are constructed. A new class of matrix potentials is obtained which reveals a double degeneracy or equidistant splitting of energy levels (hidden symmetry).

id: 1101.0793
title: New Two-Dimensional Quantum Models with Shape Invariance
authors: F. Cannata, M.V. Ioffe, D.N. Nishnianidze
comments: 16 p.p., a few new references added
journal: J.Math.Phys.52:022106,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0793
abstract: Two-dimensional quantum models which obey the property of shape invariance are built in the framework of polynomial two-dimensional SUSY Quantum Mechanics. They are obtained using the expressions for known one-dimensional shape invariant potentials. The constructed Hamiltonians are integrable with symmetry operators of fourth order in momenta, and they are not amenable to the conventional separation of variables.

id: 1101.0886
title: Variety of c-axis collective excitations in layered multigap superconductors
authors: Yukihiro Ota, Masahiko Machida, Tomio Koyama
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 157001 (2010)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0886
abstract: We present a dynamical theory for the phase differences along a stacked direction of intrinsic Josephson junctions (IJJ's) in layered multigap superconductors, motivated by the discovery of highly-anisotropic iron-based superconductors with thick perovskite-type blocking layers. The dynamical equations describing AC and DC intrinsic Josephson effects peculiar to multigap IJJ's are derived, and collective Leggett mode excitations in addition to the Josephson plasma established in single-gap IJJ's are predicted. The dispersion relations of their collective modes are explicitly displayed, and the remarkable peculiarity of the Leggett mode is demonstrated.

id: 1101.0908
title: What can we say about nature?
authors: Luigi Foschini
comments: 11 pages, no figures. Submitted for the FQXi essay contest 2010 "Is reality digital or analog?"
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0908
abstract: In this essay, I review the importance of languages in the study of reality, following the well-known aphorisms by Galilei, Bohr and many others. The emphasis on these aspects helps us to understand that it is not meaningful to ask if the reality if "digital" or "analog", but we have to search what is the best language to study some specific aspects of the reality. This problem is particularly felt in the case of frontier science, like quantum gravity, where, in front of several theories (syntaxes) available, there are presently neither observations nor experiments leading to the building of a convincing semantics. You will not find here recipes for a definitive theory. Just thoughts and questions.

id: 1101.0995
title: Weak disorder corrections of the scattering and transport mean free path
authors: Felix Eckert, Andreas Buchleitner, Thomas Wellens
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures, 2 tables
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 395101
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.0995
abstract: We present a calculation of the weak localisation correction to the scattering and to the transport mean free path, for waves propagating in a $delta$-correlated random potential, going beyond the usual diffusion approximation for the loops in the interfering path amplitudes. We find that not only the transport mean free path, but also the scattering mean free path is affected by the interference contributions. We also find the dependence of the leading order contribution to both, the scattering and the transport mean free path, on the disorder parameter $1/kl$ to be linear. This is in contrast to the result obtained from the diffusion approximation according to which the scattering mean free path remains unaffected when changing the disorder parameter, whereas the correction of the transport mean free path scales like $1/(kl)^2$.

id: 1101.1030
title: Local Space-Time Curvature Effects on Quantum Orbital Angular Momentum
authors: Dinesh Singh, Nader Mobed
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure; references added; accepted for publication in Classical and Quantum Gravity
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.28:105024,2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1030
abstract: This paper claims that local space-time curvature can non-trivially contribute to the properties of orbital angular momentum in quantum mechanics. Of key importance is the demonstration that an extended orbital angular momentum operator due to gravitation can identify the existence of orbital states with half-integer projection quantum numbers "m" along the axis of quantization, while still preserving integer-valued orbital quantum numbers "l" for a simply connected topology. The consequences of this possibility are explored in depth, noting that the half-integer "m" states vanish as required when the locally curved space-time reduces to flat space-time, fully recovering all established properties of orbital angular momentum in this limit. In particular, it is shown that a minimum orbital number of "l = 2" is necessary for the gravitational interaction to appear within this context, in perfect correspondence with the spin-2 nature of linearized general relativity.

id: 1101.1054
title: Clifford modules and symmetries of topological insulators
authors: Gilles Abramovici, Pavel Kalugin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1054
abstract: We complete the classification of symmetry constraints on gapped quadratic fermion hamiltonians proposed by Kitaev. The symmetry group is supposed compact and can include arbitrary unitary or antiunitary operators in the Fock space that conserve the algebra of quadratic observables. We analyze the multiplicity spaces of {\em real} irreducible representations of unitary symmetries in the Nambu space. The joint action of intertwining operators and antiunitary symmetries provides these spaces with the structure of Clifford module: we prove a one-to-one correspondence between the ten Altland-Zirnbauer symmetry classes of fermion systems and the ten Morita equivalence classes of real and complex Clifford algebras. The antiunitary operators, which occur in seven classes, are projectively represented in the Nambu space by unitary "chiral symmetries". The space of gapped symmetric hamiltonians is homotopically equivalent to the product of classifying spaces indexed by the dual object of the group of unitary symmetries.

id: 1101.1077
title: Dagger Categories of Tame Relations
authors: Bart Jacobs
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Logic (math.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1077
abstract: Within the context of an involutive monoidal category the notion of a comparison relation is identified. Instances are equality on sets, inequality on posets, orthogonality on orthomodular lattices, non-empty intersection on powersets, and inner product on vector or Hilbert spaces. Associated with a collection of such (symmetric) comparison relations a dagger category is defined with "tame" relations as morphisms. Examples include familiar categories in the foundations of quantum mechanics, such as sets with partial injections, or with locally bifinite relations, or with formal distributions between them, or Hilbert spaces with bounded (continuous) linear maps. Of one particular example of such a dagger category of tame relations, involving sets and bifinite multirelations between them, the categorical structure is investigated in some detail. It turns out to involve symmetric monoidal dagger structure, with biproducts, and dagger kernels. This category may form an appropriate universe for discrete quantum computations, just like Hilbert spaces form a universe for continuous computation.

id: 1101.1083
title: Statistical Evidence Against Simple Forms of Wavefunction Collapse
authors: Don N. Page
comments: 8 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1083
abstract: If the initial quantum state of the universe is a multiverse superposition over many different sets of values of the effective coupling "constants" of physics, and if this quantum state collapses to an eigenstate of the set of coupling "constants" with a probability purely proportional to the absolute square of the amplitude (with no additional factor for something like life or consciousness), then one should not expect that the coupling `constants' would be so biophilic as they are observed to be. Therefore, the observed biophilic values (apparent fine tuning) of the coupling "constants" is statistical evidence against such simple forms of wavefunction collapse.

id: 1101.1183
title: An exactly solvable quantum-lattice model with a tunable degree of nonlocality
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 35 pp
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 075302
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1183
abstract: An array of N subsequent Laguerre polynomials is interpreted as an eigenvector of a non-Hermitian tridiagonal Hamiltonian $H$ with real spectrum or, better said, of an exactly solvable N-site-lattice cryptohermitian Hamiltonian whose spectrum is known as equal to the set of zeros of the N-th Laguerre polynomial. The two key problems (viz., the one of the ambiguity and the one of the closed-form construction of all of the eligible inner products which make $H$ Hermitian in the respective {\em ad hoc} Hilbert spaces) are discussed. Then, for illustration, the first four simplest, $k-$parametric definitions of inner products with $k=0,k=1,k=2$ and $k=3$ are explicitly displayed. In mathematical terms these alternative inner products may be perceived as alternative Hermitian conjugations of the initial N-plet of Laguerre polynomials. In physical terms the parameter $k$ may be interpreted as a measure of the "smearing of the lattice coordinates" in the model.

id: 1101.1186
title: Quantum spin ladders of non-Abelian anyons
authors: Didier Poilblanc, Andreas W.W. Ludwig, Simon Trebst, Matthias Troyer
comments: 12 pages, 17 figures, 3 tables, 2 references added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 134439 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1186
abstract: Quantum ladder models, consisting of coupled chains, form intriguing systems bridging one and two dimensions and have been well studied in the context of quantum magnets and fermionic systems. Here we consider ladder systems made of more exotic quantum mechanical degrees of freedom, so-called non-Abelian anyons, which can be thought of as certain quantum deformations of ordinary SU(2) spins. Such non-Abelian anyons occur as quasiparticle excitations in topological quantum fluids, including p_x + i p_y superconductors, certain fractional quantum Hall states, and rotating Bose-Einstein condensates. Here we use a combination of exact diagonalization and conformal field theory to determine the phase diagrams of ladders with up to four chains. We discuss how phenomena familiar from ordinary SU(2) spin ladders are generalized in their anyonic counterparts, such as gapless and gapped phases, odd/even effects with the ladder width, and elementary `magnon' excitations. Other features are entirely due to the topological nature of the anyonic degrees of freedom.

id: 1101.1239
title: Hearing shapes of drums - mathematical and physical aspects of isospectrality
authors: O. Giraud, K. Thas
comments: 42 pages, 60 figures
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 82, 2213 (2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1239
abstract: In a celebrated paper '"Can one hear the shape of a drum?"' M. Kac [Amer. Math. Monthly 73, 1 (1966)] asked his famous question about the existence of nonisometric billiards having the same spectrum of the Laplacian. This question was eventually answered positively in 1992 by the construction of noncongruent planar isospectral pairs. This review highlights mathematical and physical aspects of isospectrality.

id: 1101.1270
title: On the quantitative interpretation of dark energy by quantum effect of gravity and experimental scheme with atom interferometer
authors: Hongwei Xiong
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1270
abstract: From the general principle that gravity originates from the coupling and thermal equilibrium between matter and vacuum background, we give two simple equations to calculate the quantum effect of gravity. From these two equations, we calculate the ratio between the dark energy density and that of the sum of the dark matter density and ordinary matter density. Without any fitting parameter, the ratio is calculated as 2.36, which agrees quantitatively with the result 7/3 obtained from various astronomical observations. The same quantum gravity effect explaining dark energy will also lead to abnormal gravity for a sphere full of superfluid helium. It is shown that with an atom interferometer placed in this sphere, the accuracy $\Delta g/g$ below $10^{-8}$ could be used to test our idea, which satisfies the present experimental technique of atom interferometer. The abnormal gravity effect would have important potential applications in black hole, possible experimental test of many-world interpretation, and even in condensed matter physics and material physics.

id: 1101.1307
title: Landau Level Physics in a Quantum Well: new singular features in magnetization and violations of de Haas - van Alphen periodicities
authors: Georgios Konstantinou, Konstantinos Moulopoulos
comments: 6 pages, 11 multiple figures, extended report accepted for publication in the AIP Proceedings of the International Conference on Magnetic Materials [Kolkata, India (October 2010)]
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1307
abstract: Analytical calculations based on a Landau Level (LL) picture are reported for an interface (with a finite-width Quantum Well (QW)) and for a fully three-dimensional charged quantum electronic system in an external magnetic field. They lead to a sequence of previously unnoticed singular features in global magnetization and magnetic susceptibility that lead to nontrivial corrections to the standard de Haas - van Alphen periods. Additional features due to Zeeman splitting are also reported (such as new energy minima that originate from the interplay of QW, Zeeman and LL Physics) that are possibly useful for the design of quantum devices. A corresponding calculation in a Composite Fermion picture leads to new predictions on magnetic response properties of a fully-interacting electron liquid in a finite-width interface.

id: 1101.1361
title: A DPF analysis yields accurate analytic potentials for Li$_2(a\,^3¦²^+_u)$ and Li$_2(1\,^3 ¦²^+_g)$ that incorporate 3-state mixing near the $1\,^3 ¦²^+_g$-state asymptote
authors: Nikesh S. Dattani, Robert J. Le Roy
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1361
abstract: A combined-isotopologue direct-potential-fit (DPF) analysis of optical and photoassociation spectroscopy data for the $a\,^{3}\Sigma_u^+$ and $1\,^3\Sigma_g^+$ states of Li$_2$ has yielded accurate analytic potential energy functions for both states. The recommended M3LR$_{5,3}^{8.0}(3)$ potential for the $a\,^3\Sigma_u^+$ of $^{7,7}$Li$_2$ has a well depth of $\,{\mathfrak D}_e= 333.758(7)\,{\rm cm^{-1}}$ and equilibrium distance of $\,r_e= 4.17005(3)~$\AA, and the associated scattering lengths are $\,a_{\rm SL}= -14.759(9)\,$\AA\ for $^{7,7}$Li$_2$ and $-1906(50)\,$\AA\ for $^{6,6}$Li$_2$. For the $1\,^3\Sigma_g^+$ state, in spite of a gap of $\,\sim 5200\,{\rm cm}^{-1}$ (from $\,v(1\,^3\Sigma_g^+)= 8-61$) for which there are no data, the DPF procedure has no difficulty determining an accurate overall potential. The $1\,^3\Sigma_g^+$ state of the $^{7,7}$Li$_2$ isotopologue has a well depth of $\,{\mathfrak D}_e= 7092.417(33)\,{\rm cm^{-1}}$ and equilibrium distance of $\,r_e= 3.06524(9)~$\AA. The long-range tail of the recommended M3LR$_{6,3}^{3.6}(9)$ potential energy function for the $1\,^3\Sigma_g^+$ state is defined by the lowest eigenvalue of a $3\times 3$ long-range interstate coupling matrix to take into account the 3-state mixing near its asymptote.

id: 1101.1484
title: Macroscopic quantum vacuum and microscopic gravitation
authors: Roberto Onofrio
comments: 
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A25:2260-2269,2010
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1484
abstract: Macroscopic quantum vacuum and modern theories of gravitation share the strong interplay between geometry and physical phenomena. We review selected issues related to the accuracy of the measurement of Casimir forces with particular emphasis on the implications for the search of non-Newtonian gravitational forces in the micrometer range. We then discuss the interplay of the Higgs particle with gravitation, arguing that spectroscopic shifts in atomic transitions due to the modifications of the vacuum expectation value of the Higgs field in regions with strong curvature of space-time may be of conceptual and observational relevance.

id: 1101.1535
title: Quantum statistics on graphs
authors: JM Harrison, JP Keating, JM Robbins
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures
journal: Published online 21 July 2010 in Proc. Roy. Soc A
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1535
abstract: Quantum graphs are commonly used as models of complex quantum systems, for example molecules, networks of wires, and states of condensed matter. We consider quantum statistics for indistinguishable spinless particles on a graph, concentrating on the simplest case of abelian statistics for two particles. In spite of the fact that graphs are locally one-dimensional, anyon statistics emerge in a generalized form. A given graph may support a family of independent anyon phases associated with topologically inequivalent exchange processes. In addition, for sufficiently complex graphs, there appear new discrete-valued phases. Our analysis is simplified by considering combinatorial rather than metric graphs -- equivalently, a many-particle tight-binding model. The results demonstrate that graphs provide an arena in which to study new manifestations of quantum statistics. Possible applications include topological quantum computing, topological insulators, the fractional quantum Hall effect, superconductivity and molecular physics.

id: 1101.1543
title: A nanometer-scale optical electrometer
authors: A. N. Vamivakas, Y. Zhao, S. Falt, A. Badolato, J. M. Taylor, M. Atature
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 166802 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1543
abstract: Self-assembled semiconductor quantum dots show remarkable optical and spin coherence properties, which have lead to a concerted research effort examining their potential as a quantum bit for quantum information science1-6. Here, we present an alternative application for such devices, exploiting recent achievements of charge occupation control and the spectral tunability of the optical emission of quantum dots by electric fields7 to demonstrate high-sensitivity electric field measurement. In contrast to existing nanometer-scale electric field sensors, such as single electron transistors8-11 and mechanical resonators12,13, our approach relies on homodyning light resonantly Rayleigh scattered from a quantum dot transition with the excitation laser and phase sensitive lock-in detection. This offers both static and transient field detection ability with high bandwidth operation and near unity quantum efficiency. Our theoretical estimation of the static field sensitivity for typical parameters, 0.5 V/m/ \surd Hz, compares favorably to the theoretical limit for single electron transistor-based electrometers. The sensitivity level of 5 V/m/ \surd Hz we report in this work, which corresponds to 6.4 * 10-6 e/ \surd Hz at a distance of 12 nm, is worse than this theoretical estimate, yet higher than any other result attained at 4.2 K or higher operation temperature.

id: 1101.1617
title: Effects of Resonant Cavity on Macroscopic Quantum Tunneling of Fluxon in Long Josephson Junctions
authors: Ju H. Kim, Ramesh P. Dhungana
comments: Accepted for publication in Phy. Rev. B
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1617
abstract: We investigate the effects of high-Q_c resonant cavity on macroscopic quantum tunneling (MQT) of fluxon both from a metastable state to continuum and from one degenerate ground-state of a double-well potential to the other. By using a set of two coupled perturbed sine-Gordon equations, we describe the tunneling processes in linear long Josephson junctions (LJJs) and find that MQT in the resonant cavity increases due to potential renomalization, induced by the interaction between the fluxon and cavity.Enhancement of the MQT rate in the weak-coupling regime is estimated by using the experimantally accessible range of the model parameters. The tunneling rate from the metastable state is found to increase weakly with increasing junction-cavity interaction strength. However, the energy splitting between the two degenerate ground-states of the double-well potential increases significantly with increasing both the interaction strength and frequency of the resonant cavity mode. Finally, we discuss how the resonant cavity may be used to tune the property of Josephson vortex quantum bits.

id: 1101.1713
title: Fidelity susceptibility and general quench near an anisotropic quantum critical point
authors: Victor Mukherjee, Amit Dutta
comments: 6 pages, 6 pigures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 214302 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1713
abstract: We study the scaling behavior of fidelity susceptibility density $(\chi_{\rm f})$ at or close to an anisotropic quantum critical point characterized by two different correlation length exponents $\nu_{||}$ and $\nu_{\bot}$ along parallel and perpendicular spatial directions, respectively. Our studies show that the response of the system due to a small change in the Hamiltonian near an anisotropic quantum critical point is different from that seen near an isotropic quantum critical point. In particular, for a finite system with linear dimension $L_{||}$ ($L_{\bot}$) in the parallel (perpendicular) directions, the maximum value of $\chi_{\rm f}$ is found to increases in a power-law fashion with $L_{||}$ for small $L_{||}$, with an exponent depending on both $\nu_{||}$ and $\nu_{\bot}$ and eventually crosses over to a scaling with $L_{\bot}$ for $L_{||}^{1/\nu_{||}} \gtrsim L_{\bot}^{1/\nu_{\bot}}$. We also propose scaling relations of heat density and defect density generated following a quench starting from an anisotropic quantum critical point and connect them to a generalized fidelity susceptibility. These predictions are verified exactly both analytically and numerically taking the example of a Hamiltonian showing a semi-Dirac band-crossing point.

id: 1101.1905
title: The EPR Paradox for the Uninitiated
authors: Alexander Lesov
comments: 8 pages, 2 images
journal: 
subjects: Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1905
abstract: Quantum mechanics is very odd. It presents both an immensely practical and a deeply troubling conception of the physical world. As such, its uses stretch from optimizing nanoelectronics to examining the very nature of reality. In this article we will see how quantum mechanics forces us into a dramatic rethinking of one of the most fundamental tenets of modern science, locality. The article is written in a popular style for anyone interested in this subject.

id: 1101.1906
title: Continuous phase stabilization and active interferometer control using two modes
authors: Gregor Jotzu, Tim J. Bartley, H. B. Coldenstrodt-Ronge, Brian J. Smith, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1906
abstract: We present a computer-based active interferometer stabilization method that can be set to an arbitrary phase difference and does not rely on modulation of the interfering beams. The scheme utilizes two orthogonal modes propagating through the interferometer with a constant phase difference between them to extract a common phase and generate a linear feedback signal. Switching times of 50ms over a range of 0 to 6 pi radians at 632.8nm are experimentally demonstrated. The phase can be stabilized up to several days to within 3 degrees.

id: 1101.2070
title: Variational calculations for anisotropic solitons in dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: R¨¹diger Eichler, J?rg Main, G¨¹nter Wunner
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 053604 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2070
abstract: We present variational calculations using a Gaussian trial function to calculate the ground state of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation and to describe the dynamics of the quasi-two-dimensional solitons in dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates. Furthermore we extend the ansatz to a linear superposition of Gaussians improving the results for the ground state to exact agreement with numerical grid calculations using imaginary time and split-operator method. We are able to give boundaries for the scattering length at which stable solitons may be observed in an experiment. By dynamical calculations with coupled Gaussians we are able to describe the rather complex behavior of the thermally excited solitons. The discovery of dynamically stabilized solitons indicates the existence of such BECs at experimentally accessible temperatures.

id: 1101.2076
title: Single-Spin Addressing in an Atomic Mott Insulator
authors: Christof Weitenberg, Manuel Endres, Jacob F. Sherson, Marc Cheneau, Peter Schau?, Takeshi Fukuhara, Immanuel Bloch, Stefan Kuhr
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature 471, 319 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2076
abstract: Ultracold atoms in optical lattices are a versatile tool to investigate fundamental properties of quantum many body systems. In particular, the high degree of control of experimental parameters has allowed the study of many interesting phenomena such as quantum phase transitions and quantum spin dynamics. Here we demonstrate how such control can be extended down to the most fundamental level of a single spin at a specific site of an optical lattice. Using a tightly focussed laser beam together with a microwave field, we were able to flip the spin of individual atoms in a Mott insulator with sub-diffraction-limited resolution, well below the lattice spacing. The Mott insulator provided us with a large two-dimensional array of perfectly arranged atoms, in which we created arbitrary spin patterns by sequentially addressing selected lattice sites after freezing out the atom distribution. We directly monitored the tunnelling quantum dynamics of single atoms in the lattice prepared along a single line and observed that our addressing scheme leaves the atoms in the motional ground state. Our results open the path to a wide range of novel applications from quantum dynamics of spin impurities, entropy transport, implementation of novel cooling schemes, and engineering of quantum many-body phases to quantum information processing.

id: 1101.2120
title: Deconstructing non-Dirac-hermitian supersymmetric quantum systems
authors: Pijush K. Ghosh
comments: 27 pages, LateX, no figures
journal: J.Phys.A44:215307,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2120
abstract: A method to construct non-Dirac-hermitian supersymmetric quantum system that is isospectral with a Dirac-hermitian Hamiltonian is presented. The general technique involves a realization of the basic canonical (anti-)commutation relations involving both bosonic and fermionic degrees of freedom in terms of non-Dirac-hermitian operators which are hermitian in a Hilbert space that is endowed with a pre-determined positive-definite metric. A pseudo-hermitian realization of the Clifford algebra for a pre-determined positive-definite metric is used to construct supersymmetric systems with one or many degrees of freedom. It is shown that exactly solvable non-Dirac-hermitian supersymmetric quantum systems can be constructed corresponding to each exactly solvable Dirac-hermitian system. Examples of non-Dirac-hermitian (i) non-relativistic Pauli Hamiltonian, (ii) super-conformal quantum system and (iii) supersymmetric Calogero-type models admitting entirely real spectra are presented.

id: 1101.2124
title: Deterministic Preparation of a Tunable Few-Fermion System
authors: F. Serwane, G. Z¨¹rn, T. Lompe, T. B. Ottenstein, A. N. Wenz, S. Jochim
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Science 332, 6027 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2124
abstract: Systems consisting of few interacting fermions are the building blocks of matter with atoms and nuclei being the most prominent examples. We have created an artificial few-body quantum system with complete control over the system's quantum state using ultracold fermionic atoms in an optical dipole trap. We deterministically prepare ground state systems consisting of one to ten particles with fidelities of ~ 90%. We can tune the inter-particle interactions to arbitrary values using a Feshbach resonance and have observed the interaction-induced energy shift for a pair of repulsively interacting atoms. With this work, quantum simulation of strongly correlated fewbody systems has become possible. In addition, these microscopic quantum systems can be used as building blocks for scalable quantum information processing.

id: 1101.2224
title: Characterization of optical properties and surface roughness profiles: The Casimir force between real materials
authors: P. J. van Zwol, V.B. Svetovoy, G. Palasantzas
comments: 33 pages, 14 figures, to appear in Springer Lecture Notes in Physics, Volume on Casimir Physics, edited by Diego Dalvit, Peter Milonni, David Roberts, and Felipe da Rosa
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2224
abstract: The Lifshitz theory provides a method to calculate the Casimir force between two flat plates if the frequency dependent dielectric function of the plates is known. In reality any plate is rough and its optical properties are known only to some degree. For high precision experiments the plates must be carefully characterized otherwise the experimental result cannot be compared with the theory or with other experiments. In this chapter we explain why optical properties of interacting materials are important for the Casimir force, how they can be measured, and how one can calculate the force using these properties. The surface roughness can be characterized, for example, with the atomic force microscope images. We introduce the main characteristics of a rough surface that can be extracted from these images, and explain how one can use them to calculate the roughness correction to the force. At small separations this correction becomes large as our experiments show. Finally we discuss the distance upon contact separating two rough surfaces, and explain the importance of this parameter for determination of the absolute separation between bodies.}

id: 1101.2238
title: Resource Letter VWCPF-1: Van der Waals and Casimir-Polder forces
authors: Kimball A. Milton
comments: 37 pages, no figures. This resource letter is intended to provide selected references to guide undergraduate students and people new to the field into the subject of CP and Casimir forces. References are not intended to be complete. This is substantially enlarged and revised version
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2238
abstract: This Resource Letter provides a guide to the literature on van der Waals and Casimir-Polder forces. Journal articles, books, and other documents are cited on the following topics: van der Waals forces, retarded dispersion forces or Casimir-Polder forces between atoms or molecules, Casimir-Polder forces between a molecule and a dielectric or conducting body, the summation of Casimir-Polder forces as leading to the Casimir and Lifshitz forces between conducting and dielectric bodies, Casimir friction, applications to nanotechnology, the nature of the quantum vacuum, and experimental tests of the theory of Casimir and Casimir-Polder and van der Waals forces.

id: 1101.2244
title: Impact of surface imperfections on the Casimir force for lenses of centimeter-size curvature radii
authors: V. B. Bezerra, G. L. Klimchitskaya, U. Mohideen, V. M. Mostepanenko, C. Romero
comments: 28 pages, 7 figures, 1 table. To appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B, v.83, 075417-(1-13) (2011)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2244
abstract: The impact of imperfections, which are always present on surfaces of lenses with centimeter-size curvature radii, on the Casimir force in the lens-plate geometry is investigated. It is shown that the commonly used formulation of the proximity force approximation is inapplicable for spherical lenses with surface imperfections, such as bubbles and pits. More general expressions for the Casimir force are derived that take surface imperfections into account. Using these expressions we show that surface imperfections can both increase and decrease the magnitude of the Casimir force up to a few tens of percent when compared with the case of a perfectly spherical lens. We demonstrate that the Casimir force between a perfectly spherical lens and a plate described by the Drude model can be made approximately equal to the force between a sphere with some surface imperfection and a plate described by the plasma model, and vice versa. In the case of a metallic sphere and semiconductor plate, approximately the same Casimir forces are obtained for four different descriptions of charge carriers in the semiconductor if appropriate surface imperfections on the lens surface are present. The conclusion is made that there is a fundamental problem in the interpretation of measurement data for the Casimir force, obtained by using spherical lenses of centimeter-size radii, and their comparison with theory.

id: 1101.2375
title: Path dependent scaling of geometric phase near a quantum multi-critical point
authors: Ayoti Patra, Victor Mukherjee, Amit Dutta
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2011) P03026
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2375
abstract: We study the geometric phase of the ground state in a one-dimensional transverse XY spin chain in the vicinity of a quantum multi-critical point. We approach the multi-critical point along different paths and estimate the geometric phase by applying a rotation in all spins about z-axis by an angle $\eta$. Although the geometric phase itself vanishes at the multi-critical point, the derivative with respect to the anisotropy parameter of the model shows peaks at different points on the ferromagnetic side close to it where the energy gap is a local minimum; we call these points `quasi-critical'. The value of the derivative at any quasi-critical point scales with the system size in a power-law fashion with the exponent varying continuously with the parameter $\alpha$ that defines a path, upto a critical value $\alpha = \alpha_{c}=2$. For $\alpha > \alpha_{c}$, or on the paramagnetic side no such peak is observed. Numerically obtained results are in perfect agreement with analytical predictions.

id: 1101.2382
title: Optical Flux Lattices for Ultracold Atomic Gases
authors: N. R. Cooper
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 175301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2382
abstract: We show that simple laser configurations can give rise to "optical flux lattices", in which optically dressed atoms experience a periodic effective magnetic flux with high mean density. These potentials lead to narrow energy bands with non-zero Chern number. Optical flux lattices will greatly facilitate the achievement of the quantum Hall regime for ultracold atomic gases.

id: 1101.2393
title: Non-Markovian dynamics of a nanomechanical resonator measured by a quantum point contact
authors: Po-Wen Chen, Chung-Chin Jian, Hsi-Sheng Goan
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review B (20 pages, 13 figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 115439 (2011). (note of Ref.76 added in the published version)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2393
abstract: We study the dynamics of a nanomechanical resonator (NMR) subject to a measurement by a low transparency quantum point contact (QPC) or tunnel junction in the non-Markovian domain. We derive the non-Markovian number-resolved (conditional) and unconditional master equations valid to second order in the tunneling Hamiltonian without making the rotating-wave approximation and the Markovian approximation, generally made for systems in quantum optics. Our non-Markovian master equation reduces, in appropriate limits, to various Markovian versions of master equations in the literature. We find considerable difference in dynamics between the non-Markovian cases and its Markovian counterparts. We also calculate the time-dependent transport current through the QPC which contains information about the measured NMR system. We find an extra transient current term proportional to the expectation value of the symmetrized product of the position and momentum operators of the NMR. This extra current term, with a coefficient coming from the combination of the imaginary parts of the QPC reservoir correlation functions, has a substantial contribution to the total transient current in the non-Markovian case, but was generally ignored in the studies of the same problem in the literature. Considering the contribution of this extra term, we show that a significantly qualitative and quantitative difference in the total transient current between the non-Markovian and the Markovian wide-band-limit cases can be observed. Thus, it may serve as a witness or signature of the non-Markovian features in the coupled NMR-QPC system.

id: 1101.2399
title: Theory of High Temperature Superconductivity in Doped Polar Insulator
authors: A. S. Alexandrov
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, some citations are updated
journal: EPL, 95 (2011) 27004
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2399
abstract: In the last two decades there have been tremendous attempts to built an adequate theory of high-temperature superconductivity. Most studies (including our efforts) used some model Hamiltonians with input parameters not directly related to the material. The dielectric response function of electrons in strongly correlated high-temperature superconductors is apriori unknown. Hence one has to start with the generic Hamiltonian including unscreened Coulomb and Froehlich electron-phonon interactions operating on the same scale since any ad-hoc assumption on their range and relative magnitude might fail. Using such a generic Hamiltonian I have built the analytical theory of high-temperature superconductivity in doped polar insulators predicting the critical temperature in excess of a hundred Kelvin without any adjustable parameters. The many-particle electron system is described by an analytically solvable polaronic "t-Jp" Hamiltonian with reduced hopping integral, t, allowed double on-site occupancy, large phonon-induced antiferromagnetic exchange, Jp >> t, and a high-temperature superconducting state of small superlight bipolarons protected from clustering.

id: 1101.2404
title: Influence of measurements on the statistics of work performed on a quantum system
authors: Michele Campisi, Peter Talkner, Peter H?nggi
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 041114 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2404
abstract: The recently demonstrated robustness of fluctuation theorems against measurements [M. Campisi \emph{et al.}, Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{105} 140601 (2010)] does not imply that the probability distributions of nonequilibrium quantities, such as heat and work, remain unaffected. We determine the impact of measurements that are performed during a running force protocol on the characteristic function of work. The results are illustrated by means of the Landau-Zener(-St\"uckelberg-Majorana) model. In the limit of continuous measurements the quantum Zeno effect suppresses any unitary dynamics. It is demonstrated that the characteristic function of work is the same as for an adiabatic protocol when the continuously measured quantity coincides with the Hamiltonian governing the unitary dynamics of the system in the absence of measurements.

id: 1101.2495
title: A unifying perspective on the Moyal and Voros products and their physical meanings
authors: Prasad Basu, Biswajit Chakraborty, Frederik G Scholtz
comments: 10 pages
journal: J.Phys.A44:285204,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2495
abstract: The Moyal and Voros formulations of non-commutative quantum field theory has been a point of controversy in the recent past. Here we address this issue in the context of non-commutative non-relativistic quantum mechanics. In particular we show that the two formulations simply correspond to two different representations associated with two different choices of basis on the quantum Hilbert space. From a mathematical perspective the two formulations are therefore completely equivalent, but we also argue that only the Voros formulaton admits a consistent physical interpretation. These considerations are elucidated by considering the free particle transition amplitude in the two representations.

id: 1101.2542
title: Quantum transport via evanescent waves in undoped graphene
authors: M. I. Katsnelson
comments: minireview for the Special Issue "Foundations of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience", to appear in Journal of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience, vol. 8 (2011)
journal: J. Comput. Theor. Nanosci. 8, 912-918 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2542
abstract: Charge carriers in graphene are chiral quasiparticles ("massless Dirac fermions"). Graphene provides therefore an amazing opportunity to study subtle quantum relativistic effects in condensed matter experiment. Here I review a theory of one of these unusual features of graphene, a "pseudodiffusive" transport in the limit of zero charge carrier concentration, which is related to existence of zero-modes of the Dirac operator and to the Zitterbewegung of unltrarelativistic particles. A conformal mapping technique is a powerful mathematical tool to study these phenomena, as demonstrated here, using the Aharonov-Bohm effect in graphene rings with Corbino geometry as an example.

id: 1101.2621
title: Dynamical van der Waals atom -surface interaction
authors: G.V.Dedkov, A.A.Kyasov
comments: 15 pages,4 figures; corrected abstract,numerical calculations and conclusions
journal: Surface Science, 605(2011)1077
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2621
abstract: We obtained new nonrelativistic expression for the dynamical van der Waals atom -surface interaction energy of very convenient form for different applications. It is shown that classical result (Ferrell and Ritchie, 1980) holds only for a very slowly moving atom. In general case, the van der Waals atom -surface interaction energy manifests strong nonlinear dependence on velocity and distance. In close vicinity of metal and dielectric surfaces and velocities from 1 to 10 Bohr units the dynamical van der Waals potential proves to be significantly lower that in static case and goes to the static values with increasing distance and (or) decreasing velocity.

id: 1101.2659
title: Probing the relaxation towards equilibrium in an isolated strongly correlated 1D Bose gas
authors: Stefan Trotzky, Yu-Ao Chen, Andreas Flesch, Ian P. McCulloch, Ulrich Schollw?ck, Jens Eisert, Immanuel Bloch
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Nature Physics 8, 325 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2659
abstract: The problem of how complex quantum systems eventually come to rest lies at the heart of statistical mechanics. The maximum entropy principle put forward in 1957 by E. T. Jaynes suggests what quantum states one should expect in equilibrium but does not hint as to how closed quantum many-body systems dynamically equilibrate. A number of theoretical and numerical studies accumulate evidence that under specific conditions quantum many-body models can relax to a situation that locally or with respect to certain observables appears as if the entire system had relaxed to a maximum entropy state. In this work, we report the experimental observation of the non-equilibrium dynamics of a density wave of ultracold bosonic atoms in an optical lattice in the regime of strong correlations. Using an optical superlattice, we are able to prepare the system in a well-known initial state with high fidelity. We then follow the dynamical evolution of the system in terms of quasi-local densities, currents, and coherences. Numerical studies based on the time-dependent density-matrix renormalization group method are in an excellent quantitative agreement with the experimental data. For very long times, all three local observables show a fast relaxation to equilibrium values compatible with those expected for a global maximum entropy state. We find this relaxation of the quasi-local densities and currents to initially follow a power-law with an exponent being significantly larger than for free or hardcore bosons. For intermediate times the system fulfills the promise of being a dynamical quantum simulator, in that the controlled dynamics runs for longer times than present classical algorithms based on matrix product states can efficiently keep track of.

id: 1101.2712
title: Period-doubling-bifurcation readout for a Josephson qubit
authors: Alexander B. Zorin, Yuriy Makhlin
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83 (2011) 224506
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2712
abstract: We propose a threshold detector with an operation principle, based on a parametric period-doubling bifurcation in an externally pumped nonlinear resonance circuit. The ac-driven resonance circuit includes a dc-current-biased Josephson junction ensuring parametric frequency conversion (period-doubling bifurcation) due to its quadratic nonlinearity. A sharp onset of oscillations at the half-frequency of the drive allows for detection of small variations of an effective inductance and, therefore, the read-out of the quantum state of a coupled Josephson qubit. The bifurcation characteristics of this circuit are compared with those of the conventional Josephson bifurcation amplifier, and its possible advantages are discussed.

id: 1101.2733
title: Non-equilibrium dynamics in the quantum Brownian oscillator and the second law of thermodynamics
authors: Ilki Kim
comments: Accepted for publication in Journal of Statistical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2733
abstract: We initially prepare a quantum linear oscillator weakly coupled to a bath in equilibrium at an arbitrary temperature. We disturb this system by varying a Hamiltonian parameter of the coupled oscillator, namely, either its spring constant or mass according to an arbitrary but pre-determined protocol in order to perform external work on it. We then derive a closed expression for the reduced density operator of the coupled oscillator along this non-equilibrium process as well as the exact expression pertaining to the corresponding quasi-static process. This immediately allows us to analytically discuss the second law of thermodynamics for non-equilibrium processes. Then we derive a Clausius inequality and obtain its validity supporting the second law, as a consistent generalization of the Clausius equality valid for the quasi-static counterpart, introduced in [1].

id: 1101.2773
title: Detection of Single Molecules Illuminated by a Light-Emitting Diode
authors: Ilja Gerhardt, Lijian Mai, Antia Lamas-Linares, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Sensors 2011, 11(1), 905-916
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2773
abstract: Optical detection and spectroscopy of single molecules has become an indispensable tool in biological imaging and sensing. Its success is based on fluorescence of organic dye molecules under carefully engineered laser illumination. In this paper we demonstrate optical detection of single molecules on a wide-field microscope with an illumination based on a commercially available, green light-emitting diode. The results are directly compared with laser illumination in the same experimental configuration. The setup and the limiting factors, such as light transfer to the sample, spectral filtering and the resulting signal-to-noise ratio are discussed. A theoretical and an experimental approach to estimate these parameters are presented. The results can be adapted to other single emitter and illumination schemes.

id: 1101.2852
title: A new kind of geometric phases in open quantum systems and higher gauge theory
authors: David Viennot, Jose Lages
comments: 32 pages
journal: J.Phys.A44:365301,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2852
abstract: A new approach extending the concept of geometric phases to adiabatic open quantum systems described by density matrices (mixed states) is proposed. This new approach is based on an analogy between open quantum systems and dissipative quantum systems which uses a $C^*$-module structure. The gauge theory associated with these new geometric phases does not take place in an usual principal bundle structure but in an higher structure, a categorical principal bundle (so-called principal 2-bundle or non-abelian bundle gerbes) which is sometimes a non-abelian twisted bundle. This higher degree in the gauge theory is a geometrical manifestation of the decoherence induced by the environment on the quantum system.

id: 1101.2870
title: Detecting entanglement of two electron spin qubits with witness operators
authors: A. Borras, M. Blaauboer
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 033301 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2870
abstract: We propose a scheme for detecting entanglement between two electron spin qubits in a double quantum dot using an entanglement witness operator. We first calculate the optimal configuration of the two electron spins, defined as the position in the energy level spectrum where, averaged over the nuclear spin distribution, 1) the probability to have two separated electrons, and 2) the degree of entanglement of the quantum state quantified by the concurrence are both large. Using a density matrix approach, we then calculate the evolution of the expectation value of the witness operator for the two-spin singlet state, taking into account the effect of decoherence due to quantum charge fluctuations modeled as a boson bath. We find that, for large interdot coupling, it is possible to obtain a highly entangled and robust ground state.

id: 1101.2881
title: Entanglement of low-energy excitations in Conformal Field Theory
authors: Francisco Castilho Alcaraz, Miguel Ibanez Berganza, German Sierra
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:201601,2011
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2881
abstract: In a quantum critical chain, the scaling regime of the energy and momentum of the ground state and low lying excitations are described by conformal field theory (CFT). The same holds true for the von Neumann and Renyi entropies of the ground state, which display a universal logarithmic behaviour depending on the central charge. In this letter we generalize this result to those excited states of the chain that correspond to primary fields in CFT. It is shown that the n-th Renyi entropy is related to a 2n-point correlator of primary fields. We verify this statement for the critical XX and XXZ chains. This result uncovers a new link between quantum information theory and CFT.

id: 1101.3000
title: Hall conductivity beyond the linear response regime
authors: Andrey R. Kolovsky
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 96, 50002 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3000
abstract: The paper introduces a semi-analytical method for calculating the Hall conductivity in the single-band approximations. The method goes beyond the linear response theory and, thus, imposes no limitation on the electric fields magnitude. It is shown that the Hall current decreases with increase of the electric field, if the Bloch frequency (which is proportional to the electric field) exceeds the cyclotron frequency (which is proportional to the magnetic field). The obtained results can be directly applied to the system of cold Bose atoms in a 2D optical lattice, where the single-band approximation is well justified.

id: 1101.3175
title: Theory of attosecond transient absorption spectroscopy of strong-field-generated ions
authors: Robin Santra, Vladislav S. Yakovlev, Thomas Pfeifer, Zhi-Heng Loh
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3175
abstract: Strong-field ionization generally produces ions in a superposition of ionic eigenstates. This superposition is generally not fully coherent und must be described in terms of a density matrix. A recent experiment [E. Goulielmakis et al., Nature 466, 739 (2010)] employed attosecond transient absorption spectroscopy to determine the density matrix of strong-field-generated Kr+ ions. The experimentally observed degree of coherence of the strong-field-generated Kr+ ions is well reproduced by a recently developed multichannel strong-field-ionization theory. But there is significant disagreement between experiment and theory with respect to the degree of alignment of the Kr+ ions. In the present paper, the theory underlying attosecond transient absorption spectroscopy of strong-field-generated ions is developed. The theory is formulated in such a way that the nonperturbative nature of the strong-field-ionization process is systematically taken into account. The impact of attosecond pulse propagation effects on the interpretation of experimental data is investigated both analytically and numerically. It is shown that attosecond pulse propagation effects cannot explain why the experimentally determined degree of alignment of strong-field-generated Kr+ ions is much smaller than predicted by existing theory.

id: 1101.3311
title: Generic Hubbard model description of semiconductor quantum dot spin qubits
authors: Shuo Yang, Xin Wang, S. Das Sarma
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 161301(R) (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3311
abstract: We introduce a Hubbard model as the simple quantum generalization of the classical capacitance circuit model to study semiconductor quantum-dot spin qubits. We prove theoretically that our model is equivalent to the usual capacitance circuit model in the absence of quantum fluctuations. However, our model naturally includes quantum effects such as hopping and spin exchange. The parameters of the generalized Hubbard model can either be directly read off from the experimental plot of the stability diagram or be calculated from the microscopic theory, establishing a quantitative connection between the two. We show that, while the main topology of the charge stability diagram is determined by the ratio between inter-site and on-site Coulomb repulsion, fine details of the stability diagram reveal information about quantum effects. Extracting quantum information from experiments using our Hubbard model approach is simple, but would require the measurement resolution to increase by an order of magnitude.

id: 1101.3559
title: On the Black-Hole/Qubit Correspondence
authors: L. Borsten, M.J. Duff, A. Marrani, W. Rubens
comments: 32 pages, very minor changes at the start of Sec. 4.1. Version to appear in The European Physical Journal - Plus
journal: Eur.Phys.J.Plus 126:37,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3559
abstract: The entanglement classification of four qubits is related to the extremal black holes of the 4-dimensional STU model via a time-like reduction to three dimensions. This correspondence is generalised to the entanglement classification of a very special four-way entanglement of eight qubits and the black holes of the maximally supersymmetric N = 8 and exceptional magic N = 2 supergravity theories.

id: 1101.3606
title: Intrinsic Dirac Behavior of Scalar Curvature in a Quaternionic Weyl-Cartan Geometry
authors: J. E. Rankin
comments: 28 pages. Changed "Complex" in the title to "Quaternionic". Added to the appendix an examination of a family of "free particle" solutions in the metric's Lorentzian limit, including their quaternionic scalar curvature. Made additional revisions for clarity. Copy at this http URL may be updated more often than arXiv copy
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3606
abstract: The "spin-up" and "spin-down" projections of the second order, chiral form of Dirac Theory are shown to fit a superposition of forms predicted in an earlier classical, complex scalar gauge theory (April, 1992 Class. Quantum Grav.). In some sense, it appears to be possible to view the two component Dirac spinor as a single component, quaternionic, spacetime scalar. "Spin space" transformations become transformations of the internal quaternion basis. Essentially, quaternionic Dirac Theory projects into the complex plane neatly, where spin becomes related to the self-dual antisymmetric part of the metric. The correct Dirac eigenvalues and well-behaved eigenfunctions project intact into a pair of complex solutions for the scalar curvature in the earlier theory's Weyl-Cartan type geometry. Some estimates are made for predicted, interesting atomic and subatomic scale phenomena. A form of electromagnetic quanta appears. A generalization of the complex geometric structure is then sketched in an appendix that allows quaternionic gauges and curvatures, as well as some Weyl nonmetricity mixed with torsion. It appears to be a well defined structure, and leads to the full, second order, quaternionic Dirac Equation form, and a first order equation for a closely related, auxiliary wavefunction. A family of "free particle" solutions is examined in the Lorentzian limit of the symmetric part of the metric, including evaluation of the quaternionic scalar curvature from the wavefunctions. More generally, when limited to two quaternion dimensions (just two components), reasonably similar solutions can clearly be superposed linearly into new solutions, and separate naturally into two families with different commutation characteristics.

id: 1101.3654
title: Quantum phase transitions in fully connected spin models: an entanglement perspective
authors: M. Filippone, S. Dusuel, J. Vidal
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022327 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3654
abstract: We consider a set of fully connected spins models that display first- or second-order transitions and for which we compute the ground-state entanglement in the thermodynamical limit. We analyze several entanglement measures (concurrence, R\'enyi entropy, and negativity), and show that, in general, discontinuous transitions lead to a jump of these quantities at the transition point. Interestingly, we also find examples where this is not the case.

id: 1101.3740
title: Exact solutions for a type of electron pairing model with spin-orbit interactions and Zeeman coupling
authors: Jia Liu, Qiang Han, L. B. Shao, Z. D. Wang
comments: 4 pages, minor corrections made. This latest version was submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 026405 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3740
abstract: A type of electron pairing model with spin-orbit interactions or Zeeman coupling is solved exactly in the framework of Richardson ansatz. Based on the exact solutions for the case with spin-orbit interactions, it is shown rigorously that the pairing order parameter has always the $p+ip$-wave symmetry regardless of the strength of pairing interaction, justifying an important conclusion obtained by the mean field theory. Analytical results are derived for two simple systems with respectively spin-orbit interactions and Zeeman coupling.

id: 1101.3806
title: Tunneling Hamiltonian description of the atomic-scale 0-pi transition in superconductor/ferromagnetic-insulator junctions
authors: Shiro Kawabata, Yukio Tanaka, Alexander A. Golubov, Andrey S. Vasenko, Satoshi Kashiwaya, Yasuhiro Asano
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, to appear in Physica C
journal: Physica C 471 (2011) 1199
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3806
abstract: We show a perturbation theory of the Josephson transport through ferromagnetic insulators (FIs). Recently we have found that the appearance of the atomic scale 0-pi transition in such junctions based on numerical calculations. In order to explore the mechanism of this anomalous transition, we have analytically calculated the Josephson current using the tunneling Hamiltonian theory and found that the spin dependent pi-phase shift in the FI barrier gives the atomic scale 0-pi transition.

id: 1101.3856
title: On description of quantum plasma
authors: S.V. Vladimirov, Yu.O. Tyshetskiy
comments: Submitted to Physics-Uspekhi; 28 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3856
abstract: A plasma becomes quantum when the quantum nature of its particles significantly affects its macroscopic properties. To answer the question of when the collective quantum plasma effects are important, a proper description of such effects is necessary. We consider here the most common methods of description of quantum plasma, along with the related assumptions and applicability limits. In particular, we analyze in detail the hydrodynamic description of quantum plasma, as well as discuss some kinetic features of analytic properties of linear dielectric response function in quantum plasma. We point out the most important, in our view, fundamental problems occurring already in the linear approximation and requiring further investigation. (submitted to Physics-Uspekhi)

id: 1101.3914
title: The structures of state space concerning Quantum Dynamical Semigroups
authors: Bernhard Baumgartner, Heide Narnhofer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3914
abstract: Each semigroup describing the time evolution of an open quantum system on a finite dimensional Hilbert space is related to a special structure of this space. It is shown how the space can be decomposed into subspaces: One is related to decay, orthogonal subspaces support the stationary states. Specialities where the complete positivity of evolutions is actually needed for analysis, mainly for evolution of coherence, are highlighted. Decompositions are done the same way for evolutions in discrete as in continuous time, but evolutions may show differences, only for discrete semigroups there may appear cases of sudden decay and of perpetual oscillation. Concluding the analysis we identify the relation of the state space structure to the processes of Decay, Decoherence, Dissipation and Dephasing.

id: 1101.3943
title: Landau Level Quantization on the Sphere
authors: Martin Greiter
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 115129 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3943
abstract: It is well established that the Hilbert space for charged particles in a plane subject to a uniform magnetic field can be described by two mutually commuting ladder algebras. We propose a similar formalism for Landau level quantization involving two mutually commuting SU(2) algebras.

id: 1101.3985
title: Realization of an isolated Dirac node and strongly modulated Spin Texture in the topological insulator Bi2Te3
authors: Su-Yang Xu, L. A. Wray, Y. Xia, F. von Rohr, Y. S. Hor, J. H. Dil, F. Meier, B. Slomski, J. Osterwalder, M. Neupane, H. Lin, A. Bansil, A. Fedorov, R. J. Cava, M. Z. Hasan
comments: 5 pages, 4 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3985
abstract: The development of spin-based applications of topological insulators requires the knowledge and understanding of spin texture configuration maps as they change via gating in the vicinity of an isolated Dirac node. An isolated (graphene-like) Dirac node, however, does not exist in Bi2Te3. While the isolation of surface states via transport channels has been promisingly achieved in Bi2Te3, it is not known how spin textures modulate while gating the surface. Another drawback of Bi2Te3 is that it features multiple band crossings while chemical potential is placed near the Dirac node (at least 3 not one as in Bi2Se3 and many other topological insulators) and its buried Dirac point is not experimentally accessible for the next generation of experiments which require tuning the chemical potential near an isolated (graphene-like) Dirac node. Here, we image the spin texture of Bi2Te3 and suggest a simple modification to realize a much sought out isolated Dirac node regime critical for almost all potential applications (of topological nature) of Bi2Te3. Finally, we demonstrate carrier control in magnetically and nonmagnetically doped Bi2Te3 essential for realizing giant magneto-optical effects and dissipationless spin current devices involving a Bi2Te3-based platform.

id: 1101.4014
title: Compound transfer matrices: Constructive and destructive interference
authors: Petarpa Boonserm, Matt Visser
comments: V1: 28 pages. V2: 21 pages. Presentation significantly streamlined and shortened. This version accepted for publication in the Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 53 (2012) 012104
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4014
abstract: Scattering from a compound barrier, one composed of a number of distinct non-overlapping sub-barriers, has a number of interesting and subtle mathematical features. If one is scattering classical particles, where the wave aspects of the particle can be ignored, the transmission probability of the compound barrier is simply given by the product of the transmission probabilities of the individual sub-barriers. In contrast if one is scattering waves (whether we are dealing with either purely classical waves or quantum Schrodinger wavefunctions) each sub-barrier contributes phase information (as well as a transmission probability), and these phases can lead to either constructive or destructive interference, with the transmission probability oscillating between nontrivial upper and lower bounds. In this article we shall study these upper and lower bounds in some detail, and also derive bounds on the closely related process of quantum excitation (particle production) via parametric resonance.

id: 1101.4045
title: On the exact solubility in momentum space of the trigonometric Rosen-Morse potential
authors: C. B. Compean, M. Kirchbach
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: J.Phys.A44:015304,2011
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4045
abstract: The Schrodinger equation with the trigonometric Rosen-Morse potential in flat three dimensional Euclidean space, E3, and its exact solutions are shown to be also exactly transformable to momentum space, though the resulting equation is purely algebraic and can not be cast into the canonical form of an integral Lippmann-Schwinger equation. This is because the cotangent function does not allow for an exact Fourier transform in E3. In addition we recall, that the above potential can be also viewed as an angular function of the second polar angle parametrizing the three dimensional spherical surface, S3, of a constant radius, in which case the cotangent function would allow for an exact integral transform to momentum space. On that basis, we obtain a momentum space Lippmann-Schwinger-type equation, though the corresponding wavefunctions have to be obtained numerically.

id: 1101.4130
title: Fermionic condensate in a conical space with a circular boundary and magnetic flux
authors: S. Bellucci, E. R. Bezerra de Mello, A. A. Saharian
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:085017,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4130
abstract: The fermionic condensate is investigated in a (2+1)-dimensional conical spacetime in the presence of a circular boundary and a magnetic flux. It is assumed that on the boundary the fermionic field obeys the MIT bag boundary condition. For irregular modes, we consider a special case of boundary conditions at the cone apex, when the MIT bag boundary condition is imposed at a finite radius, which is then taken to zero. The fermionic condensate is a periodic function of the magnetic flux with the period equal to the flux quantum. For both exterior and interior regions, the fermionic condensate is decomposed into boundary-free and boundary-induced parts. Two integral representations are given for the boundary-free part for arbitrary values of the opening angle of the cone and magnetic flux. At distances from the boundary larger than the Compton wavelength of the fermion particle, the condensate decays exponentially with the decay rate depending on the opening angle of the cone. If the ratio of the magnetic flux to the flux quantum is not a half-integer number, for a massless field the boundary-free part in the fermionic condensate vanishes, whereas the boundary-induced part is negative. For half-integer values of the ratio of the magnetic flux to the flux quantum, the irregular mode gives non-zero contribution to the fermionic condensate in the boundary-free conical space.

id: 1101.4181
title: Minimal Length in Quantum Gravity, Equivalence Principle and Holographic Entropy Bound
authors: Ahmed Farag Ali
comments: 12 pages, no figures, recommended to be published at Class.Quant.Grav
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.28:065013,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4181
abstract: A possible discrepancy has been found between the results of a neutron interferometry experiment and Quantum Mechanics. This experiment suggests that the weak equivalence principle is violated at small length scales, which quantum mechanics cannot explain. In this paper, we investigated whether the Generalized Uncertainty Principle (GUP), proposed by some approaches to quantum gravity such as String Theory and Doubly Special Relativity Theories (DSR), can explain the violation of the weak equivalence principle at small length scales. We also investigated the consequences of the GUP on the Liouville theorem in statistical mechanics. We have found a new form of invariant phase space in the presence of GUP. This result should modify the density states and affect the calculation of the entropy bound of local quantum field theory, the cosmological constant, black body radiation, etc. Furthermore, such modification may have observable consequences at length scales much larger than the Planck scale. This modification leads to a \sqrt{A}-type correction to the bound of the maximal entropy of a bosonic field which would definitely shed some light on the holographic theory.

id: 1101.4222
title: Reversible Logic Based Concurrent Error Detection Methodology For Emerging Nanocircuits
authors: Himanshu Thapliyal, Nagarajan Ranganathan
comments: H. Thapliyal and N.Ranganathan, "Reversible Logic Based Concurrent Error Detection Methodology For Emerging Nanocircuits", Proceedings of the 10th IEEE International Conference on Nanotechnology, Seoul, Korea, Aug 2010
journal: 
subjects: Hardware Architecture (cs.AR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4222
abstract: Reversible logic has promising applications in emerging nanotechnologies, such as quantum computing, quantum dot cellular automata and optical computing, etc. Faults in reversible logic circuits that result in multi-bit error at the outputs are very tough to detect, and thus in literature, researchers have only addressed the problem of online testing of faults that result single-bit error at the outputs based on parity preserving logic. In this work, we propose a methodology for the concurrent error detection in reversible logic circuits to detect faults that can result in multi-bit error at the outputs. The methodology is based on the inverse property of reversible logic and is termed as 'inverse and compare' method. By using the inverse property of reversible logic, all the inputs can be regenerated at the outputs. Thus, by comparing the original inputs with the regenerated inputs, the faults in reversible circuits can be detected. Minimizing the garbage outputs is one of the main goals in reversible logic design and synthesis. We show that the proposed methodology results in 'garbageless' reversible circuits. A design of reversible full adder that can be concurrently tested for multi-bit error at the outputs is illustrated as the application of the proposed scheme. Finally, we showed the application of the proposed scheme of concurrent error detection towards fault detection in quantum dot cellular automata (QCA) emerging nanotechnology.

id: 1101.4251
title: The Inherent Geometry of the Nuclear Hamiltonian
authors: Norman D. Cook
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4251
abstract: The symmetries inherent to the nuclear version of the Schr\"odinger wave-equation are identical to the symmetries of a face-centered cubic lattice, as already noted by Wigner in 1937 in the initial development of the independent-particle model (IPM) of nuclear structure. The significance of the identity is that it implies a high-density version of the IPM that has the gross properties of a liquid-drop, rather than a diffuse, chaotic gas of nucleons. As a consequence, all of the predictive strengths of the liquid-drop model (binding energies, radii, nuclear densities, vibrational states, etc.) and the "independent-particle" predictions of the IPM (nuclear spins, parities, magnetic moments, etc.) are retained in the lattice.

id: 1101.4422
title: Electron-nuclear dynamics in a quantum dot under non-unitary electron control
authors: Edwin Barnes, Sophia E. Economou
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 047601 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4422
abstract: We introduce a method for solving the problem of an externally controlled electron spin in a quantum dot interacting with host nuclei via the hyperfine interaction. Our method accounts for generalized (non-unitary) evolution effected by external controls and the environment, such as coherent lasers combined with spontaneous emission. As a concrete example we develop the microscopic theory of the dynamics of nuclear-induced frequency focusing, as first measured in Science 317, 1896 (2007); we find that the nuclear relaxation rates are several orders of magnitude faster than those quoted in that work.

id: 1101.4469
title: An Exactly Solvable Spin Chain Related to Hahn Polynomials
authors: Neli I. Stoilova, Joris Van der Jeugt
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 7 (2011), 033, 13 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4469
abstract: We study a linear spin chain which was originally introduced by Shi et al. [Phys. Rev. A 71 (2005), 032309, 5 pages], for which the coupling strength contains a parameter $\alpha$ and depends on the parity of the chain site. Extending the model by a second parameter $\beta$, it is shown that the single fermion eigenstates of the Hamiltonian can be computed in explicit form. The components of these eigenvectors turn out to be Hahn polynomials with parameters $(\alpha,\beta)$ and $(\alpha+1,\beta-1)$. The construction of the eigenvectors relies on two new difference equations for Hahn polynomials. The explicit knowledge of the eigenstates leads to a closed form expression for the correlation function of the spin chain. We also discuss some aspects of a $q$-extension of this model.

id: 1101.4500
title: Topological Phases for Fermionic Cold Atoms on the Lieb Lattice
authors: N. Goldman, D. F. Urban, D. Bercioux
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 063601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4500
abstract: We investigate the properties of the Lieb lattice, i.e a face-centered square lattice, subjected to external gauge fields. We show that an Abelian gauge field leads to a peculiar quantum Hall effect, which is a consequence of the single Dirac cone and the flat band characterizing the energy spectrum. Then we explore the effects of an intrinsic spin-orbit term - a non-Abelian gauge field - and demonstrate the occurrence of the quantum spin Hall effect in this model. Besides, we obtain the relativistic Hamiltonian describing the Lieb lattice at low energy and derive the Landau levels in the presence of external Abelian and non-Abelian gauge fields. Finally, we describe concrete schemes for realizing these gauge fields with cold fermionic atoms trapped in an optical Lieb lattice. In particular, we provide a very efficient method to reproduce the intrinsic (Kane-Mele) spin-orbit term with assisted-tunneling schemes. Consequently, our model could be implemented in order to produce a variety of topological states with cold-atoms.

id: 1101.4574
title: Plasmonic resonators for enhanced diamond NV- center single photon sources
authors: Irfan Bulu, Thomas Babinec, Birgit Hausmann, Jennifer T. Choy, Marko Loncar
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4574
abstract: We propose a novel source of non-classical light consisting of plasmonic aperture with single-crystal diamond containing a single Nitrogen-Vacancy (NV) color center. Theoretical calculations of optimal structures show that these devices can simultaneously enhance optical pumping by a factor of 7, spontaneous emission rates by Fp ~ 50 (Purcell factor), and offer collection efficiencies up to 40%. These excitation and collection enhancements occur over a broad range of wavelengths (~30nm), and are independently tunable with device geometry, across the excitation (~530nm) and emission (~600-800nm) spectrum of the NV center. Implementing this system with top-down techniques in bulk diamond crystals will provide a scalable architecture for a myriad of diamond NV center applications.

id: 1101.4672
title: Nonlinear microwave response of aluminum weak-link Josephson oscillators
authors: E. M. Levenson-Falk, R. Vijay, I. Siddiqi
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 98, 123115 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4672
abstract: We present the driven response at T=30mK of 6 GHz superconducting resonators constructed from capacitively-shunted three dimensional (3D) aluminum nanobridge superconducting quantum interference devices (nanoSQUIDs). We observe flux modulation of the resonant frequency in quantitative agreement with numerical calculation and characteristic of near-ideal short weak link junctions. Under strong microwave excitation, we observe stable bifurcation in devices with coupled quality factor (Q) ranging from ~30-3500. Near this bias point, parametric amplification with > 20dB gain, 40 MHz bandwidth, and near quantum-limited noise performance is observed. Our results indicate that 3D nanobridge junctions are attractive circuit elements to realize quantum bits.

id: 1101.4692
title: Decoupling a Cooper-pair box to enhance the lifetime to 0.2 ms
authors: Z. Kim, B. Suri, V. Zaretskey, S. Novikov, K. D. Osborn, A. Mizel, F. C. Wellstood, B. S. Palmer
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 120501 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4692
abstract: We present a circuit QED experiment in which a separate transmission line is used to address a quasi-lumped element superconducting microwave resonator which is in turn coupled to an Al/AlO$_{x}$/Al Cooper-pair box (CPB) charge qubit. In our measurements we find a strong correlation between the measured lifetime of the CPB and the coupling between the qubit and the transmission line. By monitoring perturbations of the resonator's 5.44 GHz resonant frequency, we have measured the spectrum, lifetime ($T_{1}$), Rabi, and Ramsey oscillations of the CPB at the charge degeneracy point while the CPB was detuned by up to 2.5 GHz . We find a maximum lifetime of the CPB was $T_{1} = 200\ \mu$s for $f = 4$ to 4.5 GHz. Our measured $T_{1}$'s are consistent with loss due to coupling to the transmission line, spurious microwave circuit resonances, and a background decay rate on the order of $5\times 10^{3}$ s$^{-1}$ of unknown origin, implying that the loss tangent in the AlO$_{x}$ junction barrier must be less than about $4\times 10^{-8}$ at 4.5 GHz, about 4 orders of magnitude less than reported in larger area Al/AlO$_{x}$/Al tunnel junctions.

id: 1101.4707
title: Dynamical decoupling and noise spectroscopy with a superconducting flux qubit
authors: Jonas Bylander, Simon Gustavsson, Fei Yan, Fumiki Yoshihara, Khalil Harrabi, George Fitch, David G. Cory, Yasunobu Nakamura, Jaw-Shen Tsai, William D. Oliver
comments: 21 pages (incl. 11-page appendix); 4 (+7) figures
journal: Nature Phys. vol. 7, pp. 565-570 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4707
abstract: The characterization and mitigation of decoherence in natural and artificial two-level systems (qubits) is fundamental to quantum information science and its applications. Decoherence of a quantum superposition state arises from the interaction between the constituent system and the uncontrolled degrees of freedom in its environment. Within the standard Bloch-Redfield picture of two-level system dynamics, qubit decoherence is characterized by two rates: a longitudinal relaxation rate Gamma1 due to the exchange of energy with the environment, and a transverse relaxation rate Gamma2 = Gamma1/2 + Gamma_phi which contains the pure dephasing rate Gamma_phi. Irreversible energy relaxation can only be mitigated by reducing the amount of environmental noise, reducing the qubit's internal sensitivity to that noise, or through multi-qubit encoding and error correction protocols (which already presume ultra-low error rates). In contrast, dephasing is in principle reversible and can be refocused dynamically through the application of coherent control pulse methods. In this work we demonstrate how dynamical-decoupling techniques can moderate the dephasing effects of low-frequency noise on a superconducting qubit with energy-relaxation time T1 = 1/Gamma1 = 12 us. Using the CPMG sequence with up to 200 pi-pulses, we demonstrate a 50-fold improvement in the transverse relaxation time T2 over its baseline value. We observe relaxation-limited times T2(CPMG) = 23 us = 2 T1 resulting from CPMG-mediated Gaussian pure-dephasing times in apparent excess of 100 us. We leverage the filtering property of this sequence in conjunction with Rabi and energy relaxation measurements to facilitate the spectroscopy and reconstruction of the environmental noise power spectral density.

id: 1101.4711
title: Von Neumann Normalisation of a Quantum Random Number Generator
authors: Alastair A. Abbott, Cristian S. Calude
comments: 26 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4711
abstract: In this paper we study von Neumann un-biasing normalisation for ideal and real quantum random number generators, operating on finite strings or infinite bit sequences. In the ideal cases one can obtain the desired un-biasing. This relies critically on the independence of the source, a notion we rigorously define for our model. In real cases, affected by imperfections in measurement and hardware, one cannot achieve a true un-biasing, but, if the bias "drifts sufficiently slowly", the result can be arbitrarily close to un-biasing. For infinite sequences, normalisation can both increase or decrease the (algorithmic) randomness of the generated sequences. A successful application of von Neumann normalisation-in fact, any un-biasing transformation-does exactly what it promises, un-biasing, one (among infinitely many) symptoms of randomness; it will not produce "true" randomness.

id: 1101.4785
title: Loading of bosons in optical lattices into the p band
authors: Jonas Larson, Jani-Petri Martikainen
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 023612 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4785
abstract: We present a method for transferring bosonic atoms residing on the lowest s-band of an optical lattice to the first excited p-bands. Our idea hinges on resonant tunneling between adjacent sites of accelerated lattices. The acceleration effectively shifts the quasi-bound energies on each site such that the system can be cast into a Wannier-Stark ladder problem. By adjusting the acceleration constant, a situation of resonant tunneling between the s- and p-bands is achievable. Within a mean-field model, considering 87Rb atoms, we demonstrate population transfer from the s- to the p-bands with around 95 % efficiency. Nonlinear effects deriving from atom-atom interactions, as well as coupling of the quasi bound Wannier-Stark states to the continuum, are considered.

id: 1101.4827
title: The c=h/=G=1 - question
authors: Bernhard Lesche
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4827
abstract: The question whether the invariant speed c, Planck constant h/, and gravitational constant G can be or should be put equal to 1 is analyzed. The discussion is based on fundamental considerations concerning the notion of physical quantity. It is found that the issue is not a matter of appropriate unit selection. Further it is shown that classical space-time geometry and quantum mechanics can be formulated in such a way that the invariant speed and the action quantum are truly one and do not have to be set equal to one.

id: 1101.4845
title: Dissipation-induced squeezing
authors: Gentaro Watanabe, Harri M?kel?
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures; published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 023604 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4845
abstract: We present a method for phase and number squeezing in two-mode Bose systems using dissipation. The effectiveness of this method is demonstrated by considering cold Bose gases trapped in a double-well potential. The extension of our formalism to an optical lattice gives control of the phase boundaries of the steady-state phase diagram, and we discover a new phase characterized by a non-zero condensate fraction and thermal-like particle-number statistics. We also show how to perform amplitude squeezing in a single-mode system using dissipation.

id: 1101.4869
title: Forming images using conditioned partial measurements from reference arm in ghost imaging
authors: Jianming Wen
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: JOSA A 29(9), 1906-1911 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4869
abstract: A recent thermal ghost imaging experiment by Wu's group constructed positive and negative images using a novel algorithm. This algorithm allows to form the images with use of partial measurements from the reference arm, even which never passes through the object, conditioned on the object arm. In this paper, we present a simple theory which explains the experimental observation, and provides an in-depth understanding of conventional ghost imaging. In particular, we theoretically show that the visibility of formed images through such an algorithm is not bounded by the standard value 1/3. In fact, it can ideally grow up to unity (with reduced imaging quality). Thus, the algorithm described here not only offers an alternative way to decode spatial correlation of thermal light, but also mimics a "bandpass filter" to remove the constant background such that the visibility or imaging contrast is improved. We further show that conditioned on one still object present in the test arm, it is possible to construct its image by sampling the available reference data.

id: 1101.4880
title: Electromagnetically induced Talbot effect
authors: Jianming Wen, Shengwang Du, Huanyang Chen, Min Xiao
comments: submitted
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 98, 081108 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4880
abstract: By modulating transmission function of a weak probe field via a strong control standing wave, an electromagnetically induced grating can be created in the probe channel. Such a nonmaterial grating may lead to self-imaging of ultra-cold atoms or molecules in the Fresnel near-field regime. This work may offer a nondestructive and lensless way to image ultra-cold atoms or molecules.

id: 1101.4890
title: Abnormal Quantum Gravity Effect: Experimental Scheme with Superfluid Helium Sphere and Applications to Accelerating Universe
authors: Hongwei Xiong
comments: 42 pages, 11 figures. This work is a significant extension of our previous papers with several physical concepts being clarified and new method to calculate the dark energy density by including general relativity
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4890
abstract: From the general assumption that gravity originates from the coupling and thermal equilibrium between matter and vacuum, after a derivation of Newton's law of gravitation and an interpretation of the attractive gravity force between two classical objects, we consider the macroscopic quantum gravity effect for particles whose wave packets are delocalized at macroscopic scale. We predict an abnormal repulsive gravity effect in this work. For a sphere full of superfluid helium, it is shown that with a gravimeter placed in this sphere, the sensitivities of the gravity acceleration $\Delta g/g$ below $10^{-8}$ could be used to test the abnormal quantum gravity effect, which satisfies the present experimental technique of atom interferometer, free-fall absolute gravimeters and superconducting gravimeters. We further propose a self-consistent field equation including the quantum effect of gravity. As an application of this field equation, we give a simple interpretation of the accelerating universe due to dark energy. Based on the idea that the dark energy originates from the quantum gravity effect of vacuum excitations due to the coupling between matter and vacuum, without any fitting parameter, the ratio between dark energy density and matter density (including dark matter) is calculated as 2.2, which agrees quantitatively with the result 7/3 obtained from various astronomical observations.

id: 1101.4911
title: Wide range electrical tunability of single photon emission from chromium-based colour centres in diamond
authors: T. M¨¹ller, I. Aharonovich, L. Lombez, Y. Alaverdyan, A. N. Vamivakas, S. Castelletto, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup, S. Prawer, M. Atat¨¹re
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys., 13, 075001 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4911
abstract: We demonstrate electrical control of the single photon emission spectrum from chromium-based colour centres implanted in monolithic diamond. Under an external electric field the tunability range is typically three orders of magnitude larger than the radiative linewidth and at least one order of magnitude larger than the observed linewidth. The electric and magnetic field dependence of luminescence gives indications on the inherent symmetry and we propose Cr-X or X-Cr-Y type noncentrosymmetric atomic configurations as most probable candidates for these centres.

id: 1101.5013
title: Fluorescence antibunching microscopy
authors: Osip Schwartz, Dan Oron
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5013
abstract: Breaking the diffraction limit in microscopy by utilizing quantum properties of light has been the goal of intense research in the recent years. We propose a quantum superresolution technique based on non-classical emission statistics of fluorescent markers, routinely used as contrast labels for bio-imaging. The technique can be readily implemented using standard fluorescence microscopy equipment.

id: 1101.5074
title: Analytical solutions for two heteronuclear atoms in a ring trap
authors: Xing Chen, Liming Guan, Shu Chen
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 64, 459 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5074
abstract: We consider two heteronuclear atoms interacting with a short-range $\delta$ potential and confined in a ring trap. By taking the Bethe-ansatz-type wavefunction and considering the periodic boundary condition properly, we derive analytical solutions for the heteronuclear system. The eigen-energies represented in terms of quasi-momentums can then be determined by solving a set of coupled equations. We present a number of results, which display different features from the case of identical atoms. Our result can be reduced to the well-known Lieb-Liniger solution when two interacting atoms have the same masses.

id: 1101.5113
title: Foundations of a theory of quantum gravity
authors: Johan Noldus
comments: 242 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5113
abstract: After a long technical and consequently philosophical disgression about the necessity of the construction presented in this book, a logically consistent and precise theory of quantum gravity is presented. The construction of this theory goes in several steps; at first we take a fairly conservative point of view and stumble upon some technical difficulties. Consequently, we investigate a new mathematical implication of an old idea to solve these problems; the latter suggest however a completely new way of doing quantum theory. This novel theory automatically incoorporates an extended form of gravity as well as a quantum gauge theory. We compute that the well known free quantum field theories and Newtonian gravity emerge in a suitable limit. The philosophy constructed here is to a high degree Whiteheadian.

id: 1101.5189
title: Phenomenological Study of Decoherence in Solid-State Spin Qubits due to Nuclear Spin Diffusion
authors: M. J. Biercuk, H. Bluhm
comments: Updated References. Related articles at: this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5189
abstract: We present a study of the prospects for coherence preservation in solid-state spin qubits using dynamical decoupling protocols. Recent experiments have provided the first demonstrations of multipulse dynamical decoupling sequences in this qubit system, but quantitative analyses of potential coherence improvements have been hampered by a lack of concrete knowledge of the relevant noise processes. We present simulations of qubit coherence under the application of arbitrary dynamical decoupling pulse sequences based on an experimentally validated semiclassical model. This phenomenological approach bundles the details of underlying noise processes into a single experimentally relevant noise power spectral density. Our results show that the dominant features of experimental measurements in a two-electron singlet-triplet spin qubit can be replicated using a $1/\omega^{2}$ noise power spectrum associated with nuclear-spin-flips in the host material. Beginning with this validation we address the effects of nuclear programming, high-frequency nuclear-spin dynamics, and other high-frequency classical noise sources, with conjectures supported by physical arguments and microscopic calculations where relevant. Our results provide expected performance bounds and identify diagnostic metrics that can be measured experimentally in order to better elucidate the underlying nuclear spin dynamics.

id: 1101.5227
title: NP has log-space verifiers with fixed-size public quantum registers
authors: Abuzer Yakaryilmaz, A. C. Cem Say
comments: 9 pages. A revised version
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5227
abstract: In classical Arthur-Merlin games, the class of languages whose membership proofs can be verified by Arthur using logarithmic space (AM(log-space)) coincides with the class P \cite{Co89}. In this note, we show that if Arthur has a fixed-size quantum register (the size of the register does not depend on the length of the input) instead of another source of random bits, membership in any language in NP can be verified with any desired error bound.

id: 1101.5235
title: Open quantum system approach to Gibbons-Hawking effect of de Sitter space-time
authors: Hongwei Yu
comments: 8 pages, no figures, a few typos corrected, version published in PRL
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:061101,2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5235
abstract: We analyze, in the paradigm of open quantum systems, the reduced dynamics of a freely-falling two-level detector in de Sitter space-time in weak interaction with a reservoir of fluctuating quantized conformal scalar fields in the de Sitter invariant vacuum. We find that the detector is asymptotically driven to a thermal state at the Gibbons-Hawking temperature, regardless of its initial state. Our discussion therefore shows that the Gibbons-Hawking effect of de Sitter space-time can be understood as a manifestation of thermalization phenomena that involves decoherence and dissipation in open quantum systems.

id: 1101.5243
title: Electronic properties of corrugated graphene, the Heisenberg principle and wormhole geometry in solid state
authors: Victor Atanasov, Avadh Saxena
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5243
abstract: Adopting a purely two dimensional relativistic equation for graphene's carriers contradicts the Heisenberg uncertainty principle since it requires setting off-the-surface coordinate of a three-dimensional wavefunction to zero. Here we present a theoretical framework for describing graphene's massless relativistic carriers in accordance with this most fundamental of all quantum principles. A gradual confining procedure is used to restrict the dynamics onto a surface and normal to the surface parts and in the process the embedding of this surface into the three dimensional world is accounted for. As a result an invariant geometric potential arises in the surface part which scales linearly with the Mean curvature and shifts the Fermi energy of the material proportional to bending. Strain induced modification of the electronic properties or "straintronics" is clearly an important field of study in graphene. This opens a venue to producing electronic devices, MEMS and NEMS where the electronic properties are controlled by geometric means and no additional alteration of graphene is necessary. The appearance of this geometric potential also provides us with clues as to how quantum dynamics looks like in the curved space-time of general relativity. In this context, we explore a two-dimensional cross-section of the wormhole geometry realized with graphene as a solid state thought experiment.

id: 1101.5264
title: Momentum Dependent Higher Partial Wave Interactions in Bose Einstein condensate
authors: Moumita Gupta, Krishna Rai Dastidar
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5264
abstract: We have investigated the role of momentum dependent s-wave and higher partial wave strong interactions to determine the ground state properties and the column densities in the Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) for large scattering length (a) such that ka >>1 even for small values of momentum where the momentum p=(h/2pi)k and k is the wave number. Since the scattering length is large we have included the first correction (Lee-Huang-Yang correction) both for the k-dependent (s-wave + higher partial wave) interactions and k-independent contact interactions (s-wave). We have derived the time-independent equations from the corresponding energy functionals and found that the ground state properties and the column densities differ significantly for these two types of interactions even for moderate values of scattering length (a = 3000 a_0) in BEC of cylindrically trapped 85Rb atoms at 100 nK. The effect of higher partial wave (d-wave) increases with increase in a and it is > 20% for peak density at a= 8700 a_0 which can be experimentally detected. Dependence of column density on particle number density has been studied. Column densities have been compared with experimental results.

id: 1101.5310
title: Finite oscillator models: the Hahn oscillator
authors: E.I. Jafarov, N.I. Stoilova, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: 
journal: J.Phys.A44:265203,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5310
abstract: A new model for the finite one-dimensional harmonic oscillator is proposed based upon the algebra u(2)_{\alpha}. This algebra is a deformation of the Lie algebra u(2) extended by a parity operator, with deformation parameter {\alpha}. A class of irreducible unitary representations of u(2)_{\alpha} is constructed. In the finite oscillator model, the (discrete) spectrum of the position operator is determined, and the position wave functions are shown to be dual Hahn polynomials. Plots of these discrete wave functions display interesting properties, similar to those of the parabose oscillator. We show indeed that in the limit, when the dimension of the representations goes to infinity, the discrete wave functions tend to the continuous wave functions of the parabose oscillator.

id: 1101.5406
title: Effects of Interactions and Temperature in Disordered Ultra-Cold Bose Gases
authors: C. P. J. Adolphs, J. Towers, M. Piraud, K. V. Krutitsky, D. A. W. Hutchinson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5406
abstract: We simulate ultra-cold interacting Bosons in quasi-one-dimensional, incommensurate optical lattices. In the tight-binding limit, these lattices have pseudo-random on-site energies and thus can potentially lead to Anderson localization. We explore the parameter regimes that lead to Anderson localization and investigate the role of repulsive interactions, harmonic confinement and finite temperature. We find that interactions can obscure the exponential localization characteristic of Anderson localization, thus impeding the direct observation of this phenomenon when interactions are present.

id: 1101.5468
title: Dual Christoffel transformations
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 41 pages, 4 figures. Comments added. To appear in Prog. Theor. Phys
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 126 (2011), 1-34
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5468
abstract: Crum's theorem and its modification a la Krein-Adler are formulated for the discrete quantum mechanics with real shifts, whose eigenfunctions consist of orthogonal polynomials of a discrete variable. The modification produces the associated polynomials with a finite number of degrees deleted. This in turn provides the well known Christoffel transformation for the dual orthogonal polynomials with the corresponding positions deleted.

id: 1101.5517
title: THz lasing in a polariton system: Quantum theory
authors: Elena del Valle, Alexey Kavokin
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 193303 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5517
abstract: We study the laser regime of terahertz (THz) emission from a semiconductor microcavity in the strong coupling regime, where optical transitions between upper and lower exciton-polariton modes are allowed due to the mixing of the upper mode with one of the dark exciton states. Using a system of master-Boltzmann equations describing both polariton modes and the THz mode, we calculate the first and second order coherences and the spectral shape of THz emission. This analysis shows that THz lasing in microcavities is possible provided that the system is embedded in a good THz cavity, that the optical (polariton) lasing condition is fulfilled and if the depletion of the upper polariton mode due to acoustic phonon assisted relaxation processes is reduced. This latter condition is likely to be realised in pillar microcavities, which seem to be the most suitable candidates for realisation of a THz laser.

id: 1101.5528
title: Reduction of coating thermal noise by using an etalon
authors: Kentaro Somiya, Daniel Heinert, Alexey G. Gurkovsky, Stefan Hild, Ronny Nawrodt, Sergey P. Vyatchanin
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys.Lett.A375:1363-1374,2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5528
abstract: Reduction of coating thermal noise is a key issue in precise measurements with an optical interferometer. A good example of such a measurement device is a gravitational-wave detector, where each mirror is coated by a few tens of quarter-wavelength dielectric layers to achieve high reflectivity while the thermal-noise level increases with the number of layers. One way to realize the reduction of coating thermal noise, recently proposed by Khalili, is the mechanical separation of the first few layers from the rest so that a major part of the fluctuations contributes only little to the phase shift of the reflected light. Using an etalon, a Fabry-Perot optical resonator of a monolithic cavity, with a few coating layers on the front and significantly more on the back surface is a way to realize such a system without too much complexity, and in this paper we perform a thermal-noise analysis of an etalon using the Fluctuation-dissipation theorem with probes on both sides of a finite-size cylindrical mirror.

id: 1101.5535
title: Tangential and quantum frictional forces on a neutral particle moving near a surface
authors: G.V. Dedkov, A.A. Kyasov
comments: 12 pages,4 figures, corrected typos and reference list
journal: J. Comp. Theor. Nanoscience 9(2012)1-5
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5535
abstract: We calculate tangential forces applied to a ground state atom (nanoparticle) moving with nonrelativistic velocity parallel to the surface of Drude -modelled or Lorentz -modelled half -space using the formalism of fluctuation electrodynamics.The obtained formulae assume the nonretarded regime and arbitrary temperatures of the particle and medium. The quantum frictional force is realized at zero temperature of the particle and medium and can reach about 1/3 of the static value of the Casimir -Polder force in the case of ground state atom. In the case of nanoparticles and nonzero temperature, the tangential forces appears to be both frictional and accelerating. Numerical examples are given for atoms of Na above the surface of Au and MgO nanoparticles above the surface of SiC.

id: 1101.5593
title: From Rotating Atomic Rings to Quantum Hall States
authors: Marco Roncaglia, Matteo Rizzi, Jean Dalibard
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 1, 43 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5593
abstract: Considerable efforts are currently devoted to the preparation of ultracold neutral atoms in the emblematic strongly correlated quantum Hall regime. The routes followed so far essentially rely on thermodynamics, i.e. imposing the proper Hamiltonian and cooling the system towards its ground state. In rapidly rotating 2D harmonic traps the role of the transverse magnetic field is played by the angular velocity. For particle numbers significantly larger than unity, the required angular momentum is very large and it can be obtained only for spinning frequencies extremely near to the deconfinement limit; consequently, the required control on experimental parameters turns out to be far too stringent. Here we propose to follow instead a dynamic path starting from the gas confined in a rotating ring. The large moment of inertia of the fluid facilitates the access to states with a large angular momentum, corresponding to a giant vortex. The initial ring-shaped trapping potential is then adiabatically transformed into a harmonic confinement, which brings the interacting atomic gas in the desired quantum Hall regime. We provide clear numerical evidence that for a relatively broad range of initial angular frequencies, the giant vortex state is adiabatically connected to the bosonic $\nu=1/2$ Laughlin state, and we discuss the scaling to many particles.

id: 1101.5654
title: Conditional operation of a spin qubit
authors: I. van Weperen, B. D. Armstrong, E. A. Laird, J. Medford, C. M. Marcus, M. P. Hanson, A. C. Gossard
comments: related papers here: this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107 030506 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5654
abstract: We report coherent operation of a singlet-triplet qubit controlled by the arrangement of two electrons in an adjacent double quantum dot. The system we investigate consists of two pairs of capacitively coupled double quantum dots fabricated by electrostatic gates on the surface of a GaAs heterostructure. We extract the strength of the capacitive coupling between qubit and double quantum dot and show that the present geometry allows fast conditional gate operation, opening pathways to multi-qubit control and implementation of quantum algorithms with spin qubits.

id: 1101.5928
title: Strong Optical Confinement between Non-periodic Flat Dielectric Gratings
authors: Jingjing Li, David Fattal, Marco Fiorentino, Raymond G. Beausoleil
comments: 
journal: Jingjing Li, David Fattal, Marco Fiorentino and Raymond G. Beausoleil, "Strong Optical Confinement between Nonperiodic Flat Dielectric Gratings", Physical Review Letters, 106(9) 193901, 2011
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5928
abstract: We present a novel design of optical micro-cavity where the optical energy resides primarily in free space, therefore is readily accessible to foreign objects such as atoms, molecules, mechanical resonators, etc. We describe the physics of these resonators, and propose a design method based on stochastic optimization. Cavity designs with diffraction-limited mode volumes and quality factors in the range of $10^4$--$10^6$ are presented. With a purely planar geometry, the cavity can be easily integrated on-chip using conventional micro- and nano- fabrication processes.

id: 1101.6011
title: Swapping and entangling hyperfine coupled nuclear spin baths
authors: Bjoern Erbe, John Schliemann
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 95, 47009 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.6011
abstract: We numerically study the hyperfine induced nuclear spin dynamics in a system of two coupled quantum dots in zero magnetic field. Each of the electron spins is considered to interact with an individual bath of nuclear spins via homogeneous coupling constants (all coupling coefficients being equal). In order to lower the dimension of the problem, the two baths are approximated by two single long spins. We demonstrate that the hyperfine interaction enables to utilize the nuclear baths for quantum information purposes. In particular, we show that it is possible to swap the nuclear ensembles on time scales of seconds and indicate that it might even be possible to fully entangle them. As a key result, it turns out that the larger the baths are, the more useful they become as a resource of quantum information. Interestingly, the nuclear spin dynamics strongly benefits from combining two quantum dots of different geometry to a double dot set up.

id: 1101.6025
title: Expansion dynamics in the one-dimensional Fermi-Hubbard model
authors: J. Kajala, F. Massel, P. T?rm?
comments: Fig. 9 changed, text + supplementary material revised
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 206401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.6025
abstract: Expansion dynamics of interacting fermions in a lattice are simulated within the one-dimensional (1D) Hubbard model, using the essentially exact time-evolving block decimation (TEBD) method. In particular, the expansion of an initial band-insulator state is considered. We analyze the simulation results based on the dynamics of a two-site two-particle system, the so-called Hubbard dimer. Our findings describe essential features of a recent experiment on the expansion of a Fermi gas in a two-dimensional lattice. We show that the Hubbard-dimer dynamics, combined with a two-fluid model for the paired and non-paired components of the gas, gives an efficient description of the full dynamics. This should be useful for describing dynamical phenomena of strongly interacting Fermions in a lattice in general.

id: 1101.6048
title: Addendum to Fast Scramblers
authors: Leonard Susskind
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.6048
abstract: This paper is an addendum to [arXiv:0808.2096] in which I point out that both de Sitter space and Rindler space are fast scramblers. This fact naturally suggests that the holographic description of a causal patch of de Sitter space may be a matrix quantum mechanics at finite temperature. The same can be said of Rindler space. Some qualitative features of these spaces can be understood from the matrix description.

id: 1101.6049
title: Strictly correlated uniform electron droplets
authors: E. Rasanen, M. Seidl, P. Gori-Giorgi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.6049
abstract: We study the energetic properties of finite but internally homogeneous D-dimensional electron droplets in the strict-correlation limit. The indirect Coulomb interaction is found to increase as a function of the electron number, approaching the tighter forms of the Lieb-Oxford bound recently proposed by Rasanen et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 206406 (2009)]. The bound is satisfied in three-, two-, and one-dimensional droplets, and in the latter case it is reached exactly - regardless of the type of interaction considered. Our results provide useful reference data for delocalized strongly correlated systems, and they can be used in the development and testing of exchange-correlation density functionals in the framework of density-functional theory.

id: 1101.4264
title: Effective Privacy Amplification for Secure Classical Communications
authors: Tamas Horvath, Laszlo B. Kish, Jacob Scheuer
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: EPL (formerly Europhysics Letters) 94 (2011) 28002-p1 - 28002-p6
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4264
abstract: We study the practical effectiveness of privacy amplification for classical key-distribution schemes. We find that in contrast to quantum key distribution schemes, the high fidelity of the raw key generated in classical systems allow the users to always sift a secure shorter key if they have an upper bound on the eavesdropper probability to correctly guess the exchanged key-bits. The number of privacy amplification iterations needed to achieve information leak of 10^-8 in existing classical communicators is 2 or 3 resulting in a corresponding slowdown 4 to 8. We analyze the inherent tradeoff between the number of iterations and the security of the raw key. This property which is unique to classical key distribution systems render them highly useful for practical, especially for noisy channels where sufficiently low quantum bit error ratios are difficult to achieve.

id: 1101.5684
title: On the impossibility of non-static quantum bit commitment between two parties
authors: Qin Li, Chengqing Li, Dong-Yang Long, W. H. Chan, Chun-Hui Wu
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5684
abstract: Recently, Choi \emph{et al}. proposed an assumption on Mayers-Lo-Chau (MLC) no-go theorem that the state of the entire quantum system is invariable to both participants before the unveiling phase. This means that the theorem is only applicable to static quantum bit commitment (QBC). This paper find that the assumption is unnecessary and the MLC no-go theorem can be applied to not only static QBC, but also non-static one. A non-static QBC protocol proposed by Choi \emph{et al.} is briefly reviewed and analyzed to work as a supporting example. In addition, a novel way to prove the impossibility of the two kinds of QBC is given.

id: 1101.4767
title: Time-bin entanglement of quasi-particles in semiconductor devices
authors: Luca Chirolli, Vittorio Giovannetti, Rosario Fazio, Valerio Scarani
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 195307 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4767
abstract: We propose a scheme to produce time bin entangled pairs of electrons and holes based on high frequency time-resolved single electron emission from a quantum dot coupled to 1D chiral channels. At first order in the tunneling rate, an electron-hole pair is emitted in a coherent superposition state of different time bins that violates a CHSH inequality. in our scheme entanglement can be detected by means of a Franson interferometer in which the electron and the hole are sent towards different Mach-Zehnder interferometers. An analysis of current cross-correlations allows to detect violations of the CHSH inequality.

id: 1101.1752
title: Extension of loop quantum gravity to $f(R)$ theories
authors: Xiangdong Zhang, Yongge Ma
comments: 4 pages;Revised version adapted for PRL
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:171301,2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1752
abstract: The 4-dimensional metric $f(\R)$ theories of gravity are cast into connection-dynamical formalism with real $\SU(2)$-connections as configuration variables. Through this formalism, the classical metric $f(\R)$ theories are quantized by extending the loop quantization scheme of general relativity. Our results imply that the non-perturbative quantization procedure of loop quantum gravity is valid not only for general relativity but also for a rather general class of 4-dimensional metric theories of gravity.

id: 1101.3098
title: Quantum Convex Support
authors: Stephan Weis
comments: 27 pages, 5 figures, minor errors corrected, font changed from small to normal
journal: Linear Algebra and its Applications 435 (2011) 3168-3188, correction: 436 xvi (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3098
abstract: Convex support, the mean values of a set of random variables, is central in information theory and statistics. Equally central in quantum information theory are mean values of a set of observables in a finite-dimensional C*-algebra A, which we call (quantum) convex support. The convex support can be viewed as a projection of the state space of A and it is a projection of a spectrahedron. Spectrahedra are increasingly investigated at least since the 1990's boom in semidefinite programming. We recall the geometry of the positive semi-definite cone and of the state space. We write a convex duality for general self-dual convex cones. This restricts to projections of state spaces and connects them to results on spectrahedra. Really new in this article is an analysis of the face lattice of convex support by mapping this lattice to a lattice of orthogonal projections, using natural isomorphisms. The result encodes the face lattice of the convex support into a set of projections in A and enables the integration of convex geometry with matrix calculus or algebraic techniques.

id: 1101.4659
title: Inferring an optimal Fisher measure
authors: S. P. Flego, A. Plastino, A. R. Plastino
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistics Theory (math.ST); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4659
abstract: It is well known that a suggestive relation exists that links Schr\"odinger's equation (SE) to the information-optimizing principle based on Fisher's information measure (FIM). We explore here an approach that will allow one to infer the optimal FIM compatible with a given amount of prior information without explicitly solving first the associated SE. This technique is based on the virial theorem and it provides analytic solutions for the physically relevant FIM, that which is minimal subject to the constraints posed by the prior information.

id: 1101.2897
title: Correlated phases of bosons in tilted, frustrated lattices
authors: Susanne Pielawa, Takuya Kitagawa, Erez Berg, Subir Sachdev
comments: 30 pages, 16 figures. (v2) Noted significance of 3-body interactions, and found new phases when 3-body terms are small. (v3) published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 205135 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2897
abstract: We study the `tilting' of Mott insulators of bosons into metastable states. These are described by Hamiltonians acting on resonant subspaces, and have rich possibilities for correlated phases with non-trivial entanglement of pseudospin degrees of freedom encoded in the boson density. We extend a previous study (arXiv:cond-mat/0205169) of cubic lattices to a variety of lattices and tilt directions in 2 dimensions: square, decorated square, triangular, and kagome. For certain configurations three-body interactions are necessary to ensure that the energy of the effective resonant subspace is bounded from below. We find quantum phases with Ising density wave order, with superfluidity transverse to the tilt direction, and a quantum liquid state with no broken symmetry. The existence of the quantum liquids state is shown by an exact solution for a particular correlated boson model. We also find cases for which the resonant subspace is described by effective quantum dimer models.

id: 1101.1341
title: Quasiparticle relaxation of superconducting qubits in the presence of flux
authors: G. Catelani, Jens Koch, L. Frunzio, R. J. Schoelkopf, M. H. Devoret, L. I. Glazman
comments: 4.5 pages, 1 figure; minor changes to text & references, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 077002 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1341
abstract: Quasiparticle tunneling across a Josephson junction sets a limit for the lifetime of a superconducting qubit state. We develop a general theory of the corresponding decay rate in a qubit controlled by a magnetic flux. The flux affects quasiparticles tunneling amplitudes, thus making the decay rate flux-dependent. The theory is applicable for an arbitrary quasiparticle distribution. It provides estimates for the rates in practically important quantum circuits and also offers a new way of measuring the phase-dependent admittance of a Josephson junction.

id: 1101.5229
title: The phonon Hall effect: theory and application
authors: Lifa Zhang, Jie Ren, Jian-Sheng Wang, Baowen Li
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 23, 305402 (2011)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5229
abstract: We present a systematic theory of the phonon Hall effect in a ballistic crystal lattice system, and apply it on the kagome lattice which is ubiquitous in various real materials. By proposing a proper second quantization for the non-Hermite Hamiltonian in the polarization-vector space, we obtain a new heat current density operator with two separate contributions: the normal velocity responsible for the longitudinal phonon transport, and the anomalous velocity manifesting itself as the Hall effect of transverse phonon transport. As exemplified in kagome lattices, our theory predicts that the direction of Hall conductivity at low magnetic field can be reversed by tuning temperatures, which we hope can be verified by experiments in the future. Three phonon-Hall-conductivity singularities induced by phonon-band-topology change are discovered as well, which correspond to the degeneracies at three different symmetric center points, \Gamma, K, X, in the wave-vector space of the kagome lattice.

id: 1101.3837
title: Superiority of exact quantum automata for promise problems
authors: Andris Ambainis, Abuzer Yakaryilmaz
comments: A completely new version. 6 pages. (The previous version contains some errata.)
journal: Information Processing Letters, Volume 112, Issue 7, 31 March 2012, Pages 289-291
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.3837
abstract: In this note, we present an infinite family of promise problems which can be solved exactly by just tuning transition amplitudes of a two-state quantum finite automata operating in realtime mode, whereas the size of the corresponding classical automata grow without bound.

id: 1101.1908
title: Quantum theory of electric polarization nonlinearity in metal nanofilms
authors: George Y. Panasyuk, John C. Schotland, Vadim A. Markel
comments: Accepted to PRB in this form
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 155460 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.1908
abstract: We develop a quantum theory of electron confinement in metal nanofilms. The theory is used to compute the nonlinear response of the film to a static or low-frequency external electric field and to investigate the role of boundary conditions imposed on the metal surface. We find that the sign and magnitude of the nonlinear polarizability depends dramatically on the type of boundary condition used.

id: 1101.4129
title: Matrix superpotentials
authors: A.G. Nikitin, Yuri Karadzhov
comments: The previous version is extended by adding new results conmcerning the dual shape invariance. 27 pages
journal: J.Phys.A44:305204,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.4129
abstract: We present a collection of matrix valued shape invariant potentials which give rise to new exactly solvable problems of SUSY quantum mechanics. It includes all irreducible matrix superpotentials of the generic form $W=kQ+\frac1k R+P$ where $k$ is a variable parameter, $Q$ is the unit matrix multiplied by a real valued function of independent variable $x$, and $P$, $R$ are hermitian matrices depending on $x$. In particular we recover the Pron'ko-Stroganov "matrix Coulomb potential" and all known scalar shape invariant potentials of SUSY quantum mechanics. In addition, five new shape invariant potentials are presented. Three of them admit a dual shape invariance, i.e., the related hamiltonians can be factorized using two non-equivalent superpotentials. We find discrete spectrum and eigenvectors for the corresponding Schroedinger equations and prove that these eigenvectors are normalizable.

id: 1101.5924
title: No-go theorems for functorial localic spectra of noncommutative rings
authors: Benno van den Berg, Chris Heunen
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2011, arXiv:1210.0298
journal: EPTCS 95, 2012, pp. 21-25
subjects: Rings and Algebras (math.RA); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.5924
abstract: Any functor from the category of C*-algebras to the category of locales that assigns to each commutative C*-algebra its Gelfand spectrum must be trivial on algebras of nxn-matrices for n at least 3. The same obstruction applies to the Zariski, Stone, and Pierce spectra. The possibility of spectra in categories other than that of locales is briefly discussed.

id: 1101.2660
title: Quantum tunneling on graphs
authors: Yong Lin, Gabor Lippner, Shing-Tung Yau
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1101.2660
abstract: We explore the tunneling behavior of a quantum particle on a finite graph, in the presence of an asymptotically large potential. Surprisingly the behavior is governed by the local symmetry of the graph around the wells.

