id: 1102.0051
title: Enhanced spontaneous emission from nanodiamond colour centres on opal photonic crystal
authors: Faraz A Inam, Torsten Gaebel, Carlo Bradac, Luke Stewart, Michael J Withford, Judith M Dawes, James R Rabeau, Michael J Steel
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 073012 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0051
abstract: Colour centres in diamond are promising candidates as a platform for quantum technologies and biomedical imaging based on spins and/or photons. Controlling the emission properties of colour centres in diamond is a key requirement for developing efficient single photon sources with high collection efficiency. A number of groups have produced enhancement in the emission rate over narrow wavelength ranges by coupling single emitters in nanodiamond crystals to resonant electromagnetic structures. Here we characterise in detail the spontaneous emission rates of nitrogen-vacancy centres positioned in various locations on a structured substrate. We show an average factor of 1.5 enhancement of the total emission rate when nanodiamonds are on an opal photonic crystal surface, and observe changes in the lifetime distribution. We present a model to explain these observations and associate the lifetime properties with dipole orientation and polarization effects.

id: 1102.0073
title: Quantum behavior of a many photons cavity field revealed by quantum discord
authors: D. Z. Rossatto, T. Werlang, E. I. Duzzioni, C. J. Villas-Boas
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0073
abstract: We investigate the quantum-to-classical crossover of a dissipative optical cavity mode based on measurement of the correlations between two atoms which do not interact with each other, but interact with the cavity mode. Firstly, we note that there is a time window where the mode has a classical behavior, which depends on the cavity decay rate, the atom-field coupling strength and the number of atoms. Then, considering only two atoms inside the cavity and working in the steady state of the system, we note that the entanglement between the atoms disappears with the increasing the mean number of photons of the cavity field (n). However, the quantum discord reaches an asymptotic non-zero value, even in the limit of n\rightarrow \infty. This happens either by increasing n coherently (applying a coherent driving field) or incoherently (raising the temperature of the reservoir coupled to the cavity mode). Therefore, the cavity mode, which is quantum by construction, always preserves its quantum behavior in the asymptotic limit and this is revealed only by the quantum discord.

id: 1102.0083
title: Coherent Control of Tunneling in Double-Well Potentials
authors: Dae-Yup Song
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0083
abstract: For an asymmetric double-well potential system, it is shown that, if the potential is quadratic until it reaches several times of the zero-point energies from the bottoms in each well, the energy eigenvalues of the low lying excited states of the double-well system must be close to the eigenvalues of the quadratic potentials. These eigenvalue structures suggest a method for the coherent control of the tunneling as well as realizing almost complete localization of the wave packet in one of the wells, by handling the double-well asymmetry. Numerical examples are included to indicate that the method could be useful also in a more general potential, and to propose experimental confirmations.

id: 1102.0088
title: Time-optimal rotation of a spin 1/2: application to the NV center spin in diamond
authors: Zhi-Hui Wang, V. V. Dobrovitski
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 045303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0088
abstract: We study the applicability of the time optimal bang-bang control designed for spin-1/2 [U. Boscain and P. Mason, J. Math. Phys. {\bf 47}, 062101 (2006)] to the rotation of the electron spin of a nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond. The spin of the NV center is a three-level system, with two levels forming a relevant qubit subspace where the time-varying magnetic control field performs rotation, and the third level being idle. We find that the bang-bang control protocol decreases the rotation time by 20--25% in comparison with the traditional oscillating sinusoidal driving. We also find that for most values of the bias field the leakage to the idle level is very small, so that the NV center is a suitable testbed for experimental study of the time-optimal protocols. For some special values of the bias field, however, the unwanted leakage is greatly increased. We demonstrate that this is caused by the resonance with higher-order Fourier harmonics of the bang-bang driving field.

id: 1102.0108
title: A Precise Error Bound for Quantum Phase Estimation
authors: James M. Chappell, Max A. Lohe, Lorenz von Smekal, Azhar Iqbal, Derek Abbott
comments: 6 pages
journal: PLoS ONE, Volume 6(5), e19663, (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0108
abstract: Quantum phase estimation is one of the key algorithms in the field of quantum computing, but up until now, only approximate expressions have been derived for the probability of error. We revisit these derivations, and find that by ensuring symmetry in the error definitions, an exact formula can be found. This new approach may also have value in solving other related problems in quantum computing, where an expected error is calculated. Expressions for two special cases of the formula are also developed, in the limit as the number of qubits in the quantum computer approaches infinity and in the limit as the extra added qubits to improve reliability goes to infinity. It is found that this formula is useful in validating computer simulations of the phase estimation procedure and in avoiding the overestimation of the number of qubits required in order to achieve a given reliability. This formula thus brings improved precision in the design of quantum computers.

id: 1102.0128
title: Adiabatic Conditions and the Uncertainty Relation
authors: Qian-Heng Duan, Ping-Xing Chen, Wei Wu
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0128
abstract: The condition for adiabatic approximation are of basic importance for the applications of the adiabatic theorem. The traditional quantitative condition was found to be necessary but not sufficient, but we do not know its physical meaning and the reason why it is necessary from the physical point of view. In this work, we relate the adiabatic theorem to the uncertainty relation, and present a clear physical picture of the traditional quantitative condition. It is shown that the quantitative condition is just the amplitude of the probability of transition between two levels in the time interval which is of the order of the time uncertainty of the system. We also present a new sufficient condition with clear physical picture.

id: 1102.0164
title: Quantum metrology with rotating matter waves in different geometries
authors: J. A. Dunningham, J. J. Cooper, D. W. Hallwood
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0164
abstract: A promising practical application of entanglement is metrology, where quantum states can be used to make measurements beyond the shot noise limit. Here we consider how metrology schemes could be realised using atomic Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) trapped in different potentials. In particular, we show that if a trapped BEC is rotated at just the right frequency, it can undergo a quantum phase transition characterised by large-scale entanglement spreading across the system. This simple process of stirring can generate interesting quantum states such as macroscopic superpositions of all the atoms flowing in opposite directions around a ring-shaped potential. We consider different trapping potentials and show how this leads to different entangled states. In particular, we find that by reducing the dimensionality of the system to one or two dimensions, it is possible to generate entangled states that are remarkably robust to the loss of atoms and so are ideally suited to precision measurement schemes.

id: 1102.0181
title: Quantum discord of two-qubit X-states
authors: Qing Chen, Chengjie Zhang, Sixia Yu, X.X. Yi, C.H. Oh
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042313(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0181
abstract: Quantum discord provides a measure for quantifying quantum correlations beyond entanglement and is very hard to compute even for two-qubit states because of the minimization over all possible measurements. Recently a simple algorithm to evaluate the quantum discord for two-qubit X-states is proposed by Ali, Rau and Alber [Phys. Rev. A 81, 042105 (2010)] with minimization taken over only a few cases. Here we shall at first identify a class of X-states, whose quantum discord can be evaluated analytically without any minimization, for which their algorithm is valid, and also identify a family of X-states for which their algorithm fails. And then we demonstrate that this special family of X-states provides furthermore an explicit example for the inequivalence between the minimization over positive operator-valued measures and that over von Neumann measurements.

id: 1102.0182
title: On classical and quantum liftings
authors: L. Accardi, D. Chru?ci¨½ski, A. Kossakowski, T. Matsuoka, M. Ohya
comments: 25 pages
journal: Open Systems Inf. Dyn. 17, 361-387 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0182
abstract: We analyze the procedure of lifting in classical stochastic and quantum systems. It enables one to `lift' a state of a system into a state of `system+reservoir'. This procedure is important both in quantum information theory and the theory of open systems. We illustrate the general theory of liftings by a particular class related to so called circulant states.

id: 1102.0197
title: Device-independent witnesses of genuine multipartite entanglement
authors: Jean-Daniel Bancal, Nicolas Gisin, Yeong-Cherng Liang, Stefano Pironio
comments: 4 pages + appendices, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 250404 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0197
abstract: We consider the problem of determining whether genuine multipartite entanglement was produced in an experiment, without relying on a characterization of the systems observed or of the measurements performed. We present an n-partite inequality that is satisfied by all correlations produced by measurements on biseparable quantum states, but which can be violated by n-partite entangled states, such as GHZ states. In contrast to traditional entanglement witnesses, the violation of this inequality implies that the state is not biseparable independently of the Hilbert space dimension and of the measured operators. Violation of this inequality does not imply, however, genuine multipartite non-locality. We show more generically how the problem of identifying genuine tripartite entanglement in a device-independent way can be addressed through semidefinite programming.

id: 1102.0220
title: A Steady State Entanglement Witness
authors: Jenny Hide
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0220
abstract: We present a method for entanglement detection in steady state systems using a thermodynamic witness. To illustrate, we consider an example and find that for an XX spin chain, the presence of an energy current increases the region of entanglement detected by the steady state witness. Further, we find that entanglement exists even at a high steady state temperature. We also discuss concurrence in the steady state system and find that the amount of entanglement can be increased by the current.

id: 1102.0231
title: Electromagnetically Induced Transparency with Quantized Fields in Optocavity Mechanics
authors: Sumei Huang, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 043826 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0231
abstract: We report electromagnetically induced transparency using quantized fields in optomechanical systems. The weak probe field is a narrow band squeezed field. We present a homodyne detection of EIT in the output quantum field. We find that the EIT dip exists even though the photon number in the squeezed vacuum is at the single photon level. The EIT with quantized fields can be seen even at temperatures of the order of 100 mK paving the way for using optomechanical systems as memory elements.

id: 1102.0264
title: The Sheaf-Theoretic Structure Of Non-Locality and Contextuality
authors: Samson Abramsky, Adam Brandenburger
comments: 33 pages. Extensively revised, new results included. Published in New Journal of Physics
journal: New Journal of Physics 13 (2011) 113036
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0264
abstract: We use the mathematical language of sheaf theory to give a unified treatment of non-locality and contextuality, in a setting which generalizes the familiar probability tables used in non-locality theory to arbitrary measurement covers; this includes Kochen-Specker configurations and more. We show that contextuality, and non-locality as a special case, correspond exactly to obstructions to the existence of global sections. We describe a linear algebraic approach to computing these obstructions, which allows a systematic treatment of arguments for non-locality and contextuality. We distinguish a proper hierarchy of strengths of no-go theorems, and show that three leading examples --- due to Bell, Hardy, and Greenberger, Horne and Zeilinger, respectively --- occupy successively higher levels of this hierarchy. A general correspondence is shown between the existence of local hidden-variable realizations using negative probabilities, and no-signalling; this is based on a result showing that the linear subspaces generated by the non-contextual and no-signalling models, over an arbitrary measurement cover, coincide. Maximal non-locality is generalized to maximal contextuality, and characterized in purely qualitative terms, as the non-existence of global sections in the support. A general setting is developed for Kochen-Specker type results, as generic, model-independent proofs of maximal contextuality, and a new combinatorial condition is given, which generalizes the `parity proofs' commonly found in the literature. We also show how our abstract setting can be represented in quantum mechanics. This leads to a strengthening of the usual no-signalling theorem, which shows that quantum mechanics obeys no-signalling for arbitrary families of commuting observables, not just those represented on different factors of a tensor product.

id: 1102.0278
title: The photon blockade effect in optomechanical systems
authors: Peter Rabl
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 063601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0278
abstract: We analyze the photon statistics of a weakly driven optomechanical system and discuss the effect of photon blockade under single photon strong coupling conditions. We present an intuitive interpretation of this effect in terms of displaced oscillator states and derive analytic expressions for the cavity excitation spectrum and the two photon correlation function $g^{(2)}(0)$. Our results predict the appearance of non-classical photon correlations in the combined strong coupling and sideband resolved regime, and provide a first detailed understanding of photon-photon interactions in strong coupling optomechanics.

id: 1102.0307
title: Tunable coupling between three qubits as a building block for a superconducting quantum computer
authors: Peter Groszkowski, Austin G. Fowler, Felix Motzoi, Frank K. Wilhelm
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 144516 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0307
abstract: Large scale quantum computers will consist of many interacting qubits. In this paper we expand the two flux qubit coupling scheme first devised in [Phys. Rev. B {\bf 70}, 140501 (2004)] and realized in [Science {\bf 314}, 1427 (2006)] to a three-qubit, two-coupler scenario. We study L-shaped and line-shaped coupler geometries, and show how the interaction strength between qubits changes in terms of the couplers' dimensions. We explore two cases: the "on-state" where the interaction energy between two nearest-neighbor qubits is high, and the "off-state" where it is turned off. In both situations we study the undesirable crosstalk with the third qubit. Finally, we use the GRAPE algorithm to find efficient pulse sequences for two-qubit gates subject to our calculated physical constraints on the coupling strength.

id: 1102.0330
title: Quantifying the nonlocality of GHZ quantum correlations by a bounded communication simulation protocol
authors: Cyril Branciard, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 020401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0330
abstract: The simulation of quantum correlations with alternative nonlocal resources, such as classical communication, gives a natural way to quantify their nonlocality. While multipartite nonlocal correlations appear to be useful resources, very little is known on how to simulate multipartite quantum correlations. We present the first known protocol that reproduces 3-partite GHZ correlations with bounded communication: 3 bits in total turn out to be sufficient to simulate all equatorial Von Neumann measurements on the 3-partite GHZ state.

id: 1102.0345
title: Number of propagating modes of a diffusive periodic waveguide in the semiclassical limit
authors: Felipe Barra, Agnes Maurel, Vincent Pagneux, Jaime Zu?iga
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E vol 81 066210 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0345
abstract: We study the number of propagating Bloch modes N_B of an infinite periodic billiard chain. The asymptotic semiclassical behavior of this quantity depends on the phase-space dynamics of the unit cell, growing linearly with the wavenumber k in systems with a non-null measure of ballistic trajectories and going like ~ sqrt(k) in diffusive systems. We have calculated numerically N_B for a waveguide with cosine-shaped walls exhibiting strongly diffusive dynamics. The semiclassical prediction for diffusive systems is verified to good accuracy and a connection between this result and the universality of the parametric variation of energy levels is presented.

id: 1102.0353
title: Controlled-NOT logic gate for phase qubits based on conditional spectroscopy
authors: Joydip Ghosh, Michael R. Geller
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, To appear in Quantum Inf. Proc
journal: Quantum Inf. Proc. , 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0353
abstract: A controlled-NOT logic gate based on conditional spectroscopy has been demonstrated recently for a pair of superconducting flux qubits [Plantenberg et al., Nature 447, 836 (2007)]. Here we study the fidelity of this type of gate applied to a phase qubit coupled to a resonator (or a pair of capacitively coupled phase qubits). Our results show that an intrinsic fidelity of more than 99% is achievable in 45ns.

id: 1102.0361
title: No-signaling Principle Can Determine Optimal Quantum State Discrimination
authors: Joonwoo Bae, Won-Young Hwang, Yeong-Deok Han
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 170403 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0361
abstract: We provide a general framework of utilizing the no-signaling principle in derivation of the guessing probability in the minimum-error quantum state discrimination. We show that, remarkably, the guessing probability can be determined by the no-signaling principle. This is shown by proving that in the semidefinite programming for the discrimination, the optimality condition corresponds to the constraint that quantum theory cannot be used for a superluminal communication. Finally, a general bound to the guessing probability is presented in a closed form.

id: 1102.0370
title: Integration of highly probabilistic sources into optical quantum architectures: perpetual quantum computation
authors: Simon J. Devitt, Ashley M. Stephens, William J. Munro, Kae Nemoto
comments: 19 pages, 13 Figs (2 Appendices with additional Figs.). Comments welcome
journal: New J. Phys. 13: 095001 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0370
abstract: In this paper we introduce a design for an optical topological cluster state computer constructed exclusively from a single quantum component. Unlike previous efforts we eliminate the need for on demand, high fidelity photon sources and detectors and replace them with the same device utilised to create photon/photon entanglement. This introduces highly probabilistic elements into the optical architecture while maintaining complete specificity of the structure and operation for a large scale computer. Photons in this system are continually recycled back into the preparation network, allowing for a arbitrarily deep 3D cluster to be prepared using a comparatively small number of photonic qubits and consequently the elimination of high frequency, deterministic photon sources.

id: 1102.0390
title: Photonic realization of the relativistic Kronig-Penney model and relativistic Tamm surface states
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 
journal: Cent. Eur. J. Phys. 9, 110-115 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0390
abstract: Photonic analogues of the relativistic Kronig-Penney model and of relativistic surface Tamm states are proposed for light propagation in fibre Bragg gratings (FBGs) with phase defects. A periodic sequence of phase slips in the FBG realizes the relativistic Kronig-Penney model, the band structure of which being mapped into the spectral response of the FBG. For the semi-infinite FBG Tamm surface states can appear and can be visualized as narrow resonance peaks in the transmission spectrum of the grating.

id: 1102.0434
title: Quantized conductance of a suspended graphene nanoconstriction
authors: Nikolaos Tombros, Alina Veligura, Juliane Junesch, Marcos H. D. Guimar?es, Ivan J. Vera Marun, Harry T. Jonkman, Bart J. van Wees
comments: Main paper + supplementary information. Accepted for publication in Nature Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0434
abstract: A yet unexplored area in graphene electronics is the field of quantum ballistic transport through graphene nanostructures. Recent developments in the preparation of high mobility graphene are expected to lead to the experimental verification and/or discovery of many new quantum mechanical effects in this field. Examples are effects due to specific graphene edges, such as spin polarization at zigzag edges of a graphene nanoribbon and the use of the valley degree of freedom in the field of graphene valleytronics8. As a first step in this direction we present the observation of quantized conductance at integer multiples of 2e^2/h at zero magnetic field and 4.2 K temperature in a high mobility suspended graphene ballistic nanoconstriction. This quantization evolves into the typical quantum Hall effect for graphene at magnetic fields above 60mT. Voltage bias spectroscopy reveals an energy spacing of 8 meV between the first two subbands. A pronounced feature at 0.6 2e^2/h present at a magnetic field as low as ~0.2T resembles the "0.7 anomaly" observed in quantum point contacts in a GaAs-AlGaAs two dimensional electron gas, having a possible origin in electron-electron interactions.

id: 1102.0439
title: Weaker entanglement guarantees stronger entanglement
authors: Masahito Hayashi, Lin Chen
comments: 5 pages, 1 table, 1 figure. The paper has been totally rewritten according to the comments from editors
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012325 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0439
abstract: The monogamy of entanglement is one of the basic quantum mechanical features, which says that when two partners Alice and Bob are more entangled then either of them has to be less entangled with the third party. Here we qualitatively present the converse monogamy of entanglement: given a tripartite pure system and when Alice and Bob are weakly entangled, then either of them is generally strongly entangled with the third party. Our result leads to the classification of tripartite pure states based on bipartite reduced density operators, which is a novel and effective way to this long-standing problem compared to the means by stochastic local operations and classical communications. We also systematically indicate the structure of the classified states and generate them.

id: 1102.0461
title: Observation of Resonant Photon Blockade at Microwave Frequencies using Correlation Function Measurements
authors: C. Lang, D. Bozyigit, C. Eichler, L. Steffen, J. M. Fink, A. A. Abdumalikov Jr., M. Baur, S. Filipp, M. P. da Silva, A. Blais, A. Wallraff
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 243601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0461
abstract: Creating a train of single photons and monitoring its propagation and interaction is challenging in most physical systems, as photons generally interact very weakly with other systems. However, when confining microwave frequency photons in a transmission line resonator, effective photon-photon interactions can be mediated by qubits embedded in the resonator. Here, we observe the phenomenon of photon blockade through second-order correlation function measurements. The experiments clearly demonstrate antibunching in a continuously pumped source of single microwave photons measured using microwave beam splitters, linear amplifiers, and quadrature amplitude detectors. We also investigate resonance fluorescence and Rayleigh scattering in Mollow-triplet-like spectra.

id: 1102.0484
title: Atom-Resonant Heralded Single Photons by Interaction-Free Measurement
authors: Florian Wolfgramm, Yannick A. de Icaza Astiz, Federica A. Beduini, Alessandro Cere, Morgan W. Mitchell
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 053602 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0484
abstract: We demonstrate the generation of rubidium-resonant heralded single photons for quantum memories. Photon pairs are created by cavity-enhanced down-conversion and narrowed in bandwidth to 7 MHz with a novel atom-based filter operating by "interaction-free measurement" principles. At least 94% of the heralded photons are atom-resonant as demonstrated by a direct absorption measurement with rubidium vapor. A heralded auto-correlation measurement shows $g_c^{(2)}(0)=0.040 \pm 0.012$, i.e., suppression of multi-photon contributions by a factor of 25 relative to a coherent state. The generated heralded photons can readily be used in quantum memories and quantum networks.

id: 1102.0531
title: Monte-Carlo sampling of energy-constrained quantum superpositions in high-dimensional Hilbert spaces
authors: Frank Hantschel, Boris V. Fine
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, accepted for publication in European Physical Journal D
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 63, 73 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0531
abstract: Recent studies into the properties of quantum statistical ensembles in high-dimensional Hilbert spaces have encountered difficulties associated with the Monte-Carlo sampling of quantum superpositions constrained by the energy expectation value. A straightforward Monte-Carlo routine would enclose the energy constrained manifold within a larger manifold, which is easy to sample, for example, a hypercube. The efficiency of such a sampling routine decreases exponentially with the increase of the dimension of the Hilbert space, because the volume of the enclosing manifold becomes exponentially larger than the volume of the manifold of interest. The present paper explores the ways to optimise the above routine by varying the shapes of the manifolds enclosing the energy-constrained manifold. The resulting improvement in the sampling efficiency is about a factor of five for a 14-dimensional Hilbert space. The advantage of the above algorithm is that it does not compromise on the rigorous statistical nature of the sampling outcome and hence can be used to test other more sophisticated Monte-Carlo routines. The present attempts to optimise the enclosing manifolds also bring insights into the geometrical properties of the energy constrained manifold itself.

id: 1102.0546
title: Objectively discerning Autler-Townes Splitting from Electromagnetically Induced Transparency
authors: Petr M. Anisimov, Jonathan P. Dowling, Barry C. Sanders
comments: Extended discussion of ATS vs. EIT testing in realistic systems is given. Two figures were combined and one new was added
journal: Physical Review Letters 107(16): 163604 (4 pp.), 12 October 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0546
abstract: Autler-Townes splitting (ATS) and electromagnetically-induced transparency (EIT) both yield transparency in an absorption profile, but only EIT yields strong transparency for a weak pump field due to Fano interference. Empirically discriminating EIT from ATS is important but so far has been subjective. We introduce an objective method, based on Akaike's information criterion, to test ATS vs. EIT from experimental data and determine which pertains. We apply our method to a recently reported induced-transparency experiment in superconducting circuit quantum electrodynamics.

id: 1102.0576
title: Controlling the nuclear polarization in quantum dots using optical pulses with a modest bandwidth
authors: S. G. Carter, Sophia E. Economou, A. Shabaev, A. S. Bracker
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0576
abstract: We show that detuned optical pulse trains with a modest spectral width can polarize nuclear spins in InAs quantum dots. The pulse bandwidth is large enough to excite a coherent superposition of both electron spin eigenstates in these negatively charged dots but narrow enough to give partial spectral selectivity between the eigenstates. The coherent precession of electron spin states and periodic excitation focuses the nuclear spin distribution, producing a discrete set of precession modes. The spectral selectivity generates a net nuclear polarization, through a mechanism that relies on optical spin rotations rather than electron spin relaxation.

id: 1102.0584
title: Optimal control methods for fast time-varying Hamiltonians
authors: F. Motzoi, J. M. Gambetta, S. T. Merkel, F. K. Wilhelm
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022307 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0584
abstract: In this article, we develop a numerical method to find optimal control pulses that accounts for the separation of timescales between the variation of the input control fields and the applied Hamiltonian. In traditional numerical optimization methods, these timescales are treated as being the same. While this approximation has had much success, in applications where the input controls are filtered substantially or mixed with a fast carrier, the resulting optimized pulses have little relation to the applied physical fields. Our technique remains numerically efficient in that the dimension of our search space is only dependent on the variation of the input control fields, while our simulation of the quantum evolution is accurate on the timescale of the fast variation in the applied Hamiltonian.

id: 1102.0740
title: Quantum mechanics from five physical assumptions
authors: Chris Fields
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0740
abstract: Five physical assumptions are proposed that together entail the general qualitative results, including the Born rule, of non-relativistic quantum mechanics by physical and information-theoretic reasoning alone. Two of these assumptions concern fundamental symmetries of physical interactions. The third concerns the Hilbert-space dimensions and the fourth and fifth the self-interaction Hamiltonians of the systems that function as "observers" within the theory. These assumptions are shown to provide a sufficient motivation for the usual Hilbert-space formalism, and to obviate the observation-related axioms and most interpretative assumptions with which minimal quantum mechanics is typically supplemented.

id: 1102.0762
title: Heisenberg Spin Bus as a Robust Transmission Line for Perfect State Transfer
authors: Sangchul Oh, Lian-Ao Wu, Yun-Pil Shim, Mark Friesen, Xuedong Hu
comments: 6 figures,submitted
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022330 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0762
abstract: We study the protocol known as quantum state transfer for a strongly coupled antiferromagnetic spin chain or ring (acting as a spin bus), with weakly coupled external qubits. By treating the weak coupling as a perturbation, we find that perfect state transfer (PST) is possible when second order terms are included in the expansion. We also show that PST is robust against variations in the couplings along the spin bus and between the bus and the qubits. As evidence of the quantum interference which mediates PST, we show that the optimal time for PST can be smaller with larger qubit separations, for an even-size chain or ring.

id: 1102.0770
title: On the complexity of Commuting Local Hamiltonians, and tight conditions for Topological Order in such systems
authors: Dorit Aharonov, Lior Eldar
comments: A revised version with a few changes: Title and abstract changed to highlight the transition from local to global entanglement; A remark about the connection to the quantum PCP conjecture was added in the introduction, Section 5.8.3 revised and a figure added, to correct a small error in the first version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0770
abstract: The local Hamiltonian problem plays the equivalent role of SAT in quantum complexity theory. Understanding the complexity of the intermediate case in which the constraints are quantum but all local terms in the Hamiltonian commute, is of importance for conceptual, physical and computational complexity reasons. Bravyi and Vyalyi showed in 2003, using a clever application of the representation theory of C*-algebras, that if the terms in the Hamiltonian are all two-local, the problem is in NP, and the entanglement in the ground states is local. The general case remained open since then. In this paper we extend the results of Bravyi and Vyalyi beyond the two-local case, to the case of three-qubit interactions. We then extend our results even further, and show that NP verification is possible for three-wise interaction between qutrits as well, as long as the interaction graph is embedded on a planar lattice, or more generally, "Nearly Euclidean" (NE). The proofs imply that in all such systems, the entanglement in the ground states is local. These extensions imply an intriguing sharp transition phenomenon in commuting Hamiltonian systems: 3-local NE systems based on qubits and qutrits cannot be used to construct Topological order, as their entanglement is local, whereas for higher dimensional qudits, or for interactions of at least 4 qudits, Topological Order is already possible, via Kitaev's Toric Code construction. We thus conclude that Kitaev's Toric Code construction is optimal for deriving topological order based on commuting Hamiltonians.

id: 1102.0786
title: Beyond quantum Fisher information: optimal phase estimation with arbitrary a priori knowledge
authors: Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures (final version)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 061802(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0786
abstract: The optimal phase estimation strategy is derived when partial a priori knowledge on the estimated phase is available. The structure of the optimal measurements, estimators and the optimal probe states is analyzed. The results fill the gap in the literature on the subject which until now dealt almost exclusively with two extreme cases: almost perfect knowledge (local approach based on Fisher information) and no a priori knowledge (global approach based on covariant measurements). Special attention is paid to a natural a priori probability distribution arising from a diffusion process.

id: 1102.0804
title: Momentum distribution, vibrational dynamics and the potential of mean force in ice
authors: Lin Lin, Joseph A. Morrone, Roberto Car, Michele Parrinello
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0804
abstract: By analyzing the momentum distribution obtained from path integral and phonon calculations we find that the protons in hexagonal ice experience an anisotropic quasi-harmonic effective potential with three distinct principal frequencies that reflect molecular orientation. Due to the importance of anisotropy, anharmonic features of the environment cannot be extracted from existing experimental distributions that involve the spherical average. The full directional distribution is required, and we give a theoretical prediction for this quantity that could be verified in future experiments. Within the quasi-harmonic context, anharmonicity in the ground state dynamics of the proton is substantial and has quantal origin, a finding that impacts the interpretation of several spectroscopies.

id: 1102.0841
title: LOCC distinguishability of unilaterally transformable quantum states
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay, Sibasish Ghosh, Guruprasad Kar
comments: Revised version, new proofs added; to appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 123013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0841
abstract: We consider the question of perfect local distinguishability of mutually orthogonal bipartite quantum states, with the property that every state can be specified by a unitary operator acting on the local Hilbert space of Bob. We show that if the states can be exactly discriminated by one-way LOCC where Alice goes first, then the unitary operators can also be perfectly distinguished by an orthogonal measurement on Bob's Hilbert space. We give examples of sets of N<=d maximally entangled states in $d \otimes d $ for d=4,5,6 that are not perfectly distinguishable by one-way LOCC. Interestingly for d=5,6 our examples consist of four and five states respectively. We conjecture that these states cannot be perfectly discriminated by two-way LOCC.

id: 1102.0885
title: Cryptographic Protocols under Quantum Attacks
authors: Carolin Lunemann
comments: PhD Thesis, Aarhus University, Denmark, 146 pages; v2: updated bib entry
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0885
abstract: The realm of this thesis is cryptographic protocol theory in the quantum world. We study the security of quantum and classical protocols against adversaries that are assumed to exploit quantum effects to their advantage. Security in the quantum world means that quantum computation does not jeopardize the assumption, underlying the protocol construction. But moreover, we encounter additional setbacks in the security proofs, which are mostly due to the fact that some well-known classical proof techniques are forbidden by certain properties of a quantum environment. Interestingly, we can exploit some of the very same properties to the benefit of quantum cryptography. Thus, this work lies right at the heart of the conflict between highly potential effects but likewise rather demanding conditions in the quantum world.

id: 1102.0887
title: Fully Simulatable Quantum-Secure Coin-Flipping and Applications
authors: Carolin Lunemann, Jesper Buus Nielsen
comments: 27 pages; v3: updated according to final proceedings version
journal: full version of Progress in Cryptology - AFRICACRYPT 2011, LNCS 6737, pages 21-40
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0887
abstract: We propose a coin-flip protocol which yields a string of strong, random coins and is fully simulatable against poly-sized quantum adversaries on both sides. It can be implemented with quantum-computational security without any set-up assumptions, since our construction only assumes mixed commitment schemes which we show how to construct in the given setting. We then show that the interactive generation of random coins at the beginning or during outer protocols allows for quantum-secure realizations of classical schemes, again without any set-up assumptions. As example applications we discuss quantum zero-knowledge proofs of knowledge and quantum-secure two-party function evaluation. Both applications assume only fully simulatable coin-flipping and mixed commitments. Since our framework allows to construct fully simulatable coin-flipping from mixed commitments, this in particular shows that mixed commitments are complete for quantum-secure two-party function evaluation. This seems to be the first completeness result for quantum-secure two-party function evaluation from a generic assumption.

id: 1102.0948
title: Quantum Gate Fidelity in Terms of Choi Matrices
authors: Nathaniel Johnston, David W. Kribs
comments: Minor corrections and updates since v1. 16 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 495303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0948
abstract: We provide new results for computing and comparing the quantum gate fidelity of quantum channels via their Choi matrices. We extend recent work that showed there exist non-dual pairs of quantum channels with equal gate fidelity by providing an explicit characterization of all such channels. We use our characterization to show that when the dimension is 2 (or 3, under slightly stronger hypotheses), the gate fidelity of two channels is equal if and only if their difference equals the difference of some unital map and its dual -- a fact that has been shown to be false when the dimension is 4 or larger. We also present a formula for the minimum gate fidelity of a channel in terms of a well-studied norm on a compression of its Choi matrix. As a consequence, several new ways of bounding and approximating the minimum gate fidelity follow, including a simple semidefinite program to compute it for qubit channels.

id: 1102.0955
title: Observables Can Be Tailored to Make Any Pure State Entangled (or Not)
authors: N.L. Harshman, Kedar S. Ranade
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A84:012303,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0955
abstract: We show that for a finite-dimensional Hilbert space, there exist observables that induce a tensor product structure such that the entanglement properties of any pure state can be tailored. In particular, we provide an explicit, finite method for constructing observables in an unstructured d-dimensional system so that an arbitrary known pure state has any Schmidt decomposition with respect to an induced bipartite tensor product structure. In effect, this article demonstrates that in a finite-dimensional Hilbert space, entanglement properties can always be shifted from the state to the observables and all pure states are equivalent as entanglement resources in the ideal case of complete control of observables.

id: 1102.1016
title: Resolved atomic interaction sidebands in an optical clock transition
authors: Michael Bishof, Yige Lin, Matthew D. Swallows, Alexey V. Gorshkov, Jun Ye, Ana Maria Rey
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 250801 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1016
abstract: We report the observation of resolved atomic interaction sidebands (ISB) in the ${}^{87}$Sr optical clock transition when atoms at microkelvin temperatures are confined in a two-dimensional (2D) optical lattice. The ISB are a manifestation of the strong interactions that occur between atoms confined in a quasi-one-dimensional geometry and disappear when the confinement is relaxed along one dimension. The emergence of ISB is linked to the recently observed suppression of collisional frequency shifts in [1]. At the current temperatures, the ISB can be resolved but are broad. At lower temperatures, ISB are predicted to be substantially narrower and usable as powerful spectroscopic tools in strongly interacting alkaline-earth gases.

id: 1102.1030
title: Generation of correlated photons in hydrogenated amorphous-silicon waveguides
authors: S. Clemmen, A. Perret, S. K. Selvaraja, W. Bogaerts, D. van Thourhout, R. Baets, Ph. Emplit, S. Massar
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures
journal: S. Clemmen, A. Perret, S. K. Selvaraja, W. Bogaerts, D. van Thourhout, R. Baets, Ph. Emplit, and S. Massar, "Generation of correlated photons in hydrogenated amorphous-silicon waveguides", Optics Letters 3483-3486, Vol. 35 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1030
abstract: We report the first (to our knowledge) observation of correlated photon emission in hydrogenated amorphous- silicon waveguides. We compare this to photon generation in crystalline silicon waveguides with the same geome- try. In particular, we show that amorphous silicon has a higher nonlinearity and competes with crystalline silicon in spite of higher loss.

id: 1102.1031
title: Non-monotonous short-time decay of the Loschmidt echo in quasi-one-dimensional systems
authors: Arseni Goussev
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures; added references, corrected typos
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 056210 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1031
abstract: We study the short-time stability of quantum dynamics in quasi-one-dimensional systems with respect to small localized perturbations of the potential. To this end, we address, analytically and numerically, the decay of the Loschmidt echo (LE) during times short compared to the Ehrenfest time. We find that the LE is generally a non-monotonous function of time and exhibits strongly pronounced minima and maxima at the instants of time when the corresponding classical particle traverses the perturbation region. We also show that, under general conditions, the envelope decay of the LE is well approximated by a Gaussian, and we derive explicit analytical formulas for the corresponding decay time. Finally, we demonstrate that the observed non-monotonicity of the LE decay is only pertinent to one-dimensional (and, more generally, quasi-one-dimensional systems), and that the short-time decay of the LE can be monotonous in higher number of dimensions.

id: 1102.1043
title: Two-center Interferences in Photoionization of Dissociating H$_2^+$ Molecule
authors: A. Pic¨®n, A. Bahabad, H.C. Kapteyn, M.M. Murnane, A. Becker
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 013414 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1043
abstract: We analyze two-center interference effects in the yields of ionization of a dissociating hydrogen molecular ion by an ultrashort VUV laser pulse. To this end, we performed numerical simulations of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation for a H$_2^+$ model ion interacting with two time-delayed laser pulses. The scenario considered corresponds to a pump-probe scheme, in which the first (pump) pulse excites the molecular ion to the first excited dissociative state and the second (probe) pulse ionizes the electron as the ion dissociates. The results of our numerical simulations for the ionization yield as a function of the time delay between the two pulses exhibit characteristic oscillations due to interferences between the partial electron waves emerging from the two protons in the dissociating hydrogen molecular ion. We show that the photon energy of the pump pulse should be in resonance with the $\sigma_g - \sigma_u$ transition and the pump pulse duration should not exceed 5 fs in order to generate a well confined nuclear wavepacket. The spreading of the nuclear wavepacket during the dissociation is found to cause a decrease of the amplitudes of the oscillations as the time delay increases. We develop an analytical model to fit the oscillations and show how dynamic information about the nuclear wavepacket, namely velocity, mean internuclear distance and spreading, can be retrieved from the oscillations. The predictions of the analytical model are tested well against the results of our numerical simulations.

id: 1102.1047
title: Observing different quantum trajectories in cavity QED
authors: Marcelo Fran?a Santos, Andre R. R. Carvalho
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: EPL 94, 64003 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1047
abstract: The experimental observation of quantum jumps is an example of single open quantum systems that, when monitored, evolve in terms of stochastic trajectories conditioned on measurements results. Here we present a proposal that allows the experimental observation of a much larger class of quantum trajectories in cavity QED systems. In particular, our scheme allows for the monitoring of engineered thermal baths that are crucial for recent proposals for probing entanglement decay and also for entanglement protection. The scheme relies on the interaction of a three-level atom and a cavity mode that interchangeably play the roles of system and probe. If the atom is detected the evolution of the cavity fields follows quantum trajectories and vice-versa.

id: 1102.1067
title: Optical Tomography of Photon-Added Coherent States, Even/Odd Coherent States and Thermal States
authors: Ya. A. Korennoy, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1067
abstract: Explicit expressions for optical tomograms of the photon-added coherent states, even/odd photon-added coherent states and photon-added thermal states are given in terms of Hermite polynomials. Suggestions for experimental homodyne detection of the considered photon states are presented.

id: 1102.1187
title: End of Several Quantum Mysteries
authors: C. S. Unnikrishnan
comments: 10 pages. Results first presented at the conference "75 Years of Quantum Entanglement", Kolkata, January 6-10, 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1187
abstract: I report on the discovery of quantum compatible local variables that are shared between subsystems of quantum-conventionally entangled physical systems such that they determine the correlations of spatially separated systems while preserving strict Einstein locality. This puts an end to the mystery of spooky action at a distance and alleged collapse at a distance, answering vital questions, first raised in the EPR paper, on the behaviour of spatially separated entangled systems. The solution helps to understand quantitative measures of entanglement in a transparent way. It also provides new insight, consistent with strict locality, of the physics of quantum teleportation and related phenomena.

id: 1102.1268
title: The monomial representations of the Clifford group
authors: D.M. Appleby, Ingemar Bengtsson, Stephen Brierley, Markus Grassl, David Gross, Jan-Ake Larsson
comments: Additional author and exact solutions to the SIC problem in dimension 16 added
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 12 No. 5&6, 0404-0431 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1268
abstract: We show that the Clifford group - the normaliser of the Weyl-Heisenberg group - can be represented by monomial phase-permutation matrices if and only if the dimension is a square number. This simplifies expressions for SIC vectors, and has other applications to SICs and to Mutually Unbiased Bases. Exact solutions for SICs in dimension 16 are presented for the first time.

id: 1102.1291
title: Quantum mechanical approach to probing the birth of attosecond pulses using a two-color field
authors: J. M. Dahlstr?m, A. L'Huillier, J. Mauritsson
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 095602
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1291
abstract: We investigate the generation of even and odd harmonics using an intense laser and a weak second harmonic field. Our theoretical approach is based on solving the saddle-point equations within the Strong Field Approximation. The phase of the even harmonic oscillation as a function of the delay between fundamental and second harmonic field is calculated and its variation with energy is found to be in good agreement with recent experimental results. We also find that the relationship between this phase variation and the group delay of the attosecond pulses, depends on the intensity and wavelength of the fundamental field as well as the ionization potential of the atom.

id: 1102.1301
title: Tight bounds for the quantum discord
authors: Sixia Yu, Chengjie Zhang, Qing Chen, C.H. Oh
comments: 4 pages 1 figure. An application to the accessible information is added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1301
abstract: Quantum discord quantifies quantum correlations beyond entanglement and assumes nonzero values, which are notoriously hard to compute, for almost all quantum states. Here we provide computable tight bounds for the quantum discord for qubit-qudit states. In the case of two qubits our lower and upper bounds coincide for a 7-parameter family of filtered $X$-states, whose quantum discords can therefore be evaluated analytically. An application to the accessible information of the binary qubit channel is also presented. For the qubit-qudit state output by the circuit of deterministic computation with one qubit, nontrivial lower and upper bounds that respect the zero-discord conditions are obtained for its quantum discord.

id: 1102.1303
title: Experimental demonstration of decoherence suppression via quantum measurement reversal
authors: Jong-Chan Lee, Youn-Chang Jeong, Yong-Su Kim, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 19, Issue 17, pp. 16309-16316 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1303
abstract: Taming decoherence is essential in realizing quantum computation and quantum communication. Here we experimentally demonstrate that decoherence due to amplitude damping can be suppressed by exploiting quantum measurement reversal in which a weak measurement and the reversing measurement are introduced before and after the decoherence channel, respectively. We have also investigated the trade-off relation between the degree of decoherence suppression and the channel transmittance.

id: 1102.1307
title: Ultracold atom-dimer long-range interactions beyond the $1/R^{n}$ expansion
authors: Maxence Lepers, Olivier Dulieu
comments: Submitted to EPJD, special issue "Cold Quantum Matter - Achievements and Prospects"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1307
abstract: We investigate theoretically the combination of first-order quadrupole-quadrupole and second-order dipole-dipole effects on the long-range electrostatic interactions between a ground-state homonuclear alkali-metal dimer and an excited alkali-metal atom. As the electrostatic energy is comparable to the dimer rotational structure, we develop a general description of the long-range interactions which allows for couplings between the dimer rotational levels. The resulting adiabatic potential energy curves, which exhibit avoided crossings, cannot be expanded on the usual $1/R^{n}$ series. We study in details the breakdown of this approximation in the particular case Cs$_{2}+$Cs. Our results are found promising in the prospect of accomplishing the photoassociation of ultracold trimers.

id: 1102.1321
title: Duality relations in the auxiliary field method
authors: Bernard Silvestre-Brac, Claude Semay
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 052107 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1321
abstract: The eigenenergies $\epsilon^{(N)}(m;\{n_i,l_i\})$ of a system of $N$ identical particles with a mass $m$ are functions of the various radial quantum numbers $n_i$ and orbital quantum numbers $l_i$. Approximations $E^{(N)}(m;Q)$ of these eigenenergies, depending on a principal quantum number $Q(\{n_i,l_i\})$, can be obtained in the framework of the auxiliary field method. We demonstrate the existence of numerous exact duality relations linking quantities $E^{(N)}(m;Q)$ and $E^{(p)}(m';Q')$ for various forms of the potentials (independent of $m$ and $N$) and for both nonrelativistic and semirelativistic kinematics. As the approximations computed with the auxiliary field method can be very close to the exact results, we show with several examples that these duality relations still hold, with sometimes a good accuracy, for the exact eigenenergies $\epsilon^{(N)}(m;\{n_i,l_i\})$.

id: 1102.1351
title: Relativistic Quantum Games in Noninertial Frames
authors: Salman Khan, M. K. Khan
comments: 8 Pages, 2 figures, 2 tables
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 355302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1351
abstract: We study the influence of Unruh effect on quantum non-zero sum games. In particular, we investigate the quantum Prisoners' Dilemma both for entangled and unentangled initial states and show that the acceleration of the noninertial frames disturbs the symmetry of the game. It is shown that for maximally entangled initial state, the classical strategy C (cooperation) becomes the dominant strategy. Our investigation shows that any quantum strategy does no better for any player against the classical strategies. The miracle move of Eisert et al (1999 Phys. Rev. Lett. 83 3077) is no more a superior move. We show that the dilemma like situation is resolved in favor of one player or the other.

id: 1102.1353
title: Quantum Stackelberg duopoly in noninertial frame
authors: Salman Khan, M.K. Khan
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. Vol. 28, No. 7 (2011) 070202
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1353
abstract: We study the influence of Unruh effect on quantum Stackelberg duopoly. We show that the acceleration of noninertial frame strongly effects the payoffs of the firms. The validation of subgame perfect Nash equilibrium is limited to a particular range of acceleration of the noninertial frame. The benefit of initial state entanglement in the quantum form of the duopoly is adversely affected by the acceleration. The duopoly can become as a follower advantage only in a small region of the acceleration.

id: 1102.1360
title: Quantum simulation of time-dependent Hamiltonians and the convenient illusion of Hilbert space
authors: David Poulin, Angie Qarry, R. D. Somma, Frank Verstraete
comments: Presented at QIP 2011
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:170501,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1360
abstract: We consider the manifold of all quantum many-body states that can be generated by arbitrary time-dependent local Hamiltonians in a time that scales polynomially in the system size, and show that it occupies an exponentially small volume in Hilbert space. This implies that the overwhelming majority of states in Hilbert space are not physical as they can only be produced after an exponentially long time. We establish this fact by making use of a time-dependent generalization of the Suzuki-Trotter expansion, followed by a counting argument. This also demonstrates that a computational model based on arbitrarily rapidly changing Hamiltonians is no more powerful than the standard quantum circuit model.

id: 1102.1361
title: Quantum frequency estimation with trapped ions and atoms
authors: U. Dorner
comments: 5 pages + 6 pages appendices; published version
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 043011 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1361
abstract: We discuss strategies for quantum enhanced estimation of atomic transition frequencies with ions stored in Paul traps or neutral atoms trapped in optical lattices. We show that only marginal quantum improvements can be achieved using standard Ramsey interferometry in the presence of collective dephasing, which is the major source of noise in relevant experimental setups. We therefore analyze methods based on decoherence free subspaces and prove that quantum enhancement can readily be achieved even in the case of significantly imperfect state preparation and faulty detections.

id: 1102.1372
title: Pathway interference in a loop array of three coupled microresonators
authors: Sandra Isabelle Schmid, Keyu Xia, J?rg Evers
comments: 12 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 013808 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1372
abstract: A system of three coupled toroidal microresonators arranged in a loop configuration is studied. This setup allows light entering the resonator setup from a tapered fiber to evolve along a variety of different pathways before leaving again through the fiber. In particular, the loop configuration of the resonators allows for an evolution which we term roundtrip process, in which the light evolves from one resonator sequentially through all others back to the initial one. This process renders the optical properties of the system sensitive to the phases of all coupling and scattering constants in the system. We analyze the transmission and reflection spectra, and interpret them in terms of interference between the various possible evolution pathways through the resonator system. In particular, we focus on the phase dependence of the optical properties. Finally, we discuss possible applications for this phase sensitivity induced by the roundtrip process, such as the measurement of the position of a nanoparticle close to one of the resonators, and the measurement of changes in the refractive index between two resonators. Our analytical results for the applications are supported by proof-of-principle calculations based on finite-difference-time-domain solution ofMaxwell's equations in two dimensions on a grid.

id: 1102.1401
title: Variational Numerical Renormalization Group: Bridging the gap between NRG and Density Matrix Renormalization Group
authors: Iztok Pizorn, Frank Verstraete
comments: As accepted to PRL. Main text: 4 pages, 4 (PDF) figures; Supplementary material: 4 pages, 6 PDF figures; revtex4-1
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 067202 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1401
abstract: The numerical renormalization group (NRG) is rephrased as a variational method with the cost function given by the sum of all the energies of the effective low-energy Hamiltonian. This allows to systematically improve the spectrum obtained by NRG through sweeping. The ensuing algorithm has a lot of similarities to the density matrix renormalization group (DMRG) when targeting many states, and this synergy of NRG and DMRG combines the best of both worlds and extends their applicability. We illustrate this approach with simulations of a quantum spin chain and a single impurity Anderson model (SIAM) where the accuracy of the effective eigenstates is greatly enhanced as compared to the NRG, especially in the transition to the continuum limit.

id: 1102.1438
title: Stronger Quantum Correlations with Loophole-free Post-selection
authors: Matty J. Hoban, Dan E. Browne
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, substantially revised in response to referee suggestions
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 120402 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1438
abstract: One of the most striking non-classical features of quantum mechanics is in the correlations it predicts between spatially separated measurements. In local hidden variable theories, correlations are constrained by Bell inequalities, but quantum correlations violate these. However, experimental imperfections lead to "loopholes" whereby LHV correlations are no longer constrained by Bell inequalities, and violations can be described by LHV theories. For example, loopholes can emerge through selective detection of events. In this letter, we introduce a clean, operational picture of multi-party Bell tests, and show that there exists a non-trivial form of loophole-free post-selection. Surprisingly, the same post-selection can enhance quantum correlations, and unlock a connection between non-classical correlations and non-classical computation.

id: 1102.1459
title: Shapiro effect in atomchip-based bosonic Josephson junctions
authors: Julian Grond, Thomas Betz, Ulrich Hohenester, Norbert J. Mauser, Joerg Schmiedmayer, Thorsten Schumm
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 065026 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1459
abstract: We analyze the emergence of Shapiro resonances in tunnel-coupled Bose-Einstein condensates, realizing a bosonic Josephson junction. Our analysis is based on an experimentally relevant implementation using magnetic double well potentials on an atomchip. In this configuration the potential bias (implementing the junction voltage) and the potential barrier (realizing the Josephson link) are intrinsically coupled. We show that the dynamically driven system exhibits significantly enhanced Shapiro resonances which will facilitate experimental observation. To describe the systems response to the dynamic drive we compare a single-mode Gross-Pitaevskii (GP) description, an improved two-mode (TM) model and the self-consistent multi-configurational time dependent Hartree for Bosons (MCTDHB) method. We show that in the case of significant atom-atom interactions or strong driving, the spatial dynamics of the involved modes have to be taken into account, and only the MCTDHB method allows reliable predictions.

id: 1102.1463
title: State-dependent lattices for quantum computing with alkaline-earth-metal atoms
authors: Andrew J Daley, Jun Ye, Peter Zoller
comments: 11 Pages, 7 Figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 65, 207-217 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1463
abstract: Recent experimental progress with Alkaline-Earth atoms has opened the door to quantum computing schemes in which qubits are encoded in long-lived nuclear spin states, and the metastable electronic states of these species are used for manipulation and readout of the qubits. Here we discuss a variant of these schemes, in which gate operations are performed in nuclear-spin-dependent optical lattices, formed by near-resonant coupling to the metastable excited state. This provides an alternative to a previous scheme [A. J. Daley, M. M. Boyd, J. Ye, and P. Zoller, Phys. Rev. Lett 101, 170504 (2008)], which involved independent lattices for different electronic states. As in the previous case, we show how existing ideas for quantum computing with Alkali atoms such as entanglement via controlled collisions can be freed from important technical restrictions. We also provide additional details on the use of collisional losses from metastable states to perform gate operations via a lossy blockade mechanism.

id: 1102.1482
title: Dual algebraic structures for the two-level pairing model
authors: M. A. Caprio, J. H. Skrabacz, F. Iachello
comments: 34 pages, 5 figures; published in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A 44, 075303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1482
abstract: Duality relations are explicitly established relating the Hamiltonians and basis classification schemes associated with the number-conserving unitary and number-nonconserving quasispin algebras for the two-level system with pairing interactions. These relations are obtained in a unified formulation for both bosonic and fermionic systems, with arbitrary and, in general, unequal degeneracies for the two levels. Illustrative calculations are carried out comparing the bosonic and fermionic quantum phase transitions.

id: 1102.1483
title: A variational description of the quantum phase transition in the sub-Ohmic spin-boson model
authors: A. W. Chin, J. Prior, S. F. Huelga, M. B. Plenio
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 160601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1483
abstract: The sub-ohmic spin-boson model is known to possess a novel quantum phase transition at zero temperature between a localised and delocalised phase. We present here an analytical theory based on a variational ansatz for the ground state, which describes a continuous localization transition with mean-field exponents for $0<s<0.5$. Our results for the critical properties show good quantitiative agreement with previous numerical results, and we present a detailed description of all the spin observables as the system passes through the transition. Analysing the ansatz itself, we give an intuitive microscopic description of the transition in terms of the changing correlations between the system and bath, and show that it is always accompanied by a divergence of the low-frequency boson occupations. The possible relevance of this divergence for some numerical approaches to this problem is discussed and illustrated by looking at the ground state obtained using density matrix renormalisation group methods.

id: 1102.1486
title: Electromagnetic Casimir Energies of Semi-Infinite Planes
authors: Mohammad F. Maghrebi, Noah Graham
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, uses RevTeX4
journal: Europhys.Lett.95:14001,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1486
abstract: Using recently developed techniques based on scattering theory, we find the electromagnetic Casimir energy for geometries involving semi-infinite planes, a case that is of particular interest in the design of microelectromechanical devices. We obtain both approximate analytic formulae and exact results requiring only modest numerical computation. Using these results, we analyze the effects of edges and orientation on the Casimir energy. We also demonstrate the accuracy, simplicity, and utility of our approximation scheme, which is based on a multiple reflection expansion.

id: 1102.1490
title: Quantum interference and entanglement of photons which do not overlap in time
authors: R. Wiegner, C. Thiel, J. von Zanthier, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1490
abstract: We discuss the possibility of quantum interferences and entanglement of photons which exist at different intervals of time, i.e., one photon being recorded before the other has been created. The corresponding two-photon correlation function is shown to violate Bell's inequalities.

id: 1102.1530
title: Characterization of quantum states in predicative logic
authors: Giulia Battilotti
comments: 14 pages, Boston, IQSA10, to appear
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1530
abstract: We develop a characterization of quantum states by means of first order variables and random variables, within a predicative logic with equality, in the framework of basic logic and its definitory equations. We introduce the notion of random first order domain and find a characterization of pure states in predicative logic and mixed states in propositional logic, due to a focusing condition. We discuss the role of first order variables and the related contextuality, in terms of sequents.

id: 1102.1546
title: Quantum control in spintronics
authors: A. Ardavan, G.A.D. Briggs
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures; a short review of quantum spintronics for a special issue of RS Transactions on 'New Directions in Spintronics'
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1546
abstract: Superposition and entanglement are uniquely quantum phenomena. Superposition incorporates a phase which contains information surpassing any classical mixture. Entanglement offers correlations between measurements in quantum systems that are stronger than any which would be possible classically. These give quantum computing its spectacular potential, but the implications extend far beyond quantum information processing. Early applications may be found in entanglement enhanced sensing and metrology. Quantum spins in condensed matter offer promising candidates for investigating and exploiting superposition and entanglement, and enormous progress is being made in quantum control of such systems. In GaAs, individual electron spins can be manipulated and measured, and singlet-triplet states can be controlled in double-dot structures. In silicon, individual electron spins can be detected by ionisation of phosphorous donors, and information can be transferred from electron spins to nuclear spins to provide long memory times. Electron and nuclear spins can be manipulated in nitrogen atoms incarcerated in fullerene molecules, which in turn can be assembled in ordered arrays. Spin states of charged nitrogen vacancy centres in diamond can be manipulated and read optically. Collective spin states in a range of materials systems offer scope for holographic storage of information. Conditions are now excellent for implementing superposition and entanglement in spintronic devices, thereby opening up a new era of quantum technologies.

id: 1102.1612
title: The physical Church-Turing thesis and the principles of quantum theory
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Gilles Dowek
comments: 14 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1612
abstract: Notoriously, quantum computation shatters complexity theory, but is innocuous to computability theory. Yet several works have shown how quantum theory as it stands could breach the physical Church-Turing thesis. We draw a clear line as to when this is the case, in a way that is inspired by Gandy. Gandy formulates postulates about physics, such as homogeneity of space and time, bounded density and velocity of information --- and proves that the physical Church-Turing thesis is a consequence of these postulates. We provide a quantum version of the theorem. Thus this approach exhibits a formal non-trivial interplay between theoretical physics symmetries and computability assumptions.

id: 1102.1618
title: Recovery in quantum error correction for general noise without measurement
authors: Chi-Kwong Li, Mikio Nakahara, Yiu-Tung Poon, Nung-Sing Sze, Hiroyuki Tomita
comments: 10 pages
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, 12:149-158, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1618
abstract: It is known that one can do quantum error correction without syndrome measurement, which is often done in operator quantum error correction (OQEC). However, the physical realization could be challenging, especially when the recovery process involves high-rank projection operators and a superoperator. We use operator theory to improve OQEC so that the implementation can always be done by unitary gates followed by a partial trace operation. Examples are given to show that our error correction scheme outperforms the existing ones in various scenarios.

id: 1102.1651
title: Quantum Simulation of the Majorana Equation and Unphysical Operations
authors: J. Casanova, C. Sabin, J. Leon, I. L. Egusquiza, R. Gerritsma, C. F. Roos, J. J. Garcia-Ripoll, E. Solano
comments: To be published in Physical Review X
journal: Phys. Rev. X. 1, 021018 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1651
abstract: A quantum simulator is a device engineered to reproduce the properties of an ideal quantum model. It allows the study of quantum systems that cannot be efficiently simulated on classical computers. While a universal quantum computer is also a quantum simulator, only particular systems have been simulated up to now. Still, there is a wealth of successful cases, such as spin models, quantum chemistry, relativistic quantum physics and quantum phase transitions. Here, we show how to design a quantum simulator for the Majorana equation, a non-Hamiltonian relativistic wave equation that might describe neutrinos and other exotic particles beyond the standard model. The simulation demands the implementation of charge conjugation, an unphysical operation that opens a new front in quantum simulations, including the discrete symmetries associated with complex conjugation and time reversal. Finally, we show how to implement this general method in trapped ions.

id: 1102.1654
title: Trajectory-Wave Approach to Electron Dynamics in Hydrogen Atom
authors: N.T.Valishin, F.T.Valishin, S.A.Moiseev
comments: N.T. Valishin, F.T. Valishin and S.A. Moiseev, "Trajectory-wave monism of electron nature in Hydrogen atom", A Fock Meeting on Quantum and Computational chemistry, Kazan State Technological University, Kazan, Russia, 19-23 October 2009;N. T. Valishin, F. T. Valishin, and S.A.Moiseev. Trajectory-Wave Nature of Electron in the Hydrogen Atom. International Conference on Coherent and Nonlinear Optics (ICONO/LAT-2010), 24 August, 2010, Kazan, Russia
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1654
abstract: In this work we propose a new approach to the explanation of the nature of electron based on the corpuscular-wave monism using the further development of the optical-mechanical analogy to describe the physical reality. In this theory the motion of an electron is considered to occur along a trajectory the presence of which is a reflection of the existence of a particle, as well as it is assumed that any motion is defined by a wave V(x,t). It is assumed that there is an explicit relationship between the trajectory and wave equations of the electron, which are established on the basis of the local variational principle. In this approach, an electron wave propagating in free space takes along the electron trajectory. We used this theory to describe the electron motion in a hydrogen-like atom and found its stationary states. The energies of these states coincide with the known quantum mechanics solutions for the stationary energies of the hydrogen-like atom, however, in our approach the spatial trajectories of the electron have the form of the surfaces, which are formed in the region of nodes of the standing electron wave. These surfaces have the form of spheres for the spherical symmetrical electron states and the radii of these spheres coincide with the radii of the Bohr orbits of these states. Thus, in this approach the trajectory and wave measurements of the electron get a consistent spatial description that is inherent to the picture of the corpuscular-wave monism. We discuss the considerable correspondence of the proposed theory with the quantum mechanics results describing the stationary and non-stationary motions of the electron in the atom and their difference. We believe that measuring of the spatial configuration of the observed electron trajectory surfaces in an atom could be a deep examination of the standard quantum theory.

id: 1102.1678
title: Optimal bounds for quantum bit commitment
authors: Andr¨¦ Chailloux, Iordanis Kerenidis
comments: v1 20pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1678
abstract: Bit commitment is a fundamental cryptographic primitive with numerous applications. Quantum information allows for bit commitment schemes in the information theoretic setting where no dishonest party can perfectly cheat. The previously best-known quantum protocol by Ambainis achieved a cheating probability of at most 3/4[Amb01]. On the other hand, Kitaev showed that no quantum protocol can have cheating probability less than 1/sqrt{2} [Kit03] (his lower bound on coin flipping can be easily extended to bit commitment). Closing this gap has since been an important and open question. In this paper, we provide the optimal bound for quantum bit commitment. We first show a lower bound of approximately 0.739, improving Kitaev's lower bound. We then present an optimal quantum bit commitment protocol which has cheating probability arbitrarily close to 0.739. More precisely, we show how to use any weak coin flipping protocol with cheating probability 1/2 + eps in order to achieve a quantum bit commitment protocol with cheating probability 0.739 + O(eps). We then use the optimal quantum weak coin flipping protocol described by Mochon[Moc07]. To stress the fact that our protocol uses quantum effects beyond the weak coin flip, we show that any classical bit commitment protocol with access to perfect weak (or strong) coin flipping has cheating probability at least 3/4.

id: 1102.1679
title: The observables of a dissipative quantum system
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Paolo Facchi, Giuseppe Marmo, Saverio Pascazio
comments: 4 pages
journal: Open Systems & Information Dynamics 19 (2012) 1250002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1679
abstract: A time-dependent product is introduced between the observables of a dissipative quantum system, that accounts for the effects of dissipation on observables and commutators. In the $t \to \infty$ limit this yields a contracted algebra. The general ideas are corroborated by a few explicit examples.

id: 1102.1684
title: Influence of External Fields and Environment on the Dynamics of Phase Qubit-Resonator System
authors: Gennady P. Berman, Alexander A. Chumak
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1684
abstract: We analyze the dynamics of a qubit-resonator system coupled with a thermal bath and external electromagnetic fields. Using the evolution equations for the set of Heisenberg operators, that describe the whole system, we derive an expression for the resonator field, accounting for the resonator-drive,-bath, and -qubit interaction. The renormalization of the resonator frequency, caused by the qubit-resonator interaction, is accounted for. Using solutions for the resonator field, we derive the equation describing qubit dynamics. The influence of the qubit evolution during the measurement time on the fidelity of a single-shot measurement is studied. The relation between the fidelity and measurement time is shown explicitly. Also, an expression describing relaxation of the superposition qubit state towards its stationary value is derived. The possibility of controlling this state, by varying the amplitude and frequency of drive, is shown.

id: 1102.1685
title: Bypassing state initialisation in perfect state transfer protocols on spin-chains
authors: C. Di Franco, M. Paternostro, M. S. Kim
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4
journal: LNCS 6519, 168 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1685
abstract: Although a complete picture of the full evolution of complex quantum systems would certainly be the most desirable goal, for particular Quantum Information Processing schemes such an analysis is not necessary. When quantum correlations between only specific elements of a many-body system are required for the performance of a protocol, a more distinguished and specialised investigation is helpful. Here, we provide a striking example with the achievement of perfect state transfer in a spin chain without state initialisation, whose realisation has been shown to be possible in virtue of the correlations set between the first and last spin of the transmission-chain.

id: 1102.1737
title: Optimal teleportation with a noisy source
authors: Bruno G. Taketani, Fernando de Melo, Ruynet L. de Matos Filho
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 020301(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1737
abstract: We establish the optimal quantum teleportation protocol for the realistic scenario when both input state and quantum channel are afflicted by noise. In taking these effects into account higher fidelities are achieved. The optimality of the proposed protocol prevails even when restricted to a reduced set of generically available operations.

id: 1102.1738
title: All-optical Realization of Quantum Ratchets
authors: Clinton Thompson, Gautam Vemuri, G.S. Agarwal
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1738
abstract: A theoretical realization of an all-optical quantum ratchet is proposed in a medium composed of an array of coupled waveguides. By coupling light into two adjacent waveguides, and calculating the expectation value for the position space operator, we demonstrate the quantum ratchet like behavior of this optical system.

id: 1102.1765
title: Nonequilibrium Atom-Dielectric Forces Mediated by a Quantum Field
authors: Ryan Orson Behunin, Bei-Lok Hu
comments: 24 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012902 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1765
abstract: In this paper we give a first principles microphysics derivation of the nonequilibrium forces between an atom, treated as a three dimensional harmonic oscillator, and a bulk dielectric medium modeled as a continuous lattice of oscillators coupled to a reservoir. We assume no direct interaction between the atom and the medium but there exist mutual influences transmitted via a common electromagnetic field. By employing concepts and techniques of open quantum systems we introduce coarse-graining to the physical variables - the medium, the quantum field and the atom's internal degrees of freedom, in that order - to extract their averaged effects from the lowest tier progressively to the top tier. The first tier of coarse-graining provides the averaged effect of the medium upon the field, quantified by a complex permittivity (in the frequency domain) describing the response of the dielectric to the field in addition to its back action on the field through a stochastic forcing term. The last tier of coarse- graining over the atom's internal degrees of freedom results in an equation of motion for the atom's center of mass from which we can derive the force on the atom. Our nonequilibrium formulation provides a fully dynamical description of the atom's motion including back action effects from all other relevant variables concerned. In the long-time limit we recover the known results for the atom-dielectric force when the combined system is in equilibrium or in a nonequilibrium stationary state.

id: 1102.1793
title: Optimal trapping wavelengths of Cs$_2$ molecules in an optical lattice
authors: Romain V¨¦xiau, Nadia Bouloufa, Mireille Aymar, Johann Georg Danzl, Manfred J Mark, Hans-Christoph Naegerl, Olivier Dulieu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1793
abstract: The present paper aims at finding optimal parameters for trapping of Cs$_2$ molecules in optical lattices, with the perspective of creating a quantum degenerate gas of ground-state molecules. We have calculated dynamic polarizabilities of Cs$_2$ molecules subject to an oscillating electric field, using accurate potential curves and electronic transition dipole moments. We show that for some particular wavelengths of the optical lattice, called "magic wavelengths", the polarizability of the ground-state molecules is equal to the one of a Feshbach molecule. As the creation of the sample of ground-state molecules relies on an adiabatic population transfer from weakly-bound molecules created on a Feshbach resonance, such a coincidence ensures that both the initial and final states are favorably trapped by the lattice light, allowing optimized transfer in agreement with the experimental observation.

id: 1102.1838
title: Entangling two distant oscillators with a quantum reservoir
authors: Alexander Wolf, Gabriele De Chiara, Endre Kajari, Eric Lutz, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Europhysics Letters 95, 60008 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1838
abstract: The generation of entanglement between two oscillators that interact via a common reservoir is theoretically studied. The reservoir is modeled by a one-dimensional harmonic crystal initially in thermal equilibrium. Starting from a separable state, the oscillators can become entangled after a transient time, that is of the order of the thermalization time scale. This behavior is observed at finite temperature even when the oscillators are at a distance significantly larger than the crystal's interparticle spacing. The underlying physical mechanisms can be explained by the dynamical properties of the collective variables of the two oscillators which may decouple from or be squeezed by the reservoir. Our predictions can be tested with an ion chain in a linear Paul trap.

id: 1102.1905
title: Phase transitions in an Ising chain interacting with a single mode cavity field
authors: S?ren Gammelmark, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 13 053035 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1905
abstract: We investigate the thermodynamics of a combined Dicke- and Ising-model which exhibits a rich phenomenology arising from the second order and quantum phase transitions from the respective models. The partition function is calculated using mean field theory, and the free energy is analyzed in detail to determine the complete phase diagram for the system. The analysis reveals both first- and second-order Dicke phase transitions into a super-radiant state, and the cavity mean-field in this regime acts as an effective magnetic field, which restricts the Ising chain dynamics to parameter ranges away from the Ising phase transition. Physical systems with a first order phase transitions are natural candidates for metrology and calibration purposes, and we apply filter theory to show that the sensitivity of the physical system to temperature and external fields reaches the 1/N Heisenberg limit.

id: 1102.1916
title: Fusing Imperfect Photonic Cluster States
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein
comments: 8 pages, 4 composite figures, added section surveying the effects of photon loss
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, 58, 1285-1291 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1916
abstract: The ability to construct large photonic cluster states capable of supporting universal quantum computation relies on fusing together cluster primitives. These fusion operations are probabilistic and the efficiency of the construction process relies on recycling remains of cluster primitives that have undergone failed fusion attempts. Here I consider the effects of the inevitible decoherence that must arise while storing cluster primitives. First, I explore the case where dephased two-qubit cluster states are the basic resource for the construction of all larger cluster states, all fusion operations are successful, and no further dephasing occurs during the construction process. This allows us to explore how decoherence of the most basic, primitive clusters translate into imperfections of the larger cluster states constructed from them. I then assume that decoherence occurs before every attempted fusion operation and determine the best way to build a five qubit cluster. This requires including the effects of the fusion operation failures. Fidelity is used as the measure of accuracy for the constructed cluster states. Finally, I include a short discussion of photon loss and how it affects the construction of simple photonic clusters.

id: 1102.1918
title: Quantum Information Processing with Continuous Variables and Atomic Ensembles
authors: Marcin Zwierz
comments: PhD Thesis, University of Sheffield, UK (January 2011), 142 pages, 21 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1918
abstract: This thesis presents three different results in quantum information theory. The first result addresses the theoretical foundations of quantum metrology. The Heisenberg limit considered as the ultimate limit in quantum metrology sets a lower bound on how precisely a physical quantity can be measured given a certain amount of resources in any possible measurement. Recently, however, several measurement procedures have been proposed in which the Heisenberg limit seemed to be surpassed. This led to an extensive debate over the question how the sensitivity scales with the physical resources and the computational resources that are used in estimation procedures. Here, we reconcile the physical definition of the relevant resources with the information-theoretical scaling in terms of the query complexity of a quantum network. This leads to a novel and ultimate Heisenberg limit that applies to all conceivable measurement procedures. The second result reveals a close relationship between quantum metrology and the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm over continuous-variable quantum systems. Here, we develop a general procedure, characterized by two parameters, that unifies parameter estimation and the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm. The procedure estimates a value of an unknown parameter with Heisenberg-limited precision or solves the Deutsch-Jozsa problem in a single run without the use of any entanglement. The third result illustrates how physical principles that govern interaction of light and matter can be efficiently employed to create a computational resource for a (one-way) quantum computer. More specifically, we demonstrate theoretically a scheme based on atomic ensembles and the dipole blockade mechanism for generation of the so-called cluster states in a single step. This procedure is significantly more efficient than any known robust probabilistic entangling operation.

id: 1102.1941
title: Intrinsic Quantum Correlations of Weak Coherent States for Quantum Communication
authors: Yong Meng Sua, Erin Scanlon, Travis Beaulieu, Viktor Bollen, Kim Fook Lee
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1941
abstract: Intrinsic quantum correlations of weak coherent states are observed between two parties through a novel detection scheme, which can be used as a supplement to the existence decoy-state BB84 and differential phase-shift quantum key distribution (DPS-QKD) protocols. In a proof-of-principle experiment, we generate bi-partite correlations of weak coherent states using weak local oscillator fields in two spatially separated balanced homodyne detections. We employ nonlinearity of post-measurement method to obtain the bi-partite correlations from two single-field interferences at individual homodyne measurement. This scheme is then used to demonstrate bits correlations between two parties over a distance of 10 km through a transmission fiber. We believe that the scheme can add another physical layer of security to these protocols for quantum key distribution.

id: 1102.1948
title: Probability representation and state-extended uncertainty relations
authors: V.N.Chernega, V.I.Man'ko
comments: 5 pages, to appear in Journal of Russian Laser Research, misprints corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1948
abstract: The new inequality recently found by Trifonov and called the state-extended inequality is considered in the tomographic-probability representation of quantum mechanics. The Trifonov uncertainty relations are expressed in terms of optical tomograms and can be checked in experiments on homodyne detection of the photon states.

id: 1102.1963
title: On quantum limit of optical communications: concatenated codes and joint-detection receivers
authors: Saikat Guha, Zachary Dutton, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures, submitted to IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT), 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1963
abstract: When classical information is sent over a channel with quantum-state modulation alphabet, such as the free-space optical (FSO) channel, attaining the ultimate (Holevo) limit to channel capacity requires the receiver to make joint measurements over long codeword blocks. In recent work, we showed a receiver for a pure-state channel that can attain the ultimate capacity by applying a single-shot optical (unitary) transformation on the received codeword state followed by simultaneous (but separable) projective measurements on the single-modulation-symbol state spaces. In this paper, we study the ultimate tradeoff between photon efficiency and spectral efficiency for the FSO channel. Based on our general results for the pure-state quantum channel, we show some of the first concrete examples of codes and laboratory-realizable joint-detection optical receivers that can achieve fundamentally higher (superadditive) channel capacity than receivers that physically detect each modulation symbol one at a time, as is done by all conventional (coherent or direct-detection) optical receivers.

id: 1102.1994
title: Occam's Quantum Razor: How Quantum Mechanics can reduce the complexity of classical models
authors: Mile Gu, Karoline Wiesner, Elisabeth Rieper, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, revised version with improved exposition and figures, for publication in Nature Communications
journal: Nature Communications, 3, 763 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1994
abstract: Mathematical models are an essential component of quantitative science. They generate predictions about the future, based on information available in the present. In the spirit of Occam's razor, simpler is better; should two models make identical predictions, the one that requires less input is preferred. Yet, for almost all stochastic processes, even the provably optimal classical models waste information. The amount of input information they demand exceeds the amount of predictive information they output. We systematically construct quantum models that break this classical bound, and show that the system of minimal entropy that simulates such processes must necessarily feature quantum dynamics. This indicates that many observed phenomena could be significantly simpler than classically possible should quantum effects be involved.

id: 1102.1998
title: Fidelity of Physical Measurements
authors: Thomas B. Bahder
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. Section headings added and some text modified to improve clarity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1998
abstract: The fidelity (Shannon mutual information between measurements and physical quantities) is proposed as a quantitative measure of the quality of physical measurements. The fidelity does not depend on the true value of unknown physical quantities (as does the Fisher information) and it allows for the role of prior information in the measurement process. The fidelity is general enough to allow a natural comparison of the quality of classical and quantum measurements. As an example, the fidelity is used to compare the quality of measurements made by a classical and a quantum Mach-Zehnder interferometer.

id: 1102.2058
title: Quantum Algorithms: Database Search and its Variations
authors: Apoorva Patel
comments: This is a pedagogical article. 12 pages
journal: Physics News 40 (October 2010) 33-44
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2058
abstract: The driving force in the pursuit for quantum computation is the exciting possibility that quantum algorithms can be more efficient than their classical analogues. Research on the subject has unraveled several aspects of how that can happen. Clever quantum algorithms have been discovered in recent years, although not systematically, and the field remains under active investigation. This article is an introduction to the quantum database search algorithm. Its extension to the quantum spatial search algorithm is also described.

id: 1102.2080
title: Entanglement in mutually unbiased bases
authors: M. Wiesniak, T. Paterek, A. Zeilinger
comments: 13 pages + appendices. Published version
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 053047 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2080
abstract: One of the essential features of quantum mechanics is that most pairs of observables cannot be measured simultaneously. This phenomenon is most strongly manifested when observables are related to mutually unbiased bases. In this paper, we shed some light on the connection between mutually unbiased bases and another essential feature of quantum mechanics, quantum entanglement. It is shown that a complete set of mutually unbiased bases of a bipartite system contains a fixed amount of entanglement, independently of the choice of the set. This has implications for entanglement distribution among the states of a complete set. In prime-squared dimensions we present an explicit experiment-friendly construction of a complete set with a particularly simple entanglement distribution. Finally, we describe basic properties of mutually unbiased bases composed only of product states. The constructions are illustrated with explicit examples in low dimensions. We believe that properties of entanglement in mutually unbiased bases might be one of the ingredients to be taken into account to settle the question of the existence of complete sets. We also expect that they will be relevant to applications of bases in the experimental realization of quantum protocols in higher-dimensional Hilbert spaces.

id: 1102.2083
title: Wave function as geometric entity
authors: B. I. Lev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2083
abstract: A new approach to the geometrization of the electron theory is proposed. The particle wave function is represented by a geometric entity, i.e., Clifford number, with the translation rules possessing the structure of Dirac equation for any manifold. A solution of this equation is obtained in terms of geometric treatment. Interference of electrons whose wave functions are represented by geometric entities is considered. New experiments concerning the geometric nature of electrons are proposed.

id: 1102.2098
title: Renyi Entropy and Free Energy
authors: John C. Baez
comments: 5 pages in LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2098
abstract: The Renyi entropy is a generalization of the usual concept of entropy which depends on a parameter q. In fact, Renyi entropy is closely related to free energy. Suppose we start with a system in thermal equilibrium and then suddenly divide the temperature by q. Then the maximum amount of work the system can do as it moves to equilibrium at the new temperature, divided by the change in temperature, equals the system's Renyi entropy in its original state. This result applies to both classical and quantum systems. Mathematically, we can express this result as follows: the Renyi entropy of a system in thermal equilibrium is minus the "1/q-derivative" of its free energy with respect to temperature. This shows that Renyi entropy is a q-deformation of the usual concept of entropy.

id: 1102.2150
title: Creation of collective many-body states and single photons from two-dimensional Rydberg lattice gases
authors: T. Laycock, B. Olmos, I. Lesanovsky
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: 2011 J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 184017
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2150
abstract: The creation of collective many-body quantum states from a two-dimensional lattice gas of atoms is studied. Our approach relies on the van-der-Waals interaction that is present between alkali metal atoms when laser excited to high-lying Rydberg s-states. We focus on a regime in which the laser driving is strong compared to the interaction between Rydberg atoms. Here energetically low-lying many-particle states can be calculated approximately from a quadratic Hamiltonian. The potential usefulness of these states as a resource for the creation of deterministic single-photon sources is illustrated. The properties of these photon states are determined from the interplay between the particular geometry of the lattice and the interatomic spacing.

id: 1102.2199
title: Quantum Coherent Nonlinear Feedbacks with Applications to Quantum Optics on Chip
authors: Jing Zhang, Re-Bing Wu, Yu-xi Liu, Chun-Wen Li, Tzyh-Jong Tarn
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: IEEE Trans. Automat. Contr. 57(8), 1997 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2199
abstract: In the control of classical mechanical systems, the feedback has been successfully applied to the production of the desired nonlinear dynamics. However, how much this can be done is still an open problem in quantum mechanical systems. This paper proposes a scheme of generating strong nonlinear quantum effects via the recently developed coherent feedback techniques, which can be shown to outperform the measurement-based quantum feedback scheme that can only generate pseudo-nonlinear quantum effects. Such advancement is demonstrated by two application examples in quantum optics on chip. In the first example, we show that the nonlinear Kerr effect can be generated and amplified to be comparable with the linear effect in a transmission line resonator (TLR). In the second example, we show that by tuning the gains of the quantum amplifiers in a TLR coherent feedback network, non-Gaussian "light" (microwave field) can be generated and manipulated via the nonlinear effects which exhibits fully quantum sub-Poisson photoncount statistics and photon antibunching phenomenon. The scheme opens promising applications in demonstrating strong nonlinear quantum optics on chip, which is extremely weak and inflexible in traditional quantum optical devices.

id: 1102.2210
title: Quantum dynamics of a high-finesse optical cavity coupled with a thin semi-transparent membrane
authors: C. Biancofiore, M. Karuza, M. Galassi, R. Natali, P. Tombesi, G. Di Giuseppe, D. Vitali
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84 033814 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2210
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of the cavity optomechanical system formed by a Fabry-Perot cavity with a thin vibrating membrane at its center. We first derive the general multimode Hamiltonian describing the radiation pressure interaction between the cavity modes and the vibrational modes of the membrane. We then restrict the analysis to the standard case of a single cavity mode interacting with a single mechanical resonator and we determine to what extent optical absorption by the membrane hinder reaching a quantum regime for the cavity-membrane system. We show that membrane absorption does not pose serious limitations and that one can simultaneously achieve ground state cooling of a vibrational mode of the membrane and stationary optomechanical entanglement with state-of-the-art apparatuses.

id: 1102.2213
title: Classical and Quantum Probabilities as Truth Values
authors: Andreas Doering, Chris J. Isham
comments: 39 pages, no figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 53, 032101 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2213
abstract: We show how probabilities can be treated as truth values in suitable sheaf topoi. The scheme developed in this paper is very general and applies to both classical and quantum physics. On the quantum side, the results are a natural extension of our existing work on a topos approach to quantum theory. Earlier results on the representation of arbitrary quantum states are complemented with a purely logical perspective.

id: 1102.2277
title: Approximate Born-Infeld Effects on the Relativistic Hydrogen Spectrum
authors: J. Franklin, T. Garon
comments: to appear, Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2277
abstract: The Born-Infeld form of the hydrogen atom has a spectrum that can be used to determine the physical viability of the theory, and place an experimentally relevant bound on the single parameter found in it. We compute this spectrum using the relativistic Dirac equation, and a form of the Born-Infeld potential that approximates the self-field corrections of the electron. Using these together, we can establish that if the Born-Infeld nonlinear electrodynamics is to be physically relevant, it must contain a fundamental constant that is well below the original value proposed by Born. This work extends the original Schrodinger spectrum from Carley and Kiessling (2006) [1] for the self-field correction, and shows that using the Dirac equation introduces minor corrections - but also gives access to a range for the fundamental constant that is below that attainable from non-relativistic considerations.

id: 1102.2318
title: Advances in Quantum Metrology
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. This is the very preliminary version of a review article on quantum metrology. More recent versions of the manuscript will be posted asap
journal: Nature Photonics 5, 222 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2318
abstract: In classical estimation theory, the central limit theorem implies that the statistical error in a measurement outcome can be reduced by an amount proportional to n^(-1/2) by repeating the measures n times and then averaging. Using quantum effects, such as entanglement, it is often possible to do better, decreasing the error by an amount proportional to 1/n. Quantum metrology is the study of those quantum techniques that allow one to gain advantages over purely classical approaches. In this review, we analyze some of the most promising recent developments in this research field. Specifically, we deal with the developments of the theory and point out some of the new experiments. Then we look at one of the main new trends of the field, the analysis of how the theory must take into account the presence of noise and experimental imperfections.

id: 1102.2323
title: Conditional Phase Shift for Quantum CCNOT Operation
authors: Alexander Ig. Trifanov, George P. Miroshnichenko
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, 1 conference, 1 scientific school
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2323
abstract: We suggest the improvement of description methods for quantum phase gate implementation in the cavity of QED configuration. Qubits are encoded into two lowest Fock state. Three qubit phase transformation is resulted from the interaction between Rydberg atom and three modes of cavity electromagnetic field. Evolution of conditional field states appearing after atom measurement is described by Kraus transformers. One of these operators is very convenient for phase gate implementation. We show that it corresponds to conditional evolution without quantum jumps. Also we describe cavity based generating EPR pair from certain initially disentangled state.

id: 1102.2326
title: Black hole evaporation rates without spacetime
authors: Samuel L. Braunstein, Manas K. Patra
comments: 8 pages, including supplementary material
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.107:071302,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2326
abstract: Verlinde recently suggested that gravity, inertia, and even spacetime may be emergent properties of an underlying thermodynamic theory. This vision was motivated in part by Jacobson's 1995 surprise result that the Einstein equations of gravity follow from the thermodynamic properties of event horizons. Taking a first tentative step in such a program, we derive the evaporation rate (or radiation spectrum) from black hole event horizons in a spacetime-free manner. Our result relies on a Hilbert space description of black hole evaporation, symmetries therein which follow from the inherent high dimensionality of black holes, global conservation of the no-hair quantities, and the existence of Penrose processes. Our analysis is not wedded to standard general relativity and so should apply to extended gravity theories where we find that the black hole area must be replaced by some other property in any generalized area theorem.

id: 1102.2329
title: Quantum mechanics in metric space: wave functions and their densities
authors: I. D'Amico, J. P. Coe, V. V. Franca, K. Capelle
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 050401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2329
abstract: Hilbert space combines the properties of two fundamentally different types of mathematical spaces: vector space and metric space. While the vector-space aspects of Hilbert space, such as formation of linear combinations of state vectors, are routinely used in quantum mechanics, the metric-space aspects of Hilbert space are much less exploited. Here we show that a suitable metric stratifies Fock space into concentric spheres. Maximum and minimum distances between wave functions are derived and geometrically interpreted in terms of this metric. Unlike the usual Hilbert-space analysis, our results apply also to the reduced space of only ground-state wave functions and to that of particle densities, each of which forms a metric space but not a Hilbert space. The Hohenberg-Kohn mapping between densities and ground-state wave functions, which is highly complex and nonlocal in coordinate description, is found, for three different model systems, to be very simple in metric space, where it is represented by a monotonic mapping of vicinities onto vicinities. Surprisingly, it is also found to be nearly linear over a wide range of parameters.

id: 1102.2338
title: The Basics of Perfect Communication through Quantum Networks
authors: Alastair Kay
comments: v2: 9 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022337 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2338
abstract: Perfect transfer of a quantum state through a one-dimensional chain is now well understood, allowing one not only to decide whether a fixed Hamiltonian achieves perfect transfer, but to design a suitable one. We are particularly interested in being able to design, or understand the limitations imposed upon, Hamiltonians subject to various naturally arising constraints such as a limited coupling topology with low connectivity (specified by a graph) and type of interaction. In this paper, we characterise the necessary and sufficient conditions for transfer through a network, and describe some natural consequences such as the impossibility of routing between many different recipients for a large class of Hamiltonians, and the limitations on transfer rate. We also consider some of the trade-offs that arise in uniformly coupled networks (both Heisenberg and XX models) between transfer distance and the size of the network as a consequence of the derived conditions.

id: 1102.2341
title: Asymptotically optimal purification and dilution of mixed qubit and Gaussian states
authors: Peter Bowles, Madalin Guta, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022320 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2341
abstract: Given an ensemble of mixed qubit states, it is possible to increase the purity of the constituent states using a procedure known as state purification. The reverse operation, which we refer to as dilution, reduces the level of purity present in the constituent states. In this paper we find asymptotically optimal procedures for purification and dilution of an ensemble of i.i.d. mixed qubit states, for some given input and output purities and an asymptotic output rate. Our solution involves using the statistical tool of local asymptotic normality, which recasts the qubit problem in terms of attenuation and amplification of a single displaced Gaussian state. Therefore, to obtain the qubit solutions, we must first solve the analogous problems in the Gaussian setup. We provide full solutions to all of the above, for the (global) trace norm figure of merit.

id: 1102.2356
title: Simple proof of the robustness of Gaussian entanglement in bosonic noisy channels
authors: Gerardo Adesso
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure, brief report
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 024301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2356
abstract: The extremality of Gaussian states is exploited to show that Gaussian states are the most robust, among all possible bipartite continuous-variable states at fixed energy, against disentanglement due to noisy evolutions in Markovian Gaussian channels involving dissipation and thermal hopping. This proves a conjecture raised recently in [M. Allegra, P. Giorda, and M. G. A. Paris, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 105}, 100503 (2010)], providing a rigorous validation of the conclusions of that work. The problem of identifying continuous variable states with maximum resilience to entanglement damping in more general bosonic open system dynamical evolutions, possibly including correlated noise and non-Markovian effects, remains open.

id: 1102.2368
title: Picturing classical and quantum Bayesian inference
authors: Bob Coecke, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 38 pages, lots of pictures
journal: Synthese 186, 651 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Category Theory (math.CT); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2368
abstract: We introduce a graphical framework for Bayesian inference that is sufficiently general to accommodate not just the standard case but also recent proposals for a theory of quantum Bayesian inference wherein one considers density operators rather than probability distributions as representative of degrees of belief. The diagrammatic framework is stated in the graphical language of symmetric monoidal categories and of compact structures and Frobenius structures therein, in which Bayesian inversion boils down to transposition with respect to an appropriate compact structure. We characterize classical Bayesian inference in terms of a graphical property and demonstrate that our approach eliminates some purely conventional elements that appear in common representations thereof, such as whether degrees of belief are represented by probabilities or entropic quantities. We also introduce a quantum-like calculus wherein the Frobenius structure is noncommutative and show that it can accommodate Leifer's calculus of `conditional density operators'. The notion of conditional independence is also generalized to our graphical setting and we make some preliminary connections to the theory of Bayesian networks. Finally, we demonstrate how to construct a graphical Bayesian calculus within any dagger compact category.

id: 1102.2387
title: Popper's Thought Experiment Reinvestigated
authors: Chris D. Richardson, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information (IJQI), Volume: 10, Issue: 3(2012) 1250033,
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2387
abstract: Popper's original thought experiment probed some fundamental and subtle rules of quantum mechanics. Two experiments have directly and indirectly tested Popper's hypothesis, but they seem to give contrasting results. The equations governing these two experiments and Popper's thought experiment will be derived from basic quantum principles. The experimental constants will be inputted and it will show that the two experiments agree with each other and with quantum theory.

id: 1102.2389
title: Thermalization in Nature and on a Quantum Computer
authors: Arnau Riera, Christian Gogolin, Jens Eisert
comments: 4 pages plus 8 pages appendix, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 080402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2389
abstract: In this work, we show how Gibbs or thermal states appear dynamically in closed quantum many-body systems, building on the program of dynamical typicality. We introduce a novel perturbation theorem for physically relevant weak system-bath couplings that is applicable even in the thermodynamic limit. We identify conditions under which thermalization happens and discuss the underlying physics. Based on these results, we also present a fully general quantum algorithm for preparing Gibbs states on a quantum computer with a certified runtime and error bound. This complements quantum Metropolis algorithms, which are expected to be efficient but have no known runtime estimates and only work for local Hamiltonians.

id: 1102.2392
title: Continuous variable entanglement in open quantum dynamics
authors: Aurelian Isar
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures; talk at the 16th Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics (CEWQO 2009), Turku, Finland (2009)
journal: Physica Scripta, Topical Issue T140, 014023 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2392
abstract: In the framework of the theory of open systems based on completely positive quantum dynamical semigroups, we give a description of the dynamics of entanglement for a system consisting of two uncoupled harmonic oscillators interacting with a thermal environment. Using Peres-Simon necessary and sufficient criterion for separability of two-mode Gaussian states, we describe the evolution of entanglement in terms of the covariance matrix for a Gaussian input state. For some values of the temperature of environment, the state keeps for all times its initial type: separable or entangled. In other cases, entanglement generation, entanglement sudden death or a repeated collapse and revival of entanglement take place. We analyze also the time evolution of the logarithmic negativity, which characterizes the degree of entanglement of the quantum state.

id: 1102.2398
title: The Kirchhoff's Matrix-Tree Theorem revisited: counting spanning trees with the quantum relative entropy
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Simone Severini
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2398
abstract: By revisiting the Kirchhoff's Matrix-Tree Theorem, we give an exact formula for the number of spanning trees of a graph in terms of the quantum relative entropy between the maximally mixed state and another state specifically obtained from the graph. We use properties of the quantum relative entropy to prove tight bounds for the number of spanning trees in terms of basic parameters like degrees and number of vertices.

id: 1102.2415
title: Entanglement dynamics via geometric phases in quantum spin chains
authors: C. S. Castro, M. S. Sarandy
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures. v2: Minor corrections. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042334 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2415
abstract: We introduce a connection between entanglement induced by interaction and geometric phases acquired by a composite quantum spin system. We begin by analyzing the evaluation of cyclic (Aharonov-Anandan) and non-cyclic (Mukunda-Simon) geometric phases for general spin chains evolving in the presence of time-independent magnetic fields. Then, by considering Heisenberg chains, we show that the interaction geometric phase, namely, the total geometric phase with subtraction of free spin contributions, is directly related to the global (Meyer-Wallach) entanglement exhibited by an initially separable state during its evolution in Hilbert space. This is analytically shown for N=2 spins and numerically illustrated for larger chains. This relationship promotes the interaction geometric phase to an indicator of global entanglement in the system, which may constitute a useful tool for quantum tasks based on entanglement as a resource to their performance.

id: 1102.2427
title: Achievable Qubit Rates for Quantum Information Wires
authors: Hulya Yadsan-Appleby, Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2427
abstract: Suppose Alice and Bob have access to two separated regions, respectively, of a system of electrons moving in the presence of a regular one-dimensional lattice of binding atoms. We consider the problem of communicating as much quantum information, as measured by the qubit rate, through this quantum information wire as possible. We describe a protocol whereby Alice and Bob can achieve a qubit rate for these systems which is proportional to N^(-1/3) qubits per unit time, where N is the number of lattice sites. Our protocol also functions equally in the presence of interactions modelled via the t-J and Hubbard models.

id: 1102.2465
title: Control of quantum transverse correlations on a four-photon system
authors: P.-L. de Assis, M. A. D. Carvalho, L. P. Berruezo, J. Ferraz, I. F. Santos, F. Sciarrino, S. P¨¢dua
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 19, Issue 4, pp. 3715-3729 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2465
abstract: Control of spatial quantum correlations in bi-photons is one of the fundamental principles of Quantum Imaging. Up to now, experiments have been restricted to controlling the state of a single bi-photon, by using linear optical elements. In this work we demonstrate experimental control of quantum correlations in a four-photon state comprised of two pairs of photons. Our scheme is based on a high-efficiency parametric downconversion source coupled to a double slit by a variable linear optical setup, in order to obtain spatially encoded qubits. Both entangled and separable pairs have been obtained, by altering experimental parameters. We show how the correlations influence both the interference and diffraction on the double slit.

id: 1102.2470
title: Directed coherent transport due to Bloch oscillation in two dimensions
authors: J. M. Zhang, W. M. Liu
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A 82, 025602 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2470
abstract: We point out that in higher dimensions, in contrast to the one dimensional case considered usually, Bloch oscillation driven by a static force can induce transport of the wave packet. The wave packet oscillates constantly, but on a larger time scale it drifts at a constant velocity permanently. As a noteworthy feature, the net transport in the long run is always normal to the external force and thus controlled by it. We verify this prediction numerically and discuss its experimental realization both with cold atoms in optical lattices and with two dimensional photonic lattices.

id: 1102.2486
title: Quantum Maupertuis Principle
authors: Antonia Karamatskou, Hagen Kleinert
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2486
abstract: According to the Maupertuis principle, the movement of a classical particle in an external potential $V(x)$ can be understood as the movement in a curved space with the metric $g_{\mu\nu}(x)=2M[V(x)-E]\delta_{\mu\nu}$. We show that the principle can be extended to the quantum regime, i.e., we show that the wave function of the particle follows a Schr\"odinger equation in curved space where the kinetic operator is formed with the {\it Weyl--invariant Laplace-Beltrami} operator. As an application, we use DeWitt's recursive semiclassical expansion of the time-evolution operator in curved space to calculate the semiclassical expansion of the particle density $\rho(x;E)=<x|\delta(E-\hat H)|x>$.

id: 1102.2497
title: Dynamic Symmetries and Entropic Inequalities in the Probability Representation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Margarita A. Man'ko, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 32 pages, 2 figures, PDF, the article is based on lectures given by the authors at the XL Latin American School of Physics "Symmetries in Physics" in memory of Marcos Moshinsky and devoted to the tomographic-probability representation of quantum mechanics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2497
abstract: The probability representation of quantum and classical statistical mechanics is discussed. Symplectic tomography, center-of-mass tomography, and spin tomography are studied. The connection of tomographic probabilities with dynamic symmetries like symplectic group is considered. Entropic uncertainty relations and inequalities for spin tomograms are reviewed.

id: 1102.2525
title: Relation between strength of interaction and accuracy of measurement for a quantum measurement
authors: Takayuki Miyadera
comments: 6 pages, Discussion in Sec. III was improved
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052119 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2525
abstract: The process of measuring a two-level quantum system was examined by applying Hamiltonian formalism. For the measurement of an observable that does not commute with the system Hamiltonian, a non-trivial relationship among the strength of interaction, the time interval of the process, and the accuracy of the measurement was obtained. Particularly, to achieve an error-free measurement of such an observable, a condition stating that the interaction Hamiltonian does not commute with the system Hamiltonian needs to be satisfied.

id: 1102.2538
title: Time-resolved detection of relative intensity squeezed nanosecond pulses in a Rb87 vapor
authors: Imad H. Agha, Christina Giarmatzi, Quentin Glorieux, Thomas Coudreau, Philippe Grangier, Gaetan Messin
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2538
abstract: We present theoretical and experimental results on the generation and detection of pulsed, relative-intensity squeezed light in a hot Rb87 vapor. The intensity noise correlations between a pulsed probe beam and its conjugate, generated through nearly-degenerate four-wave mixing in a double-lambda system, are studied numerically and measured experimentally via time-resolved balanced detection. We predict and observe about -1 dB of time-resolved relative intensity squeezing with 50 nanosecond pulses at 1 MHz repetition rate. (-1.34 dB corrected for loss).

id: 1102.2544
title: Entanglement capabilities of the spin representation of (3+1)D-conformal transformations
authors: K. Scharnhorst
comments: 15 pages LaTeX (v2: minor changes, headings introduced; v3: secs. 1, 5, 6 extended, references [2], [3], [10]-[17], [37], [38] added, final version to appear in Quant. Inf. Comput.)
journal: Quant.Inf.Comput.13:925-936,2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2544
abstract: Relying on a mathematical analogy of the pure states of the two-qubit system of quantum information theory with four-component spinors we introduce the concept of the intrinsic entanglement of spinors. To explore its physical sense we study the entanglement capabilities of the spin representation of (pseudo-) conformal transformations in (3+1)-dimensional Minkowski space-time. We find that only those tensor product structures can sensibly be introduced in spinor space for which a given spinor is not entangled.

id: 1102.2549
title: Decoherence-free dynamics of quantum discord for two correlated qubits in finite-temperature reservoirs
authors: Lan Xu, Ji-Bing Yuan, Qing-Shou Tan, Lan Zhou, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2549
abstract: We investigate decoherence-free evolution (DFE) of quantum discord (QD) for two initially-correlated qubits in two finite-temperature reservoirs using an exactly solvable model. We study QD dynamics of the two qubits coupled to two independent Ohmic reservoirs when the two qubits are initially prepared in X-type quantum states. It is found that reservoir temperature significantly affects the DFE dynamics. We show that it is possible to control the DFE and to prolong the DFE time by choosing suitable parameters of the two-qubit system and reservoirs.

id: 1102.2555
title: Changepoint Problem in Quantumn Setting
authors: Daiki Akimoto, Masahito Hayashi
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A, Vol.83, No.5, (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2555
abstract: In the changepoint problem, we determine when the distribution observed has changed to another one. We expand this problem to the quantum case where copies of an unknown pure state are being distributed. We study the fundamental case, which has only two candidates to choose. This problem is equal to identifying a given state with one of the two unknown states when multiple copies of the states are provided. In this paper, we assume that two candidate states are distributed independently and uniformly in the space of the whole pure states. The minimum of the averaged error probability is given and the optimal POVM is defined as to obtain it. Using this POVM, we also compute the error probability which depends on the inner product. These analytical results allow us to calculate the value in the asymptotic case, where this problem approaches to the usual discrimination problem.

id: 1102.2624
title: Classical communication over a quantum interference channel
authors: Omar Fawzi, Patrick Hayden, Ivan Savov, Pranab Sen, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 21 pages, 6 figures, v5: Accepted for publication in the IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 58, no. 6, pp. 3670-3691 (June 2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2624
abstract: Calculating the capacity of interference channels is a notorious open problem in classical information theory. Such channels have two senders and two receivers, and each sender would like to communicate with a partner receiver. The capacity of such channels is known exactly in the settings of "very strong" and "strong" interference, while the Han-Kobayashi coding strategy gives the best known achievable rate region in the general case. Here, we introduce and study the quantum interference channel, a natural generalization of the interference channel to the setting of quantum information theory. We restrict ourselves for the most part to channels with two classical inputs and two quantum outputs in order to simplify the presentation of our results (though generalizations of our results to channels with quantum inputs are straightforward). We are able to determine the exact classical capacity of this channel in the settings of "very strong" and "strong" interference, by exploiting Winter's successive decoding strategy and a novel two-sender quantum simultaneous decoder, respectively. We provide a proof that a Han-Kobayashi strategy is achievable with Holevo information rates, up to a conjecture regarding the existence of a three-sender quantum simultaneous decoder. This conjecture holds for a special class of quantum multiple access channels with average output states that commute, and we discuss some other variations of the conjecture that hold. Finally, we detail a connection between the quantum interference channel and prior work on the capacity of bipartite unitary gates.

id: 1102.2627
title: The free space optical interference channel
authors: Saikat Guha, Ivan Savov, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, Accepted for ISIT 2011, Saint-Petersburg, Russia, v2 has minor changes
journal: Proceedings of the International Symposium on Information Theory 2011 (ISIT 2011), pp. 114--118, St. Petersburg, Russia
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2627
abstract: Semiclassical models for multiple-user optical communication cannot assess the ultimate limits on reliable communication as permitted by the laws of physics. In all optical communications settings that have been analyzed within a quantum framework so far, the gaps between the quantum limit to the capacity and the Shannon limit for structured receivers become most significant in the low photon-number regime. Here, we present a quantum treatment of a multiple-transmitter multiple-receiver multi-spatial-mode free-space interference channel with diffraction-limited loss and a thermal background. We consider the performance of a laser-light (coherent state) encoding in conjunction with various detection strategies such as homodyne, heterodyne, and joint detection. Joint detection outperforms both homodyne and heterodyne detection whenever the channel exhibits "very strong" interference. We determine the capacity region for homodyne or heterodyne detection when the channel has "strong" interference, and we conjecture the existence of a joint detection strategy that outperforms the former two strategies in this case. Finally, we determine the Han-Kobayashi achievable rate regions for both homodyne and heterodyne detection and compare them to a region achievable by a conjectured joint detection strategy. In these latter cases, we determine achievable rate regions if the receivers employ a recently discovered min-entropy quantum simultaneous decoder.

id: 1102.2662
title: Knowledge and ignorance in incomplete quantum state tomography
authors: Y. S. Teo, H. Zhu, B.-G. Englert, J. Rehacek, Z. Hradil
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 020404 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2662
abstract: Quantum state reconstruction on a finite number of copies of a quantum system with informationally incomplete measurements does, as a rule, not yield a unique result. We derive a reconstruction scheme where both the likelihood and the von Neumann entropy functionals are maximized in order to systematically select the most-likely estimator with the largest entropy, that is the least-bias estimator, consistent with a given set of measurement data. This is equivalent to the joint consideration of our partial knowledge and ignorance about the ensemble to reconstruct its identity. An interesting structure of such estimators will also be explored.

id: 1102.2717
title: Hamiltonian identification through enhanced observability utilizing quantum control
authors: Zaki Leghtas, Gabriel Turinici, Herschel Rabitz, Pierre Rouchon
comments: Submitted to IEEE TAC special issue on quantum control
journal: IEEE TAC vol 57 issue 10 pages: 2679-2683 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2717
abstract: This paper considers Hamiltonian identification for a controllable quantum system with non-degenerate transitions and a known initial state. We assume to have at our disposal a single scalar control input and the population measure of only one state at an (arbitrarily large) final time T. We prove that the quantum dipole moment matrix is locally observable in the following sense: for any two close but distinct dipole moment matrices, we construct discriminating controls giving two different measurements. Such discriminating controls are constructed to have three well defined temporal components, as inspired by Ramsey interferometry. This result suggests that what may appear at first to be very restrictive measurements are actually rich for identification, when combined with well designed discriminating controls, to uniquely identify the complete dipole moment of such systems. The assessment supports the employment of quantum control as a promising means to achieve high quality identification of a Hamiltonian.

id: 1102.2754
title: Space of events and the time observable
authors: Nikola Buri\' c, Slobodan Prvanovi\' c
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2754
abstract: Quantum mechanical time operator is introduced following the parametric formulation of classical mechanics in the extended phase space. Quantum constraint on the extended quantum system is defined in analogy to the constraint of the classical extended system, and is interpreted as the condition defining the space of physical events. It is seen that the peculiar properties of the time observable, otherwise obtained in the models of time measurement, are of the classical origin, (i.e.), due to the quantized classical constraint of the parametric Hamiltonian dynamics.

id: 1102.2800
title: Rydberg-Rydberg interaction profile from the excitation dynamics of ultracold atoms in lattices
authors: Michael Mayle, Wolfgang Zeller, Nikolas Tezak, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 84, 010701 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2800
abstract: We propose a method for the determination of the interaction potential of Rydberg atoms. Specifically, we consider a laser-driven Rydberg gas confined in a one-dimensional lattice and demonstrate that the Rydberg atom number after a laser excitation cycle as a function of the laser detuning provides a measure for the Rydberg interaction coefficient. With the lattice spacing precisely known, the proposed scheme only relies on the measurement of the number of Rydberg atoms and thus circumvents the necessity to map the interaction potential by varying the interparticle separation.

id: 1102.2802
title: Quantized Media with Absorptive Scatterers and Modified Atomic Emission Rates
authors: L.G. Suttorp, A.J. van Wonderen
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2802
abstract: Modifications in the spontaneous emission rate of an excited atom that are caused by extinction effects in a nearby dielectric medium are analyzed in a quantummechanical model, in which the medium consists of spherical scatterers with absorptive properties. Use of the dyadic Green function of the electromagnetic field near a a dielectric sphere leads to an expression for the change in the emission rate as a series of multipole contributions for which analytical formulas are obtained. The results for the modified emission rate as a function of the distance between the excited atom and the dielectric medium show the influence of both absorption and scattering processes.

id: 1102.2816
title: Location-Oblivious Data Transfer with Flying Entangled Qudits
authors: Adrian Kent
comments: References updated. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012328 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2816
abstract: We present a simple and practical quantum protocol involving two mistrustful agencies in Minkowski space, which allows Alice to transfer data to Bob at a spacetime location that neither can predict in advance. The location depends on both Alice's and Bob's actions. The protocol guarantees unconditionally to Alice that Bob learns the data at a randomly determined location; it guarantees to Bob that Alice will not learn the transfer location even after the protocol is complete. The task implemented, transferring data at a space-time location that remains hidden from the transferrer, has no precise analogue in non-relativistic quantum cryptography. It illustrates further the scope for novel cryptographic applications of relativistic quantum theory.

id: 1102.2826
title: On the Ollivier-Poulin-Zurek definition of objectivity
authors: Chris Fields
comments: To appear in Axiomathes
journal: Axiomathes 24: 137-156, 2014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2826
abstract: The Ollivier-Poulin-Zurek definition of objectivity provides a philosophical basis for the environment as witness formulation of decoherence theory and hence for quantum Darwinism. It is shown that no account of the reference of the key terms in this definition can be given that does not render the definition either empty or circular. It is argued that this is not the fault of the language used, but of the assumption that the laws of physics are independent of Hilbert-space decomposition. All evidence suggests that this latter assumption is true. If it is, decoherence cannot explain the emergence of classicality.

id: 1102.2847
title: Application of Resonance Perturbation Theory to Dynamics of Magnetization in Spin Systems Interacting with Local and Collective Bosonic Reservoirs
authors: M. Merkli, G.P. Berman, A. Redondo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2847
abstract: We apply our recently developed resonance perturbation theory to describe the dynamics of magnetization in paramagnetic spin systems interacting simultaneously with local and collective bosonic environments. We derive explicit expressions for the evolution of the reduced density matrix elements. This allows us to calculate explicitly the dynamics of the macroscopic magnetization, including characteristic relaxation and dephasing time-scales. We demonstrate that collective effects (i) do not influence the character of the relaxation processes but merely renormalize the relaxation times, and (ii) significantly modify the dephasing times, leading in some cases to a complicated (time inhomogeneous) dynamics of the transverse magnetization, governed by an effective time-dependent magnetic field.

id: 1102.2855
title: Causality, Bell's theorem, and Ontic Definiteness
authors: Joe Henson
comments: 40 pages (26 main text), 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2855
abstract: Bell's theorem shows that the reasonable relativistic causal principle known as "local causality" is not compatible with the predictions of quantum mechanics. It is not possible maintain a satisfying causal principle of this type while dropping any of the better-known assumptions of Bell's theorem. However, another assumption of Bell's theorem is the use of classical logic. One part of this assumption is the principle of "ontic definiteness", that is, that it must in principle be possible to assign definite truth values to all propositions treated in the theory. Once the logical setting is clarified somewhat, it can be seen that rejecting this principle does not in any way undermine the type of causal principle used by Bell. Without ontic definiteness, the deterministic causal condition known as Einstein Locality succeeds in banning superluminal influence (including signalling) whilst allowing correlations that violate Bell's inequalities. Objections to altering logic, and the consequences for operational and realistic viewpoints, are also addressed.

id: 1102.2861
title: An algebraically independent generating set of the algebra of local unitary invariants
authors: Peter Vrana
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2861
abstract: We show that the inverse limit of the graded algebras of local unitary invariant polynomials of finite dimensional k-partite quantum systems is free, and give an algebraically independent generating set. The number of degree 2d invariants in the generating set is equal to the number of conjugacy classes of index d subgroups of a free group on k-1 generators.

id: 1102.2909
title: Universal Quantum Computation and Leakage Reduction in the 3-Qubit Decoherence Free Subsystem
authors: Bryan H. Fong, Stephen M. Wandzura
comments: 
journal: Quantum.Inf.Comput. 11 (2011) 1003-1018
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2909
abstract: We describe exchange-only universal quantum computation and leakage reduction in the 3-qubit decoherence free subsystem (DFS). We discuss the angular momentum structure of the DFS, the proper forms for the DFS CNOT and leakage reduction operators in the total angular momentum basis, and new exchange-only pulse sequences for the CNOT and leakage reduction operators. Our new DFS CNOT sequence requires 22 pulses in 13 time steps. The DFS leakage reduction sequence, the first explicit leakage reduction sequence of its kind, requires 30 pulses in 20 time steps. Although the search for sequences was performed numerically using a genetic algorithm, the solutions presented here are exact, with closed-form expressions.

id: 1102.2955
title: Quantum interference channels
authors: Ivan Savov, Omar Fawzi, Mark M. Wilde, Pranab Sen, Patrick Hayden
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, submitted to the 2011 Allerton Conference on Communication, Control, and Computing; v3 has a proof for a two-sender quantum simultaneous decoder and as a result, we get the capacity for channels with strong interference
journal: Proceedings of the 49th Annual Allerton Conference on Communication, Control, and Computing, pages 609-616 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2955
abstract: The discrete memoryless interference channel is modelled as a conditional probability distribution with two outputs depending on two inputs and has widespread applications in practical communication scenarios. In this paper, we introduce and study the quantum interference channel, a generalization of a two-input, two-output memoryless channel to the setting of quantum Shannon theory. We discuss three different coding strategies and obtain corresponding achievable rate regions for quantum interference channels. We calculate the capacity regions in the special cases of "very strong" and "strong" interference. The achievability proof in the case of "strong" interference exploits a novel quantum simultaneous decoder for two-sender quantum multiple access channels. We formulate a conjecture regarding the existence of a quantum simultaneous decoder in the three-sender case and use it to state the rates achievable by a quantum Han-Kobayashi strategy.

id: 1102.2988
title: Reality is both digital and analog
authors: Alan Forrester
comments: Submitted for FQXI essay contest, 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2988
abstract: I argue that both digital and analog information are important in the foundations of quantum physics. If it is possible for information present in one system to become present in others without being erased in the original system I will say that this information can be copied. I argue that copying is important for understanding issues like causality and that all information that can be copied is digital. I then explain that analog information that cannot be copied can be understood in terms of decision theoretic probability. Finally, I argue that these ideas can help explain the second law of thermodynamics. The arrow of time we experience is the knowledge arrow of time -- the present contains more knowledge, that is, useful or explanatory information, than the past. That knowledge is created by evolutionary processes that involve copying, variation and selection and such processes increase entropy.

id: 1102.2994
title: Two variants of the step-harmonic potential
authors: Luca Rizzi, Oliver F. Piattella, Sergio L. Cacciatori, Vittorio Gorini
comments: 23 pages, 10 figures, REVTeX 4 preprint style, to be submitted shortly to Am. J. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2994
abstract: Following the general scheme presented in [Am. J. Phys. 78 (8), 842--850 (2010)] we analyze the quantum-mechanical behavior of a system described by a one-dimensional asymmetric potential constituted by a step plus i) a linear barrier or ii) an exponential barrier. We explicitly solve the energy eigenvalue equation by means of the integral representation method, which allows us to classify the independent solutions as equivalence classes of homotopic paths in the complex plane. We discuss the structure of the bound states as function of the height U_0 of the step and we study the propagation of a sharp-peaked wave packet reflected by the barrier. For both the linear and the exponential barrier we provide an explicit formula for the delay time tau(E) as a function of the peak energy E. We display the resonant behavior of tau(E) at energies close to U_0. By analyzing the asymptotic behavior for large energies of the eigenfunctions of the continuous spectrum we also show that, as expected, tau(E) approaches the classical value for large values of E, thus diverging for the step-linear case and vanishing for the step-exponential one.

id: 1102.3004
title: Measurement of the Casimir force with a ferrule-top sensor
authors: P. Zuurbier, S. de Man, G. Gruca, K. Heeck, D. Iannuzzi
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys.13:023027,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3004
abstract: We present a Casimir force setup based on an all-optical ferrule-top sensor. We demonstrate that the instrument can be used to measure the gradient of the Casimir force between a gold coated sphere and a gold coated plate with results that are comparable to those achieved by similar atomic force microscope experiments. Thanks to the monolithic design of the force sensor (which does not require any optical triangulation readout) and to the absence of electronics on the sensing head, the instrument represents a significant step ahead for future studies of the Casimir effect under engineered conditions, where the intervening medium or the environmental conditions might be unsuitable for the use of more standard setups.

id: 1102.3033
title: Fast optical source for quantum key distribution based on semiconductor optical amplifiers
authors: M. Jofre, A. Gardelein, G. Anzolin, W. Amaya, J. Capmany, R. Ursin, L. Pe?ate, D. Lopez, J.L. San Juan, J.A. Carrasco, F. Garcia, F.J. Torcal-Milla, L.M. Sanchez-Brea, E. Bernabeu, J.M. Perdigues, T. Jennewein, J.P. Torres, M.W. Mitchell, V. Pruneri
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 19, Issue 5, pp. 3825-3834 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3033
abstract: A novel integrated optical source capable of emitting faint pulses with different polarization states and with different intensity levels at 100 MHz has been developed. The source relies on a single laser diode followed by four semiconductor optical amplifiers and thin film polarizers, connected through a fiber network. The use of a single laser ensures high level of indistinguishability in time and spectrum of the pulses for the four different polarizations and three different levels of intensity. The applicability of the source is demonstrated in the lab through a free space quantum key distribution experiment which makes use of the decoy state BB84 protocol. We achieved a lower bound secure key rate of the order of 3.64 Mbps and a quantum bit error ratio as low as $1.14\times 10^{-2}$ while the lower bound secure key rate became 187 bps for an equivalent attenuation of 35 dB. To our knowledge, this is the fastest polarization encoded QKD system which has been reported so far. The performance, reduced size, low power consumption and the fact that the components used can be space qualified make the source particularly suitable for secure satellite communication.

id: 1102.3070
title: Dynamics of quantum entanglement in Gaussian open systems
authors: Aurelian Isar
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures; talk at the International Workshop on Quantum Non-Stationary Systems, Brasilia, Brazil (2009)
journal: Physica Scripta, 82, 038116 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3070
abstract: In the framework of the theory of open systems based on completely positive quantum dynamical semigroups, we give a description of the dynamics of entanglement for a system consisting of two uncoupled harmonic oscillators interacting with a thermal environment. Using Peres-Simon necessary and sufficient criterion for separability of two-mode Gaussian states, we describe the evolution of entanglement in terms of the covariance matrix for a Gaussian input state. For some values of the temperature of environment, the state keeps for all times its initial type: separable or entangled. In other cases, entanglement generation, entanglement sudden death or a repeated collapse and revival of entanglement take place. We determine the asymptotic Gaussian maximally entangled mixed states (GMEMS) and their corresponding asymptotic maximal logarithmic negativity.

id: 1102.3073
title: Complete Parameterizations of Diffusive Quantum Monitorings
authors: A. Chia, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012119 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3073
abstract: The master equation for the state of an open quantum system can be unravelled into stochastic trajectories described by a stochastic master equation. Such stochastic differential equations can be interpreted as an update formula for the system state conditioned on results obtained from monitoring the bath. So far only one parameterization (mathematical representation) for arbitrary diffusive unravellings (quantum trajectories arising from monitorings with Gaussian white noise) of a system described by a master equation with $L$ Lindblad terms has been found [H. M. Wiseman and A. C. Doherty, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 94}, 070405 (2005)]. This parameterization, which we call the U-rep, parameterizes diffusive unravellings by $L^2+2L$ real numbers, arranged in a matrix ${\sf U}$ subject to three constraints. In this paper we investigate alternative parameterizations of diffusive measurements. We find, rather surprisingly, the description of diffusive unravellings can be unified by a single equation for a non-square complex matrix if one is willing to allow for some redundancy by lifting the number of real parameters necessary from $L^2+2L$ to $3L^2+L$. We call this parameterization the M-rep. Both the M-rep and U-rep lack a physical picture of what the measurement should look like. We thus propose another parameterization, the B-rep, that details how the measurement is implemented in terms of beam-splitters, phase shifters, and homodyne detectors. Relations between the different representations are derived.

id: 1102.3078
title: Quantum computation with moving quantum dots generated by surface acoustic waves
authors: X. Shi, M. Zhang, L. F. Wei
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3078
abstract: Motivated by the recent experimental observations [M. Kataoka et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf102}, 156801 (2009)], we propose here an theoretical approach to implement quantum computation with bound states of electrons in moving quantum dots generated by the driving of surface acoustic waves. Differing from static quantum dots defined by a series of static electrodes above the two-dimensional electron gas (2DEG), here a single electron is captured from a 2DEG-reservoir by a surface acoustic wave (SAW) and then trapped in a moving quantum dot (MQD) transporting across a quasi-one dimensional channel (Q1DC), wherein all the electrons have been excluded out by the actions of the surface gates. The flying qubit introduced here is encoded by the two lowest adiabatic levels of the electron in the MQD, and the Rabi oscillation between these two levels could be implemented by applying finely-selected microwave pulses to the surface gates. By using the Coulomb interaction between the electrons in different moving quantum dots, we show that a desirable two-qubit operation, i.e., i-SWAP gate, could be realized. Readouts of the present flying qubits are also feasible with the current single-electron detected technique.

id: 1102.3098
title: The Quantum Theory of MIMO Markovian Feedback with Diffusive Measurements
authors: A. Chia, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012120 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3098
abstract: Feedback control engineers have been interested in MIMO (multiple-input multiple-output) extensions of SISO (single-input single-output) results of various kinds due to its rich mathematical structure and practical applications. An outstanding problem in quantum feedback control is the extension of the SISO theory of Markovian feedback by Wiseman and Milburn [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 70}, 548 (1993)] to multiple inputs and multiple outputs. Here we generalize the SISO homodyne-mediated feedback theory to allow for multiple inputs, multiple outputs, and \emph{arbitrary} diffusive quantum measurements. We thus obtain a MIMO framework which resembles the SISO theory and whose additional mathematical structure is highlighted by the extensive use of vector-operator algebra.

id: 1102.3121
title: Distributed quantum information processing with mobile electrons
authors: Yuichiro Matsuzaki, John H. Jefferson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3121
abstract: In distributed quantum information processing, small devices composed of a single or a few qubits are networked together through shared entanglement to achieve a scalable machine. Typically, photons are utilized to generate remote entanglement between optically active matter qubits. In this paper, we consider another possibility for achieving entanglement between nodes: using mobile electron spins as mediators of the interaction between static qubits at each node. A strong interaction between electrons makes it feasible to couple the flying electron with the static electron. However, since the electrons easily interact with the environment, error accumulation during the entanglement operation could be more severe than with the other strategy using photons as flying qubits. We introduce a new scheme especially designed to minimize such error accumulation by using several distillation protocols. The conclusion is that a high fidelity entanglement operation can be constructed even under the effect of typical imperfections, and this suggestion therefore offers a feasible route for the realization of distributed quantum information processing in solid state systems.

id: 1102.3143
title: Design of nanophotonic circuits for autonomous subsystem quantum error correction
authors: Joseph Kerckhoff, Dmitri S. Pavlichin, Hamidreza Chalabi, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3143
abstract: We reapply our approach to designing nanophotonic quantum memories to formulate an optical network that autonomously protects a single logical qubit against arbitrary single-qubit errors. Emulating the 9 qubit Bacon-Shor subsystem code, the network replaces the traditionally discrete syndrome measurement and correction steps by continuous, time-independent optical interactions and coherent feedback of unitarily processed optical fields.

id: 1102.3169
title: Unice cogito, ergo quantum sum (I think uniquely, therefore I am quantum mechanical)
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3169
abstract: If the unitary quantum mechanical state evolution is universally valid, quantized systems evolve uniformly, deterministically, and reversible; that is, one-to-one. Hence, what is considered an irreversible measurement might be a purely subjective, conventional, and convenient abstraction of the situation that, although in principal totally reversible, for all practical purposes (fapp), measurements cannot be undone. If this is granted, then Schroedinger's "quantum jellification" arises because of the inevitability of the physical co-existence of classically mutually exclusive states through quantum coherence. It is suggested to take the rather unique human cognitive and perceptive experience as evidence that, at least at the level of apperception, quantum jellification does not exist at all. Otherwise the problems of how to characterize the ambivalence of perception and cognition induced by quantum coherence on a fundamental level of cognition, and why this ambivalence appears to be rather weak and can be ignored fapp, remain unsolved.

id: 1102.3179
title: Redundant Information from Thermal Illumination: Quantum Darwinism in Scattered Photons
authors: C. Jess Riedel, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 23 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 073038
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3179
abstract: We study quantum Darwinism, the redundant recording of information about the preferred states of a decohering system by its environment, for an object illuminated by a blackbody. We calculate the quantum mutual information between the object and its photon environment for blackbodies that cover an arbitrary section of the sky. In particular, we demonstrate that more extended sources have a reduced ability to create redundant information about the system, in agreement with previous evidence that initial mixedness of an environment slows---but does not stop---the production of records. We also show that the qualitative results are robust for more general initial states of the system.

id: 1102.3192
title: Relativistic particle in a three-dimensional box
authors: Pedro Alberto, Saurya Das, Elias C. Vagenas
comments: v1: 8 pages, 2 figures, revtex4; v2: minor typos corrected to match published version in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Phys.Lett.A375:1436-1440,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3192
abstract: We generalize the work of Alberto, Fiolhais and Gil and solve the problem of a Dirac particle confined in a 3-dimensional box. The non-relativistic and ultra-relativistic limits are considered and it is shown that the size of the box determines how relativistic the low-lying states are. The consequences for the density of states of a relativistic fermion gas are briefly discussed.

id: 1102.3208
title: Geometry and Curvature of Spin Networks
authors: E Jonckheere, S G Schirmer, F C Langbein
comments: 6 pages, several figures and tables, IEEE tex
journal: Control Applications (CCA), 2011 IEEE International Conference on, 786-791
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3208
abstract: A measure for the maximum quantum information transfer capacity (ITC) between nodes of a spin network is defined, and shown to induce a metric on a space of equivalence classes of nodes for homogeneous chains with XX and Heisenberg couplings. The geometry and curvature of spin chains with respect of this metric are studied and compared to the physical network geometry. For general networks hierarchical clustering is used to elucidate the proximity of nodes with regard to the maximum ITC. Finally, it is shown how minimal control can be used to overcome intrinsic limitations and speed up information transfer.

id: 1102.3228
title: Coherent Control of Vibrational State Population in a Nonpolar Molecule
authors: A. Pic¨®n, J. Biegert, A. Jaron-Becker, A. Becker
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 023412 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3228
abstract: A coherent control scheme for the population distribution in the vibrational states of nonpolar molecules is proposed. Our theoretical analysis and results of numerical simulations for the interaction of the hydrogen molecular ion in its electronic ground state with an infrared laser pulse reveal a selective two-photon transition between the vibrational states via a coupling with the first excited dissociative state. We demonstrate that for a given temporal intensity profile the population transfer between vibrational states, or a superposition of vibrational states, can be made complete for a single chirped pulse or a train of chirped pulses, which accounts for the accumulated phase difference due to the AC Stark effect. Effects of a spatial intensity (or, focal) averaging are discussed.

id: 1102.3233
title: Strong quantitative benchmarking of quantum optical devices
authors: Nathan Killoran, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures. Comments are welcome. ver 2: Improved figures, no changes to main text
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052320 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3233
abstract: Quantum communication devices, such as quantum repeaters, quantum memories, or quantum channels, are unavoidably exposed to imperfections. However, the presence of imperfections can be tolerated, as long as we can verify such devices retain their quantum advantages. Benchmarks based on witnessing entanglement have proven useful for verifying the true quantum nature of these devices. The next challenge is to characterize how strongly a device is within the quantum domain. We present a method, based on entanglement measures and rigorous state truncation, which allows us to characterize the degree of quantumness of optical devices. This method serves as a quantitative extension to a large class of previously-known quantum benchmarks, requiring no additional information beyond what is already used for the non-quantitative benchmarks.

id: 1102.3256
title: Robust optical delay lines via topological protection
authors: Mohammad Hafezi, Eugene Demler, Mikhail Lukin, Jacob Taylor
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures + 12 pages of supplementary information
journal: Nature Physics 7, 907--912 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3256
abstract: Phenomena associated with topological properties of physical systems are naturally robust against perturbations. This robustness is exemplified by quantized conductance and edge state transport in the quantum Hall and quantum spin Hall effects. Here we show how exploiting topological properties of optical systems can be used to implement robust photonic devices. We demonstrate how quantum spin Hall Hamiltonians can be created with linear optical elements using a network of coupled resonator optical waveguides (CROW) in two dimensions. We find that key features of quantum Hall systems, including the characteristic Hofstadter butterfly and robust edge state transport, can be obtained in such systems. As a specific application, we show that the topological protection can be used to dramatically improve the performance of optical delay lines and to overcome limitations related to disorder in photonic technologies.

id: 1102.3261
title: Closed Form of the Biphoton K-Vector Spectrum for Arbitrary Spatio-Temporal Pump Modes
authors: Jeffrey Perkins
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3261
abstract: A closed form solution is derived for the biphoton k-vector spectrum for an arbitrary pump spatial mode. The resulting mode coefficients for the pump input that maximize the probability of biphoton detection in the far field are found. It is thus possible to include the effect of arbitrary crystal poling strucures, and optimize the resulting biphoton flux.

id: 1102.3266
title: Quantum logical gates operating on stored light
authors: K. Slowik, A. Raczynski, J. Zaremba, S. Zielinska-Kaniasty
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3266
abstract: An implementation is proposed of single qubit gates, e.g., phase, NOT, \sqrt{NOT} and Hadamard, operating on polarized photons and based on light storage. Instead of processing photons themselves, qubit transformations are performed on atomic excitations due to photon storage in a medium of atoms in the tripod configuration.

id: 1102.3281
title: A Sequence of Qubit-Qudit Pauli Groups as a Nested Structure of Doilies
authors: Metod Saniga, Michel Planat
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures; v2 - version accepted in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 225305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3281
abstract: Following the spirit of a recent work of one of the authors (J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 045301), the essential structure of the generalized Pauli group of a qubit-qu$d$it, where $d = 2^{k}$ and an integer $k \geq 2$, is recast in the language of a finite geometry. A point of such geometry is represented by the maximum set of mutually commuting elements of the group and two distinct points are regarded as collinear if the corresponding sets have exactly $2^{k} - 1$ elements in common. The geometry comprises $2^{k} - 1$ copies of the generalized quadrangle of order two ("the doily") that form $2^{k-1} - 1$ pencils arranged into a remarkable nested configuration. This nested structure reflects the fact that maximum sets of mutually commuting elements are of two different kinds (ordinary and exceptional) and exhibits an intriguing alternating pattern: the subgeometry of the exceptional points of the $(k+2)$-case is found to be isomorphic to the full geometry of the $k$-case. It should be stressed, however, that these generic properties of the qubit-qudit geometry were inferred from purely computer-handled cases of $k = 2, 3, 4$ and 5 only and, therefore, their rigorous, computer-free proof for $k \geq 6$ still remains a mathematical challenge.

id: 1102.3354
title: A linearized stabilizer formalism for systems of finite dimension
authors: Niel de Beaudrap
comments: 25 pages, 3 figures. Reorganized to collect complexity results; some corrections and elaborations of technical results. Differs slightly from the version to be published (fixed typos, changes of wording to accommodate page breaks for a different article format). To appear as QIC vol 13 (2013), pp.73--115
journal: Quantum Information & Computation 13 (pp. 73 -- 115), 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3354
abstract: The stabilizer formalism is a scheme, generalizing well-known techniques developed by Gottesman [quant-ph/9705052] in the case of qubits, to efficiently simulate a class of transformations ("stabilizer circuits", which include the quantum Fourier transform and highly entangling operations) on standard basis states of d-dimensional qudits. To determine the state of a simulated system, existing treatments involve the computation of cumulative phase factors which involve quadratic dependencies. We present a simple formalism in which Pauli operators are represented using displacement operators in discrete phase space, expressing the evolution of the state via linear transformations modulo D <= 2d. We thus obtain a simple proof that simulating stabilizer circuits on n qudits, involving any constant number of measurement rounds, is complete for the complexity class coMod_{d}L and may be simulated by O(log(n)^2)-depth boolean circuits for any constant d >= 2.

id: 1102.3356
title: Direct Observation and Analysis of Spin Dependent Transport of Single Atoms in a 1D Optical Lattice
authors: Micha? Karski, Leonid F?rster, Jai-Min Choi, Andrea Alberti, Wolfgang Alt, Artur Widera, Dieter Meschede
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Korean Phys. Soc. 59, 2947 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3356
abstract: We have directly observed spin-dependent transport of single cesium atoms in a 1D optical lattice. A superposition of two circularly polarized standing waves is generated from two counter propagating, linearly polarized laser beams. Rotation of one of the polarizations by $\pi$ causes displacement of the $\sigma^{+}$- and $\sigma^{-}$-lattices by one lattice site. Unidirectional transport over several lattice sites is achieved by rotating the polarization back and forth and flipping the spin after each transport step. We have analyzed the transport efficiency over 10 and more lattice sites, and discussed and quantified relevant error sources.

id: 1102.3358
title: Quantum Ghost Imaging through Turbulence
authors: P. Ben Dixon, Gregory Howland, Kam Wai Clifford Chan, Colin O'Sullivan-Hale, Brandon Rodenburg, Nicholas D. Hardy, Jeffrey H. Shapiro, D. S. Simon, A. V. Sergienko, R. W. Boyd, John C. Howell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3358
abstract: We investigate the effect of turbulence on quantum ghost imaging. We use entangled photons and demonstrate that for a novel experimental configuration the effect of turbulence can be greatly diminished. By decoupling the entangled photon source from the ghost imaging central image plane, we are able to dramatically increase the ghost image quality. When imaging a test pattern through turbulence, this method increased the imaged pattern visibility from V = 0.14 +/- 0.04 to V = 0.29 +/- 0.04.

id: 1102.3366
title: Multiple-Photon Absorption Attack on Entanglement-Based Quantum Key Distribution Protocols
authors: Guillaume Adenier, Irina Basieva, Andrei Yu. Khrennikov, Masanori Ohya, Noboru Watanabe
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3366
abstract: In elaborating on the multiple-photon absorption attack on Ekert protocol proposed in arXiv:1011.4740, we show that it can be used in other entanglement-based protocols, in particular the BBM92 protocol. In this attack, the eavesdropper (Eve) is assumed to be in control of the source, and she sends pulses correlated in polarization (but not entangled) containing several photons at frequencies for which only multiple-photon absorptions are possible in Alice's and Bob's detectors. Whenever the photons stemming from one pulse are dispatched in such a way that the number of photons is insufficient to trigger a multiple-photon absorption in either channel, the pulse remains undetected. We show that this simple feature is enough to reproduce the type of statistics on the detected pulses that are considered as indicating a secure quantum key distribution, even though the source is actually a mixture of separable states. The violation of Bell inequalities measured by Alice and Bob increases with the order of the multiple-photon absorption that Eve can drive into their detectors, while the measured quantum bit error rate decreases as a function of the same variable. We show that the attack can be successful even in the simplest case of a two-photon absorption or three-photon absorption attack, and we discuss possible countermeasures, in particular the use of a fair sampling test.

id: 1102.3400
title: Experimental characterization of coherent magnetization transport in a one-dimensional spin system
authors: Chandrasekhar Ramanathan, Paola Cappellaro, Lorenza Viola, David Cory
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys., 13 (2011) 103015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3400
abstract: We experimentally characterize the non-equilibrium, room-temperature magnetization dynamics of a spin chain evolving under an effective double-quantum Hamiltonian. We show that the Liouville space operators corresponding to the magnetization and the two-spin correlations evolve 90 degrees out of phase with each other, and drive the transport dynamics. For a nearest-neighbor-coupled N-spin chain, the dynamics are found to be restricted to a Liouville operator space whose dimension scales only as N^2, leading to a slow growth of multi-spin correlations. Even though long-range couplings are present in the real system, we find excellent agreement between the analytical predictions and our experimental results, confirming that leakage out of the restricted Liouville space is slow on the timescales investigated. Our results indicate that the group velocity of the magnetization is 6.04 +/- 0.38 um/s, corresponding to a coherent transport over N ~ 26 spins on the experimental timescale. As the double-quantum Hamiltonian is related to the standard one-dimensional XX Hamiltonian by a similarity transform, our results can be directly extended to XX quantum spin chains, which have been extensively studied in the context of both quantum magnetism and quantum information processing.

id: 1102.3441
title: Non-Interactive Statistically-Hiding Quantum Bit Commitment from Any Quantum One-Way Function
authors: Takeshi Koshiba, Takanori Odaira
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3441
abstract: We provide a non-interactive quantum bit commitment scheme which has statistically-hiding and computationally-binding properties from any quantum one-way function. Our protocol is basically a parallel composition of the previous non-interactive quantum bit commitment schemes (based on quantum one-way permutations, due to Dumais, Mayers and Salvail (EUROCRYPT 2000)) with pairwise independent hash functions. To construct our non-interactive quantum bit commitment scheme from any quantum one-way function, we follow the procedure below: (i) from Dumais-Mayers-Salvail scheme to a weakly-hiding and 1-out-of-2 binding commitment (of a parallel variant); (ii) from the weakly-hiding and 1-out-of-2 binding commitment to a strongly-hiding and 1-out-of-2 binding commitment; (iii) from the strongly-hiding and 1-out-of-2 binding commitment to a normal statistically-hiding commitment. In the classical case, statistically-hiding bit commitment scheme (by Haitner, Nguyen, Ong, Reingold and Vadhan (SIAM J. Comput., Vol.39, 2009)) is also constructible from any one-way function. While the classical statistically-hiding bit commitment has large round complexity, our quantum scheme is non-interactive, which is advantageous over the classical schemes. A main technical contribution is to provide a quantum analogue of the new interactive hashing theorem, due to Haitner and Reingold (CCC 2007). Moreover, the parallel composition enables us to simplify the security analysis drastically.

id: 1102.3449
title: Lewis-Riesenfeld invariants and transitionless tracking algorithm
authors: Xi Chen, E. Torrontegui, J. G. Muga
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062116 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3449
abstract: Different methods have been recently put forward and implemented experimentally to inverse engineer the time dependent Hamiltonian of a quantum system and accelerate slow adiabatic processes via non-adiabatic shortcuts. In the "transitionless tracking algorithm" proposed by Berry, shortcut Hamiltonians are designed so that the system follows exactly, in an arbitrarily short time, the approximate adiabatic path defined by a reference Hamiltonian. A different approach is based on designing first a Lewis-Riesenfeld invariant to carry the eigenstates of a Hamiltonian from specified initial to final configurations, again in an arbitrary time, and then constructing from the invariant the transient Hamiltonian connecting these boundary configurations. We show that the two approaches, apparently quite different in form and so far in results, are in fact strongly related and potentially equivalent, so that the inverse-engineering operations in one of them can be reinterpreted and understood in terms of the concepts and operations of the other one. We study as explicit examples the expansions of time-dependent harmonic traps and state preparation of two level systems.

id: 1102.3502
title: Characterization of the Critical Sets of Quantum Unitary Control Landscapes
authors: Jason Dominy, Tak-San Ho, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3502
abstract: This work considers various families of quantum control landscapes (i.e. objective functions for optimal control) for obtaining target unitary transformations as the general solution of the controlled Schr\"odinger equation. We examine the critical point structure of the kinematic landscapes J_F (U) = ||(U-W)A||^2 and J_P (U) = ||A||^4 - |Tr(AA'W'U)|^2 defined on the unitary group U(H) of a finite-dimensional Hilbert space H. The parameter operator A in B(H) is allowed to be completely arbitrary, yielding an objective function that measures the difference in the actions of U and the target W on a subspace of state space, namely the column space of A. The analysis of this function includes a description of the structure of the critical sets of these kinematic landscapes and characterization of the critical points as maxima, minima, and saddles. In addition, we consider the question of whether these landscapes are Morse-Bott functions on U(H). Landscapes based on the intrinsic (geodesic) distance on U(H) and the projective unitary group PU(H) are also considered. These results are then used to deduce properties of the critical set of the corresponding dynamical landscapes.

id: 1102.3556
title: To what extent are canonical and coherent state quantizations physically equivalent?
authors: Herv¨¦ Bergeron, Jean-Pierre Gazeau, Ahmed Youssef
comments: 31 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3556
abstract: We investigate the consistency of coherent state (or Berezin-Klauder-Toeplitz, or anti-Wick) quantization in regard to physical observations in the non- relativistic (or Galilean) regime. We compare this procedure with the canonical quantization (on both mathematical and physical levels) and examine whether they are or not equivalent in their predictions: is it possible to dif- ferentiate them on a strictly physical level? As far as only usual dynamical observables (position, momentum, energy, ...) are concerned, the quantization through coherent states is proved to be a perfectly valid alternative. We successfully put to the test the validity of CS quantization in the case of data obtained from vibrational spectroscopy (data that allowed to validate canonical quantization in the early period of Quantum Mechanics).

id: 1102.3560
title: Storing entanglement of nuclear spins via Uhrig Dynamical Decoupling
authors: Soumya Singha Roy, T. S. Mahesh, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review A 83, 062326 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3560
abstract: Stroboscopic spin flips have already been shown to prolong the coherence times of quantum systems under noisy environments. Uhrig's dynamical decoupling scheme provides an optimal sequence for a quantum system interacting with a dephasing bath. Several experimental demonstrations have already verified the efficiency of such dynamical decoupling schemes in preserving single qubit coherences. In this work we describe the experimental study of Uhrig's dynamical decoupling in preserving two-qubit entangled states using an ensemble of spin-1/2 nuclear pairs in solution state. We find that the performance of odd-order Uhrig sequences in preserving entanglement is superior to both even-order Uhrig sequences and periodic spin-flip sequences. We also find that there exists an optimal length of the Uhrig sequence at which the decoherence time gets boosted from a few seconds to about 30 seconds.

id: 1102.3562
title: Stiffness in 1D Matrix Product States with periodic boundary conditions
authors: Davide Rossini, Vittorio Giovannetti, Rosario Fazio
comments: 23 pages, 9 figures. Published version, extensive changes
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2011) P05021
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3562
abstract: We discuss in details a modified variational matrix-product-state algorithm for periodic boundary conditions, based on a recent work by P. Pippan, S.R. White and H.G. Everts, Phys. Rev. B 81, 081103(R) (2010), which enables one to study large systems on a ring (composed of N ~ 10^2 sites). In particular, we introduce a couple of improvements that allow to enhance the algorithm in terms of stability and reliability. We employ such method to compute the stiffness of one-dimensional strongly correlated quantum lattice systems. The accuracy of our calculations is tested in the exactly solvable spin-1/2 Heisenberg chain.

id: 1102.3573
title: Efficient Grover search with Rydberg blockade
authors: Klaus Molmer, Larry Isenhower, Mark Saffman
comments: Detailed description of algorithm for sub-register architecture. Error budget modified for Cs atomic parameters. To appear in J. Phys. B. Special Issue on Strong Rydberg interactions in ultracold atomic and molecular gases
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44, 184016 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3573
abstract: We present efficient methods to implement the quantum computing Grover search algorithm using the Rydberg blockade interaction. We show that simple pi-pulse excitation sequences between ground and Rydberg excited states readily produce the key conditional phase shift and inversion-about-the mean unitary operations for the Grover search. Multi-qubit implementation schemes suitable for different properties of the atomic interactions are identifed and the error scaling of the protocols with system size is found to be promising for immediate experimental investigation.

id: 1102.3587
title: Solving UNIQUE-SAT in a Modal Quantum Theory
authors: Jeremiah Willcock, Amr Sabry
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3587
abstract: In recent work, Benjamin Schumacher and Michael D. Westmoreland investigate a version of quantum mechanics which they call modal quantum theory. This theory is obtained by instantiating the mathematical framework of Hilbert spaces with a finite field instead of the field of complex numbers. This instantiation collapses much the structure of actual quantum mechanics but retains several of its distinguishing characteristics including the notions of superposition, interference, and entanglement. Furthermore, modal quantum theory excludes local hidden variable models, has a no-cloning theorem, and can express natural counterparts of quantum information protocols such as superdense coding and teleportation. We show that the problem of UNIQUE-SAT --- which decides whether a given Boolean formula is unsatisfiable or has exactly one satisfying assignment --- is deterministically solvable in any modal quantum theory in constant time. The solution exploits the lack of orthogonality in modal quantum theories and is not directly applicable to actual quantum theory.

id: 1102.3609
title: Entanglement and mixedness in open systems with continuous variables
authors: Aurelian Isar
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Russ. Laser Res. 31, 182 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3609
abstract: In the framework of the theory of open systems based on completely positive quantum dynamical semigroups, we give a description of the dynamics of entanglement for a system consisting of two uncoupled modes interacting with a thermal environment. Using Peres-Simon necessary and sufficient criterion of separability for two-mode Gaussian states, we describe the evolution of entanglement in terms of the covariance matrix for a Gaussian input state. We determine the asymptotic Gaussian maximally entangled mixed states (GMEMS) and their corresponding asymptotic maximal logarithmic negativity, which characterizes the degree of entanglement. Using the symplectic eigenvalues of the asymptotic covariance matrix, the expressions of von Neumann entropy and mutual information of asymptotic GMEMS are obtained.

id: 1102.3628
title: Test-State Approach to the Quantum Search Problem
authors: Arun Sehrawat, Le Huy Nguyen, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052311 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3628
abstract: The search for "a quantum needle in a quantum haystack" is a metaphor for the problem of finding out which one of a permissible set of unitary mappings---the oracles---is implemented by a given black box. Grover's algorithm solves this problem with quadratic speed-up as compared with the analogous search for "a classical needle in a classical haystack." Since the outcome of Grover's algorithm is probabilistic---it gives the correct answer with high probability, not with certainty---the answer requires verification. For this purpose we introduce specific test states, one for each oracle. These test states can also be used to realize "a classical search for the quantum needle" which is deterministic---it always gives a definite answer after a finite number of steps---and faster by a factor of 3.41 than the purely classical search. Since the test-state search and Grover's algorithm look for the same quantum needle, the average number of oracle queries of the test-state search is the classical benchmark for Grover's algorithm.

id: 1102.3644
title: Concept of an ionizing time-domain matter-wave interferometer
authors: Stefan Nimmrichter, Philipp Haslinger, Klaus Hornberger, Markus Arndt
comments: 25 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 075002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3644
abstract: We discuss the concept of an all-optical and ionizing matter-wave interferometer in the time domain. The proposed setup aims at testing the wave nature of highly massive clusters and molecules, and it will enable new precision experiments with a broad class of atoms, using the same laser system. The propagating particles are illuminated by three pulses of a standing ultraviolet laser beam, which detaches an electron via efficient single photon-absorption. Optical gratings may have periods as small as 80 nm, leading to wide diffraction angles for cold atoms and to compact setups even for very massive clusters. Accounting for the coherent and the incoherent parts of the particle-light interaction, we show that the combined effect of phase and amplitude modulation of the matter waves gives rise to a Talbot-Lau-like interference effect with a characteristic dependence on the pulse delay time.

id: 1102.3645
title: Designing spin-spin interactions with one and two dimensional ion crystals in planar micro traps
authors: J. Welzel, A. Bautista-Salvador, C. Abarbanel, V. Wineman-Fisher, C. Wunderlich, R. Folman, F. Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 20 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3645
abstract: We discuss the experimental feasibility of quantum simulation with trapped ion crystals, using magnetic field gradients. We describe a micro structured planar ion trap, which contains a central wire loop generating a strong magnetic gradient of about 20 T/m in an ion crystal held about 160 \mu m above the surface. On the theoretical side, we extend a proposal about spin-spin interactions via magnetic gradient induced coupling (MAGIC) [Johanning, et al, J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42 (2009) 154009]. We describe aspects where planar ion traps promise novel physics: Spin-spin coupling strengths of transversal eigenmodes exhibit significant advantages over the coupling schemes in longitudinal direction that have been previously investigated. With a chip device and a magnetic field coil with small inductance, a resonant enhancement of magnetic spin forces through the application of alternating magnetic field gradients is proposed. Such resonantly enhanced spin-spin coupling may be used, for instance, to create Schr\"odinger cat states. Finally we investigate magnetic gradient interactions in two-dimensional ion crystals, and discuss frustration effects in such two-dimensional arrangements.

id: 1102.3667
title: The master equation for the reduced open-system dynamics, including a Lindbladian description of finite-duration measurement
authors: Carlos Alexandre Brasil, Reginaldo de Jesus Napolitano
comments: REVISED VERSION: 19 pages
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Plus (2011) 126: 91
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3667
abstract: We consider the problem of the measurement of a system occurring during a finite time interval, while environmentally-induced noise decreases the system-state coherence. We assume a Markovian measuring device and, therefore, use a Lindbladian description for the measurement dynamics. For studying the case of noise produced by a non-Markovian environment, whose definition does not include the measuring apparatus, we use the Redfield approach to the interaction between system and environment. In the present hybrid theory, to trace out the environmental degrees of freedom, we introduce an analytic method based on superoperator algebra and Nakajima-Zwanzig projectors. The resulting master equation, describing the reduced system dynamics, is illustrated in the case of a qubit under phase noise during a finite-time measurement.

id: 1102.3684
title: Optimal estimation of entanglement in optical qubit systems
authors: G. Brida, I. P. Degiovanni, A. Florio, M. Genovese, P. Giorda, A. Meda, M. G. A. Paris, A. Shurupov
comments: revised version, 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3684
abstract: We address the experimental determination of entanglement for systems made of a pair of polarization qubits. We exploit quantum estimation theory to derive optimal estimators, which are then implemented to achieve ultimate bound to precision. In particular, we present a set of experiments aimed at measuring the amount of entanglement for states belonging to different families of pure and mixed two-qubit two-photon states. Our scheme is based on visibility measurements of quantum correlations and achieves the ultimate precision allowed by quantum mechanics in the limit of Poissonian distribution of coincidence counts. Although optimal estimation of entanglement does not require the full tomography of the states we have also performed state reconstruction using two different sets of tomographic projectors and explicitly shown that they provide a less precise determination of entanglement. The use of optimal estimators also allows us to compare and statistically assess the different noise models used to describe decoherence effects occuring in the generation of entanglement.

id: 1102.3700
title: Characterization of a qubit Hamiltonian using adaptive measurements in a fixed basis
authors: Alexandr Sergeevich, Anushya Chandran, Joshua Combes, Stephen D. Bartlett, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, 1 table. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052315 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3700
abstract: We investigate schemes for Hamiltonian parameter estimation of a two-level system using repeated measurements in a fixed basis. The simplest (Fourier based) schemes yield an estimate with a mean square error (MSE) that decreases at best as a power law ~N^{-2} in the number of measurements N. By contrast, we present numerical simulations indicating that an adaptive Bayesian algorithm, where the time between measurements can be adjusted based on prior measurement results, yields a MSE which appears to scale close to \exp(-0.3 N). That is, measurements in a single fixed basis are sufficient to achieve exponential scaling in N.

id: 1102.3724
title: Cross-Kerr nonlinearity between continuous-mode coherent states and single photons
authors: Bing He, Qing Lin, Christoph Simon
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, more general results in section VI
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 053826 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3724
abstract: Weak cross-Kerr nonlinearities between single photons and coherent states are the basis for many applications in quantum information processing. These nonlinearities have so far mainly been discussed in terms of highly idealized single-mode models. We develop a general theory of the interaction between continuous-mode photonic pulses and apply it to the case of a single photon interacting with a coherent state. We quantitatively study the validity of the usual single-mode approximation using the concepts of fidelity and conditional phase. We show that high fidelities, non-zero conditional phases and high photon numbers are compatible, under conditions where the pulses fully pass through each other and where unwanted transverse-mode effects are suppressed.

id: 1102.3744
title: Microscopic Theory of Scattering of Weak Electromagnetic Radiation by a Dense Ensemble of Ultracold Atoms
authors: I.M. Sokolov, D.V. Kupriyanov, M.D. Havey
comments: 
journal: Journal of Experimental and Theoretical Physics 112, 246 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3744
abstract: Based on the developed quantum microscopic theory, the interaction of weak electromagnetic radiation with dense ultracold atomic clouds is described in detail. The differential and total cooperative scattering cross sections are calculated for monochromatic radiation as particular examples of application of the general theory. The angular, spectral, and polarization properties of scattered light are determined. The dependence of these quantities on the sample size and concentration of atoms is studied and the influence of collective effects is analyzed.

id: 1102.3747
title: Classical dynamics of a two-species condensate driven by a quantum field
authors: B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, Ray-Kuang Lee
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 84, 016225 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3747
abstract: We present a stability analysis of an interacting two-species Bose-Einstein condensate driven by a quantized field in the semi-classical limit. Transitions from Rabi to Josephson dynamics are identified depending on both the inter-atomic interaction to field-condensate coupling ratio and the ratio between the total excitation number and the condensate size. The quantized field is found to produce asymmetric dynamics for symmetric initial conditions for both Rabi and Josephson oscillations.

id: 1102.3809
title: Perturbative quantum error correction
authors: C¨¦dric B¨¦ny
comments: Connection with Linblad equation added, minor errors corrected, improved introduction
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 080501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3809
abstract: We derive simple necessary and sufficient conditions under which a quantum channel obtained from an arbitrary perturbation from the identity can be reversed on a given code to the lowest order in fidelity. We find the usual Knill-Laflamme conditions applied to a certain operator subspace which, for a generic perturbation, is generated by the Lindblad operators. For a weak interaction with an environment, the error space to be corrected is a subspace of that spanned by the interaction operators, selected by the environment's initial state.

id: 1102.3821
title: Quantitative entanglement witnesses of Isotropic- and Werner-class via local measurements
authors: Pietro Silvi, Fabio Taddei, Rosario Fazio, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 145303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3821
abstract: Quantitative entanglement witnesses allow one to bound the entanglement present in a system by acquiring a single expectation value. In this paper we analyze a special class of such observables which are associated with (generalized) Werner and Isotropic states. For them the optimal bounding functions can be easily derived by exploiting known results on twirling transformations. By focusing on an explicit local decomposition for these observables we then show how simple classical post-processing of the measured data can tighten the entanglement bounds. Quantum optics implementations based on hyper-entanglement generation schemes are analyzed.

id: 1102.3880
title: Statistical properties of fidelity in quantum tomography protocols in Hilbert spaces of different dimensions
authors: Yu. I. Bogdanov, I.D. Bukeev, A. K. Gavrichenko
comments: Material of this article was mainly represented May 29, 2010 at the XIII International Conference on Quantum Optics and Quantum Information in Kiev (Ukraine)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3880
abstract: A throughout study of statistical characteristics of fidelity in different protocols of quantum tomography is given. We consider protocols based on geometry of platonic solids and other polyhedrons with high degree of symmetry such as fullerene and its dual polyhedron. Characteristics of fidelity in different protocols are compared to the theoretical level of the minimum possible level of fidelity loss. Tomography of pure and mixed states in Hilbert spaces of different dimension is analyzed. Results of this work could be used for a better control of quantum gates and quantum states in quantum information technologies.

id: 1102.3891
title: Non-equilibrium electromagnetic fluctuations: Heat transfer and interactions
authors: Matthias Kr¨¹ger, Thorsten Emig, Mehran Kardar
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, published version, minor changes (e.g. typos)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 210404 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3891
abstract: The Casimir force between arbitrary objects in equilibrium is related to scattering from individual bodies. We extend this approach to heat transfer and Casimir forces in non-equilibrium cases where each body, and the environment, is at a different temperature. The formalism tracks the radiation from each body and its scatterings by the other objects. We discuss the radiation from a cylinder, emphasizing its polarized nature, and obtain the heat transfer between a sphere and a plate, demonstrating the validity of proximity transfer approximation at close separations and arbitrary temperatures.

id: 1102.3899
title: Multiconfigurational time-dependent Hartree method for describing particle loss due to absorbing boundary conditions
authors: Simen Kvaal
comments: 5 figures, 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3899
abstract: Absorbing boundary conditions in the form of a complex absorbing potential are routinely introduced in the Schr\"odinger equation to limit the computational domain or to study reactive scattering events using the multi-configurational time-dependent Hartree method (MCTDH). However, it is known that a pure wave-function description does not allow the modeling and propagation of the remnants of a system of which some parts are removed by the absorbing boundary. It was recently shown [S. Selst{\o} and S. Kvaal, J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. {\bfseries 43} (2010), 065004] that a master equation of Lindblad form was necessary for such a description. We formulate a multiconfigurational time-dependent Hartree method for this master equation, usable for any quantum system composed of any mixture of species. The formulation is a strict generalization of pure-state propagation using standard MCTDH. We demonstrate the formulation with a numerical experiment.

id: 1102.3968
title: Cluster quantum computer on the basis of quasi-part
authors: V. K. Voronov
comments: 4 pages
journal: Natural Science, vol. 2, no. 8, August 2010, pp.923 - 927
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Other Computer Science (cs.OH)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3968
abstract: The present paper deals with the possibility of creation of the quantum computer in which the role of q-bits is played by quasi-particles. In such a computer, the elementary computation block should represent a cluster created on the basis of the paramagnetic molecules. The latter form heterogeneous spin states in the cluster owing to the presence of interelectron correlations.

id: 1102.3986
title: Quantum teleportation in the spin-orbit variables of photon pairs
authors: A. Z. Khoury, P. Milman
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 060301(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3986
abstract: We propose a polarization to orbital angular momentum teleportation scheme using entangled photon pairs generated by spontaneous parametric down conversion. By making a joint detection of the polarization and angular momentum parity of a single photon, we are able to detect all the Bell-states and perform, in principle, perfect teleportation from a discrete to a continuous system using minimal resources. The proposed protocol implementation demands experimental resources that are currently available in quantum optics laboratories.

id: 1102.3994
title: Trapping of Continuous-Time Quantum walks on Erdos-Renyi graphs
authors: Elena Agliari
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physica A (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3994
abstract: We consider the coherent exciton transport, modeled by continuous-time quantum walks, on Erd\"{o}s-R\'{e}ny graphs in the presence of a random distribution of traps. The role of trap concentration and of the substrate dilution is deepened showing that, at long times and for intermediate degree of dilution, the survival probability typically decays exponentially with a (average) decay rate which depends non monotonically on the graph connectivity; when the degree of dilution is either very low or very high, stationary states, not affected by traps, get more likely giving rise to a survival probability decaying to a finite value. Both these features constitute a qualitative difference with respect to the behavior found for classical walks.

id: 1102.4013
title: Bragg scattering of light in vacuum structured by strong periodic fields
authors: Gagik Yu. Kryuchkyan, Karen Z. Hatsagortsyan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4013
abstract: Elastic scattering of laser radiation due to vacuum polarization by spatially modulated strong electromagnetic fields is considered. The Bragg interference arising at a specific impinging direction of the probe wave concentrates the scattered light in specular directions. The interference maxima are enhanced with respect to the usual vacuum polarization effect proportional to the square of the number of modulation periods within the interaction region. The Bragg scattering can be employed to detect the vacuum polarization effect in a setup of multiple crossed super-strong laser beams with parameters envisaged in the future Extreme Light Infrastructure.

id: 1102.4042
title: Bright and Dark Solitons and Breathers in Strongly Repulsive Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: William P. Reinhardt, Indubala I. Satija, Bryce Robbins, Charles W. Clark
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4042
abstract: Collisional dynamics of solitary matter waves of superfluid hard core bosons, consisting of dark and bright non-linear waves as well as supersonic periodic trains, reveals remarkable richness and coherence, with the phase of the condensate playing a key role. Depending upon the condensate density and their relative velocity, two distinctive collisional types emerge: the intuitively expected repulsive collisions due to the hard core boson constraint; and, also collisions in which they "pass through" one another. In addition to confirming the soliton status of both bright and dark solitary waves, our studies reveal a variety of multi-solitons including multiple families of breathers, that can be produced and precisely controlled via quantum phase engineering.

id: 1102.4047
title: On the effective Dirac dynamics of ultracold atoms in bichromatic optical lattices
authors: D. Witthaut, T. Salger, S. Kling, C. Grossert, M. Weitz
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 033601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4047
abstract: We study the dynamics of ultracold atoms in tailored bichromatic optical lattices. By tuning the lattice parameters, one can readily engineer the band structure and realize a Dirac point, i.e. a true crossing of two Bloch bands. The dynamics in the vicinity of such a crossing is described by the one-dimensional Dirac equation, which is rigorously shown beyond the tight-binding approximation. Within this framework we analyze the effects of an external potential and demonstrate numerically that it is possible to demonstrate Klein tunneling with current experimental setups.

id: 1102.4096
title: Second order gradient ascent pulse engineering
authors: P. de Fouquieres, S.G. Schirmer, S.J. Glaser, Ilya Kuprov
comments: Submitted for publication
journal: Journal of Magnetic Resonance, 212 (2011) 412-417
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4096
abstract: We report some improvements to the gradient ascent pulse engineering (GRAPE) algorithm for optimal control of quantum systems. These include more accurate gradients, convergence acceleration using the BFGS quasi-Newton algorithm as well as faster control derivative calculation algorithms. In all test systems, the wall clock time and the convergence rates show a considerable improvement over the approximate gradient ascent.

id: 1102.4141
title: Ion crystal transducer for strong coupling between single ions and single photons
authors: L. Lamata, D. R. Leibrandt, I. L. Chuang, J. I. Cirac, M. D. Lukin, V. Vuletic, S. F. Yelin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, minor improvements, published in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 030501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4141
abstract: A new approach for realization of a quantum interface between single photons and single ions in an ion crystal is proposed and analyzed. In our approach the coupling between a single photon and a single ion is enhanced via the collective degrees of freedom of the ion crystal. Applications including single-photon generation, a memory for a quantum repeater, and a deterministic photon-photon, photon-phonon, or photon-ion entangler are discussed.

id: 1102.4222
title: Geometric local invariants and pure three-qubit states
authors: Mark S. Williamson, Marie Ericsson, Markus Johansson, Erik Sjoqvist, Anthony Sudbery, Vlatko Vedral, William K. Wootters
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062308 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4222
abstract: We explore a geometric approach to generating local SU(2) and $SL(2,\mathbb{C})$ invariants for a collection of qubits inspired by lattice gauge theory. Each local invariant or 'gauge' invariant is associated to a distinct closed path (or plaquette) joining some or all of the qubits. In lattice gauge theory, the lattice points are the discrete space-time points, the transformations between the points of the lattice are defined by parallel transporters and the gauge invariant observable associated to a particular closed path is given by the Wilson loop. In our approach the points of the lattice are qubits, the link-transformations between the qubits are defined by the correlations between them and the gauge invariant observable, the local invariants associated to a particular closed path are also given by a Wilson loop-like construction. The link transformations share many of the properties of parallel transporters although they are not undone when one retraces one's steps through the lattice. This feature is used to generate many of the invariants. We consider a pure three qubit state as a test case and find we can generate a complete set of algebraically independent local invariants in this way, however the framework given here is applicable to mixed states composed of any number of $d$ level quantum systems. We give an operational interpretation of these invariants in terms of observables.

id: 1102.4254
title: Emission of photons through cavity mirrors in the absence of external driving
authors: Almut Beige, Antonio Capolupo, Andreas Kurcz, Emilio Del Giudice, Giuseppe Vitiello
comments: 5 pages,conference proceedings DICE 2010
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.306:012072,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4254
abstract: We present a mechanism of energy concentration in a system composed by an optical cavity and a large number of strongly confined atoms, which cannot be described in the rotating wave approximation. The mechanism consists in the emission of photons through the cavity mirrors even in the absence of external driving.

id: 1102.4285
title: Remote Entanglement between a Single Atom and a Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: M. Lettner, M. M¨¹cke, S. Riedl, C. Vo, C. Hahn, S. Baur, J. Bochmann, S. Ritter, S. D¨¹rr, G. Rempe
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 210503 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4285
abstract: Entanglement between stationary systems at remote locations is a key resource for quantum networks. We report on the experimental generation of remote entanglement between a single atom inside an optical cavity and a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC). To produce this, a single photon is created in the atom-cavity system, thereby generating atom-photon entanglement. The photon is transported to the BEC and converted into a collective excitation in the BEC, thus establishing matter-matter entanglement. After a variable delay, this entanglement is converted into photon-photon entanglement. The matter-matter entanglement lifetime of 100 $\mu$s exceeds the photon duration by two orders of magnitude. The total fidelity of all concatenated operations is 95%. This hybrid system opens up promising perspectives in the field of quantum information.

id: 1102.4318
title: On measures of non-Markovianity: divisibility vs. backflow of information
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Andrzej Kossakowski, ?ngel Rivas
comments: 7 pages; new section is added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052128 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4318
abstract: We analyze two recently proposed measures of non-Markovianity: one based on the concept of divisibility of the dynamical map and the other one based on distinguishability of quantum states. We provide a toy model to show that these two measures need not agree. In addition, we discuss possible generalizations and intricate relations between these measures.

id: 1102.4320
title: Multisetting Bell-type inequalities for detecting genuine tripartite entanglement
authors: Karoly F. Pal, Tamas Vertesi
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062123 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4320
abstract: In a recent paper, Bancal et al. put forward the concept of device-independent witnesses of genuine multipartite entanglement. These witnesses are capable of verifying genuine multipartite entanglement produced in a lab without resorting to any knowledge of the dimension of the state space or of the specific form of the measurement operators. As a by-product they found a three-party three-setting Bell inequality which enables to detect genuine tripartite entanglement in a noisy 3-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state for visibilities as low as 2/3 in a device-independent way. In this paper, we generalize this inequality to an arbitrary number of settings, demonstrating a threshold visibility of 2/pi~0.6366 for number of settings going to infinity. We also present a pseudo-telepathy Bell inequality achieving the same threshold value. We argue that our device-independent witnesses are optimal in the sense that the above value cannot be beaten with three-party-correlation Bell inequalities.

id: 1102.4321
title: Slow polaritons with orbital angular momentum in atomic gases
authors: J. Ruseckas, A. Mekys, G. Juzeliunas
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 023812 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4321
abstract: Polariton formalism is applied for studying the propagation of a probe field of light in a cloud of cold atoms influenced by two control laser beams of larger intensity. The laser beams couple resonantly three hyperfine atomic ground states to a common excited state thus forming a tripod configuration of the atomic energy levels involved. The first control beam can have an optical vortex with the intensity of the beam going to zero at the vortex core. The second control beam without a vortex ensures the loseless (adiabatic) propagation of the probe beam at a vortex core of the first control laser. We investigate the storage of the probe pulse into atomic coherences by switching off the control beams, as well as its subsequent retrieval by switching the control beams on. The optical vortex is transferred from the control to the probe fields during the storage or retrieval of the probe field. We analyze conditions for the vortex to be transferred efficiently to the regenerated probe beam and discuss possibilities of experimental implementation of the proposed scheme using atoms like rubidium or sodium.

id: 1102.4324
title: Interference of Light in Michelson-Morley Interferometer: A Quantum Optical Approach
authors: O. Langangen, B.-S.Skagerstam, A. Vaskinn
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, added references and corrected for typographical errors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4324
abstract: We investigate how the temporal coherence interference properties of light in a Michelson-Morley interferometer (MMI), using only a single-photon detector, can be understood in a quantum-optics framework in a straightforward and pedagogical manner. For this purpose we make use of elementary quantum field theory and Glaubers theory for photon detection in order to calculate the expected interference pattern in the MMI. If a thermal reference source is used in the MMI local oscillator port in combination with a thermal source in the signal port, the interference pattern revealed by such an intensity measurement shows a distinctive dependence on the differences in the temperature of the two sources. The MMI can therefore be used in order to perform temperature measurements. A related method was actually used to carry out high precision measurements of the cosmic micro-wave background radiation on board of the COBE satellite. The theoretical framework allows us to consider any initial quantum state. The interference of single photons as a tool to determine the angular peak-frequency of a one-photon pulse interfering with a single-photon reference pulse is, e.g., considered. A similar consideration for coherent laser pulses leads to a different response in the detector. The MMI experimental setup is therefore in a sense an example of an optical device where one can exhibit the difference between classical and quantum-mechanical light using only intensity measurements.

id: 1102.4360
title: Dynamic Homotopy and Landscape Dynamical Set Topology in Quantum Control
authors: Jason Dominy, Herschel Rabitz
comments: Minor clarifications, and added new appendix addressing scalar control of 2-level quantum systems
journal: J. Math. Phys., 53(8):082201, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4360
abstract: We examine the topology of the subset of controls taking a given initial state to a given final state in quantum control, where "state" may mean a pure state |\psi>, an ensemble density matrix \rho, or a unitary propagator U(0,T). The analysis consists in showing that the endpoint map acting on control space is a Hurewicz fibration for a large class of affine control systems with vector controls. Exploiting the resulting fibration sequence and the long exact sequence of basepoint-preserving homotopy classes of maps, we show that the indicated subset of controls is homotopy equivalent to the loopspace of the state manifold. This not only allows us to understand the connectedness of "dynamical sets" realized as preimages of subsets of the state space through this endpoint map, but also provides a wealth of additional topological information about such subsets of control space.

id: 1102.4385
title: Entanglement dynamics and quasi-periodicity in discrete quantum walks
authors: Peter P. Rohde, Alessandro Fedrizzi, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4385
abstract: We study the entanglement dynamics of discrete time quantum walks acting on bounded finite sized graphs. We demonstrate that, depending on system parameters, the dynamics may be monotonic, oscillatory but highly regular, or quasi-periodic. While the dynamics of the system are not chaotic since the system comprises linear evolution, the dynamics often exhibit some features similar to chaos such as high sensitivity to the system's parameters, irregularity and infinite periodicity. Our observations are of interest for entanglement generation, which is one primary use for the quantum walk formalism. Furthermore, we show that the systems we model can easily be mapped to optical beamsplitter networks, rendering experimental observation of quasi-periodic dynamics within reach.

id: 1102.4403
title: Effect of control procedures on the evolution of entanglement in open quantum systems
authors: Sandeep K Goyal, Subhashish Banerjee, Sibasish Ghosh
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012327 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4403
abstract: The effect of a number of mechanisms designed to suppress decoherence in open quantum systems are studied with respect to their effectiveness at slowing down the loss of entanglement. The effect of photonic band-gap materials and frequency modulation of the system-bath coupling are along expected lines in this regard. However, other control schemes, like resonance fluorescence, achieve quite the contrary: increasing the strength of the control kills entanglement off faster. The effect of dynamic decoupling schemes on two qualitatively different system-bath interactions are studied in depth. Dynamic decoupling control has the expected effect of slowing down the decay of entanglement in a two-qubit system coupled to a harmonic oscillator bath under non-demolition interaction. However, non-trivial phenomena are observed when a Josephson charge qubit, strongly coupled to a random telegraph noise bath, is subject to decoupling pulses. The most striking of these reflects the resonance fluorescence scenario in that an increase in the pulse strength decreases decoherence but also speeds up the sudden death of entanglement. This demonstrates that the behaviour of decoherence and entanglement in time can be qualitatively different in the strong-coupling non-Markovian regime.

id: 1102.4407
title: "Contextual weak values" of quantum measurements with positive measurement operators are not limited to the traditional weak value
authors: Stephen Parrott
comments: 32 pages, LaTeX. Version 4 has a new title and abstract. It consist of an essentially unaltered Version 3 with the addition of a counterexample to one of the main results of [J. Dressel, S. Agarwal, and A. N. Jordan, Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 240401 (2010)]. Version 5 is mathematically identical except that a major typo in equation (133) has been corrected. Version 6 corrects minor typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4407
abstract: A recent Letter in Physical Review Letters, "Contextual Values of Observables in Quantum Measurements", by J. Dressel, S. Agarwal, and A. N. Jordan (abbreviated DAJ below), introduces the concept of "contextual values" and claims that they lead to "a natural definition of a general conditioned average that converges uniquely to the quantum weak value in the minimal disturbance limit". However, they do not define "minimal disturbance limit". The present paper is in part the saga of my search for a definition of "minimal disturbance limit" under which this claim could be proved. The search finally ended in what is probably a definitive counterexample to the claim.

id: 1102.4415
title: Intrinsically narrowband pair photon generation in microstructured fibres
authors: Alex Clark, Bryn Bell, Jeremie Fulconis, Matthaeus M. Halder, Ben Cemlyn, Olivier Alibart, Chunle Xiong, William J. Wadsworth, John G. Rarity
comments: 23 pages, 17 figures, Comments Welcome
journal: New Journal of Physics 13, 065009 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4415
abstract: In this paper we study the tailoring of photon spectral properties generated by four-wave mixing in a birefringent photonic crystal fibre (PCF). The aim is to produce intrinsically narrow-band photons and hence to achieve high non-classical interference visibility and generate high fidelity entanglement without any requirement for spectral filtering, leading to high effective detection efficiencies. We show unfiltered Hong-Ou-Mandel interference visibilities of 77% between photons from the same PCF, and 80% between separate sources. We compare results from modelling the PCF to these experiments and analyse photon purities.

id: 1102.4445
title: Directional correlations in quantum walks with two particles
authors: M. Stefanak, S. M. Barnett, B. Kollar, T. Kiss, I. Jex
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 13 033029 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4445
abstract: Quantum walks on the line with a single particle possess a classical analog. Involving more walkers opens up the possibility to study collective quantum effects, such as many particle correlations. In this context, entangled initial states and indistinguishability of the particles play a role. We consider directional correlations between two particles performing a quantum walk on a line. For non-interacting particles we find analytic asymptotic expressions and give the limits of directional correlations. We show that introducing $\delta$-interaction between the particles, one can exceed the limits for non-interacting particles.

id: 1102.4448
title: Laser assisted decay of quasistationary states
authors: H.M.Casta?eda Cort¨¦s, S.V. Popruzhenko, D. Bauer, A. P¨¢lffy
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 063007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4448
abstract: The effects of intense electromagnetic fields on the decay of quasistationary states are investigated theoretically. We focus on the parameter regime of strong laser fields and nonlinear effects where an essentially nonperturbative description is required. Our approach is based on the imaginary time method previously introduced in the theory of strong-field ionization. Spectra and total decay rates are presented for a test case and the results are compared with exact numerical calculations. The potential of this method is confirmed by good quantitative agreement with the numerical results.

id: 1102.4449
title: Characterizing heralded single photons with an all-fiber source of photon pairs
authors: Lei Yang, Xiaoxin Ma, Xueshi Guo, Liang Cui, Xiaoying Li
comments: 25pages, 9figures, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4449
abstract: Based on the signal and idler photon pairs produced in a piece of high nonlinear fiber by a pulsed pump, we characterize the heralded single photon source from both the theoretical and experimental aspects. In the theory model, started from the derived expression of Bogoliubov transformation for a broadband pulsed pump, the second-order intensity correlation function $g_c^{(2)}(0)$, heralding efficiency $H$, indistinguishability and brightness of the heralded single photons as a function of source parameters are analyzed and discussed. In the experiments, using several kinds of combinations of the source parameters, the values of $g_c^{(2)}(0)$ and $H$ are measured and compared. The experimental results are consistent with the theoretical predictions. The investigations are useful for optimizing the parameters and for developing a single photon source suitable for quantum information processing.

id: 1102.4467
title: Relaxed Bell inequalities and Kochen-Specker theorems
authors: Michael J.W. Hall
comments: 19 pages (including 3 appendices); v3: minor clarifications, to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022102 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4467
abstract: The combination of various physically plausible properties, such as no signaling, determinism, and experimental free will, is known to be incompatible with quantum correlations. Hence, these properties must be individually or jointly relaxed in any model of such correlations. The necessary degrees of relaxation are quantified here, via natural distance and information-theoretic measures. This allows quantitative comparisons between different models in terms of the resources, such as the number of bits, of randomness, communication, and/or correlation, that they require. For example, measurement dependence is a relatively strong resource for modeling singlet state correlations, with only 1/15 of one bit of correlation required between measurement settings and the underlying variable. It is shown how various 'relaxed' Bell inequalities may be obtained, which precisely specify the complementary degrees of relaxation required to model any given violation of a standard Bell inequality. The robustness of a class of Kochen-Specker theorems, to relaxation of measurement independence, is also investigated. It is shown that a theorem of Mermin remains valid unless measurement independence is relaxed by 1/3. The Conway-Kochen 'free will' theorem and a result of Hardy are less robust, failing if measurement independence is relaxed by only 6.5% and 4.5%, respectively. An appendix shows the existence of an outcome independent model is equivalent to the existence of a deterministic model.

id: 1102.4493
title: Critical charges of simple Coulomb molecular systems: One-two electron case
authors: A.V. Turbiner, H. Medel Cobaxin
comments: 28 pages, 9 figures, 5 tables
journal: Intern.J.Quantum Chem 112 (2011) 2411-2421
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4493
abstract: Let us consider some Coulomb systems of several infinitely massive centers of charge Z and one-two electrons: $(Z,e)$, $(2Z,e)$, $(3Z,e)$, $(4Z,e)$, $(2Z,e,e)$, $(3Z,e,e)$. It is shown that the physical, integer charges $Z=1,2,...$ do not play a distinguished role in total energy and equilibrium distance of a system giving no indication to a charge quantization. By definition, a critical charge $Z_{cr}$ for a given Coulomb system $(nZ,e)$ or $(nZ,e,e)$ is a charge which separates a domain of the existence of bound states from a domain of unbound ones (continuum). For all above-mentioned systems critical charges $Z_c$ as well as equilibrium geometrical configurations are found. For all studied systems there was obtained an indication to a square-root singularity at $Z=Z_{cr}$.

id: 1102.4495
title: Entanglement in two-mode continuous variable open quantum systems
authors: Aurelian Isar
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures; contribution at the 17th Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics (CEWQO 2010), St. Andrews, Great Britain (2010)
journal: Physica Scripta, Topical Issue T143, 014012 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4495
abstract: In the framework of the theory of open systems based on completely positive quantum dynamical semigroups, we give a description of the continuous-variable entanglement for a system consisting of two noninteracting modes embedded in a thermal environment. By using the Peres-Simon necessary and sufficient criterion for separability of two-mode Gaussian states, we describe the evolution of entanglement in terms of the covariance matrix for Gaussian input states. For all values of the temperature of the thermal reservoir, an initial separable Gaussian state remains separable for all times. In the case of an entangled initial Gaussian state, entanglement suppression (entanglement sudden death) takes place, for non-zero temperatures of the environment. Only for a zero temperature of the thermal bath the initial entangled state remains entangled for finite times. We also show that, independent of its type - separable or entangled, the initial state evolves asymptotically to an equilibrium state which is always separable.

id: 1102.4529
title: Recovering Quantum Logic within an Extended Classical Framework
authors: Claudio Garola, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 21 pages, 2 figures, Standard latex
journal: Erkenntnis (2013) 78: 399-419
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4529
abstract: We present a procedure which allows us to recover classical and nonclassical logical structures as \emph{concrete logics} associated with physical theories expressed by means of classical languages. This procedure consists in choosing, for a given theory $\mathcal T$ and classical language $\mathcal L$ expressing $\mathcal T$, an observative sublanguage $L$ of $\mathcal L$ with a notion of truth as correspondence, introducing in $L$ a derived and theory-dependent notion of \emph{C-truth} (\emph{true with certainty}), defining a \emph{physical preorder} induced by C-truth, and finally selecting a set of sentences that are \emph{verifiable} (or \emph{testable}) according to $\mathcal T$, on which a \emph{weak complementation} is induced by $\mathcal T$. The triple consisting of the set of verifiable sentences, physical order and weak complementation is then the desired concrete logic. By applying our procedure we recover a classical logic as the concrete logic associated with classical mechanics and standard quantum logic as the concrete logic associated with quantum mechanics. We also show that our alternative view of standard quantum logic, which can be constructed in a purely formal way, can be provided with a physical meaning by adopting a recent interpretation of quantum mechanics that reinterprets quantum probabilities as conditional on detection rather than absolute. Our results then show that some nonstandard logics can be obtained as mathematical structures formalizing the properties of different notions of verifiability in different physical theories. More generally, they strongly support the idea that many nonclassical logics can coexist without conflicting with classical logic (\emph{global pluralism}), for they formalize metalinguistic notions that do not coincide with the notion of truth (described by Tarski's truth theory).

id: 1102.4547
title: Quantum coherence and entanglement induced by the continuum between distant localized states
authors: Jing Ping, Xin-Qi Li, Shmuel Gurvitz
comments: small modifications, one reference is added, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A83, 042112 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4547
abstract: It is demonstrated that two distant quantum wells separated by a reservoir with a continuous spectrum can possess bound eigenstates embedded in the continuum. These represent a linear superposition of quantum states localized in the wells. We show that such a state can be isolated in the course of free evolution from any initial state by a null-result measurement in the reservoir. The latter might not be necessary in the many-body case. The resulting superposition is regulated by ratio of couplings between the wells and the reservoir. In particular, one can lock the system in one of the wells by enhancing this ratio. By tuning parameters of the quantum wells, many-body entangled states in distant wells can be produced through interactions and statistics.

id: 1102.4560
title: Detecting drift of quantum sources: not the de Finetti theorem
authors: Lucia Schwarz, S.J. van Enk
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4560
abstract: We propose and analyze a method to detect and characterize the drift of a nonstationary quantum source. It generalizes a standard measurement for detecting phase diffusion of laser fields to quantum systems of arbitrary Hilbert space dimension, qubits in particular. We distinguish diffusive and systematic drifts, and examine how quickly one can determine that a source is drifting. We show that for single-photon wavepackets our measurement is implemented by the Hong-Ou-Mandel effect.

id: 1102.4580
title: Gaussian bosonic synergy: quantum communication via realistic channels of zero quantum capacity
authors: Graeme Smith, John A. Smolin, Jon Yard
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, one appendix
journal: Nature Photonics 5, 624-627 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4580
abstract: As with classical information, error-correcting codes enable reliable transmission of quantum information through noisy or lossy channels. In contrast to the classical theory, imperfect quantum channels exhibit a strong kind of synergy: there exist pairs of discrete memoryless quantum channels, each of zero quantum capacity, which acquire positive quantum capacity when used together. Here we show that this "superactivation" phenomenon also occurs in the more realistic setting of optical channels with attenuation and Gaussian noise. This paves the way for its experimental realization and application in real-world communications systems.

id: 1102.4583
title: Quantum optomechanics of a Bose-Einstein Antiferromagnet
authors: H. Jing, D. S. Goldbaum, L. Buchmann, P. Meystre
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters (2011)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4583
abstract: We investigate the cavity optomechanical properties of an antiferromagnetic Bose-Einstein con- densate, where the role of the mechanical element is played by spin-wave excitations. We show how this system can be described by a single rotor that can be prepared deep in the quantum regime under realizable experimental conditions. This system provides a bottom-up realization of dispersive rotational optomechanics, and opens the door to the direct observation of quantum spin fluctuations.

id: 1102.4598
title: Generating and using truly random quantum states in Mathematica
authors: J.A. Miszczak
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, see this http URL for related software
journal: Comput. Phys. Commun., Vol. 183, No. 1 (2012), pp. 118-124
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Software (cs.MS); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4598
abstract: The problem of generating random quantum states is of a great interest from the quantum information theory point of view. In this paper we present a package for Mathematica computing system harnessing a specific piece of hardware, namely Quantis quantum random number generator (QRNG), for investigating statistical properties of quantum states. The described package implements a number of functions for generating random states, which use Quantis QRNG as a source of randomness. It also provides procedures which can be used in simulations not related directly to quantum information processing.

id: 1102.4653
title: Nonlocality and entanglement in qubit systems
authors: J. Batle, M. Casas
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4653
abstract: Nonlocality and quantum entanglement constitute two special aspects of the quantum correlations existing in quantum systems, which are of paramount importance in quantum-information theory. Traditionally, they have been regarded as identical (equivalent, in fact, for pure two qubit states, that is, {\it Gisin's Theorem}), yet they constitute different resources. Describing nonlocality by means of the violation of several Bell inequalities, we obtain by direct optimization those states of two qubits that maximally violate a Bell inequality, in terms of their degree of mixture as measured by either their participation ratio $R=1/Tr(\rho^2)$ or their maximum eigenvalue $\lambda_{max}$. This optimum value is obtained as well, which coincides with previous results. Comparison with entanglement is performed too. An example of an application is given in the XY model. In this novel approximation, we also concentrate on the nonlocality for linear combinations of pure states of two qubits, providing a closed form for their maximal nonlocality measure. The case of Bell diagonal mixed states of two qubits is also extensively studied. Special attention concerning the connection between nonlocality and entanglement for mixed states of two qubits is paid to the so called maximally entangled mixed states. Additional aspects for the case of two qubits are also described in detail. Since we deal with qubit systems, we will perform an analogous study for three qubits, employing similar tools. Relation between distillability and nonlocality is explored quantitatively for the whole space of states of three qubits. We finally extend our analysis to four qubit systems, where nonlocality for generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states of arbitrary number of parties is computed.

id: 1102.4659
title: An alternative non-Markovianity measure by divisibility of dynamical map
authors: S. C. Hou, X. X. Yi, S. X. Yu, C. H. Oh
comments: 6 pages, 3 figues
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062115 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4659
abstract: Identifying non-Markovianity with non-divisibility, we propose a measure for non-Markovinity of quantum process. Three examples are presented to illustrate the non-Markovianity, measure for non-Markovianity is calculated and discussed. Comparison with other measures of non-Markovianity is made. Our non-Markovianity measure has the merit that no optimization procedure is required and it is finite for any quantum process, which greatly enhances the practical relevance of the proposed measure.

id: 1102.4676
title: Quantum state transfer in frequency down-conversion via nondegenerate optical parametric amplifier
authors: Yunfei Bai, Junxiang Zhang, Shi-Yao Zhu
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4676
abstract: By utilizing the nondegenerate optical parametric amplifier, the quantum state transfer from a pump state with high frequency to a signal state of lower frequency is studied theoretically. The noiseless state transfer is characterized by frequency conversion efficiency and noise figure. It is shown that the quantum state can be well preserved during the frequency conversion as long as the optical parametric amplifier is operated far below the threshold, and meanwhile injected with an input idler field with a power density about ten times greater than that of the pump. The dependence of the noise figure and conversion efficiency on the idler amplitude, the analyzing frequency and the cavity extra loss is also discussed.

id: 1102.4682
title: Robust and Scalable Scheme to Generate Large-Scale Entanglement Webs
authors: Keisuke Fujii, Haruki Maeda, Katsuji Yamamoto
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 050303(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4682
abstract: We propose a robust and scalable scheme to generate an $N$-qubit $W$ state among separated quantum nodes (cavity-QED systems) by using linear optics and postselections. The present scheme inherits the robustness of the Barrett-Kok scheme [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 71}, 060310(R) (2005)]. The scalability is also ensured in the sense that an arbitrarily large $N$-qubit $W$ state can be generated with a quasi-polynomial overhead $\sim 2^{O[(\log_2 N)^2]}$. The process to breed the $W$ states, which we introduce to achieve the scalability, is quite simple and efficient, and can be applied for other physical systems.

id: 1102.4685
title: Analytical approach for treating unitary quantum systems with initial mixed states
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, comments are very welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4685
abstract: The mixed states are important in quantum optics since they frequently appear in the decoherence problems. When one of the components of the system is prepared in the mixed state and the evolution operator of this system is not available, one cannot deduce the density matrix. We present analytical approach to accurately solve this problem. The approach can be applied on the condition that the Schr\"odinger's equation of the system is solvable with any arbitrary initial state. In deriving the solution we exploit the fact that any mixed state can be expressed in terms of a phase state. The approach is illustrated by deriving the density matrix of a single-mode heat environment interacting asymmetrically with two qubits. Our results are in good agreement with the available results in the literature. This approach opens new perspectives for treating complicated systems and may impact other applications in the quantum theory.

id: 1102.4691
title: Possible use of a Cooper-pair box for low-dose electron microscopy
authors: Hiroshi Okamoto
comments: 41 pages, 4 figures; extensively revised, following referee comments; final version, the main point remains the same as v.2
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85 043810 (2012);
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4691
abstract: A transmission electron microscope that takes advantage of superconducting quantum circuitry is proposed. The microscope is designed to improve image contrast of radiation-sensitive weak phase objects, in particular biological specimens. The objective in this setting is to measure the phase shift of the probe electron wave to a precision $\Delta\theta$ within the number of electrons $N$ that does not destroy the specimen. In conventional electron microscopy $\Delta\theta$ scales as $\sim 1/N^{1/2}$, which falls short of the Heisenberg limit $\sim 1/N$. To approach the latter by using quantum entanglement, we propose a design that involves a Cooper pair box placed on the surface of an electrostatic electron mirror in the microscope. Significant improvement could be attained if inelastic scattering processes are sufficiently delocalized.

id: 1102.4710
title: Witnessing the quantum discord of all the unknown states
authors: Sixia Yu, Chengjie Zhang, Qing Chen, C.H.Oh
comments: 3 pages and 1 figure. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4710
abstract: Like entanglement, quantum discord quantifies the quantum correlations. Unlike entanglement, whose detection is extremely difficult, the quantum discord of an arbitrary bipartite state allows itself to be detected perfectly by a single observable, the quantum discord witness. In particular, we report a single observable whose expectation value provides a necessary and sufficient condition for the vanishing quantum discord of an arbitrary bipartite unknown state with four copies. A quantum circuit is designed to measure the quantum discord witness by using only local qubit-measurements.

id: 1102.4718
title: Quantum simulation of a triatomic chemical reaction with ultracold atoms on a waveguide
authors: E. Torrontegui, A. Ruschhaupt, D. Gu¨¦ry-Odelin, J. G. Muga
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 195302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4718
abstract: We study the scaling and coordinate transformation to physically simulate quantum three-body collinear chemical reactions of the type A+BC $\rightarrow$ AB+C by the motion of single ultracold atoms or a weakly interacting Bose-Einstein condensate on an $L$-shaped waveguide. As an example we show that the parameters to model the reaction F+HH $\to$ H+HF with lithium are at reach with current technology. This mapping provides also an inverse scattering tool to find an unknown potential, and a way to transfer the knowledge on molecular reaction dynamics to design beam splitters for cold atoms with control of the channel outcome and vibrational excitation.

id: 1102.4731
title: High reflection emission assisted by phase compensation via anomalous dispersion
authors: Hai-Tao Zhou, Miao-jun Guo, Da-Wei Wang, Jun-Xiang Zhang, Shi-Yao Zhu
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4731
abstract: The reflection spectrum of a probe light in a -type three-level atomic system coupled by an off-resonant standing-wave is investigated experimentally and theoretically. We show that the maximum value of reflection coefficient occurs when both of the coupling and probe lights are tuned off resonances from the atomic transitions. The nature of enhanced reflection is attributed to the phase compensation caused by the anomalous dispersion, which leads to a significant reduction of nonlinear phase mismatch in atomic four-wave mixing. At certain detuning of coupling and probe frequencies near two-photon resonance, there exits a best compensation, so the reflection efficiency reaches its maximum. The dependences of efficiency on the intensity of coupling fields and the density of atoms are also studied.

id: 1102.4740
title: Totality of Subquantum Nonlocal Correlations
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: Physica Scripta, 84, N 4, Article Number: 045014 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4740
abstract: In a series of previous papers we developed a purely field model of microphenomena, so called prequantum classical statistical field theory (PCSFT). This model not only reproduces important probabilistic predictions of QM including correlations for entangled systems, but it also gives a possibility to go beyond quantum mechanics (QM), i.e., to make predictions of phenomena which could be observed at the subquantum level. In this paper we discuss one of such predictions - existence of nonlocal correlations between prequantum random fields corresponding to {\it all} quantum systems. (And by PCSFT quantum systems are represented by classical Gaussian random fields and quantum observables by quadratic forms of these fields.) The source of these correlations is the common background field. Thus all prequantum random fields are "entangled", but in the sense of classical signal theory. On one hand, PCSFT demystifies quantum nonlocality by reducing it to nonlocal classical correlations based on the common random background. On the other hand, it demonstrates total generality of such correlations. They exist even for distinguishable quantum systems in factorizable states (by PCSFT terminology - for Gaussian random fields with covariance operators corresponding to factorizable quantum states).

id: 1102.4743
title: Violation of Bell's inequality and postulate on simultaneous measurement of compatible observables
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 
journal: J. Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience, 8, N 6, 1006-1010 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4743
abstract: We discuss coupling of violation of Bell's inequality and non-Kolmogorovness of statistical data in the EPR-Bohm experiment. We emphasize that nonlocalty and "death of realism" are only sufficient, but not necessary conditions of non-Kolmogorovness. There can be found other sufficient conditions of non-Kolmogorovness and, hence, violation of Bell's inequality. We find one important source of non-Kolmogorovness by analyzing axiomatics of quantum mechanics. We pay attention to the postulate (due to von Neumann and Dirac) on simultaneous measurement of quantum observables given by commuting operators. This postulate is criticized as nonphysical. We propose a new interpretation of the Born-von Neumann-Dirac rule for calculation of the joint probability distribution for such observables. It gets a natural physical interpretation by considering conditional measurement scheme. We use this argument (i.e., rejection of the postulate on simultaneous measurement to motivate non-Kolmogorovness of the probabilistic structure of the EPR-Bohm experiment.

id: 1102.4759
title: Redistribution of particle and anti-particle entanglement in non-inertial frames
authors: E. Martin-Martinez, I. Fuentes
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, revtex4. Added journal reference
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052306 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4759
abstract: We analyse the entanglement tradeoff between particle and anti-particle modes of a Dirac field from the perspective of inertial and uniformly accelerated observers. Our results show that a redistribution of entanglement between particle and anti-particle modes plays a key role in the survival of fermionic field entanglement in the infinite acceleration limit.

id: 1102.4888
title: Geometric picture of quantum discord for two-qubit quantum states
authors: Mingjun Shi, Fengjian Jiang, Chunxiao Sun, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 9 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 13, 073016 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4888
abstract: Among various definitions of quantum correlations, quantum discord has attracted considerable attention. To find analytical expression of quantum discord is an intractable task. Exact results are known only for very special states, namely, two-qubit X-shaped states. We present in this paper a geometric viewpoint, from which two-qubit quantum discord can be described clearly. The known results about X state discord are restated in the directly perceivable geometric language. As a consequence, the dynamics of classical correlations and quantum discord for an X state in the presence of decoherence is endowed with geometric interpretation. More importantly, we extend the geometric method to the case of more general states, for which numerical as well as analytica results about quantum discord have not been found yet. Based on the support of numerical computations, some conjectures are proposed to help us establish geometric picture. We find that the geometric picture for these states has intimate relationship with that for X states. Thereby in some cases analytical expressions of classical correlations and quantum discord can be obtained.

id: 1102.4895
title: Experimentally realizable control fields in quantum Lyapunov control
authors: X. X. Yi, S. L. Wu, Chunfeng Wu, X. L. Feng, C. H. Oh
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 195503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4895
abstract: As a hybrid of techniques from open-loop and feedback control, Lyapunov control has the advantage that it is free from the measurement-induced decoherence but it includes the system's instantaneous message in the control loop. Often, the Lyapunov control is confronted with time delay in the control fields and difficulty in practical implementations of the control. In this paper, we study the effect of time-delay on the Lyapunov control, and explore the possibility of replacing the control field with a pulse train or a bang-bang signal. The efficiency of the Lyapunov control is also presented through examining the convergence time of the controlled system. These results suggest that the Lyapunov control is robust gainst time delay, easy to realize and effective for high-dimensional quantum systems.

id: 1102.4902
title: Ultra-sensitive phase estimation with white light
authors: Chuan-Feng Li, Xiao-Ye Xu, Jian-Shun Tang, Jin-Shi Xu, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 044102 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4902
abstract: An improvement of the scheme by Brunner and Simon [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 010405 (2010)] is proposed in order to show that quantum weak measurements can provide a method to detect ultrasmall longitudinal phase shifts, even with white light. By performing an analysis in the frequency domain, we find that the amplification effect will work as long as the spectrum is large enough, irrespective of the behavior in the time domain. As such, the previous scheme can be notably simplified for experimental implementations.

id: 1102.4998
title: Approach to accurately measuring the speed of optical precursors
authors: Chuan-Feng Li, Zong-Quan Zhou, Heejeong Jeong, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043803 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4998
abstract: Precursors can serve as a bound on the speed of information with dispersive medium. We propose a method to identify the speed of optical precursors using polarization-based interference in a solid-state device, which can bound the accuracy of the precursors' speed to less than $10^{-4}$ with conventional experimental conditions. Our proposal may have important implications for optical communications and fast information processing.

id: 1102.5006
title: Two state scattering problem to Multi-channel scattering problem: Analytically solvable model
authors: Aniruddha Chakraborty
comments: 
journal: Mol. Phys. 110, 2257 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5006
abstract: Starting from few simple examples we have proposed a general method for finding an exact analytical solution for the two state scattering problem in presence of a delta function coupling. We have also extended our model to deal with general one dimensional multi-channel scattering problems.

id: 1102.5010
title: Cavity electromagnetically induced transparency and all-optical switching using ion Coulomb crystals
authors: Magnus Albert, Aurelien Dantan, Michael Drewsen
comments: 
journal: Nature Photon. 5, 633 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5010
abstract: The control of one light field by another, ultimately at the single photon level, is a challenging task which has numerous interesting applications within nonlinear optics and quantum information science. Due to the extremely weak direct interactions between optical photons in vacuum, this type of control can in practice only be achieved through highly nonlinear interactions within a medium. Electromagnetic induced transparency (EIT) constitutes one such means to obtain the extremely strong nonlinear coupling needed to facilitate interactions between two faint light fields. Here, we demonstrate for the first time EIT as well as all-optical EIT-based light switching using ion Coulomb crystals situated in an optical cavity. Unprecedented narrow cavity EIT feature widths down to a few kHz and a change from essentially full transmission to full absorption of the probe field within a window of only ~100 kHz are achieved. By applying a weak switching field, we furthermore demonstrate nearly perfect switching of the transmission of the probe field. These results represent important milestones for future realizations of quantum information processing devices, such as high-efficiency quantum memories, single-photon transistors and single-photon gates.

id: 1102.5020
title: Structure of the Alkali-metal-atom-Strontium molecular ions: towards photoassociation and formation of cold molecular ions
authors: Mireille Aymar, Romain Gu¨¦rout, Olivier Dulieu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5020
abstract: The potential energy curves, permanent and transition dipole moments, and the static dipolar polarizability, of molecular ions composed of one alkali-metal atom and a Strontium ion are determined with a quantum chemistry approach. The molecular ions are treated as effective two-electron systems and are treated using effective core potentials including core polarization, large gaussian basis sets, and full configuration interaction. In the perspective of upcoming experiments aiming at merging cold atom and cold ion traps, possible paths for radiative charge exchange, photoassociation of a cold Lithium or Rubidium atom and a Strontium ion are discussed, as well as the formation of stable molecular ions.

id: 1102.5056
title: Environment-assisted quantum Minority games
authors: M. Ramzan, M. K. Khan
comments: 16 pages, 4 eps figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5056
abstract: The effect of entanglement and correlated noise in a four-player quantum Minority game is investigated. Different time correlated quantum memory channels are considered to analyze the Nash equilibrium payoff of the 1st player. It is seen that the Nash equilibrium payoff is substantially enhanced due to the presence of correlated noise. The behaviour of damping channels (amplitude damping and phase damping) is approximately similar. However, bit-phase flip channel heavily influences the minority game as compared to other channels in the presence of correlated noise. On the other hand, phase flip channel has a symmetrical behaviour around 50% noise threshold. The significant reduction in payoffs due to decoherence is well compensated due to the presence of correlated noise. However, the Nash equilibrium of the game does not change in the presence of noise. It is seen that in case of generalized amplitude damping channel, entanglement plays a significant role at lower level of decoherence. The channel has less dominant effects on the payoff at higher values of decoherence. Furthermore, amplitude damping and generalized amplitude damping channels have almost comparable effects at lower level of decoherence $(p<0.5)$. Therefore, the game deserves careful study during its implementation due to prominent role of noise for different channels.

id: 1102.5064
title: Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki State on a Honeycomb Lattice is a Universal Quantum Computational Resource
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei, Ian Affleck, Robert Raussendorf
comments: 4+2 pages, 4 figures, PRL short version of arXiv:1009.2840, see also alternative approach by A. Miyake, arXiv:1009.3491
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 070501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5064
abstract: Universal quantum computation can be achieved by simply performing single-qubit measurements on a highly entangled resource state, such as cluster states. The family of Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki states has recently been intensively explored and shown to provide restricted computation. Here, we show that the two-dimensional Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki state on a honeycomb lattice is a universal resource for measurement-based quantum computation.

id: 1102.5115
title: Qubits as spectrometers of dephasing noise
authors: Kevin C. Young, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5115
abstract: We present a procedure for direct characterization of the dephasing noise acting on a single qubit by making repeated measurements of the qubit coherence under suitably chosen sequences of controls. We show that this allows a numerical reconstruction of the short time noise correlation function and that it can be combined with a series of measurements under free evolution to allow a characterization of the noise correlation function over many orders of magnitude range in timescale. We also make an analysis of the robustness and reliability of the estimated correlation functions. Application to a simple model of two uncorrelated noise fluctuators using decoupling pulse sequences shows that the approach provides a useful route for experimental characterization of dephasing noise and its statistical properties in a variety of condensed phase and atomic systems.

id: 1102.5152
title: Complexity of several constraint satisfaction problems using the heuristic, classical, algorithm, WalkSAT
authors: Marco Guidetti, A. P. Young
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5152
abstract: We determine the complexity of several constraint satisfaction problems using the heuristic algorithm, WalkSAT. At large sizes N, the complexity increases exponentially with N in all cases. Perhaps surprisingly, out of all the models studied, the hardest for WalkSAT is the one for which there is a polynomial time algorithm.

id: 1102.5153
title: Thermal States as Universal Resources for Quantum Computation with Always-on Interactions
authors: Ying Li, Daniel E. Browne, Leong Chuan Kwek, Robert Raussendorf, Tzu-Chieh Wei
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 060501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5153
abstract: Measurement-based quantum computation utilizes an initial entangled resource state and proceeds with subsequent single-qubit measurements. It is implicitly assumed that the interactions between qubits can be switched off so that the dynamics of the measured qubits do not affect the computation. By proposing a model spin Hamiltonian, we demonstrate that measurement-based quantum computation can be achieved on a thermal state with always-on interactions. Moreover, computational errors induced by thermal fluctuations can be corrected and thus the computation can be executed fault-tolerantly if the temperature is below a threshold value.

id: 1102.5162
title: Planarizable Supersymmetric Quantum Toboggans
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 7:018,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5162
abstract: In supersymmetric quantum mechanics the emergence of a singularity may lead to the breakdown of isospectrality between partner potentials. One of the regularization recipes is based on a topologically nontrivial, multisheeted complex deformations of the line of coordinate $x$ giving the so called quantum toboggan models (QTM). The consistent theoretical background of this recipe is briefly reviewed. Then, certain supersymmetric QTM pairs are shown exceptional and reducible to doublets of non-singular ordinary differential equations a.k.a. Sturm-Schr\"odinger equations containing a weighted energy $E\to EW(x)$ and living in single complex plane.

id: 1102.5196
title: Perfect transfer of multiple excitations in quantum networks
authors: T. Brougham, G. M. Nikolopoulos, I. Jex
comments: close to the version published in Phys. Rev. A. In version 2, a typo has been corrected in Sec. IIIA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022323 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5196
abstract: We present a general formalism to the problem of perfect state-transfer (PST), where the state involves multiple excitations of the quantum network. A key feature of our formalism is that it allows for inclusion of nontrivial interactions between the excitations. Hence, it is perfectly suited to addressing the problem of PST in the context of various types of physical realizations. The general formalism is also flexible enough to account for situations where multiple excitations are "focused" onto the same site.

id: 1102.5199
title: Passage-time statistics of superradiant light pulses from Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: L. F. Buchmann, G. M. Nikolopoulos, O. Zobay, P. Lambropoulos
comments: Close to the version published in J. Phys. B
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44, 025301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5199
abstract: We discuss the passage-time statistics of superradiant light pulses generated during the scattering of laser light from an elongated atomic Bose-Einstein condensate. Focusing on the early-stage of the phenomenon, we analyze the corresponding probability distributions and their scaling behaviour with respect to the threshold photon number and the coupling strength. With respect to these parameters, we find quantities which only vary significantly during the transition between the Kapitza Dirac and the Bragg regimes. A possible connection of the present observations to Brownian motion is also discussed.

id: 1102.5203
title: Route to Direct Multiphoton Multiple Ionization
authors: P. Lambropoulos, G. M. Nikolopoulos, K. G. Papamihail
comments: Close to the version to be published in Phys. Rev. A. Additional supplementary material can be found there
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 021407(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5203
abstract: We address the concept of direct multiphoton multiple ionization in atoms exposed to intense, short wavelength radiation and explore the conditions under which such processes dominate over the sequential. Their contribution is shown to be quite robust, even under intensity fluctuations and interaction volume integration, and reasonable agreement with experimental data is also found.

id: 1102.5246
title: Bipartite Bell Inequality and Maximal Violation
authors: Ming Li, Shao-Ming Fei, Xianqing Li-Jost
comments: 6 pages,no figures
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 55 (2011) 418-420
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5246
abstract: We present new bell inequalities for arbitrary dimensional bipartite quantum systems. The maximal violation of the inequalities is computed. The Bell inequality is capable of detecting quantum entanglement of both pure and mixed quantum states more effectively.

id: 1102.5249
title: A new criteria for zero quantum discord
authors: Jie-Hui Huang, Lei Wang, Shi-Yao Zhu
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: New Journal of Physics 13, 063045(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5249
abstract: We propose a new criterion to judge zero quantum discord for arbitrary bipartite states. A bipartite quantum state has zero quantum discord if and only if all blocks of its density matrix are normal matrices and commute with each other. Given a bipartite state with zero quantum discord, how to find out the set of local projectors, which do not disturb the whole state after being imposed on one subsystem, is also presented. A class of two-qubit X-state is used to test the criterion, and an experimental scheme is proposed to realize it. Consequently, we prove that the positive operator-valued measurement can not extinguish the quantum correlation of a bipartite state with nonzero quantum discord.

id: 1102.5255
title: Singular matrix Darboux transformations in the inverse scattering method
authors: A. A. Pecheritsin, A. M. Pupasov, Boris F. Samsonov
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 205305 (15pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5255
abstract: Singular Darboux transformations, in contrast to the conventional ones, have a singular matrix as a coefficient before the derivative. We incorporated such transformations into a chain of conventional transformations and presented determinant formulas for the resulting action of the chain. A determinant representation of the Kohlhoff-von Geramb solution to the Marchenko equation is given.

id: 1102.5269
title: Volume Fractions of the Kinematic "Near-Critical" Sets of the Quantum Ensemble Control Landscape
authors: Jason Dominy, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 27 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 255302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5269
abstract: An estimate is derived for the volume fraction of a subset $C_{\epsilon}^{P} = \{U : ||grad J(U)|\leq {\epsilon}\}\subset\mathrm{U}(N)$ in the neighborhood of the critical set $C^{P}\simeq\mathrm{U}(\mathbf{n})P\mathrm{U}(\mathbf{m})$ of the kinematic quantum ensemble control landscape J(U) = Tr(U\rho U' O), where $U$ represents the unitary time evolution operator, {\rho} is the initial density matrix of the ensemble, and O is an observable operator. This estimate is based on the Hilbert-Schmidt geometry for the unitary group and a first-order approximation of $||grad J(U)||^2$. An upper bound on these near-critical volumes is conjectured and supported by numerical simulation, leading to an asymptotic analysis as the dimension $N$ of the quantum system rises in which the volume fractions of these "near-critical" sets decrease to zero as $N$ increases. This result helps explain the apparent lack of influence exerted by the many saddles of $J$ over the gradient flow.

id: 1102.5297
title: Two proposals for testing quantum contextuality of continuous-variable states
authors: Gerard McKeown, Matteo G. A. Paris, Mauro Paternostro
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062105 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5297
abstract: We investigate the violation of non-contextuality by a class of continuous variable states, including variations of entangled coherent states (ECS's) and a two-mode continuous superposition of coherent states. We generalise the Kochen-Specker (KS) inequality discussed in A. Cabello, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 101}, 210401 (2008) by using effective bidimensional observables implemented through physical operations acting on continuous variable states, in a way similar to an approach to the falsification of Bell-CHSH inequalities put forward recently. We test for state-independent violation of KS inequalities under variable degrees of state entanglement and mixedness. We then demonstrate theoretically the violation of a KS inequality for any two-mode state by using pseudo-spin observables and a generalized quasi-probability function.

id: 1102.5301
title: Landau-Zener sweeps and sudden quenches in coupled Bose-Hubbard chains
authors: Christian Kasztelan, Stefan Trotzky, Yu-Ao Chen, Immanuel Bloch, Ian P. McCulloch, Ulrich Schollw?ck, Giuliano Orso
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 155302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5301
abstract: We simulate numerically the dynamics of strongly correlated bosons in a two-leg ladder subject to a time-dependent energy bias between the two chains. When all atoms are initially in the leg with higher energy, we find a drastic reduction of the inter-chain particle transfer for slow linear sweeps, in quantitative agreement with recent experiments. This effect is preceded by a rapid broadening of the quasi-momentum distribution of atoms, signaling the presence of a bath of low-energy excitations in the chains. We further investigate the scenario of quantum quenches to fixed values of the energy bias. We find that for large enough density the momentum distribution relaxes to that of an equilibrium thermal state with the same energy.

id: 1102.5339
title: Consciousness and the Quantum
authors: Don N. Page
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5339
abstract: Sensible Quantum Mechanics or Mindless Sensationalism is a framework for relating consciousness to a quantum universe. It states that each conscious perception has a measure that is given by the expectation value of a corresponding quantum "awareness operator" in a fixed quantum state of the universe. The measures can be interpreted as frequency-type probabilities for a large set of perceptions that all actually exist with varying degrees of reality, so detailed theories within this framework are testable. The measures are not propensities for potentialities to be actualized, so there is nothing indeterministic in this framework, and no free will in the incompatibilistic sense. As conscious perceptions are determined by the awareness operators and the quantum state, they are epiphenomena. No fundamental relation is postulated between different perceptions (each being the entirety of a single conscious experience and thus not in direct contact with any other), so SQM or MS, a variant of Everett's "many-worlds" framework, is a "many-perceptions" framework but not a "many-minds" framework.

id: 1102.5369
title: Nonlocality of a single photon: paths to an EPR-steering experiment
authors: S. J. Jones, H. M. Wiseman
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures. v3 changes: Correction of some minor typographical errors, some additional remarks added to the text for clarification, amendment of figure 5 and addition of figure 6
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012110 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5369
abstract: A single photon incident on a beam splitter produces an entangled field state, and in principle could be used to violate a Bell-inequality, but such an experiment (without post-selection) is beyond the reach of current experiments. Here we consider the somewhat simpler task of demonstrating EPR-steering with a single photon (also without post-selection). That is, of demonstrating that Alice's choice of measurement on her "half" of a single photon can affect the other "half" of the photon in Bob's lab, in a sense rigorously defined by us and Doherty [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 140402 (2007)]. Previous work by Lvovsky and co-workers [Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 047903 (2004)] has addressed this phenomenon (which they called "remote preparation") experimentally using homodyne measurements on a single photon. Here we show that, unfortunately, their experimental parameters do not meet the bounds necessary for a rigorous demonstration of EPR-steering with a single photon. However, we also show that modest improvements in the experimental parameters, and the addition of photon counting to the arsenal of Alice's measurements, would be sufficient to allow such a demonstration.

id: 1102.5372
title: Low-temperature tapered-fiber probing of diamond NV ensembles coupled to GaP microcavities
authors: K.-M.C. Fu, P.E. Barclay, C. Santori, A. Faraon, R.G. Beausoleil
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5372
abstract: In this work we present a platform for testing the device performance of a cavity-emitter system, using an ensemble of emitters and a tapered optical fiber. This method provides high-contrast spectra of the cavity modes, selective detection of emitters coupled to the cavity, and an estimate of the device performance in the single- emitter case. Using nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond and a GaP optical microcavity, we are able to tune the cavity onto the NV resonance at 10 K, couple the cavity-coupled emission to a tapered fiber, and measure the fiber-coupled NV spontaneous emission decay. Theoretically we show that the fiber-coupled average Purcell factor is 2-3 times greater than that of free-space collection; although due to ensemble averaging it is still a factor of 3 less than the Purcell factor of a single, ideally placed center.

id: 1102.5402
title: Three-tangle for high-rank mixed states
authors: Shu-Juan He, Xiao-Hong Wang, Shao-Ming Fei, Hong-Xiang Sun, Qiao-Yan Wen
comments: 10 pages, 2 eps figures
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 55 (2011) 251-256
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5402
abstract: A family of rank-n (n=5,6,7,8) three-qubit mixed states are constructed. The explicit expressions for the three-tangle and optimal decompositions for all these states are given. The CKW relations for these states are also discussed.

id: 1102.5480
title: Searches on star graphs and equivalent oracle problems
authors: Jaehak Lee, Hai-Woong Lee, Mark Hillery
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 022318 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5480
abstract: We examine a search on a graph among a number of different kinds of objects (vertices), one of which we want to find. In a standard graph search, all of the vertices are the same, except for one, the marked vertex, and that is the one we wish to find. We examine the case in which the unmarked vertices can be of different types, so the background against which the search is done is not uniform. We find that the search can still be successful, but the probability of success is lower than in the uniform background case, and that probability decreases with the number of types of unmarked vertices. We also show how the graph searches can be rephrased as equivalent oracle problems.

id: 1102.5494
title: Quantum mechanics on spaces of nonconstant curvature: the oscillator problem and superintegrability
authors: Angel Ballesteros, Alberto Enciso, Francisco J. Herranz, Orlando Ragnisco, Danilo Riglioni
comments: 26 pages, 5 figures
journal: Ann.Phys.326:2053-2073,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5494
abstract: The full spectrum and eigenfunctions of the quantum version of a nonlinear oscillator defined on an N-dimensional space with nonconstant curvature are rigorously found. Since the underlying curved space generates a position-dependent kinetic energy, three different quantization prescriptions are worked out by imposing that the maximal superintegrability of the system has to be preserved after quantization. The relationships among these three Schroedinger problems are described in detail through appropriate similarity transformations. These three approaches are used to illustrate different features of the quantization problem on N-dimensional curved spaces or, alternatively, of position-dependent mass quantum Hamiltonians. This quantum oscillator is, to the best of our knowledge, the first example of a maximally superintegrable quantum system on an N-dimensional space with nonconstant curvature.

id: 1102.5508
title: Coherent backscattering under conditions of electromagnetically induced transparency
authors: I.M. Sokolov, D.V. Kupriyanov, M.D. Havey
comments: Submitted to Journal of Modern Optics, Special Issue: Proceedings of PQE 2011
journal: J. Modern Optics 58, 1928 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5508
abstract: We consider the influence of a resonant control field on weak localization of light in ultracold atomic ensembles. Both steady-state and pulsed light excitation are considered. We show that the presence of a control field essentially changes the type of interference effects which occur under conditions of multiple scattering. For example, for some scattering polarization channels the presence of a control field can cause destructive interference through which the enhancement factor, normally considered to be greater than one, becomes less than one.

id: 1102.5566
title: Photon number discrimination without a photon counter and its application to reconstructing non-Gaussian states
authors: H. M. Chrzanowski, J. Bernu, B. M. Sparkes, B. Hage, A. P. Lund, T. C. Ralph, P. K. Lam, T. Symul
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Theory section expanded in response to referee comments
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 050302(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5566
abstract: The non-linearity of a conditional photon-counting measurement can be used to `de-Gaussify' a Gaussian state of light. Here we present and experimentally demonstrate a technique for photon number resolution using only homodyne detection. We then apply this technique to inform a conditional measurement; unambiguously reconstructing the statistics of the non-Gaussian one and two photon subtracted squeezed vacuum states. Although our photon number measurement relies on ensemble averages and cannot be used to prepare non-Gaussian states of light, its high efficiency, photon number resolving capabilities, and compatibility with the telecommunications band make it suitable for quantum information tasks relying on the outcomes of mean values.

id: 1102.5587
title: Sojourn times of the Hadamard walk in one dimension
authors: Norio Konno
comments: 14 pages, title changed, minor corrections, Quantum Information Processing (in press)
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Vol.11, No.2, pp.465-480 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5587
abstract: The Hadamard walk is a typical model of the discrete-time quantum walk. We investigate sojourn times of the Hadamard walk on a line by a path counting method.

id: 1102.5609
title: Global asymmetry of many-qubit correlations: A lattice gauge theory approach
authors: Mark S. Williamson, Marie Ericsson, Markus Johansson, Erik Sjoqvist, Anthony Sudbery, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, title changed, results and content remain unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5609
abstract: We introduce a novel bridge between the familiar gauge field theory approaches used in many areas of modern physics such as quantum field theory and the SLOCC protocols familiar in quantum information. Although the mathematical methods are the same the meaning of the gauge group will be different. The measure we introduce, `twist', is constructed as a Wilson loop from a correlation induced holonomy. The measure can be understood as the global asymmetry of the bipartite correlations in a loop of three or more qubits; if the holonomy is trivial (the identity matrix), the bipartite correlations can be globally untwisted using general local qubit operations, the gauge group of our theory, which turns out to be the group of Lorentz transformations familiar from special relativity. If it is not possible to globally untwist the bipartite correlations in a state globally using local operations, the twistedness is given by a non-trivial element of the Lorentz group, the correlation induced holonomy. We provide several analytical examples of twisted and untwisted states for three qubits, the most elementary non-trivial loop one can imagine.

id: 1102.5611
title: Monogamy of Information Causality
authors: Li-Yi Hsu
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5611
abstract: We consider the information causality in the multi-receiver random access codes. Therein, no receiver can gain any information only from classical communication. We claim the following statement. Information causality still holds even with the help of the multi-partite physical non-local resource. That is, the summation of all revivers' information gain cannot be greater than the amount of classical communication. The distributive multi-party physical nonlocal resource can be exploited only for information splitting. It is proved that such trade-off leads to the monogamy of entanglement. Finally the connection between information causality and spin-glass Bethe lattice is discussed.

id: 1102.5672
title: Long-range Energy Transfer and Ionization in Extended Quantum Systems Driven by Ultrashort Spatially Shaped Laser Pulses
authors: Guennaddi K. Paramonov, Andre D. Bandrauk, Oliver K¨¹hn
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5672
abstract: The processes of ionization and energy transfer in a quantum system composed of two distant H atoms with an initial internuclear separation of 100 atomic units (5.29 nm) have been studied by the numerical solution of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation beyond the Born-Oppenheimer approximation. Thereby it has been assumed that only one of the two H atoms was excited by temporally and spatially shaped laser pulses at various laser carrier frequencies. The quantum dynamics of the extended H-H system, which was taken to be initially either in an unentangled or an entangled ground state, has been explored within a linear three-dimensional model, including two z coordinates of the electrons and the internuclear distance R. An efficient energy transfer from the laser-excited H atom (atom A) to the other H atom (atom B) and the ionization of the latter have been found. It has been shown that the physical mechanisms of the energy transfer as well as of the ionization of atom B are the Coulomb attraction of the laser driven electron of atom A by the proton of atom B and a short-range Coulomb repulsion of the two electrons when their wave functions strongly overlap in the domain of atom B.

id: 1102.5685
title: Nonlocality is transitive
authors: Sandro Coretti, Esther H?nggi, Stefan Wolf
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 100402 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5685
abstract: We show a transitivity property of nonlocal correlations: There exist tripartite nonsignaling correlations of which the bipartite marginals between A and B as well as B and C are nonlocal and any tripartite nonsignaling system between A, B, and C consistent with them must be such that the bipartite marginal between A and C is also nonlocal. This property represents a step towards ruling out certain alternative models for the explanation of quantum correlations such as hidden communication at finite speed. Whereas it is not possible to rule out this model experimentally, it is the goal of our approach to demonstrate this explanation to be logically inconsistent: either the communication cannot remain hidden, or its speed has to be infinite. The existence of a three-party system that is pairwise nonlocal is of independent interest in the light of the monogamy property of nonlocality.

id: 1102.5709
title: Phase-dependent which-way information
authors: Uwe Schilling, Joachim von Zanthier
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5709
abstract: We introduce a new observable for reading out a which-way detector in a Young-type interferometer whose eigenstates either contain full which-way information or none at all. We calculate the which-way knowledge K that can be retrieved from this observable and find that K depends on the phase difference \delta that the interfering object accumulates on its way from either slit to the detector. In particular, it turns out that K(\delta) has an upper bound of 1, almost independent of the visibility V of the interference pattern generated by the interfering object on a screen, which is in marked contrast to the well-known inequality K^2 + V^2 <= 1 (cf. B.-G. Englert, Phys. Rev. Lett. 77, 2154 (1996)).

id: 1102.5710
title: Intensive temperature and quantum correlations for refined quantum measurements
authors: Alessandro Ferraro, Artur Garcia-Saez, Antonio Acin
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Europhys. Lett., 98 (2012) 10009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5710
abstract: We consider the concept of temperature in a setting beyond the standard thermodynamics prescriptions. Namely, rather than restricting to standard coarse-grained measurements, we consider observers able to master any possible quantum measurement--a scenario that might be relevant at nanoscopic scales. In this setting, we focus on quantum systems of coupled harmonic oscillators and study the question of whether the temperature is an intensive quantity, in the sense that a block of a thermal state can be approximated by an effective thermal state at the same temperature as the whole system. Using the quantum fidelity as figure of merit, we identify instances in which this approximation is not valid, as the block state and the reference thermal state are distinguishable for refined measurements. Actually, there are situation in which this distinguishability even increases with the block size. However, we also show that the two states do become less distinguishable with the block size for coarse-grained measurements--thus recovering the standard picture. We then go further and construct an effective thermal state which provides a good approximation of the block state for any observables and sizes. Finally, we point out the role entanglement plays in this scenario by showing that, in general, the thermodynamic paradigm of local intensive temperature applies whenever entanglement is not present in the system.

id: 1102.5713
title: Quantum feedback for rapid state preparation in the presence of control imperfections
authors: Joshua Combes, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures and 2 tables. V2 the published version, fig. 1 corrected and some minor changes to the text
journal: J. Phys. B At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44, 154008 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5713
abstract: Quantum feedback control protocols can improve the operation of quantum devices. Here we examine the performance of a purification protocol when there are imperfections in the controls. The ideal feedback protocol produces an $x$ eigenstate from a mixed state in the minimum time, and is known as rapid state preparation. The imperfections we examine include time delays in the feedback loop, finite strength feedback, calibration errors, and inefficient detection. We analyse these imperfections using the Wiseman-Milburn feedback master equation and related formalism. We find that the protocol is most sensitive to time delays in the feedback loop. For systems with slow dynamics, however, our analysis suggests that inefficient detection would be the bigger problem. We also show how system imperfections, such as dephasing and damping, can be included in model via the feedback master equation.

id: 1102.5715
title: Automorphisms of stabilizer codes
authors: Klaus Wirthm¨¹ller
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5715
abstract: We study the automorphisms of binary stabilizer codes and states. We prove that they almost always form a solvable group, and thereby shed new light on the fact that there is no universal set of transversal gates. We also determine the connected component of the automorphism group.

id: 1102.5748
title: A Spinning Particle in a Mobius Strip
authors: J. A. Nieto, R. Perez-Enriquez
comments: 16 pages, Latex, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5748
abstract: We develop the classical and quantum theory of a spinning particle moving in a Mobius strip. We first propose a Lagrangian for such a system and then we proceed to quantize the system via the constraint Hamiltonian system formalism. Our results may be of particular interest in several physical scenarios, including solid state physics and optics. In fact, the present work may shed some new light on the recent discoveries on condensed matter concerning topological insulators.

id: 1102.5767
title: Paradoxes and Primitive Ontology in Collapse Theories of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Roderich Tumulka
comments: 8 pages LaTeX, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5767
abstract: Collapse theories are versions of quantum mechanics according to which the collapse of the wave function is a real physical process. They propose precise mathematical laws to govern this process and to replace the vague conventional prescription that a collapse occurs whenever an "observer" makes a "measurement." Although collapse theories have been invented to overcome the paradoxes of orthodox quantum mechanics, several authors have set up similar paradoxes in collapse theories. I argue here that these paradoxes evaporate as soon as a clear choice of the primitive ontology (i.e., of the variables in the theory representing the distribution of matter in space and time) is introduced, such as the flash ontology or the matter density ontology.

id: 1102.5772
title: Entanglement of polar molecules in pendular states
authors: Qi Wei, Sabre Kais, Bretislav Friedrich, Dudley Herschbach
comments: Will be available in Journal of chemical physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5772
abstract: In proposals for quantum computers using arrays of trapped ultracold polar molecules as qubits, a strong external field with appreciable gradient is imposed in order to prevent quenching of the dipole moments by rotation and to distinguish among the qubit sites. That field induces the molecular dipoles to undergo pendular oscillations, which markedly affect the qubit states and the dipole-dipole interaction. We evaluate entanglement of the pendular qubit states for two linear dipoles, characterized by pairwise concurrence, as a function of the molecular dipole moment and rotational constant, strengths of the external field and the dipole-dipole coupling, and ambient temperature. We also evaluate a key frequency shift, $\triangle\omega$, produced by the dipole-dipole interaction. Under conditions envisioned for the proposed quantum computers, both the concurrence and $\triangle\omega$ become very small for the ground eigenstate. In principle, such weak entanglement can be sufficient for operation of logic gates, provided the resolution is high enough to detect the $\triangle\omega$ shift unambiguously. In practice, however, for many candidate polar molecules it appears a challenging task to attain adequate resolution. Simple approximate formulas fitted to our numerical results are provided from which the concurrence and $\triangle\omega$ shift can be obtained in terms of unitless reduced variables.

id: 1102.0016
title: A Quantum Twin Paradox
authors: Doron ludwin
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0016
abstract: The Classical Twin Paradox is widely dealt in literature and neatly resolved. In addition, it is also well known that, when looking at two systems which are boosted relative to each other, the concept of the simultaneous effect of a quantum measurement in space-time causes some discrepancies in the cause-effect behavior. However, these discrepancies have been thought not to cause any apparent paradox except for violating the Free-Will postulate. In this paper we suggest that using the local t axis, all over space, as the axis in which the quantum measurement is thought to be simultaneous, we do reach a kind of true "Twin Paradox". The resolution of this paradox requires the introduction of a global proper time into a covariant quantum theory.

id: 1102.0077
title: Neutrino oscillations with disentanglement of a neutrino from its partners
authors: D. V. Ahluwalia, S. P. Horvath
comments: 6 pages
journal: Europhys.Lett.95:10007,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0077
abstract: We bring attention to the fact that in order to understand existing data on neutrino oscillations, and to design future experiments, it is imperative to appreciate the role of quantum entanglement. Once this is accounted for, the resulting energy-momentum conserving phenomenology requires a single new parameter related to disentanglement of a neutrino from its partners. This parameter may not be CP symmetric. We illustrate the new ideas, with potentially measurable effects, in the context of a novel experiment recently proposed by Gavrin, Gorbachev, Veretenkin, and Cleveland. The strongest impact of our ideas is on the resolution of various anomalies in neutrino oscillations and on neutrino propagation in astrophysical environments.

id: 1102.0131
title: The Bright Side of Coulomb Blockade
authors: Max Hofheinz, Fabien Portier, Quentin Baudouin, Philippe Joyez, Denis Vion, Patrice Bertet, Patrice Roche, Daniel Esteve
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures + 3 pages, 1 figure supplementary material
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0131
abstract: We explore the photonic (bright) side of dynamical Coulomb blockade (DCB) by measuring the radiation emitted by a dc voltage-biased Josephson junction embedded in a microwave resonator. In this regime Cooper pair tunneling is inelastic and associated to the transfer of an energy 2eV into the resonator modes. We have measured simultaneously the Cooper pair current and the photon emission rate at the resonance frequency of the resonator. Our results show two regimes, in which each tunneling Cooper pair emits either one or two photons into the resonator. The spectral properties of the emitted radiation are accounted for by an extension to DCB theory.

id: 1102.0245
title: Finite energy spectral function of an anisotropic 2D system of coupled Hubbard chains
authors: P. Ribeiro, P. D. Sacramento, K. Penc
comments: 22 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 045112 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0245
abstract: We study the crossover from the one-dimensional to the two-dimensional Hubbard model in the photoemission spectra of weakly coupled chains. The chains with on-site repulsion are treated using the spin-charge factorized wave function, that is known to provide an essentially exact description of the chain in the strong coupling limit. The hoppings between the chains are considered as a perturbation. We calculate the dynamical spectral function at all energies in the random-phase approximation, by resuming an infinite set of diagrams. Even though the hoppings drive the system from a fractionalized Luttinger-liquid-like system to a Fermi-liquid-like system at low energies, significant characteristics of the one-dimensional system remain in the two-dimensional system. Furthermore, we find that introducing (frustrating) hoppings beyond the nearest neighbor one, the interference effects increase the energy and momentum range of the one--dimensional character.

id: 1102.0314
title: Strain modulated band gap of edge passivated armchair graphene nanoribbons
authors: Xihong Peng, Selina Velasquez
comments: 2 tables, 4 figures
journal: Applied Physics Letters 98, 023112 (2011)
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0314
abstract: First principles calculations were performed to study strain effects on band gap of armchair graphene nanoribbons (AGNRs)with different edge passivation, including H, O, and OH group. The band gap of the H-passivated AGNRs shows a nearly periodic zigzag variation under strain. For O and OH passivation, the zigzag patterns are significantly shifted by a modified quantum confinement due to the edges. In addition, the band gap of the O-passivated AGNRs experiences a direct-to-indirect transition with sufficient tensile strain (~5%). The indirect gap reduces to zero with further increased strain.

id: 1102.0378
title: Classical and quantum computation with small space bounds (PhD thesis)
authors: Abuzer Yakaryilmaz
comments: Bogazici University (Istanbul) PhD thesis, 183 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0378
abstract: In this thesis, we introduce a new quantum Turing machine (QTM) model that supports general quantum operators, together with its pushdown, counter, and finite automaton variants, and examine the computational power of classical and quantum machines using small space bounds in many different cases. The main contributions are summarized below. Firstly, we consider QTMs in the unbounded error setting: (i) in some cases of sublogarithmic space bounds, the class of languages recognized by QTMs is shown to be strictly larger than that of classical ones; (ii) in constant space bounds, the same result can still be obtained for restricted QTMs; (iii) the complete characterization of the class of languages recognized by realtime constant space nondeterministic QTMs is given. Secondly, we consider constant space-bounded QTMs in the bounded error setting: (i) we introduce a new type of quantum and probabilistic finite automata (QFAs and PFAs, respectively,) with a special two-way input head which is not allowed to be stationary or move to the left but has the capability to reset itself to its starting position; (ii) the computational power of this type of quantum machine is shown to be superior to that of the probabilistic machine; (iii) based on these models, two-way PFAs and two-way classical-head QFAs are shown to be more succinct than two-way nondeterministic finite automata and their one-way variants; (iv) we also introduce PFAs and QFAs with postselection with their bounded error language classes, and give many characterizations of them. Thirdly, the computational power of realtime QFAs augmented with a write-only memory is investigated by showing many simulation results for different kinds of counter automata. Finally, some lower bounds of realtime classical Turing machines in order to recognize a nonregular language are shown to be tight.

id: 1102.0385
title: Pass-through Mach-Zehnder topologies for macroscopic quantum measurements
authors: F.Ya.Khalili
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:122001,2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0385
abstract: Several relatively small-scale experimental setups aimed on prototyping of future laser gravitational-wave detectors and testing of new methods of quantum measurements with macroscopic mechanical objects, are under development now. In these devices, not devoted directly to the gravitational-wave detection, Mach-Zehnder interferometer with pass-through Fabry-Perot cavities in the arms can be used instead of the standard Michelson/Fabry-Perot one. The advantage of this topology is that it does not contain high-reflectivity end mirrors with multilayer coatings, which Brownian noise could constitute the major part of the noise budget of the Michelson/Fabry-Perot interferometers. We consider here two variants of this topology: the "ordinary" position meter scheme, and a new variant of the quantum speed meter.

id: 1102.0404
title: Spectroscopy of a Qubit Array via a Single Transmission Line
authors: M. Jerger, S. Poletto, P. Macha, U. Huebner, A. Lukashenko, E. Il'ichev, A. V. Ustinov
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 96, 40012 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0404
abstract: Frequency-selective readout for superconducting qubits opens the way towards scaling qubit circuits up without increasing the number of measurement lines. Here we demonstrate the readout of an array of 7 flux qubits located on the same chip. Each qubit is placed near an individual lambda/4 resonator which, in turn, is coupled to a common microwave transmission line. We performed spectroscopy of all qubits and determined their parameters in a single measurement run.

id: 1102.0466
title: Electron quantum optics in quantum Hall edge channels
authors: Charles Grenier, R¨¦my Herv¨¦, Gwendal F¨¨ve, Pascal Degiovanni
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures. To appear in the proceedings of StatPhys 24 satellite conference on "International Conference on Frustrated Spin Systems, Cold Atoms and Nanomaterials" held in Hanoi (14-16 July 2010)
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. B 25, 1053-1073 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0466
abstract: In this paper, we review recent developments in the emerging field of electron quantum optics, stressing analogies and differences with the usual case of photon quantum optics. Electron quantum optics aims at preparing, manipulating and measuring coherent single electron excitations propagating in ballistic conductors such as the edge channels of a 2DEG in the integer quantum Hall regime. Because of the Fermi statistics and the presence of strong interactions, electron quantum optics exhibits new features compared to the usual case of photon quantum optics. In particular, it provides a natural playground to understand decoherence and relaxation effects in quantum transport.

id: 1102.0491
title: Division of the Energy and of the Momentum of Electromagnetic Waves in Linear Media into Electromagnetic and Material Parts
authors: Pablo L. Saldanha
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Opt. Commun. 284, 2653 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0491
abstract: We defend a natural division of the energy density, energy flux and momentum density of electromagnetic waves in linear media in electromagnetic and material parts. In this division, the electromagnetic part of these quantities have the same form as in vacuum when written in terms of the macroscopic electric and magnetic fields, the material momentum is calculated directly from the Lorentz force that acts on the charges of the medium, the material energy is the sum of the kinetic and potential energies of the charges of the medium and the material energy flux results from the interaction of the electric field with the magnetized medium. We present reasonable models for linear dispersive non-absorptive dielectric and magnetic media that agree with this division. We also argue that the electromagnetic momentum of our division can be associated with the electromagnetic relativistic momentum, inspired on the recent work of Barnett [Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 070401 (2010)] that showed that the Abraham momentum is associated with the kinetic momentum and the Minkowski momentum is associated with the canonical momentum.

id: 1102.0527
title: Phase relationship between the long-time beats of free induction decays and spin echoes in solids
authors: Eric G. Sorte, Boris V. Fine, Brian Saam
comments: 20 pages, 9 figures, significant new experimental content in comparison with version 1
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 174425 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0527
abstract: Recent theoretical work on the role of microscopic chaos in the dynamics and relaxation of many-body quantum systems has made several experimentally confirmed predictions about the systems of interacting nuclear spins in solids, focusing, in particular, on the shapes of spin echo responses measured by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). These predictions were based on the idea that the transverse nuclear spin decays evolve in a manner governed at long times by the slowest decaying eigenmode of the quantum system, analogous to a chaotic resonance in a classical system. The present paper extends the above investigations both theoretically and experimentally. On the theoretical side, the notion of chaotic eigenmodes is used to make predictions about the relationships between the long-time oscillation phase of the nuclear free induction decay (FID) and the amplitudes and phases of spin echoes. On the experimental side, the above predictions are tested for the nuclear spin decays of F-19 in CaF2 crystals and Xe-129 in frozen xenon. Good agreement between the theory and the experiment is found.

id: 1102.0528
title: Thermalization in the Two-Body Random Ensemble
authors: V. K. B. Kota, A. Rela?o, J. Retamosa, Manan Vyas
comments: 22 pages, 9 figures, new version with some modifications in presentation, accepted for publication in Journal of Statistical Mechanics
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0528
abstract: Using the ergodicity principle for the expectation values of several types of observables, we investigate the thermalization process in isolated fermionic systems. These are described by the two-body random ensemble, which is a paradigmatic model to study quantum chaos and specially the dynamical transition from integrability to chaos. By means of exact diagonalizations we analyze the relevance of the eigenstate thermalization hypothesis as well as the influence of other factors, like the energy and structure of the initial state, or the dimension of the Hilbert space. We also obtain analytical expressions linking the degree of thermalization for a given observable with the so-called number of principal components for transition strengths originated at a given energy, with the dimensions of the whole Hilbert space and microcanonical energy shell, and with the correlations generated by the observable. As the strength of the residual interaction is increased an order-to-chaos transition takes place, and we show that the onset of Wigner spectral fluctuations, which is the standard signature of chaos, is not sufficient to guarantee thermalization in finite systems. When all the signatures of chaos are fulfilled, including the quasi complete delocalization of eigenfunctions, the eigenstate thermalization hypothesis is the mechanism responsible for the thermalization of certain types of observables, such as (linear combinations of) occupancies and strength function operators. Our results also suggest that fully chaotic systems will thermalize relative to most observables in the thermodynamic limit.

id: 1102.0572
title: Feshbach spectroscopy and analysis of the interaction potentials of ultracold sodium
authors: S. Knoop, T. Schuster, R. Scelle, A. Trautmann, J. Appmeier, M. K. Oberthaler, E. Tiesinga, E. Tiemann
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042704 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0572
abstract: We have studied magnetic Feshbach resonances in an ultracold sample of Na prepared in the absolute hyperfine ground state. We report on the observation of three s-, eight d-, and three g-wave Feshbach resonances, including a more precise determination of two known s-wave resonances, and one s-wave resonance at a magnetic field exceeding 200mT. Using a coupled-channels calculation we have improved the sodium ground-state potentials by taking into account these new experimental data, and derived values for the scattering lengths. In addition, a description of the molecular states leading to the Feshbach resonances in terms of the asymptotic-bound-state model is presented.

id: 1102.0666
title: Probabilistic and quantum finite automata with postselection
authors: Abuzer Yakaryilmaz, A. C. Cem Say
comments: 24 pages. A preliminary version of this paper appeared in the Proceedings of Randomized and Quantum Computation (satellite workshop of MFCS and CSL 2010), pages 14--24, 2010
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0666
abstract: We prove that endowing a real-time probabilistic or quantum computer with the ability of postselection increases its computational power. For this purpose, we provide a new model of finite automata with postselection, and compare it with the model of L\={a}ce et al. We examine the related language classes, and also establish separations between the classical and quantum versions, and between the zero-error vs. bounded-error modes of recognition in this model.

id: 1102.0669
title: Optical non-linearity in a dynamical Rydberg gas
authors: J D Pritchard, A Gauguet, K J Weatherill, C S Adams
comments: 11 pages, 5 figure
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44, 184019 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0669
abstract: We use the technique of electro-magnetically induced transparency (EIT) to probe the effect of attractive dipole-dipole interactions in a highly excited Rydberg gas. The transient character of the EIT response is investigated by rapidly scanning the probe laser through resonance. We characterize the resulting cooperative optical non-linearity as a function of probe strength, density and scan direction. For the 58D$_{5/2}$ Rydberg state, an atom density of $1.6\times10^{10} $cm$^{-3}$ and a positive frequency scan we measure a third-order non-linearity of $\chi^{(3)}=5\times 10^{-7}$ m$^2$V$^{-2}$. For the reverse scan we observe a second order non-linearity of $\chi^{(2)}=5\times 10^{-6}$ mV$^{-1}$. The contrasting behaviour can be explained in terms of motional effects and resonant excitation of Rydberg pairs.

id: 1102.0764
title: Quarks and quantum statistics
authors: O.W. Greenberg
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: PoS HRMS2010:024,2010
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0764
abstract: I write about H\'ector, his contributions to the early work in the quark model, and a general discussion of quantum statistics

id: 1102.0838
title: Space(-Time) Emergence as Symmetry Breaking Effect
authors: Izumi Ojima
comments: Talk at ICQBIC (10 -- 13 March 2010) at Tokyo University of Sciences, Noda
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0838
abstract: The microscopic origin of space(-time) geometry is explained on the basis of an emergence process associated with the condensation of infinite number of microscopic quanta responsible for symmetry breakdown, which implements the basic essence of "Quantum-Classical Correpondense" and of the forcing method in physical and mathematical contexts, respectively. From this viewpoint, the space(-time) dependence of physical quantities arises from the "logical extension" OjiOza to change "constant objects" into "variable objects" by tagging the order parameters associated with the condensation onto "constant objects"; the logical direction here from a value y to a domain variable x (to materialize the basic mechanism behind the Gel'fand isomorphism) is just opposite to that common in the usual definition of a function f:x->f(x) from its domain variable x to a value y=f(x).

id: 1102.0842
title: Automorphic Equivalence within Gapped Phases of Quantum Lattice Systems
authors: Sven Bachmann, Spyridon Michalakis, Bruno Nachtergaele, Robert Sims
comments: Updated acknowledgments and new email address of SM
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 309, 835-871 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0842
abstract: Gapped ground states of quantum spin systems have been referred to in the physics literature as being `in the same phase' if there exists a family of Hamiltonians H(s), with finite range interactions depending continuously on $s \in [0,1]$, such that for each $s$, H(s) has a non-vanishing gap above its ground state and with the two initial states being the ground states of H(0) and H(1), respectively. In this work, we give precise conditions under which any two gapped ground states of a given quantum spin system that 'belong to the same phase' are automorphically equivalent and show that this equivalence can be implemented as a flow generated by an $s$-dependent interaction which decays faster than any power law (in fact, almost exponentially). The flow is constructed using Hastings' 'quasi-adiabatic evolution' technique, of which we give a proof extended to infinite-dimensional Hilbert spaces. In addition, we derive a general result about the locality properties of the effect of perturbations of the dynamics for quantum systems with a quasi-local structure and prove that the flow, which we call the {\em spectral flow}, connecting the gapped ground states in the same phase, satisfies a Lieb-Robinson bound. As a result, we obtain that, in the thermodynamic limit, the spectral flow converges to a co-cycle of automorphisms of the algebra of quasi-local observables of the infinite spin system. This proves that the ground state phase structure is preserved along the curve of models $H(s), 0\leq s\leq 1$.

id: 1102.0860
title: Applying causality principles to the axiomatization of probabilistic cellular automata
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Renan Fargetton, Vincent Nesme, Eric Thierry
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, LaTeX, v2: refs added
journal: 
subjects: Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0860
abstract: Cellular automata (CA) consist of an array of identical cells, each of which may take one of a finite number of possible states. The entire array evolves in discrete time steps by iterating a global evolution G. Further, this global evolution G is required to be shift-invariant (it acts the same everywhere) and causal (information cannot be transmitted faster than some fixed number of cells per time step). At least in the classical, reversible and quantum cases, these two top-down axiomatic conditions are sufficient to entail more bottom-up, operational descriptions of G. We investigate whether the same is true in the probabilistic case. Keywords: Characterization, noise, Markov process, stochastic Einstein locality, screening-off, common cause principle, non-signalling, Multi-party non-local box.

id: 1102.0928
title: Continuous Loading of a Conservative Trap from an Atomic Beam
authors: Markus Falkenau, Valentin V. Volchkov, Jahn R¨¹hrig, Axel Griesmaier, Tilman Pfau
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0928
abstract: We demonstrate the fast accumulation of Cr atoms in a conservative potential from a magnetically guided atomic beam. Without laser cooling on a cycling transition, a single dissipative step realized by optical pumping allows to load atoms at a rate of 2*10^7 1/s in the trap. Within less than 100 ms we reach the collisionally dense regime, from which we directly produce a Bose-Einstein condensate with subsequent evaporative cooling. This constitutes a new approach to degeneracy where, provided a slow beam of particles can be produced by some means, Bose-Einstein condensation can be reached for species without a cycling transition.

id: 1102.0960
title: Coherent excitation transferring via dark state in light-harvesting process
authors: H. Dong, D. Z. Xu, C. P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Light: Science & Applications (2012) 1
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0960
abstract: We study the light absorption and energy transferring in a donor-acceptor system with a bionic structure. In the optimal case with uniform couplings, it is found that the quantum dynamics of this seemingly complicated system is reduced as a three-level system of $\Lambda$-type. With this observation, we show that the dark state based electromagnetically-induced transparency (EIT) effect could enhance the energy transfer efficiency, through a quantum interference effect suppressing the excited population of the donors. We estimate the optimal parameters of the system to achieve the maximum output power. The splitting behavior of maximum power may be used to explain the phenomenon that the photosynthesis systems mainly absorb two colors of light.

id: 1102.0990
title: A symmetry trip from Caldirola to Bateman damped systems
authors: V. Aldaya, F. Coss\' Dio, J. Guerrero, F.F. L¨®pez-Ruiz
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0990
abstract: For the Caldirola-Kanai system, describing a quantum damped harmonic oscillator, a couple of constant-of-motion operators generating the Heisenberg algebra can be found. The inclusion of the standard time evolution symmetry in this algebra for damped systems, in a unitary manner, requires a non-trivial extension of this basic algebra and hence the physical system itself. Surprisingly, this extension leads directly to the so-called Bateman's dual system, which now includes a new particle acting as an energy reservoir. The group of symmetries of the dual system is presented, as well as a quantization that implies, in particular, a first-order Schr\"odinger equation. The usual second-order equation and the inclusion of the original Caldirola-Kanai model in Bateman's system are also discussed.

id: 1102.1148
title: Should quantum theory change in the light of gravity?
authors: Johan Noldus
comments: Pedagogical paper I wrote one year ago
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1148
abstract: In this paper, we study implications of the geometrical nature of space- time for some of the basic tenets of quantum mechanics. That is, we study two different implications of the principle of general covariance; first we quantize a reparametrization invariant theory, the free particle in Minkowski spacetime and point out in detail where this theory fails (no- tably these comments appear to be missing in the literature). Second we study the covariance of quantum field theory and show how it connects to causality, the outcome of this study is that QFT is what we shall call ultra weakly covariant with respect to the background spacetime. Third, we treat the question of whether evolution in quantum theory (apart from the measurement act) needs to be unitary, it is easily shown that a per- fectly satisfying probabilistic interpretation exists which does not require unitary evolution. Fourth, we speculate on some modifications quantum theory should undergo in order for it to be generally covariant. The results in this paper hint at a profound change of the theory in which causality as a fundamental principle is abandonned.

id: 1102.1185
title: Delta-like singularity in the Radial Laplace Operator and the Status of the Radial Schrodinger Equation
authors: Anzor A.Khelashvili, Teimuraz P. Nadareishvili
comments: 8 pages
journal: Bulletin of the Georgian National Academy of Sciences.vol 6.numb 1; pp68-73;2012
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1185
abstract: By careful exploration of separation of variables into the Laplacian in spherical coordinates, we obtain the extra delta-like singularity, elimination of which restricts the radial wave function at the origin. This constraint has the form of boundary condition for the radial Schrodinger equation.

id: 1102.1193
title: Extremal Black Holes as Qudits
authors: Michael Rios
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure, references updated
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1193
abstract: We extend the black hole/qudit correspondence by identifying five and six-dimensional 1/2-BPS black string and hole charge vectors in N=8 and N=2 magic supergravities with qubits and qutrits over composition algebras. In D=6, this is accomplished via Hopf fibrations, which map qubits over composition algebras to rank one elements of Jordan algebras of degree two. An analogous procedure maps qutrits over composition algebras to D=5 charge vectors, which are rank one elements of Jordan algebras of degree three. In both cases, the U-duality groups are interpreted as qudit SLOCC transformation groups. We provide explicit gates for such transformations and study their applications in toroidally compactified M-theory.

id: 1102.1199
title: Computation with narrow CTCs
authors: A. C. Cem Say, Abuzer Yakaryilmaz
comments: 16 pages. A few typo was corrected
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1199
abstract: We examine some variants of computation with closed timelike curves (CTCs), where various restrictions are imposed on the memory of the computer, and the information carrying capacity and range of the CTC. We give full characterizations of the classes of languages recognized by polynomial time probabilistic and quantum computers that can send a single classical bit to their own past. Such narrow CTCs are demonstrated to add the power of limited nondeterminism to deterministic computers, and lead to exponential speedup in constant-space probabilistic and quantum computation. We show that, given a time machine with constant negative delay, one can implement CTC-based computations without the need to know about the runtime beforehand.

id: 1102.1315
title: Propagation of light polarization in a birefringent medium: Exact analytic models
authors: G. T. Genov, A. A. Rangelov, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1315
abstract: Driving the analogy between the coherent excitation of a two-state quantum system and the torque equation of motion, we present exact analytic solutions to different models for manipulation of polarization in birefringent medium. These models include the one-dimensional model, the Landau-Zener model, and the Demkov-Kunike model. We also give an example for robust, broadband manipulation of polarization by suitably tailoring the birefringence vector.

id: 1102.1526
title: Roles of Asymptotic Condition and S-Matrix as Micro-Macro Duality in QFT
authors: Izumi Ojima
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1526
abstract: Various versions of "independence" are actively inverstigated in quantum probability. In the context of relativistic QFT, we show here that the physical origin of "independence" can be sought in the asymptotic condition through which asymptotic fields and states exhibiting the independence emerge from the non-independent interacting Heisenberg fields in a kind of "central limit". From the algebraic viewpoint, this condition is equivalent to the on-shell condition to pick up free one-particle modes, which also reduces to Einstein's famous formula $E=mc^{2}$. A scenario to reconstruct interacting Heisenberg fields as Micro-objects from these "independent" =free Macro-objects intertwined by an S-matrix as a measurable quantity is formulated according to the Micro-Macro Duality associated with a new notion of a \textit{cocycle of K-T operators}.

id: 1102.1527
title: Perspective from Micro-Macro Duality -- Towards non-perturbative renormalization scheme
authors: Izumi Ojima
comments: Talk at the International Symposium, QBIC2008
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1527
abstract: The problem of renormalization procedure is re-examined from the viewpoint of Micro-Macro duality.

id: 1102.1539
title: Hidden variables with nonlocal time
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 16 pages, accepted for publication in Found. Phys., misprints corrected, references updated
journal: Found. Phys. 42, 632-646 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1539
abstract: To relax the apparent tension between nonlocal hidden variables and relativity, we propose that the observable proper time is not the same quantity as the usual proper-time parameter appearing in local relativistic equations. Instead, the two proper times are related by a nonlocal rescaling parameter proportional to |psi|^2, so that they coincide in the classical limit. In this way particle trajectories may obey local relativistic equations of motion in a manner consistent with the appearance of nonlocal quantum correlations. To illustrate the main idea, we first present two simple toy models of local particle trajectories with nonlocal time, which reproduce some nonlocal quantum phenomena. After that, we present a realistic theory with a capacity to reproduce all predictions of quantum theory.

id: 1102.1551
title: Density Waves in Layered Systems with Fermionic Polar Molecules
authors: N. T. Zinner, G. M. Bruun
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. Final version in EPJD, EuroQUAM special issue "Cold Quantum Matter - Achievements and Prospects"
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 65, 133-139 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1551
abstract: A layered system of two-dimensional planes containing fermionic polar molecules can potentially realize a number of exotic quantum many-body states. Among the predictions, are density-wave instabilities driven by the anisotropic part of the dipole-dipole interaction in a single layer. However, in typical multilayer setups it is reasonable to expect that the onset and properties of a density-wave are modified by adjacent layers. Here we show that this is indeed the case. For multiple layers the critical strength for the density-wave instability decreases with the number of layers. The effect depends on density and is more pronounced in the low density regime. The lowest solution of the instability corresponds to the density waves in the different layers being in-phase, whereas higher solutions have one or several adjancet layers that are out of phase. The parameter regime needed to explore this instability is within reach of current experiments.

id: 1102.1573
title: Quantization of Damping Particle Based On New Variational Principles
authors: Tianshu Luo, Yimu Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1573
abstract: In this paper a new approach is proposed to quantize mechanical systems whose equations of motion can not be put into Hamiltonian form. This approach is based on a new type of variational principle, which is adopted to a describe a relation: a damping particle may shares a common phase curve with a free particle, whose Lagrangian in the new variational principle can be considered as a Lagrangian density in phase space. According to Feynman's theory, the least action principle is adopted to modify the Feynman's path integral formula, where Lagrangian is replaced by Lagrangian density. In the case of conservative systems, the modification reduces to standard Feynman's propagator formula. As an example a particle with friction is analyzed in detail.

id: 1102.1605
title: Stroboscopic observation of quantum many-body dynamics
authors: Stefan Kessler, Andreas Holzner, Ian P. McCulloch, Jan von Delft, Florian Marquardt
comments: 5+1 pages, 6 figures, published version with supplemental material included
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 011605(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1605
abstract: Recent experiments have demonstrated single-site resolved observation of cold atoms in optical lattices. Thus, in the future it may be possible to take repeated snapshots of an interacting quantum many-body system during the course of its evolution. Here we address the impact of the resulting Quantum (anti-)Zeno physics on the many-body dynamics. We use the time-dependent density-matrix renormalization group to obtain the time evolution of the full many-body wave function, which is then periodically projected in order to simulate realizations of stroboscopic measurements. For the example of a one-dimensional lattice of spin-polarized fermions with nearest-neighbor interactions, we find regimes for which many-particle configurations are stabilized and destabilized depending on the interaction strength and the time between observations.

id: 1102.1696
title: Spinor atom-molecule conversion via laser-induced three-body recombination
authors: Hui Jing, Y. Deng, P. Meystre
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A (2011)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1696
abstract: We study theoretically several aspects of the dynamics of coherent atom-molecule conversion in spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensates. Specifically, we discuss how for a suitable dark-state condition the interplay of spin-exchange collisions and photoassociation leads to the stable creation of an atom- molecule pairs from three initial spin-zero atoms. This process involves two two-body interactions and can be intuitively viewed as an effective three-body recombination. We investigate the relative roles of photoassociation and of the initial magnetization in the \resonant" case where the dark state condition is perfectly satisfied. We also consider the "non-resonant" regime, where that condition is satisfied either approximately {the so-called adiabatic case {or not at all. In the adiabatic case, we derive an effective non-rigid pendulum model that allows one to conveniently discuss the onset of an antiferromagnetic instability of an \atom-molecule pendulum," as well as large-amplitude pair oscillations and atom-molecule entanglement.

id: 1102.1721
title: Topological Entanglement Entropy of a Bose-Hubbard Spin Liquid
authors: Sergei V. Isakov, Matthew B. Hastings, Roger G. Melko
comments: 4+ pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Physics 7, 772 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1721
abstract: The Landau paradigm of classifying phases by broken symmetries was demonstrated to be incomplete when it was realized that different quantum Hall states could only be distinguished by more subtle, topological properties. Today, the role of topology as an underlying description of order has branched out to include topological band insulators, and certain featureless gapped Mott insulators with a topological degeneracy in the groundstate wavefunction. Despite intense focus, very few candidates for these topologically ordered "spin liquids" exist. The main difficulty in finding systems that harbour spin liquid states is the very fact that they violate the Landau paradigm, making conventional order parameters non-existent. Here, we uncover a spin liquid phase in a Bose-Hubbard model on the kagome lattice, and measure its topological order directly via the topological entanglement entropy. This is the first smoking-gun demonstration of a non-trivial spin liquid, identified through its entanglement entropy as a gapped groundstate with emergent Z2 gauge symmetry.

id: 1102.1751
title: Universal features in sequential and nonsequential two-photon double ionization of helium
authors: R. Pazourek, J. Feist, S. Nagele, E. Persson, B. I. Schneider, L. A. Collins, J. Burg?rfer
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 053418 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1751
abstract: We analyze two-photon double ionization of helium in both the nonsequential and sequential regime. We show that the energy spacing between the two emitted electrons provides the key parameter that controls both the energy and the angular distribution and reveals the universal features present in both the nonsequential and sequential regime. This universality, i.e., independence of photon energy, is a manifestation of the continuity across the threshold for sequential double ionization. For all photon energies, the energy distribution can be described by a universal shape function that contains only the spectral and temporal information entering second-order time-dependent perturbation theory. Angular correlations and distributions are found to be more sensitive to the photon energy. In particular, shake-up interferences have a large effect on the angular distribution. Energy spectra, angular distributions parameterized by the anisotropy parameters, and total cross sections presented in this paper are obtained by fully correlated time-dependent ab initio calculations.

id: 1102.1757
title: Finite temperature Casimir effect for graphene
authors: Ignat V. Fialkovsky, Valery N. Marachevsky, Dmitri V. Vassilevich
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Physical Review B
journal: Phys.Rev.B84:035446,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1757
abstract: We adopt the Dirac model for quasiparticles in graphene and calculate the finite temperature Casimir interaction between a suspended graphene layer and a parallel conducting surface. We find that at high temperature the Casimir interaction in such system is just one half of that for two ideal conductors separated by the same distance. In this limit single graphene layer behaves exactly as a Drude metal. In particular, the contribution of the TE mode is suppressed, while one of the TM mode saturates the ideal metal value. Behaviour of the Casimir interaction for intermediate temperatures and separations accessible for an experiment is studied in some detail. We also find an interesting interplay between two fundamental constants of graphene physics: the fine structure constant and the Fermi velocity.

id: 1102.1946
title: Spherical Casimir pistons
authors: J.S.Dowker
comments: 10 pages. Finite temperature results added
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.28:155018,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1946
abstract: A piston is introduced into a spherical lune Casimir cavity turning it into two adjacent lunes separated by the (hemispherical) piston. On the basis of zeta function regularisation, the vacuum energy of the arrangement is finite for conformal propagation in space-time. For even spheres this energy is independent of the angle of the lune. For odd dimensions it is shown that for all Neumann, or all Dirichlet, boundary conditions the piston is attracted or repelled by the nearest wall if d=3,7,... or if d=1,5,..., respectively. For hybrid N-D conditions these requirements are switched. If a mass is added, divergences arise which render the model suspect. The analysis, however, is relatively straightforward and involves the Barnes zeta function. The extension to finite temperatures is made and it is shown that for the 3,7,... series of odd spheres, the repulsion by the walls continues but that, above a certain temperature, the free energy acquires two minima symmetrically placed about the mid point.

id: 1102.2011
title: Atomic analysis of the $(n;t)-$reaction of the helium-3 atoms with slow neutrons
authors: Alexei M. Frolov, David M. Wardlaw
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2011
abstract: Probabilties of formation of various hydrogenic species during the exothermic nuclear $(n,{}^3$He$;t,p)-$reaction of atomic helium-3 with slow neutrons are determined. In particular, we have found that the probability to form the tritium atom ${}^3$H in its ground state is $\approx$ 55.19287 %, while analogous probability to form the protium atom ${}^1$H is $\approx$ 1.02363 %. Analogous probabilities of formation of the negatively charged hydrogen ions, i.e. the ${}^3$H$^{-}$ and ${}^1$H$^{-}$ ions, in the nuclear $(n,{}^3$He$; t,p)-$reaction with slow neutrons, are $\approx$ 7.8680 % and $\approx$ 0.06583 %, respectively. We also consider bremsstrahlung from fast fission-type reactions in atomic systems. The spectrum of emitted radiation is analyzed.

id: 1102.2012
title: Mapping Cones are Operator Systems
authors: Nathaniel Johnston, Erling St?rmer
comments: 12 pages, minor corrections since v1
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2012
abstract: We investigate the relationship between mapping cones and matrix ordered *-vector spaces (i.e., abstract operator systems). We show that to every mapping cone there is an associated operator system on the space of n-by-n complex matrices, and furthermore we show that the associated operator system is unique and has a certain homogeneity property. Conversely, we show that the cone of completely positive maps on any operator system with that homogeneity property is a mapping cone. We also consider several related problems, such as characterizing cones that are closed under composition on the right by completely positive maps, and cones that are also semigroups, in terms of operator systems.

id: 1102.2016
title: Edge-Induced Qubit Polarization in Systems with Ising Anyons
authors: David J Clarke, Kirill Shtengel
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures. Submitted to New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 055005 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2016
abstract: We investigate the proposed experimental setup for measuring the topological charge in a an Ising anyon system by means of Fabry-P\'erot interferometry with a chiral edge state. We show that such an interferometer has the unintended but not necessarily unwelcome effect of stabilizing the state of the system being measured (i.e., a topological qubit). We show further that interactions between the edge mode and the localized bulk quasiparticles can have the effect of polarizing the qubit, stabilizing its state. We discuss the these results in the context of recent interferometer experiments in the 5/2 fractional quantum Hall state, where the first of these effects is small, but the second may be relevant to the observed phenomena.

id: 1102.2024
title: Slow-light probe of Fermi pairing through an atom-molecule dark state
authors: Hui Jing, Y. Deng, P. Meystre
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2024
abstract: We consider the two-color photooassociation of a quantum degenerate atomic gas into ground-state diatomic molecules via a molecular dark state. This process can be described in terms of a lambda level scheme that is formally analogous to the situation in electromagnetically-induced transparency (EIT) in atomic systems, and therefore can result in slow light propagation. We show that the group velocity of the light field depends explicitly on whether the atoms are bosons or fermions, as well as on the existence or absence of a pairing gap in the case of fermions, so that the measurement of the group velocity realizes a non-destructive diagnosis of the atomic state and the pairing gap.

id: 1102.2025
title: Nonequilibrium work performed in quantum annealing
authors: Masayuki Ohzeki, Hidestoshi Nishimori
comments: 4pages, Proceedings of International Symposium "Nanoscience and Quantum Physics 2011" (nanoPHYS'11) Title is changed and some typos are fixed
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2025
abstract: Quantum annealing is a generic solver of classical optimization problems that makes full use of quantum fluctuations. We consider work statistics given by a repetition of quantum annealing processes by employing the Jarzynski equality proposed in nonequilibrium statistical physics. In particular, we analyze the distribution of the work performed by a transverse field. A special symmetry, gauge symmetry, leads to a non-trivial relationship between quantum annealing toward different targets in the theory of spin glasses. We believe that our results will be a step toward an alternative realization of efficient quantum computation as well as our better understanding of nonequilibrium behavior of systems under quantum control.

id: 1102.2069
title: Spin-Orbit Interaction in particles' motion as a model of quantum computation
authors: Gerasimos G. Rigatos
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2069
abstract: The paper studies spin-orbit interaction (i.e. the effect the spin has on the particle's trajectory in a magnetic field) as a model of quantum computation. The two-level spin quantum system is examined using the stochastic mechanics formulation. The control of the entangled spin state is considered as a problem of control of the mean moment of a particles ensemble along a reference trajectory. It is shown that such a control can be succeeded by applying an open-loop control scheme.

id: 1102.2107
title: Thermal state on a cylindrical spacetime
authors: L. Ort¨ªz
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2107
abstract: We proof that if we have a thermal equilibrium state on Minkowski spacetime in two dimensions then we have a thermal equilibrium state on the cylindrical spacetime obtained from this Minkowski spacetime by making 2\pi-periodic the spatial direction. We perform this by using the algebraic approach to Quantum Field Theory.

id: 1102.2129
title: Armchair graphene nanoribbons: PT-symmetry breaking and exceptional points without dissipation
authors: Maurizio Fagotti, Claudio Bonati, Demetrio Logoteta, Paolo Marconcini, Massimo Macucci
comments: 5 pages, 2 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 241406(R) (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2129
abstract: We consider a single layer graphene nanoribbon with armchair edges in a longitudinally constant external potential and point out that its transport properties can be described by means of an effective non-Hermitian Hamiltonian. We show that this system has some features typical of dissipative systems, namely the presence of exceptional points and of PT-symmetry breaking, although it is not dissipative.

id: 1102.2182
title: Momentum Spectra for Dynamically Assisted Schwinger Pair Production
authors: Markus Orthaber, Florian Hebenstreit, Reinhard Alkofer
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys.Lett.B698:80-85,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2182
abstract: Recently the dynamically assisted Schwinger mechanism, i.e., electron-positron pair production from vacuum by a combination of laser pulses with different time scales has been proposed. The corresponding results, which suggest that the rate of produced pairs is significantly enhanced by dynamical effects, are verified. Employing the framework of quantum kinetic theory intrinsically enables us to additionally provide momentum space information on the generated positron spectrum.

id: 1102.2202
title: Fermionic condensate and Casimir densities in the presence of compact dimensions with applications to nanotubes
authors: E. Elizalde, S.D. Odintsov, A.A. Saharian
comments: 26 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:105023,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2202
abstract: We investigate the fermionic condensate and the vacuum expectation value of the energy-momentum tensor for a massive fermionic field in the geometry of two parallel plate on the background of Minkowski spacetime with an arbitrary number of toroidally compactified spatial dimensions, in the presence of a constant gauge field. Bag boundary conditions are imposed on the plates and periodicity conditions with arbitrary phases are considered along the compact dimensions. The boundary induced parts in the fermionic condensate and the vacuum energy density are negative, with independence of the phases in the periodicity conditions and of the value of the gauge potential. Interaction forces between the plates are thus always attractive. However, in physical situations where the quantum field is confined to the region between the plates, the pure topological part contributes as well, and then the resulting force can be either attractive or repulsive, depending on the specific phases encoded in the periodicity conditions along the compact dimensions, and on the gauge potential, too. Applications of the general formulas to cylindrical carbon nanotubes are considered, within the framework of a Dirac-like theory for the electronic states in graphene. In the absence of a magnetic flux, the energy density for semiconducting nanotubes is always negative. For metallic nanotubes the energy density is positive for long tubes and negative for short ones. The resulting Casimir forces acting on the edges of the nanotube are attractive for short tubes with independence of the tube chirality. The sign of the force for long nanotubes can be controlled by tuning the magnetic flux. This opens the way to the design of efficient actuators driven by the Casimir force at the nanoscale.

id: 1102.2222
title: Von Neumann, Bell and Bohm
authors: Jeremy Bernstein
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2222
abstract: This article discusses von Neumann's "proof" that hidden variable theories are impossible.

id: 1102.2238
title: A simple model for the dynamical Casimir effect for a static mirror with time-dependent properties
authors: Hector O. Silva, C. Farina
comments: 7 pages and 3 figures. Minor corrections made throughout the paper
journal: Phys.Rev.D84:045003,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2238
abstract: We consider a real massless scalar field in 1+1 dimensions satisfying time-dependent Robin boundary condition at a static wall. This condition can simulate moving reflecting mirrors whose motions are determined by the time-dependence of the Robin parameter. We show that particles can be created from vacuum, characterizing in this way a dynamical Casimir effect.

id: 1102.2332
title: A Fast Measurement based fixed-point Quantum Search Algorithm
authors: Ashish Mani, C Patvardhan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Databases (cs.DB); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2332
abstract: Generic quantum search algorithm searches for target entity in an unsorted database by repeatedly applying canonical Grover's quantum rotation transform to reach near the vicinity of the target entity represented by a basis state in the Hilbert space associated with the qubits. Thus, when qubits are measured, there is a high probability of finding the target entity. However, the number of times quantum rotation transform is to be applied for reaching near the vicinity of the target is a function of the number of target entities present in the unsorted database, which is generally unknown. A wrong estimate of the number of target entities can lead to overshooting or undershooting the targets, thus reducing the success probability. Some proposals have been made to overcome this limitation. These proposals either employ quantum counting to estimate the number of solutions or fixed point schemes. This paper proposes a new scheme for stopping the application of quantum rotation transformation on reaching near the targets by measurement and subsequent processing to estimate the distance of the state vector from the target states. It ensures a success probability, which is at least greater than half for all the ratios of the number of target entities to the total number of entities in a database, which are less than half. The search problem is trivial for remaining possible ratios. The proposed scheme is simpler than quantum counting and more efficient than the known fixed-point schemes. It has same order of computational complexity as canonical Grover's search algorithm but is slow by a factor of two and requires an additional ancilla qubit.

id: 1102.2469
title: Strong thermalization of the two-component Bose-Hubbard model at finite temperatures
authors: J. M. Zhang, C. Shen, W. M. Liu
comments: The peer-reviewed version is significantly extended
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013637 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2469
abstract: We study thermalization of a two-component Bose-Hubbard model by exact diagonalization. Initially the two components do not interact and are each at equilibrium but with different temperatures. As the on-site inter-component interaction is turned on, perfect thermalization occurs. Remarkably, not merely those simple "realistic" physical observables thermalize but even the density matrix of the \textit{whole} system---the time-averaged density matrix of the system can be well approximated by that of a canonical ensemble. A conjecture about this fact is put forward.

id: 1102.2492
title: Impurity entanglement entropy in Kondo systems from conformal field theory
authors: Erik Eriksson, Henrik Johannesson
comments: 4 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 041107(R) (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2492
abstract: The entanglement entropy in Kondo impurity systems is studied analytically using conformal field theory. From the impurity contribution to the scaling corrections of the entanglement entropy we extract information about the screening cloud profile for general non-Fermi-liquid fixed points. By also considering the finite-temperature corrections to scaling of the von Neumann entropy we point out a direct connection between the large-distance screening cloud profile and thermodynamic observables such as the specific heat.

id: 1102.2587
title: Atom Interferometers and the Gravitational Redshift
authors: Supurna Sinha, Joseph Samuel
comments: 18 pages, one figure, improved discussion, corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2587
abstract: From the principle of equivalence, Einstein predicted that clocks slow down in a gravitational field. Since the general theory of relativity is based on the principle of equivalence, it is essential to test this prediction accurately. Muller, Peters and Chu claim that a reinterpretation of decade old experiments with atom interferometers leads to a sensitive test of this gravitational redshift effect at the Compton frequency. Wolf et al dispute this claim and adduce arguments against it. In this article, we distill these arguments to a single fundamental objection: an atom is NOT a clock ticking at the Compton frequency. We conclude that atom interferometry experiments conducted to date do not yield such sensitive tests of the gravitational redshift. Finally, we suggest a new interferometric experiment to measure the gravitational redshift, which realises a quantum version of the classical clock "paradox".

id: 1102.2589
title: Magnetization and Lyapunov exponents on a kagome chain with multi-site exchange interaction
authors: N. Ananikian, L. Ananikyan, R. Artuso, H. Lazaryan
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 374 (2010) 4084-4089
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2589
abstract: The Ising approximation of the Heisenberg model in a strong magnetic field, with two, three and six spin exchange interactions is studied on a kagome chain. The kagome chain can be considered as an approximation of the third layer of 3He absorbed on the surface of graphite (kagome lattice). By using dynamical approach we have found one and multi-dimensional mappings (recursion relations) for the partition function. The magnetization diagrams are plotted and they show that the kagome chain is separating into four sublattices with different magnetizations. Magnetization curves of two sublattices exhibit plateaus at zero and 2/3 of the saturation field. The maximal Lyapunov exponent for multi-dimensional mapping is considered and it is shown that near the magnetization plateaus the maximal Lyapunov exponent also exhibits plateaus.

id: 1102.2603
title: Magnetic properties and concurrence for fluid 3He on kagome lattice
authors: N. Ananikian, L. Ananikyan, H. Lazaryan
comments: Physics of Atomic Nuclei (accepted for publication) 2011
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2603
abstract: We present the results of magnetic properties and entanglement for kagome lattice using Heisenberg model with two-, and three-site exchange interactions in strong magnetic field. Kagome lattice correspond to the third layer of fluid 3He absorbed on the surface of graphite. The magnetic properties and concurrence as a measure of pairwise thermal entanglement are studied by means of variational mean-field like treatment based on Gibbs-Bogoliubov inequality. The system exhibits different magnetic behaviors, depending on the values of the exchange parameters (J2, J3). We have obtained the magnetization plateaus at low temperatures. The central theme of the paper is the comparing the entanglement and magnetic behavior for kagome lattice. We have found that in the antiferromagnetic region behaviour of the concurrence coincides with the magnetization one.

id: 1102.2612
title: Algorithm for generating new explicitly solvable Schrodinger type equations
authors: Nicolae Cotfas, Liviu Adrian Cotfas
comments: An example has been added
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2612
abstract: In this note we present an algorithm to generate new Schr\" odinger type equations explicitly solvable in terms of orthogonal polynomials or associated special functions.

id: 1102.2738
title: Decision Theory with Prospect Interference and Entanglement
authors: V.I. Yukalov, D. Sornette
comments: Latex file, 42 pages
journal: Theor. Dec. 70 (2011) 283-328
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2738
abstract: We present a novel variant of decision making based on the mathematical theory of separable Hilbert spaces. This mathematical structure captures the effect of superposition of composite prospects, including many incorporated intentions, which allows us to describe a variety of interesting fallacies and anomalies that have been reported to particularize the decision making of real human beings. The theory characterizes entangled decision making, non-commutativity of subsequent decisions, and intention interference. We demonstrate how the violation of the Savage's sure-thing principle, known as the disjunction effect, can be explained quantitatively as a result of the interference of intentions, when making decisions under uncertainty. The disjunction effects, observed in experiments, are accurately predicted using a theorem on interference alternation that we derive, which connects aversion-to-uncertainty to the appearance of negative interference terms suppressing the probability of actions. The conjunction fallacy is also explained by the presence of the interference terms. A series of experiments are analysed and shown to be in excellent agreement with a priori evaluation of interference effects. The conjunction fallacy is also shown to be a sufficient condition for the disjunction effect and novel experiments testing the combined interplay between the two effects are suggested.

id: 1102.2890
title: Some Notes on Quantum Information Theory and Emerging Computing Technologies
authors: Alexander Yu. Vlasov
comments: v2: LaTeX 9 pages, 3 figures, spelling and grammar corrected, class changed, v3: 12 pages, 4 figures, references and appendix added
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2890
abstract: It is considered an interdependence of the theory of quantum computing and some perspective information technologies. A couple of illustrative and useful examples are discussed. The reversible computing from very beginning had the serious impact on the design of quantum computers and it is revisited first. Some applications of ternary circuits are also quite instructive and it may be useful in the quantum information theory.

id: 1102.2899
title: Interference Effects in Schwinger Vacuum Pair Production for Time-Dependent Laser Pulses
authors: Cesim K. Dumlu, Gerald V. Dunne
comments: 19 pages; 21 figures; v2 refs updated
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:065028,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2899
abstract: We present simple new approximate formulas, for both scalar and spinor QED, for the number of particles produced from vacuum by a time dependent electric field, incorporating the interference effects that arise from an arbitrary number of distinct semiclassical turning points. Such interference effects are important when the temporal profile of the laser pulse has subcycle structure. We show how the resulting semiclassical intuition may be used to guide the design of temporal profiles that enhance the momentum spectrum due to interference effects. The result is easy to implement and generally applicable to time-dependent tunneling problems, such as appear in many other contexts in particle and nuclear physics, condensed matter physics, atomic physics, chemical physics, and gravitational physics.

id: 1102.2917
title: Single crystal silicon capacitors with low microwave loss in the single photon regime
authors: S. Weber, K.W. Murch, D.H. Slichter, R. Vijay, I. Siddiqi
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 98, 172510 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2917
abstract: We have fabricated superconducting microwave resonators in a lumped element geometry using single crystal silicon dielectric parallel plate capacitors with C >2 pF. Aluminum devices with resonant frequencies between 4.0 and 6.5 GHz exhibited an average internal quality factor Q_i of 2 x 10^5 in the single photon excitation regime at T = 20 mK. Attributing all the observed loss to the capacitive element, our measurements correspond to a loss tangent of intrinsic silicon of 5 x 10^-6. This level of loss is an order of magnitude lower than is currently observed in structures incorporating amorphous dielectric materials, thus making single crystal silicon capacitors an attractive, robust route for realizing long-lived quantum circuits.

id: 1102.2932
title: Applications of Monotone Rank to Complexity Theory
authors: Yang D. Li
comments: A bug was fixed. Submitted to IEEE complexity 2012
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2932
abstract: Raz's recent result \cite{Raz2010} has rekindled people's interest in the study of \emph{tensor rank}, the generalization of matrix rank to high dimensions, by showing its connections to arithmetic formulas. In this paper, we follow Raz's work and show that \emph{monotone rank}, the monotone variant of tensor rank and matrix rank, has applications in algebraic complexity, quantum computing and communication complexity. This paper differs from Raz's paper in that it leverages existing results to show unconditional bounds while Raz's result relies on some assumptions. We show a super-exponential separation between monotone and non-monotone computation in the non-commutative model, and thus provide a strong solution to Nisan's question \cite{Nis1991} in algebraic complexity. More specifically, we exhibit that there exists a homogeneous algebraic function $f$ of degree $d$ ($d$ even) on $n$ variables with the monotone algebraic branching program (ABP) complexity $\Omega(d^2\log n)$ and the non-monotone ABP complexity $O(d^2)$. In Bell's theorem\cite{Bel1964, CHSH1969}, a basic assumption is that players have free will, and under such an assumption, local hidden variable theory still cannot predict the correlations produced by quantum mechanics. Using tools from monotone rank, we show that even if we disallow the players to have free will, local hidden variable theory still cannot predict the correlations produced by quantum mechanics. We generalize the log-rank conjecture \cite{LS1988} in communication complexity to the multiparty case, and prove that for super-polynomial parties, there is a super-polynomial separation between the deterministic communication complexity and the logarithm of the rank of the communication tensor. This means that the log-rank conjecture does not hold in high dimensions.

id: 1102.3040
title: Telescopic Relative Entropy
authors: Koenraad M.R. Audenaert
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures; to be presented at TQC2011, Madrid, May 2011. V2: New proof of Theorem 4. Section added on telescoping the relative Renyi entropy, with a new and simpler proof of the main inequality first proven in quant-ph/0610027 concerning the quantum Chernoff bound
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3040
abstract: We introduce the telescopic relative entropy (TRE), which is a new regularisation of the relative entropy related to smoothing, to overcome the problem that the relative entropy between pure states is either zero or infinity and therefore useless as a distance measure in this case. We study basic properties of this quantity, and find interesting relationships between the TRE and the trace norm distance. We then exploit the same techniques to obtain a new and shorter proof of a lower bound on the relative Renyi entropies in terms of the trace norm distance, $\trace\rho^{1-p}\sigma^p \ge 1-(||\rho-\sigma||_1)/2$.

id: 1102.3041
title: Telescopic Relative Entropy--II Triangle inequalities
authors: Koenraad M.R. Audenaert
comments: 14 pages; V2: minor typographic changes
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3041
abstract: In previous work (see arxiv:1102.3040), we have defined the telescopic relative entropy (TRE), which is a regularisation of the quantum relative entropy $S(\rho||\sigma)=\trace\rho(\log\rho-\log\sigma)$, by replacing the second argument $\sigma$ by a convex combination of the first and the second argument, $\tau=a\rho+(1-a)\sigma$ and dividing the result by $-\log a$. We also explored some basic properties of the TRE. In this follow-up paper we state and prove two upper bounds on the variation of the TRE when either the first or the second argument changes. These bounds are close in spirit to a triangle inequality. For the ordinary relative entropy no such bounds are possible due to the fact that the variation could be infinite.

id: 1102.3093
title: Superiority of one-way and realtime quantum machines and new directions
authors: Abuzer Yakaryilmaz
comments: A revised edition with some corrections
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3093
abstract: In automata theory, the quantum computation has been widely examined for finite state machines, known as quantum finite automata (QFAs), and less attention has been given to the QFAs augmented with counters or stacks. Moreover, to our knowledge, there is no result related to QFAs having more than one input head. In this paper, we focus on such generalizations of QFAs whose input head(s) operate(s) in one-way or realtime mode and present many superiority of them to their classical counterparts. Furthermore, we propose some open problems and conjectures in order to investigate the power of quantumness better. We also give some new results on classical computation.

id: 1102.3110
title: Dielectric environment mediated quantum screening of one dimensional electron gas
authors: Aniruddha Konar, Tian Fang, Debdeep Jena
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3110
abstract: Relaxing the assumption of "infinite and homogenous background" the dielectric response function of one-dimensional (1D) semiconducting nanowires embedded in a dielectric environment is calculated. It is shown that high-k (higher than semiconductor dielectric constant) dielectric environment reduces the screening by the free carriers inside the nanostructure whereas, low dielectric environment increases the Coulombic interaction between free carriers and enhances the strength of screening function. In long wavelength limit, dielectric screening and collective excitation of electron gas are found to be solely determined by the environment instead of the semiconductor. Behavior of static dielectric function is particularly addressed at a specific wavevector q=2k_F; a wavevector ubiquitously appears in charge transport in nanostructures

id: 1102.3137
title: Lanczos-based Low-Rank Correction Method for Solving the Dyson Equation in Inhomogenous Dynamical Mean-Field Theory
authors: Pierre Carrier, Jok M. Tang, Yousef Saad, James K. Freericks
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure, 24th Annual CSP Workshop, University of Georgia, Athens, GA, submitted to Physics Procedia. New version has some of the References corrected
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3137
abstract: Inhomogeneous dynamical mean-field theory has been employed to solve many interesting strongly interacting problems from transport in multilayered devices to the properties of ultracold atoms in a trap. The main computational step, especially for large systems, is the problem of calculating the inverse of a large sparse matrix to solve Dyson's equation and determine the local Green's function at each lattice site from the corresponding local self-energy. We present a new efficient algorithm, the Lanczos-based low-rank algorithm, for the calculation of the inverse of a large sparse matrix which yields this local (imaginary time) Green's function. The Lanczos-based low-rank algorithm is based on a domain decomposition viewpoint, but avoids explicit calculation of Schur complements and relies instead on low-rank matrix approximations derived from the Lanczos algorithm, for solving the Dyson equation. We report at least a 25-fold improvement of performance compared to explicit decomposition (such as sparse LU) of the matrix inverse. We also report that scaling relative to matrix sizes, of the low-rank correction method on the one hand and domain decomposition methods on the other, are comparable.

id: 1102.3158
title: Consciousness: A Direct Link with Life's Origin?
authors: A. N. Mitra, Gargi Mitra-Delmotte
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure, .pdf file; Keywords: mind-matter; field-driven assembly; induction; environment; solitons; coherence; magnetism
journal: Journal of Cosmology, 2011, Vol 14. 4792-4799
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Other Quantitative Biology (q-bio.OT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3158
abstract: Inspired by the Penrose-Hameroff thesis, we are intuitively led to examine an intriguing correspondence of 'induction' (by fields), with the complex phenomenon of (metabolism-sustained) consciousness: Did sequences of associated induction patterns in field-susceptible biomatter have simpler beginnings?

id: 1102.3181
title: Spatially Coupled Quasi-Cyclic Quantum LDPC Codes
authors: Manabu Hagiwara, Kenta Kasai, Hideki Imai, Kohichi Sakaniwa
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3181
abstract: We face the following dilemma for designing low-density parity-check codes (LDPC) for quantum error correction. 1) The row weights of parity-check should be large: The minimum distances are bounded above by the minimum row weights of parity-check matrices of constituent classical codes. Small minimum distance tends to result in poor decoding performance at the error-floor region. 2) The row weights of parity-check matrices should not be large: The sum-product decoding performance at the water-fall region is degraded as the row weight increases. Recently, Kudekar et al. showed spatially-coupled (SC) LDPC codes exhibit capacity-achieving performance for classical channels. SC LDPC codes have both large row weight and capacity-achieving error-floor and water-fall performance. In this paper, we design SC LDPC-CSS (Calderbank, Shor and Steane) codes for quantum error correction over the depolarizing channels.

id: 1102.3259
title: Viscosity of liquid He-4 and quantum of circulation: Why and how are they related?
authors: V. S. L'vov, L. Skrbek
comments: 4 pages, 2 figs, PRL submitted
journal: 
subjects: Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3259
abstract: The relationship between the apparently unrelated physical quantities -- kinematic viscosity of liquid He-4, $\nu$, and quantum of circulation, $\kappa=2\pi \hbar/m_4$, where $\hbar$ is the Planck constant and $m_4$ denotes the mass of the $^4$He atom -- is examined in the vicinity of the superfluid transition occurring due to Bose-Einstein condensation. A model is developed, leading to the surprisingly simple relation $\nu \approx \kappa/6$. We critically examine the available experimental data for $^4$He relevant to this simple relation and predict the kinematic viscosity for the stretched liquid $^4$He along the $\lambda$-line at negative pressures.

id: 1102.3349
title: Semiclassical solitons in strongly correlated systems of ultracold bosonic atoms in optical lattices
authors: Eugene Demler, Andrei Maltsev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3349
abstract: We investigate theoretically soliton excitations and dynamics of their formation in strongly correlated systems of ultracold bosonic atoms in two and three dimensional optical lattices. We derive equations of nonlinear hydrodynamics in the regime of strong interactions and incommensurate fillings, when atoms can be treated as hard core bosons. When parameters change in one direction only we obtain Korteweg-de Vries type equation away from half-filling and modified KdV equation at half-filling. We apply this general analysis to a problem of the decay of the density step. We consider stability of one dimensional solutions to transverse fluctuations. Our results are also relevant for understanding nonequilibrium dynamics of lattice spin models.

id: 1102.3373
title: Inducing vortices in a Bose-Einstein condensate using holographically produced light beams
authors: Johannes F. S. Brachmann, Waseem S. Bakr, Jonathon Gillen, Amy Peng, Markus Greiner
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3373
abstract: In this paper we demonstrate a technique that can create out-of-equilibrium vortex configurations with almost arbitrary charge and geometry in a Bose-Einstein condensate. We coherently transfer orbital angular momentum from a holographically generated light beam to a Rubidium 87 condensate using a two-photon stimulated Raman process. Using matter wave interferometry, we verify the phase pattern imprinted onto the atomic wave function for a single vortex and a vortex-antivortex pair. In addition to their phase winding, the vortices created with this technique have an associated hyperfine spin texture.

id: 1102.3545
title: Spin-supersolid phase in Heisenberg chains: a characterization via Matrix Product States with periodic boundary conditions
authors: Davide Rossini, Vittorio Giovannetti, Rosario Fazio
comments: 4+ pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 140411(R) (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3545
abstract: By means of a variational calculation using Matrix Product States with periodic boundary conditions, we accurately determine the extension of the spin-supersolid phase predicted to exist in the spin-1 anisotropic Heisenberg chain. We compute both the structure factor and the superfluid stiffness, and extract the critical exponents of the supersolid-to-solid phase transition.

id: 1102.3586
title: Classical probabilities for Majorana and Weyl spinors
authors: C.Wetterich
comments: 32 pages, no figures
journal: Annals Phys.326:2243-2293,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3586
abstract: We construct a map between the quantum field theory of free Weyl or Majorana fermions and the probability distribution of a classical statistical ensemble for Ising spins or discrete bits. More precisely, a Grassmann functional integral based on a real Grassmann algebra specifies the time evolution of the real wave function $q_\tau(t)$ for the Ising states $\tau$. The time dependent probability distribution of a generalized Ising model obtains as $p_\tau(t)=q^2_\tau(t)$. The functional integral employs a lattice regularization for single Weyl or Majorana spinors. We further introduce the complex structure characteristic for quantum mechanics. Probability distributions of the Ising model which correspond to one or many propagating fermions are discussed explicitly. Expectation values of observables can be computed equivalently in the classical statistical Ising model or in the quantum field theory for fermions.

id: 1102.3630
title: Variational self-consistent theory for trapped Bose gases at finite temperature
authors: A. Boudjemaa, M. Benarous
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 59, 427-434 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3630
abstract: We apply the time-dependent variational principle of Balian-V\'en\'eroni to a system of self-interacting trapped bosons at finite temperature. The method leads to a set of coupled non-linear time dependent equations for the condensate density, the thermal cloud and the anomalous density. We solve numerically these equations in the static case for a harmonic trap. We analyze the various densities as functions of the radial distance and the temperature. We find an overall good qualitative agreement with recent experiments as well as with the results of many theoretical groups. We also discuss the behavior of the anomalous density at low temperatures owing to its importance to account for many-body effects.

id: 1102.3651
title: Non-thermal statistics in isolated quantum spin clusters after a series of perturbations
authors: Kai Ji, Boris V. Fine
comments: version as accepted to PRL. Main article: 4 pages, 4 figures. Supplement: 5 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 050401 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3651
abstract: We show numerically that a finite isolated cluster of interacting spins 1/2 exhibits a surprising non-thermal statistics when subjected to a series of small non-adiabatic perturbations by external magnetic field. The resulting occupations of energy eigenstates are significantly higher than the thermal ones on both the low and the high ends of the energy spectra. This behavior semi-quantitatively agrees with the statistics predicted for the so-called "quantum micro-canonical" (QMC) ensemble, which includes all possible quantum superpositions with a given energy expectation value. Our findings also indicate that the eigenstates of the perturbation operators are generically localized in the energy basis of the unperturbed Hamiltonian. This kind of localization possibly protects the thermal behavior in the macroscopic limit.

id: 1102.3658
title: Representations of Each Number Type that Differ by Scale Factors
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: 23 pages, 1 figure
journal: Advances in pure mathematics, Vol. 3, pp 394-404, 2013
subjects: Rings and Algebras (math.RA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3658
abstract: For each type of number, structures that differ by arbitrary scaling factors and are isomorphic to one another are described. The scaling of number values in one structure, relative to the values in another structure, must be compensated for by scaling of the basic operations and relations (if any) in the structure. The scaling must be such that one structure satisfies the relevant number type axioms if and only if the other structure does.

id: 1102.3713
title: Optimal Control of Inhomogeneous Ensembles
authors: Justin Ruths, Jr-Shin Li
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3713
abstract: Inhomogeneity, in its many forms, appears frequently in practical physical systems. Readily apparent in quantum systems, inhomogeneity is caused by hardware imperfections, measurement inaccuracies, and environmental variations, and subsequently limits the performance and efficiency achievable in current experiments. In this paper, we provide a systematic methodology to mathematically characterize and optimally manipulate inhomogeneous ensembles with concepts taken from ensemble control. In particular, we develop a computational method to solve practical quantum pulse design problems cast as optimal ensemble control problems, based on multidimensional pseudospectral approximations. We motivate the utility of this method by designing pulses for both standard and novel applications. We also show the convergence of the pseudospectral method for optimal ensemble control. The concepts developed here are applicable beyond quantum control, such as to neuron systems, and furthermore to systems with by parameter uncertainty, which pervade all areas of science and engineering.

id: 1102.3752
title: Effective range expansion in various scenarios of EFT($\notpi$)
authors: Ji-Feng Yang
comments: 6 pages, 3 tables, no figure, revtex4-1, minor revisions, to appear in EPL
journal: Europhys. Lett.94:41002, 2011
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3752
abstract: Using rigorous solutions, we compare the ERE parameters obtained in three different scenarios of EFT($\notpi$) in nonperturbative regime. A scenario with unconventional power counting (like KSW) is shown to be disfavored by the PSA data, while the one with elaborate prescription of renormalization but keeping conventional power counting intact seems more promising.

id: 1102.3771
title: Charge Qubit Purification by an Electronic Feedback Loop
authors: G. Kiesslich, G. Schaller, C. Emary, T. Brandes
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, supplementary material, with minor modifications to be published by PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 050501 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3771
abstract: We propose the manipulation of an isolated qubit by a simple instantaneous closed-loop feedback scheme in which a time-dependent electronic detector current is directly back-coupled into qubit parameters. As specific detector model we employ a capacitively coupled single-electron transistor. We demonstrate the stabilization of pure delocalized qubit states above a critical detector-qubit coupling. This electronic purification is independent of the initial qubit state and is accomplished after few electron jumps through the detector. Our simple scheme can be used for the efficient and robust initialization of solid-state qubits in quantum computational algorithms at arbitrary temperatures.

id: 1102.3774
title: Quantum Anticipation Explorer
authors: Hans-Rudolf Thomann
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Software (cs.MS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3774
abstract: Quantum anticipation explorer is a computer program allowing the numerical exploration of quantum anticipation which has been analyzed in arXiv:0810.183v1 and arXiv:1003.1090v1 for H-Atom, equidistant, random and custom spectra. This tool determines the anticipation strength at those times orthogonal evolution is possible. This paper is the user's guide explaining its capabilities, installation and usage, and documenting the mathematics and algorithms implemented in the software. A zip file containing the setup and documentation can be downloaded from this http URL free of cost.

id: 1102.3841
title: Rare earth spin ensemble magnetically coupled to a superconducting resonator
authors: P. Bushev, A. K. Feofanov, H. Rotzinger, I. Protopopov, J. H. Cole, C. M. Wilson, G. Fischer, A. Lukashenko, A. V. Ustinov
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 060501(R) (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3841
abstract: Interfacing superconducting quantum processors, working in the GHz frequency range, with optical quantum networks and atomic qubits is a challenging task for the implementation of distributed quantum information processing as well as for quantum communication. Using spin ensembles of rare earth ions provide an excellent opportunity to bridge microwave and optical domains at the quantum level. In this letter, we demonstrate magnetic coupling of Er$^{3+}$ spins doped in Y$_{2}$SiO$_{5}$ crystal to a high-Q coplanar superconducting resonator.

id: 1102.3859
title: Coherent light scattering from a two-dimensional Mott insulator
authors: Christof Weitenberg, Peter Schau?, Takeshi Fukuhara, Marc Cheneau, Manuel Endres, Immanuel Bloch, Stefan Kuhr
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 215301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3859
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate coherent light scattering from an atomic Mott insulator in a two-dimensional lattice. The far-field diffraction pattern of small clouds of a few hundred atoms was imaged while simultaneously laser cooling the atoms with the probe beams. We describe the position of the diffraction peaks and the scaling of the peak parameters by a simple analytic model. In contrast to Bragg scattering, scattering from a single plane yields diffraction peaks for any incidence angle. We demonstrate the feasibility of detecting spin correlations via light scattering by artificially creating a one-dimensional antiferromagnetic order as a density wave and observing the appearance of additional diffraction peaks.

id: 1102.4000
title: Lorentz Harmonics, Squeeze Harmonics, and their Physical Applications
authors: Young S. Kim, Marilyn E. Noz
comments: LaTex 31 pages, 6 figures
journal: Symmetry 3:16-36,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4000
abstract: Among the symmetries in physics, the rotation symmetry is most familiar to us. It is known that the spherical harmonics serve useful purposes when the world is rotated. Squeeze transformations are also becoming more prominent in physics, particularly in optical sciences and in high-energy physics. As can be seen from Dirac's light-cone coordinate system, Lorentz boosts are squeeze transformations. Thus the squeeze transformation is one of the fundamental transformations in Einstein's Lorentz-covariant world. It is possible to define a complete set of orthonormal functions defined for one Lorentz frame. It is shown that the same set can be used for other Lorentz frames. Transformation properties are discussed. Physical applications are discussed in both optics and high-energy physics. It is shown that the Lorentz harmonics provide the mathematical basis for squeezed states of light. It is shown also that the same set of harmonics can be used for understanding Lorentz-boosted hadrons in high-energy physics. It is thus possible to transmit physics from one branch of physics to the other branch using the mathematical basis common to them.

id: 1102.4006
title: Exact diagonalization: the Bose-Hubbard model as an example
authors: J. M. Zhang, R. X. Dong
comments: 
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 31, 591 (2010)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4006
abstract: We take the Bose-Hubbard model to illustrate exact diagonalization techniques in a pedagogical way. We follow the road of first generating all the basis vectors, then setting up the Hamiltonian matrix with respect to this basis, and finally using the Lanczos algorithm to solve low lying eigenstates and eigenvalues. Emphasis is placed on how to enumerate all the basis vectors and how to use the hashing trick to set up the Hamiltonian matrix or matrices corresponding to other quantities. Although our route is not necessarily the most efficient one in practice, the techniques and ideas introduced are quite general and may find use in many other problems.

id: 1102.4069
title: Lifetimes of ultralong-range Rydberg molecules in vibrational ground and excited state
authors: Bj?rn Butscher, Vera Bendkowsky, Johannes Nipper, Jonathan B. Balewski, Ludmila Kukota, Robert L?w, Tilman Pfau, Weibin Li, Thomas Pohl, Jan Michael Rost
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4069
abstract: Since their first experimental observation, ultralong-range Rydberg molecules consisting of a highly excited Rydberg atom and a ground state atom have attracted the interest in the field of ultracold chemistry. Especially the intriguing properties like size, polarizability and type of binding they inherit from the Rydberg atom are of interest. An open question in the field is the reduced lifetime of the molecules compared to the corresponding atomic Rydberg states. In this letter we present an experimental study on the lifetimes of the ^3\Sigma (5s-35s) molecule in its vibrational ground state and in an excited state. We show that the lifetimes depends on the density of ground state atoms and that this can be described in the frame of a classical scattering between the molecules and ground state atoms. We also find that the excited molecular state has an even more reduced lifetime compared to the ground state which can be attributed to an inward penetration of the bound atomic pair due to imperfect quantum reflection that takes place in the special shape of the molecular potential.

id: 1102.4140
title: Quantum Informatics View of Statistical Data Processing
authors: Yu. I. Bogdanov, N. A. Bogdanova
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4140
abstract: Application of root density estimator to problems of statistical data analysis is demonstrated. Four sets of basis functions based on Chebyshev-Hermite, Laguerre, Kravchuk and Charlier polynomials are considered. The sets may be used for numerical analysis in problems of reconstructing statistical distributions by experimental data. Examples of numerical modeling are given.

id: 1102.4170
title: Spatially-resolved analysis of edge-channel equilibration in quantum Hall circuits
authors: Nicola Paradiso, Stefan Heun, Stefano Roddaro, Davide Venturelli, Fabio Taddei, Vittorio Giovannetti, Rosario Fazio, Giorgio Biasiol, Lucia Sorba, Fabio Beltram
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B 83, 155305 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4170
abstract: We demonstrate an innovative quantum Hall circuit with variable geometry employing the moveable electrostatic potential induced by a biased atomic force microscope tip. We exploit this additional degree of freedom to identify the microscopic mechanisms that allow two co-propagating edge channels to equilibrate their charge imbalance. Experimental results are compared with tight-binding simulations based on a realistic model for the disorder potential. This work provides also an experimental realization of a beam mixer between co-propagating edge channels, a still elusive building block of a recently proposed new class of quantum interferometers.

id: 1102.4290
title: Exploring phase transitions by finite-entanglement scaling of MPS in the 1D ANNNI model
authors: Adam Nagy
comments: 
journal: 2011 New J. Phys. 13 023015
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4290
abstract: We use the finite-entanglement scaling of infinite matrix product states (iMPS) to explore supposedly infinite order transitions. This universal method may have lower computational costs than finite-size scaling. To this end, we study possible MPS-based algorithms to find the ground states of the transverse axial next-nearest-neighbor Ising (ANNNI) model in a spin chain with first and second neighbor interactions and frustration. The ground state has four distinct phases with transitions of second order and one of supposedly infinite order, the Kosterlitz-Thouless transition. To explore phase transitions in the model, we study general quantities such as the correlation length, entanglement entropy and the second derivative of the energy with respect to the external field, and test the finite-entanglement scaling. We propose a scaling ansatz for the correlation length of a non-critical system in order to explore infinite order transitions. This method provides considerably less computational costs compared to the finite-size scaling method in [8], and quantities obtained by applying fixed boundary conditions (such as domain wall energy in [8]) are omitted. The results show good agreement with previous studies of finite-size scaling using DMRG.

id: 1102.4362
title: Equivalence Principle and Gravitational Redshift
authors: Michael A. Hohensee, Steven Chu, Achim Peters, Holger Mueller
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, 2 tables. Detailed synchronization procedure. Accepted in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:151102,2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4362
abstract: We investigate leading order deviations from general relativity that violate the Einstein equivalence principle in the gravitational standard model extension. We show that redshift experiments based on matter waves and clock comparisons are equivalent to one another. Consideration of torsion balance tests, along with matter wave, microwave, optical, and M\"ossbauer clock tests, yields comprehensive limits on spin-independent Einstein equivalence principle-violating standard model extension terms at the $10^{-6}$ level.

id: 1102.4426
title: Dynamics of Two-Component Bose-Einstein Condensates Coupled with Environment
authors: Yajiang Hao, Qiang Gu
comments: 7 pages,8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4426
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of an open Bose-Einstein condensate system consisting of two hyperfine states of the same atomic species which are coupled by tunable Raman laser. It is already suggested that the detuning between the laser frequency and transition frequency affect significantly on the dynamics of the pure condensate. Here we show that the detuning effect is suppressed by noise and dissipation caused by the environment. The increase of coherence and purity are also displayed for specific parameters. As a verification to the lowest-order approximation we derive the hierarchy of motion equations in the second-order approximation. It turns out that the former one can describe the dynamical evolution qualitatively for weak noise and dissipation and quantitatively for strong noise and dissipation.

id: 1102.4695
title: Optical Spectral Singularities as Threshold Resonances
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 045801 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4695
abstract: Spectral singularities are among generic mathematical features of complex scattering potentials. Physically they correspond to scattering states that behave like zero-width resonances. For a simple optical system, we show that a spectral singularity appears whenever the gain coefficient coincides with its threshold value and other parameters of the system are selected properly. We explore a concrete realization of spectral singularities for a typical semiconductor gain medium and propose a method of constructing a tunable laser that operates at threshold gain.

id: 1102.4698
title: Angular momentum non conserving symmetries in bosonic models
authors: L. Fortunato, W.A. de Graaf
comments: to be published in J.P.A
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4698
abstract: The Levi-Malcev decomposition is applied to bosonic models of quantum mechanics based on unitary Lie algebras u(2), u(2)+u(2), u(3) and u(4) to clearly disentangle semisimple subalgebras. The theory of weighted Dynkin diagrams is then applied to identify conjugacy classes of relevant A_1 subalgebras allowing to introduce a complete classification of new angular momentum non conserving (AMNC) dynamical symmetries. The tensor analysis of the whole algebra based on the new "angular momentum" operators reveals unexpected spinors to occur in purely bosonic models. The new chains of subalgebra can be invoked to set up ANMC bases for diagonalization.

id: 1102.4713
title: Decoherence in an Interacting Quantum Field Theory: Thermal Case
authors: Jurjen F. Koksma, Tomislav Prokopec, Michael G. Schmidt
comments: 36 pages, 22 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:085011,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4713
abstract: We study the decoherence of a renormalised quantum field theoretical system. We consider our novel correlator approach to decoherence where entropy is generated by neglecting observationally inaccessible correlators. Using out-of-equilibrium field theory techniques at finite temperatures, we show that the Gaussian von Neumann entropy for a pure quantum state asymptotes to the interacting thermal entropy. The decoherence rate can be well described by the single particle decay rate in our model. Connecting to electroweak baryogenesis scenarios, we moreover study the effects on the entropy of a changing mass of the system field. Finally, we compare our correlator approach to existing approaches to decoherence in the simple quantum mechanical analogue of our field theoretical model. The entropy following from the perturbative master equation suffers from physically unacceptable secular growth.

id: 1102.4765
title: Twisted-light-induced optical transitions in semiconductors: Free-carrier quantum kinetics
authors: G. F. Quinteiro, P. I. Tamborenea
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B vol. 82, 125207 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4765
abstract: We theoretically investigate the interband transitions and quantum kinetics induced by light carrying orbital angular momentum, or twisted light, in bulk semiconductors. We pose the problem in terms of the Heisenberg equations of motion of the electron populations, and inter- and intra-band coherences. Our theory extends the free-carrier Semiconductor Bloch Equations to the case of photo-excitation by twisted light. The theory is formulated using cylindrical coordinates, which are better suited to describe the interaction with twisted light than the usual cartesian coordinates used to study regular optical excitation. We solve the equations of motion in the low excitation regime, and obtain analytical expressions for the coherences and populations; with these, we calculate the orbital angular momentum transferred from the light to the electrons and the paramagnetic and diamagnetic electric current densities.

id: 1102.4898
title: State Transfer on Graphs
authors: Chris Godsil
comments: 36 pages, minor revisions
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.4898
abstract: If $X$ is a graph with adjacency matrix $A$, then we define $H(t)$ to be the operator $\exp(itA)$. We say that we have perfect state transfer in $X$ from the vertex $u$ to the vertex $v$ at time $\tau$ if the $uv$-entry of $|H(\tau)_{u,v}|=1$. This concept has potential applications in quantum computing. We offer a survey of some of the work on perfect state transfer and related questions. The emphasis is almost entirely on the mathematics.

id: 1102.5029
title: Topological Qubit Design and Leakage
authors: R. Ainsworth, J.K. Slingerland
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J.Phys.13:065030,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5029
abstract: We examine how best to design qubits for use in topological quantum computation. These qubits are topological Hilbert spaces associated with small groups of anyons. Op- erations are performed on these by exchanging the anyons. One might argue that, in order to have as many simple single qubit operations as possible, the number of anyons per group should be maximized. However, we show that there is a maximal number of particles per qubit, namely 4, and more generally a maximal number of particles for qudits of dimension d. We also look at the possibility of having topological qubits for which one can perform two-qubit gates without leakage into non-computational states. It turns out that the requirement that all two-qubit gates are leakage free is very restrictive and this property can only be realized for two-qubit systems related to Ising-like anyon models, which do not allow for universal quantum computation by braiding. Our results follow directly from the representation theory of braid groups which means they are valid for all anyon models. We also make some remarks on generalizations to other exchange groups.

id: 1102.5037
title: Entangling microscopic defects via a macroscopic quantum shuttle
authors: G. J. Grabovskij, P. Bushev, J. H. Cole, C. M¨¹ller, J. Lisenfeld, A. Lukashenko, A. V. Ustinov
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 063015 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5037
abstract: In the microscopic world, multipartite entanglement has been achieved with various types of nanometer sized two-level systems such as trapped ions, atoms and photons. On the macroscopic scale ranging from micrometers to millimeters, recent experiments have demonstrated bipartite and tripartite entanglement for electronic quantum circuits with superconducting Josephson junctions. It remains challenging to bridge these largely different length scales by constructing hybrid quantum systems. Doing this may allow for manipulating the entanglement of individual microscopic objects separated by macroscopically large distances in a quantum circuit. Here we report on the experimental demonstration of induced coherent interaction between two intrinsic two-level states (TLSs) formed by atomic-scale defects in a solid via a superconducting phase qubit. The tunable superconducting circuit serves as a shuttle communicating quantum information between the two microscopic TLSs. We present a detailed comparison between experiment and theory and find excellent agreement over a wide range of parameters. We then use the theoretical model to study the creation and movement of entanglement between the three components of the quantum system.

id: 1102.5074
title: Left-right asymmetry in an optical nanofiber
authors: N.I. Petrov
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5074
abstract: Symmetry breaking effect for left- and right-handed circularly polarized light beams propagating in a rotationally symmetric graded-index optical fiber is presented. It is shown that a left-right asymmetry manifested as an unequal transmission for opposite circular polarizations occurs due to spin-to-spin angular momentum conversion caused by tensor interaction.

id: 1102.5125
title: Corrigendum to "Universal factorization of 3n-j (j>2) symbols..." [J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) 3259]
authors: Richard J. Mathar
comments: Table of 15-j symbols of the fourth kind corrected
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5125
abstract: Ten values of 12-j symbols of the first kind published earlier are challenged by values calculated with an independent Python program. The program first implements a narrow class of square roots of rational numbers, utilizing Python's unlimited representation of big integers. Wigner's 3jm symbols, 6-j, 9-j, 12-j and 15-j symbols are then calculated by their familiar representations as sums over products of these.

id: 1102.5144
title: An interpretation for the entropy of a black hole
authors: Baocheng Zhang, Qing-yu Cai, Ming-sheng Zhan, Li You
comments: 
journal: Gen. Relativ. Gravit., 43, 797 (2011)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5144
abstract: We investigate the meaning of the entropy carried away by Hawking radiations from a black hole. We propose that the entropy for a black hole measures the uncertainty of the information about the black hole forming matter's precollapsed configurations, self-collapsed configurations, and inter-collapsed configurations. We find that gravitational wave or gravitational radiation alone cannot carry all information about the processes of black hole coalescence and collapse, while the total information locked in the hole could be carried away completely by Hawking radiation as tunneling.

id: 1102.5154
title: Bounds of the Pinsker and Fannes Types on the Tsallis Relative Entropy
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 12 pages, no figures. The title has been changed. The paper is substantially revised. To appear in Math. Phys. Anal. Geom
journal: Math. Phys. Anal. Geom. 16, 213-228 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5154
abstract: Pinsker's and Fannes' type bounds on the Tsallis relative entropy are derived. The monotonicity property of the quantum $f$-divergence is used for its estimating from below. For order $\alpha\in(0,1)$, a family of lower bounds of Pinsker type is obtained. For $\alpha>1$ and the commutative case, upper continuity bounds on the relative entropy in terms of the minimal probability in its second argument are derived. Both the lower and upper bounds presented are reformulated for the case of R\'{e}nyi's entropies. The Fano inequality is extended to Tsallis' entropies for all $\alpha>0$. The deduced bounds on the Tsallis conditional entropy are used for obtaining inequalities of Fannes' type.

id: 1102.5170
title: Hilbert's projective metric in quantum information theory
authors: David Reeb, Michael J. Kastoryano, Michael M. Wolf
comments: 32 pages including 3 appendices and 3 figures; v2: minor changes, published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 082201 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5170
abstract: We introduce and apply Hilbert's projective metric in the context of quantum information theory. The metric is induced by convex cones such as the sets of positive, separable or PPT operators. It provides bounds on measures for statistical distinguishability of quantum states and on the decrease of entanglement under LOCC protocols or other cone-preserving operations. The results are formulated in terms of general cones and base norms and lead to contractivity bounds for quantum channels, for instance improving Ruskai's trace-norm contraction inequality. A new duality between distinguishability measures and base norms is provided. For two given pairs of quantum states we show that the contraction of Hilbert's projective metric is necessary and sufficient for the existence of a probabilistic quantum operation that maps one pair onto the other. Inequalities between Hilbert's projective metric and the Chernoff bound, the fidelity and various norms are proven.

id: 1102.5174
title: Formation of H$_3^-$ by radiative association of H$_2$ and H$^-$ in the interstellar medium
authors: M. Ayouz, Raphael Lopes, Maurice Raoult, Olivier Dulieu, V. Kokoouline
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Astrophysics of Galaxies (astro-ph.GA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5174
abstract: We develop the theory of radiative association of an atom and a diatomic molecule within a close-coupling framework. We apply it to the formation of H$_3^-$ after the low energy collision (below 0.5 eV) of H$_2$ with H$^-$. Using recently obtained potential energy and permanent dipole moment surfaces of H$_3^-$, we calculate the lowest rovibrational levels of the H$_3^-$ electronic ground state, and the cross section for the formation of H$_3^-$ by radiative association between H$^-$ and ortho- and para-H$_2$. We discuss the possibility for the H$_3^-$ ion to be formed and observed in the cold and dense interstellar medium in an environment with a high ionization rate. Such an observation would be a probe for the presence of H$^-$ in the interstellar medium.

id: 1102.5223
title: Deterministic single-atom excitation via adiabatic passage and Rydberg blockade
authors: I.I. Beterov, D.B. Tretyakov, V.M. Entin, E.A. Yakshina, I.I. Ryabtsev, C. MacCormick, S. Bergamini
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures. Version 5 is expanded and submitted to PRA. Typo in Fig.4 corrected in Version 2. Version 3 and 4 are duplicates of V2
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 023413 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5223
abstract: We propose to use adiabatic rapid passage with a chirped laser pulse in the strong dipole blockade regime to deterministically excite only one Rydberg atom from randomly loaded optical dipole traps or optical lattices. The chirped laser excitation is shown to be insensitive to the random number \textit{N} of the atoms in the traps. Our method overcomes the problem of the $\sqrt {N} $ dependence of the collective Rabi frequency, which was the main obstacle for deterministic single-atom excitation in the ensembles with unknown \textit{N}, and can be applied for single-atom loading of dipole traps and optical lattices.

id: 1102.5261
title: Quantum Faraday Effect in Double-Dot Aharonov-Bohm Ring
authors: Kicheon Kang
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Europhys. Lett. 99, 17005 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5261
abstract: We investigate Faraday's law of induction manifested in the quantum state of Aharonov-Bohm loops. In particular, we propose a flux-switching experiment for a double-dot AB ring to verify the phase shift induced by Faraday's law. We show that the induced {\em Faraday phase} is geometric and nontopological. Our study demonstrates that the relation between the local phases of a ring at different fluxes is not arbitrary but is instead determined by Faraday's inductive law, which is in strong contrast to the arbitrary local phase of an Aharonov-Bohm ring for a given flux.

id: 1102.5299
title: Localization from quantum interference in one-dimensional disordered potentials
authors: Marco Moratti, Michele Modugno
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; minor changes, references updated
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2012) 66: 138
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5299
abstract: We show that the tails of the asymptotic density distribution of a quantum wave packet that localizes in the the presence of random or quasiperiodic disorder can be described by the diagonal term of the projection over the eingenstates of the disordered potential. This is equivalent of assuming a phase randomization of the off-diagonal/interference terms. We demonstrate these results through numerical calculations of the dynamics of ultracold atoms in the one-dimensional speckle and quasiperiodic potentials used in the recent experiments that lead to the observation of Anderson localization for matter waves [Billy et al., Nature 453, 891 (2008); Roati et al., Nature 453, 895 (2008)]. For the quasiperiodic case, we also discuss the implications of using continuos or discrete models.

id: 1102.5345
title: Entanglement Entropy of Coupled Conformal Field Theories and Fermi Liquids
authors: Cenke Xu
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 125119 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5345
abstract: In this paper we calculate the entanglement entropy of two coupled gapless systems in general spatial dimension d. The gapless systems can be either conformal field theories (CFT), or Fermi liquids. We assume the two systems are coupled uniformly in a h-dimensional submanifold of the space, with 0 <= h <= d. We will focus on the scaling of the entanglement entropy with the size of the system, and its scaling with the inter-system coupling constant g. Three approaches will be used for our calculation: (1) exact calculation with ground state wave-functional, (2) perturbative calculation with functional path integral, (3) scaling argument.

id: 1102.5356
title: The H=xp model revisited and the Riemann zeros
authors: German Sierra, Javier Rodriguez-Laguna
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:200201,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Number Theory (math.NT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5356
abstract: Berry and Keating conjectured that the classical Hamiltonian H = xp is related to the Riemann zeros. A regularization of this model yields semiclassical energies that behave, in average, as the non trivial zeros of the Riemann zeta function. However, the classical trajectories are not closed, rendering the model incomplete. In this paper, we show that the Hamiltonian H = x (p + l_p^2/p) contains closed periodic orbits, and that its spectrum coincides with the average Riemann zeros. This result is generalized to Dirichlet L-functions using different self-adjoint extensions of H. We discuss the relation of our work to Polya's fake zeta function and suggest an experimental realization in terms of the Landau model.

id: 1102.5367
title: Majorana Fermions in Equilibrium and Driven Cold Atom Quantum Wires
authors: Liang Jiang, Takuya Kitagawa, Jason Alicea, A. R. Akhmerov, David Pekker, Gil Refael, J. Ignacio Cirac, Eugene Demler, Mikhail D. Lukin, Peter Zoller
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; references added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 220402 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5367
abstract: We introduce a new approach to create and detect Majorana fermions using optically trapped 1D fermionic atoms. In our proposed setup, two internal states of the atoms couple via an optical Raman transition---simultaneously inducing an effective spin-orbit interaction and magnetic field---while a background molecular BEC cloud generates s-wave pairing for the atoms. The resulting cold atom quantum wire supports Majorana fermions at phase boundaries between topologically trivial and nontrivial regions, as well as `Floquet Majorana fermions' when the system is periodically driven. We analyze experimental parameters, detection schemes, and various imperfections.

id: 1102.5472
title: Dynamical properties of a trapped dipolar Fermi gas at finite temperature
authors: J.-N. Zhang, R.-Z. Qiu, L. He, S. Yi
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5472
abstract: We investigate the dynamical properties of a trapped finite-temperature normal Fermi gas with dipole-dipole interaction. For the free expansion dynamics, we show that the expanded gas always becomes stretched along the direction of the dipole moment. In addition, we present the temperature and interaction dependences of the asymptotical aspect ratio. We further study the collapse dynamics of the system by suddenly increasing the dipolar interaction strength. We show that, in contrast to the anisotropic collapse of a dipolar Bose-Einstein condensate, a dipolar Fermi gas always collapses isotropically when the system becomes globally unstable. We also explore the interaction and temperature dependences for the frequencies of the low-lying collective excitations.

id: 1102.5524
title: Entanglement renormalization for quantum fields
authors: Jutho Haegeman, Tobias J. Osborne, Henri Verschelde, Frank Verstraete
comments: 4 pages: completely revised. Focus on a single non-relativistic model for clarity
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 100402 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5524
abstract: It is shown how to construct renormalization group flows of quantum field theories in real space, as opposed to the usual Wilsonian approach in momentum space. This is achieved by generalizing the multiscale entanglement renormalization ansatz to continuum theories. The variational class of wavefunctions arising from this RG flow are translation invariant and exhibit an entropy-area law. We illustrate the construction for a free non-relativistic boson model, and argue that the full power of the construction should emerge in the case of interacting theories.

id: 1102.5576
title: Anomalous decoherence effect in a quantum bath
authors: Nan Zhao, Zhen-Yu Wang, Ren-Bao Liu
comments: 4 pages 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 217205 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5576
abstract: Decoherence of quantum objects in noisy environments is important in quantum sciences and technologies. It is generally believed that different processes coupled to the same noise source should have similar decoherence behaviors and stronger noises would cause faster decoherence. Here we show that in a quantum bath, the case can be the opposite. In particular, we predict that the multi-transition of a nitrogen-vacancy center spin-1 in diamond can have longer coherence time than the single-transitions, even though the former suffers twice stronger noises from the nuclear spin bath than the latter. This anomalous decoherence effect is due to manipulation of the bath evolution via flips of the center spin.

id: 1102.5669
title: Zeros of the exceptional Laguerre and Jacobi polynomials
authors: C.-L. Ho, R. Sasaki
comments: 25 pages, 10 figures
journal: ISRN Math. Phys. 2012 (2012) 920475
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5669
abstract: An interesting discovery in the last two years in the field of mathematical physics has been the exceptional $X_\ell$ Laguerre and Jacobi polynomials. Unlike the well-known classical orthogonal polynomials which start with constant terms, these new polynomials have the lowest degree $\ell=1,2,...$, and yet they form complete sets with respect to some positive-definite measure. In this paper, we study one important aspect of these new polynomials, namely, the behaviors of their zeros as some parameters of the Hamiltonians change.

id: 1102.5686
title: Resonant d-wave scattering in harmonic waveguides
authors: P. Giannakeas, V.S. Melezhik, P. Schmelcher
comments: 6 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5686
abstract: We observe and analyze d-wave resonant scattering of bosons in tightly confining harmonic waveguides. It is shown that the d-wave resonance emerges in the quasi-1D regime as an imprint of a 3D d-wave shape resonance. A scaling relation for the position of the d-wave resonance is provided. By changing the trap frequency, ultracold scattering can be continuously tuned from s-wave to d-wave resonant behavior. The effect can be utilized for the realization of ultracold atomic gases interacting via higher partial waves and opens a novel possibility for studying strongly correlated atomic systems beyond s-wave physics.

id: 1102.5717
title: New applications of the renormalization group method in physics -- a brief introduction
authors: Y. Meurice, R. Perry, S.-W. Tsai
comments: Introduction for a theme issue of the Phil. Trans. A
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5717
abstract: The renormalization group method developed by Ken Wilson more than four decades ago has revolutionized the way we think about problems involving a broad range of energy scales such as phase transitions, turbulence, continuum limits and bifurcations in dynamical systems. The theme issue provides articles reviewing recent progress made using the renormalization group method in atomic, condensed matter, nuclear and particle physics. In the following we introduce these articles in a way that emphasizes common themes and the universal aspects of the method.

id: 1102.5474
title: Winding up superfluid in a torus via Bose Einstein condensation
authors: Arnab Das, Jacopo Sabbatini, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: 4+ pages, 4 Figs
journal: Scientific Reports 2, Article number 352 (See the Latest Version via Nature Open Access Link: http://www.nature.com/srep/2012/120411/srep00352/full/srep00352.html )
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5474
abstract: We simulate Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) in a ring employing stochastic Gross-Pitaevskii equation and show that cooling through the critical temperature can generate spontaneous quantized circulation around the ring of the newborn condensate. Dispersion of the resulting winding numbers follows scaling law predicted by the Kibble-Zurek mechanism (KZM). Density growth also exhibits scaling behavior consistent with KZM. This paves a way towards experimental verification of KZM scalings, and experimental determination of critical exponents for the BEC transition.

id: 1102.5702
title: Two photon decay of Z' as a probe of Bose symmetry violation at the CERN LHC
authors: S.N. Gninenko, A.Yu. Ignatiev, V.A. Matveev
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. Published version, but with extended introductory discussion
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys. A26 (2011) 4367-4385
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5702
abstract: The question if the Bose statistics is broken at the TeV scale is discussed. The decay of a new heavy spin 1 gauge boson Z' into two photons, Z'-> 2 gamma, is forbidden by the Bose statistics among other general principles of quantum field theory (Landau-Yang theorem). We point out that the search for this decay can be effectively used to probe the Bose symmetry violation at the CERN LHC.

id: 1102.0176
title: Particles in non-Abelian gauge potentials - Landau problem and insertion of non-Abelian flux
authors: Benoit Estienne, Shanna Haaker, Kareljan Schoutens
comments: 24 pages, 10 figures (with corrected legends)
journal: New J.Phys.13:045012,2011
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0176
abstract: We study charged spin-1/2 particles in two dimensions, subject to a perpendicular non-Abelian magnetic field. Specializing to a choice of vector potential that is spatially constant but non-Abelian, we investigate the Landau level spectrum in planar and spherical geometry, paying particular attention to the role of the total angular momentum J = L +S. After this we show that the adiabatic insertion of non-Abelian flux in a spin-polarized quantum Hall state leads to the formation of charged spin-textures, which in the simplest cases can be identified with quantum Hall Skyrmions.

id: 1102.0635
title: Skyrmion Burst and Multiple Quantum Walk in Thin Ferromagnetic Films
authors: Motohiko Ezawa
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375, 3610 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0635
abstract: A giant Skyrmion collapses to a singular point by emitting spin waves in a thin ferromagnetic film, when external magnetic field is increased beyond the critical one. The remnant is a single-spin flipped (SSF) point. The SSF point has a quantum diffusion dynamics governed by the Heisenberg model. We determine its time evolution and show the diffusion process is a continuous-time quantum walk. We also analyze an interference of two SSF points after two Skyrmion bursts. Quantum walks for $S=1/2$ and 1 are exact solvable. The system presents a new type of quantum walk for $S>1/2$, where a SSF point breaks into 2S quantum walkers. It is interesting that we can create quantum walkers experimentally at any points in a magnetic thin film, first by creating Skyrmions sequentially and then by letting them collapse simultaneously.

id: 1102.0794
title: Optical Forces Between Coupled Plasmonic Nano-particles near Metal Surfaces and Negative Index Material Waveguides
authors: C. Van Vlack, P. Yao, S. Hughes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0794
abstract: We present a study of light-induced forces between two coupled plasmonic nano-particles above various slab geometries including a metallic half-space and a 280-nm thick negative index material (NIM) slab waveguide. We investigate optical forces by non-perturbatively calculating the scattered electric field via a Green function technique which includes the particle interactions to all orders. For excitation frequencies near the surface plasmon polariton and slow-light waveguide modes of the metal and NIM, respectively, we find rich light-induced forces and significant dynamical back-action effects. Optical quenching is found to be important in both metal and NIM planar geometries, which reduces the spatial range of the achievable inter-particle forces. However, reducing the loss in the NIM allows radiation to propagate through the slow-light modes more efficiently, thus causing the light-induced forces to be more pronounced between the two particles. To highlight the underlying mechanisms by which the particles couple, we connect our Green function calculations to various familiar quantities in quantum optics.

id: 1102.0226
title: Microwave dressing of Rydberg dark states
authors: M. Tanasittikosol, J. D. Pritchard, D. Maxwell, A. Gauguet, K. J. Weatherill, R. M. Potvliege, C. S. Adams
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures and 1 table
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44, 184020 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0226
abstract: We study electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in the 5s$\rightarrow$5p$\rightarrow$46s ladder system of a cold $^{87}$Rb gas. We show that the resonant microwave coupling between the 46s and 45p states leads to an Autler-Townes splitting of the EIT resonance. This splitting can be employed to vary the group index by $\pm 10^5$ allowing independent control of the propagation of dark state polaritons. We also demonstrate that microwave dressing leads to enhanced interaction effects. In particular, we present evidence for a $1/R^3$ energy shift between Rydberg states resonantly coupled by the microwave field and the ensuing breakdown of the pair-wise interaction approximation.

id: 1102.5166
title: Infinitesimal propagation equation for decoherence of an OAM entangled biphoton in atmospheric turbulence
authors: Filippus S. Roux
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, expanded version of arXiv:1009.1956. Minor corrections to improve clarity
journal: Physical Review A, Vol 83, 053822 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.5166
abstract: We derive a first order differential equation for the decoherence of an orbital angular momentum entangled biphoton state propagating through a turbulent atmosphere. The derivation is based on the distortion that orbital angular momentum states experience due to propagation through a thin sheet of turbulent atmosphere. This distortion is treated as an infinitesimal transformation leading to a first order differential equation, which we call an infinitesimal propagation equation. The equation is applied to a simple qubit case to show how the entanglement decays.

id: 1102.0121
title: Repulsive polarons and itinerant ferromagnetism in strongly polarized Fermi gases
authors: P. Massignan, G. M. Bruun
comments: Substantial improvements to the section describing quasiparticle decays (included a discussion of two-body and three-body processes), and to the criteria for the stability of the itinerant ferromagnetic phase
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 65, 83 (2011). Topical issue on "Cold Quantum Matter"
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0121
abstract: We analyze the properties of a single impurity immersed in a Fermi sea. At positive energy and scattering lengths, we show that the system possesses a well-defined but metastable excitation, the repulsive polaron, and we calculate its energy, quasiparticle residue and effective mass. From a thermodynamic argument we obtain the number of particles in the dressing cloud, illustrating the repulsive character of the polaron. Identifying the important 2- and 3-body decay channels, we furthermore calculate the lifetime of the repulsive polaron. The stability conditions for the formation of fully spin polarized (ferromagnetic) domains are then examined for a binary mixture of atoms with a general mass ratio. Our results indicate that mass imbalance lowers the critical interaction strength for phase-separation, but that very short quasiparticle decay times will complicate the experimental observation of itinerant ferromagnetism. Finally, we present the spectral function of the impurity for various coupling strengths and momenta.

id: 1102.1686
title: Microscopic Calculation of IBM Parameters by Potential Energy Surface Mapping
authors: I. Bentley, S. Frauendorf
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures, 4 tables
journal: Phys.Rev.C83:064322,2011
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.1686
abstract: A coherent state technique is used to generate an Interacting Boson Model (IBM) Hamiltonian energy surface that simulates a mean field energy surface. The method presented here has some significant advantages over previous work. Specifically, that this can be a completely predictive requiring no a priori knowledge of the IBM parameters. The technique allows for the prediction of the low lying energy spectra and electromagnetic transition rates which are of astrophysical interest. Results and comparison with experiment are included for krypton, molybdenum, palladium, cadmium, gadolinium, dysprosium and erbium nuclei.

id: 1102.3282
title: Local topological phase transitions in periodic condensed matter systems
authors: Jan Carl Budich, Bj?rn Trauzettel
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 85 (3) 94 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3282
abstract: Topological properties of a periodic condensed matter system are global features of its Brillouin zone (BZ). In contrast, the validity of effective low energy theories is usually limited to the vicinity of a high symmetry point in the BZ. We derive a general criterion under which the control parameter of a topological phase transition localizes the topological defect in an arbitrarily small neighbourhood of a single point in $k$-space upon approaching its critical value. Such a local phase transition is associated with a Dirac-like gap closing point, whereas a flat band transition is not localized in $k$-space. This mechanism and its limitations are illustrated with the help of experimentally relevant examples such as HgTe/CdTe quantum wells and bilayer graphene nanostructures.

id: 1102.3057
title: Quantum superpositions of a mirror for experimental tests for nonunitary Newtonian gravity
authors: Filippo Maimone, Giovanni Scelza, Adele Naddeo, Vinicio Pelino
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83 062124 (2011)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.3057
abstract: Aim of this work is to calculate explicitly the result of the experiment of superposition of a mirror in the Michelson photon cavities interferometric device proposed by Marshall, Simon, Penrose and Bownmeester, as expected within a recently proposed model of non-unitary self-gravity inducing localization. As for other proposals of modifications of Quantum Mechanics in a non-unitary sense, aimed to account for both unitary evolution and irreversible collapse, like in the famous Ghirardi-Rimini-Weber and Pearle's models, it turns out that, for the experimental parameters proposed, no effect is detectable at all. It is pointed out that the enhancing properties of matter granularity does not substantially change this conclusion. Parameters have also been exploratively varied in a certain range beyond the proposed values. It is shown that within `sensible' parameters, that are not yet attainable within current technology, the model exhibits a peculiar signature with respect to other collapse models as far as parameters space is explored. Besides, the calculation offers a way to see non-unitary gravity at work in a quasi-realistic setting.

id: 1102.0644
title: Long-range spatial correlation of neutrino in pion decay
authors: K. Ishikawa, Y. Tobita
comments: 56 pages, 8figures. Fig.4 and Fig.8 were revised. Section 5.3 was added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1102.0644
abstract: Position-dependent property of the neutrino produced in high-energy pion decay is studied theoretically using a wave packet formalism. It is found that the neutrino probability has a universal finite-distance correction if the pion has a long coherence length. This correction has origins in the interference of the neutrino that is caused by the small neutrino mass and a light-cone singularity of the pion and muon system. This term is positive definite and leads excess to the neutrino flux over the in-coherent value at macroscopic distance of near detector region. The flux decreases slowly with distance in a universal manner that is determined by the absolute value of the neutrino mass and energy. Absolute value of the neutrino mass is expected to be measured indirectly from the neutrino detection probability at finite distance.

