id: 1103.0063
title: Atom-molecule conversion with particle losses
authors: B. Cui, L. C. Wang, X. X. Yi
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013618 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0063
abstract: Based on the mean-field approximation and the phase space analysis, we study the dynamics of an atom-molecule conversion system subject to particle loss. Starting from the many-body dynamics described by a master equation, an effective nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation is introduced. The classical phase space is then specified and classified by fixed points. The boundary, which separate different dynamical regimes have been calculated and discussed. The effect of particle loss on the conversion efficiency and the self-trapping is explored.

id: 1103.0079
title: On the relation between quantum walks and zeta functions
authors: Norio Konno, Iwao Sato
comments: 9 pages, minor corrections, Quantum Information Processing (in press)
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Vol.11, No.2, pp.341-349 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0079
abstract: We present an explicit formula for the characteristic polynomial of the transition matrix of the discrete-time quantum walk on a graph via the second weighted zeta function. As applications, we obtain new proofs for the results on spectra of the transition matrix and its positive support.

id: 1103.0085
title: Measurement-induced disturbance and thermal negativity of qutrit-qubit mixed spin chain
authors: Guofeng Zhang, Yuchen Hou, Ailing Ji
comments: 1 text and 3 eps figures;accepted by solid state communications
journal: Solid State Communications 151 (2011) 790--793
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0085
abstract: We investigate the quantum correlation in a qutrit-qubit mixed spin chain based on measurement-induced disturbance (MID) [S. Luo, Phys. Rev. A, 77, (2008) 022301]. We also compare MID and thermal entanglement measured by negativity and illustrate their different characteristics.

id: 1103.0100
title: Young's Double Slit Experiment in Quantum Field Theory
authors: Masakatsu Kenmoku, Kenji Kume
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0100
abstract: Young's double slit experiment is formulated in the framework of canonical quantum field theory in view of the modern quantum optics. We adopt quantum scalar fields instead of quantum electromagnetic fields ignoring the vector freedom in gauge theory. The double slit state is introduced in Fock space corresponding to experimental setup. As observables, expectation values of energy density and positive frequency part of current with respect to the double slit state are calculated which give the interference term. Classical wave states are realized by coherent double slit states in Fock space which connect quantum particle states with classical wave states systematically. In case of incoherent sources, the interference term vanishes by averaging random phase angles as expected.

id: 1103.0104
title: Observations of photon echo enhancement in an ultraslow light regime
authors: J. Hahn, B. S. Ham
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0104
abstract: Using spectral hole-burning-based ultraslow group velocity in a dilute solid medium, we report enhanced photon echo efficiency three orders of magnitude higher than that in a nonslow light regime. The enhancement is due to exponentially increased absorption of an optical data pulse owing to the enhanced photon-atom interaction in an ultraslow light regime, whereas echo reabsorption is negligibly small due to group-velocity dependent population depletion.

id: 1103.0109
title: Measurement of the electric dipole moments for transitions to rubidium Rydberg states via Autler-Townes splitting
authors: M.J. Piotrowicz, C. MacCormick, A. Kowalczyk, S. Bergamini, I.I. Beterov, E.A. Yakshina
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures; figure 6 replaced with correct version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0109
abstract: We present the direct measurements of electric-dipole moments for $5P_{3/2}\to nD_{5/2}$ transitions with $20<n<48$ for Rubidium atoms. The measurements were performed in an ultracold sample via observation of the Autler-Townes splitting in a three-level ladder scheme, commonly used for 2-photon excitation of Rydberg states. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first systematic measurement of the electric dipole moments for transitions from low excited states of rubidium to Rydberg states. Due to its simplicity and versatility, this method can be easily extended to other transitions and other atomic species with little constraints. Good agreement of the experimental results with theory proves the reliability of the measurement method.

id: 1103.0117
title: Proposal for a quantum delayed-choice experiment
authors: Radu Ionicioiu, Daniel R. Terno
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 230406 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0117
abstract: Gedanken experiments are important conceptual tools in the quest to reconcile our classical intuition with quantum mechanics and nowadays are routinely performed in the laboratory. An important open question is the quantum behaviour of the controlling devices in such experiments. We propose a framework to analyse quantum-controlled experiments and illustrate the implications by discussing a quantum version of Wheeler's delayed-choice experiment. The introduction of a quantum-controlled device (i.e., quantum beamsplitter) has several consequences. First, it implies that we can measure complementary phenomena with a single experimental setup, thus pointing to a redefinition of complementarity principle. Second, a quantum control allows us to prove there are no consistent hidden-variable theories in which "particle" and "wave" are realistic properties. Finally, it shows that a photon can have a morphing behaviour between "particle" and "wave"; this further supports the conclusion that "particle" and "wave" are not realistic properties but merely reflect how we 'look' at the photon. The framework developed here can be extended to other experiments, particularly to Bell-inequality tests.

id: 1103.0126
title: Quantum Walk with a four-dimensional coin
authors: Craig S Hamilton, Aurel Gabris, Igor Jex, Stephen M Barnett
comments: Final version is published in NJP
journal: New Journal of Physics, Vol 13, 013015, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0126
abstract: We examine the physical implementation of a discrete time quantum walk with a four-dimensional coin. Our quantum walker is a photon moving repeatedly through a time delay loop, with time being our position space. The quantum coin is implemented using the internal states of the photon: the polarization and two of the orbital angular momentum states. We demonstrate how to implement this physically and what components would be needed. We then illustrate some of the results that could be obtained by performing the experiment.

id: 1103.0132
title: Quantum Action Principle for Covariant Systems. Bosonic string
authors: Natalia Gorobey, Alexander Lukyanenko
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0132
abstract: A new form of covariant quantum theory based on a quantum version of the action principle is considered for the case of a free bosonic string. The central idea of the new approach is to delay conditions of stationarity of the classical action with respect to Lagrangian multipliers up to the quantum level where delayed conditions of stationarity are imposed on a quantum action. Physical states of the ordinary covariant quantum theory are replaced by well defined stationary states as those which obey quantum action principle. The stationary states have well defined energies.

id: 1103.0144
title: Controlled teleportation via photonic Faraday rotations in low-Q cavities
authors: W. P. Bastos, W. B. Cardoso, A. T. Avelar, N. G. de Almeida, B. Baseia
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures, 6 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0144
abstract: This paper presents feasible experimental schemes to realize controlled teleportation protocols via photonic Faraday rotations in low-Q cavities. The schemes deal with controlled teleportation of superposition states and two-particle entanglement of atomic states. The information is encoded in three-level atoms in a lambda configuration trapped inside coupled cavities by optical fibers. Also, we estimate the success probability and the current feasibility of the schemes.

id: 1103.0187
title: Casimir effect from macroscopic quantum electrodynamics
authors: T.G. Philbin
comments: Minor corrections. 21 pages. To appear in New J. Phys
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 063026
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0187
abstract: The canonical quantization of macroscopic electromagnetism was recently presented in New J. Phys. 12 (2010) 123008. This theory is here used to derive the Casimir effect, by considering the special case of thermal and zero-point fields. The stress-energy-momentum tensor of the canonical theory follows from Noether's theorem, and its electromagnetic part in thermal equilibrium gives the Casimir energy density and stress tensor. The results hold for arbitrary inhomogeneous magnetodielectrics and are obtained from a rigorous quantization of electromagnetism in dispersive, dissipative media. Continuing doubts about the status of the standard Lifshitz theory as a proper quantum treatment of Casimir forces do not apply to the derivation given here. Moreover, the correct expressions for the Casimir energy density and stress tensor inside media follow automatically from the simple restriction to thermal equilibrium, without the need for complicated thermodynamical or mechanical arguments.

id: 1103.0193
title: Canonical transforms, quantumness and probability representation of quantum mechanics
authors: Margarita A. Man'ko, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: Contribution to the Conference "Symmetries in Nature," Symposium in Memoriam of Marcos Moshinsky (Cuernavaca, Mexico, 7-14 August 2010), AIP Conference Proceedings, L. Benet, P.O. Hess, J.M. Torres and K.-B. Wolf (eds), Vol. 1323 (Melville, New York, 2010), pp. 215-220
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0193
abstract: The linear canonical transforms of position and momentum are used to construct the tomographic probability representation of quantum states where the fair probability distribution determines the quantum state instead of the wave function or density matrix. The example of Moshinsky shutter problem is considered.

id: 1103.0215
title: Reversible Circuit Optimization via Leaving the Boolean Domain
authors: Dmitri Maslov, Mehdi Saeedi
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems 30(6):806-816, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0215
abstract: For years, the quantum/reversible circuit community has been convinced that: a) the addition of auxiliary qubits is instrumental in constructing a smaller quantum circuit; and, b) the introduction of quantum gates inside reversible circuits may result in more efficient designs. This paper presents a systematic approach to optimizing reversible (and quantum) circuits via the introduction of auxiliary qubits and quantum gates inside circuit designs. This advances our understanding of what may be achieved with a) and b).

id: 1103.0230
title: Complete hyperentangled-Bell-state analysis for quantum communication
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Fu-Guo Deng, Gui Lu Long
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 032318 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0230
abstract: It is impossible to unambiguously distinguish the four Bell states in polarization, resorting to linear optical elements only. Recently, the hyperentangled Bell state, the simultaneous entanglement in more than one degree of freedom, has been used to assist in the complete Bell-state analysis of the four Bell states. However, if the additional degree of freedom is qubitlike, one can only distinguish 7 from the group of 16 states. Here we present a way to distinguish the hyperentangled Bell states completely with the help of cross-Kerr nonlinearity. Also, we discuss its application in the quantum teleportation of a particle in an unknown state in two different degrees of freedom and in the entanglement swapping of hyperentangled states. These applications will increase the channel capacity of long-distance quantum communication.

id: 1103.0251
title: Quantum phase transition between cluster and antiferromagnetic states
authors: Wonmin Son, Luigi Amico, Rosario Fazio, Alioscia Hamma, Saverio Pascazio, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 5 epl pages + 1 fig.pdf
journal: Europhys. Lett. vol. 95, 50001 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0251
abstract: We study a Hamiltonian system describing a three spin-1/2 cluster-like interaction competing with an Ising-like exchange. We show that the ground state in the cluster phase possesses symmetry protected topological order. A continuous quantum phase transition occurs as result of the competition between the cluster and Ising terms. At the critical point the Hamiltonian is self-dual. The geometric entanglement is also studied. Our findings in one dimension corroborate the analysis of the two dimensional generalization of the system, indicating, at a mean field level, the presence of a direct transition between an antiferromagnetic and a valence bond solid ground state.

id: 1103.0258
title: Tripartite Entanglements in Non-inertial Frames
authors: Mahmoud Shamirzai, Bahram Nasr Esfahani, Morteza Soltani
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0258
abstract: Entanglement degradation caused by the Unruh effect is discussed for the tripartite GHZ or W states constructed by modes of a non-interacting quantum field viewed by one inertial observer and two uniformly accelerated observers. For fermionic states, the Unruh effect even for infinite accelerations cannot completely remove the entanglement. However, for the bosonic states, the situation is different and the entanglement vanishes asymptotically. Also, the entanglement is studied for the bipartite subsystems. While for the GHZ states all the bipartite subsystems are identically disentangled, for the W states the bipartite subsystems are somewhat entangled, though, this entanglement can be removed for appropriately accelerated observers. Interestingly, logarithmic negativity as a measure for determining the entanglement of one part of the system relative to the other two parts, is not generally the same for different parts. This means that we encounter tripartite systems where each part is differently entangled to the other two parts.

id: 1103.0271
title: Symmetric entanglement classes for n qubits
authors: Martin Aulbach
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures. Small improvements in contents and figures; submitted to journal. Parts of this paper were presented at AQIS 2010 (talk) and QIP 2011 (poster). During the completion of this paper I became aware of a similar work which also points out the relationship between SLOCC operations and Mobius transformations arXiv:1101.2828
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0271
abstract: Permutation-symmetric n qubit pure states can be represented by n points on the surface of the unit sphere by means of the Majorana representation. Here this representation is employed to characterize and compare the three entanglement classification schemes LOCC, SLOCC and the Degeneracy Configuration. Symmetric SLOCC operations are found to be described by Mobius transformations, and an intuitive visualization of their freedoms is presented. For symmetric states of up to 5 qubits explicit forms of representative states for all SLOCC classes are derived. The symmetric 4 qubit entanglement classes are compared to the entanglement families introduced in [PRA 65, 052112 (2002)], and examples are given how the SLOCC-inequivalence of symmetric states can be quickly determined from known results about Mobius transformations.

id: 1103.0286
title: Trade-off coding for universal qudit cloners motivated by the Unruh effect
authors: Tomas Jochym-O'Connor, Kamil Bradler, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 26 pages, 4 figures; v2 has minor corrections to Definition 2. Definition 4 and Remark 5 have been added
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 44, 415306 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0286
abstract: A "triple trade-off" capacity region of a noisy quantum channel provides a more complete description of its capabilities than does a single capacity formula. However, few full descriptions of a channel's ability have been given due to the difficult nature of the calculation of such regions---it may demand an optimization of information-theoretic quantities over an infinite number of channel uses. This work analyzes the d-dimensional Unruh channel, a noisy quantum channel which emerges in relativistic quantum information theory. We show that this channel belongs to the class of quantum channels whose capacity region requires an optimization over a single channel use, and as such is tractable. We determine two triple-trade off regions, the quantum dynamic capacity region and the private dynamic capacity region, of the d-dimensional Unruh channel. Our results show that the set of achievable rate triples using this coding strategy is larger than the set achieved using a time-sharing strategy. Furthermore, we prove that the Unruh channel has a distinct structure made up of universal qudit cloning channels, thus providing a clear relationship between this relativistic channel and the process of stimulated emission present in quantum optical amplifiers.

id: 1103.0306
title: The Simplest Demonstrations of Quantum Nonlocality
authors: Dylan J. Saunders, Matthew S. Palsson, Geoff J. Pryde, Andrew J. Scott, Stephen M. Barnett, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 12 Pages, 3 Figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 113020 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0306
abstract: We investigate the complexity cost of demonstrating the key types of nonclassical correlations --- Bell inequality violation, EPR-steering, and entanglement --- with independent agents, theoretically and in a photonic experiment. We show that the complexity cost exhibits a hierarchy among these three tasks, mirroring the recently-discovered hierarchy for how robust they are to noise. For Bell inequality violations, the simplest test is the well-known CHSH test, but for EPR-steering and entanglement the tests that involve the fewest number of detection patterns require non-projective measurements. The simplest EPR-steering requires a choice of projective measurement for one agent and a single non-projective measurement for the other, while the simplest entanglement test uses just a single non-projective measurement for each agent. In both of these cases, we derive our inequalities using the concept of circular 2-designs. This leads to the interesting feature that in our photonic demonstrations, the correlation of interest is independent of the angle between the linear polarizers used by the two parties, which thus require no alignment.

id: 1103.0329
title: An Approximate Solution of the Jaynes-Cummings Model with Dissipation
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Tatsuo Suzuki
comments: Latex ; 18 pages ; no figure. This is a paper based on hard calculation
journal: Int. J. Geom. Methods Mod. Phys, 8(2011) 1799-1814
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0329
abstract: In this paper we treat the Jaynes-Cummings model with dissipation and give an approximate solution to the master equation for the density operator {\bf under the general setting} by making use of the Zassenhaus expansion.

id: 1103.0335
title: Conditional Spin-Squeezing of a Large Ensemble via the Vacuum Rabi Splitting
authors: Zilong Chen, Justin G. Bohnet, Shannon R. Sankar, Jiayan Dai, James K. Thompson
comments: Letter (4 pages, 4 figures) and Supporting Material (3 pages). To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 133601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0335
abstract: We use the vacuum Rabi splitting to perform quantum nondemolition (QND) measurements that prepare a conditionally spin-squeezed state of a collective atomic psuedo-spin. We infer a 3.4(6) dB improvement in quantum phase estimation relative to the standard quantum limit for a coherent spin state composed of uncorrelated atoms. The measured collective spin is composed of the two-level clock states of nearly 10^6 Rb-87 atoms confined inside a low finesse F = 710 optical cavity. This technique may improve atomic sensor precision and/or bandwidth, and may lead to more precise tests of fundamental physics.

id: 1103.0410
title: Laser cooling of a trapped particle with increased Rabi frequencies
authors: Tony Blake, Andreas Kurcz, Norah S. Saleem, Almut Beige
comments: substantially revised manuscript, 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053416 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0410
abstract: This paper analyses the cooling of a single particle in a harmonic trap with red-detuned laser light with fewer approximations than previously done in the literature. We avoid the adiabatic elimination of the excited atomic state but are still interested in Lamb-Dicke parameters $\eta \ll 1$. Our results show that the Rabi frequency of the cooling laser can be chosen higher than previously assumed, thereby increasing the effective cooling rate but {\em not} affecting the final outcome of the cooling process. Since laser cooling is already a well established experimental technique, the main aim of this paper is to present a model which can be extended to more complex scenarios, like cavity-mediated laser cooling.

id: 1103.0413
title: Motional Broadening in Ensembles With Heavy-Tail Frequency Distribution
authors: Yoav Sagi, Rami Pugatch, Ido Almog, Nir Davidson, Michael Aizenman
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 043821 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0413
abstract: We show that the spectrum of an ensemble of two-level systems can be broadened through `resetting' discrete fluctuations, in contrast to the well-known motional-narrowing effect. We establish that the condition for the onset of motional broadening is that the ensemble frequency distribution has heavy tails with a diverging first moment. We find that the asymptotic motional-broadened lineshape is a Lorentzian, and derive an expression for its width. We explain why motional broadening persists up to some fluctuation rate, even when there is a physical upper cutoff to the frequency distribution.

id: 1103.0418
title: Hybrid solid state qubits: the powerful role of electron spins
authors: John J. L. Morton, Brendon W. Lovett
comments: 54 pages, 7 figures
journal: Annual Review of Condensed Matter Physics 2 189-212 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0418
abstract: We review progress on the use of electron spins to store and process quantum information, with particular focus on the ability of the electron spin to interact with multiple quantum degrees of freedom. We examine the benefits of hybrid quantum bits (qubits) in the solid state that are based on coupling electron spins to nuclear spin, electron charge, optical photons, and superconducting qubits. These benefits include the coherent storage of qubits for times exceeding seconds, fast qubit manipulation, single qubit measurement, and scalable methods for entangling spatially separated matter-based qubits. In this way, the key strengths of different physical qubit implementations are brought together, laying the foundation for practical solid-state quantum technologies.

id: 1103.0471
title: High-capacity quantum secure direct communication based on quantum hyperdense coding with hyperentanglement
authors: Tie-Jun Wang, Tao Li, Fang-Fang Du, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 5 pages, 2 figure
journal: Chinese Physics Letters 28, 040305 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0471
abstract: We present a quantum hyperdense coding protocol with hyperentanglement in polarization and spatial-mode degrees of freedom of photons first and then give the details for a quantum secure direct communication (QSDC) protocol based on this quantum hyperdense coding protocol. This QSDC protocol has the advantage of having a higher capacity than the quantum communication protocols with a qubit system. Compared with the QSDC protocol based on superdense coding with $d$-dimensional systems, this QSDC protocol is more feasible as the preparation of a high-dimension quantum system is more difficult than that of a two-level quantum system at present.

id: 1103.0480
title: Quantum learning algorithms for quantum measurements
authors: Alessandro Bisio, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti, Michal Sedlak
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 375 (2011), pp. 3425-3434
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0480
abstract: We study quantum learning algorithms for quantum measurements. The optimal learning algorithm is derived for arbitrary von Neumann measurements in the case of training with one or two examples. The analysis of the case of three examples reveals that, differently from the learning of unitary gates, the optimal algorithm for learning of quantum measurements cannot be parallelized, and requires quantum memories for the storage of information.

id: 1103.0488
title: Augmentation of nucleon-nucleus scattering by information entropy
authors: S.E. Massen, V.P. Psonis, H.V. von Geramb
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0488
abstract: Quantum information entropy is calculated from the nucleon nucleus forward scattering amplitudes. Using a representative set of nuclei, from $^4$He to $^{208}$Pb, and energies, $T_{lab} < 1$\,[GeV], we establish a linear dependence of quantum information entropy as functions of logarithm nuclear mass $A$ and logarithm projectile energy $T_{lab}$.

id: 1103.0532
title: Observations of Dispersion Cancellation of Entangled Photon Pairs
authors: Kevin A. O'Donnell
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 063601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0532
abstract: An experimental study of the dispersion cancellation occurring in frequency-entangled photon pairs is presented. The approach uses time-resolved up conversion of the pairs, which has temporal resolution at the fs level, and group-delay dispersion sensitivity of $\approx \ 20 \, \mathrm{fs}^2$ under experimental conditions. The cancellation is demonstrated with dispersion stronger than $\pm 10^3 \, \mathrm{fs}^2$ in the signal $(-)$ and idler $(+)$ modes. The observations represent the generation, compression, and characterization of ultrashort biphotons with correlation width as small as 6.8 times the degenerate optical period.

id: 1103.0541
title: Quantum simulator for the Schwinger effect with atoms in bi-chromatic optical lattices
authors: Nikodem Szpak, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; minor corrections and improvements in text and in figures; references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 050101(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0541
abstract: Ultra-cold atoms in specifically designed optical lattices can be used to mimic the many-particle Hamiltonian describing electrons and positrons in an external electric field. This facilitates the experimental simulation of (so far unobserved) fundamental quantum phenomena such as the Schwinger effect, i.e., spontaneous electron-positron pair creation out of the vacuum by a strong electric field.

id: 1103.0554
title: A quantum model of almost perfect energy transfer
authors: Robert Alicki, Filippo Giraldi
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0554
abstract: The Wigner-Weisskopf-type model describing the energy transfer between two centers mediated by a continuum of energy levels is studied. This work is motivated by the recent interest in transport phenomena at nanoscale in biology and quantum engineering. The analytical estimation for the energy transfer efficiency is derived in the weak coupling regime and the conditions for the almost perfect transfer are discussed. The embedding of the standard tight-binding model into Wigner-Weisskopf one which includes the environmental noise is presented.

id: 1103.0569
title: Entropic Entanglement Criteria for Fermion Systems
authors: C. Zander, A.R. Plastino, M. Casas, A. Plastino
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0569
abstract: Entanglement criteria for general (pure or mixed) states of systems consisting of two identical fermions are introduced. These criteria are based on appropriate inequalities involving the entropy of the global density matrix describing the total system, on the one hand, and the entropy of the one particle reduced density matrix, on the other one. A majorization-related relation between these two density matrices is obtained, leading to a family of entanglement criteria based on R\'enyi's entropic measure. These criteria are applied to various illustrative examples of parametrized families of mixed states. The dependence of the entanglement detection efficiency on R\'enyi's entropic parameter is investigated. The extension of these criteria to systems of $N$ identical fermions is also considered.

id: 1103.0601
title: Security proof of Counterfactual Quantum Cryptography against General Intercept-resend Attacks and Its Vulnerability
authors: Sheng Zhang, Jian Wang, Chao-jing Tang, Quan Zhang
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. B Vol. 21, No. 6 (2012) 060303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0601
abstract: Counterfactual quantum cryptography (CQC), recently proposed by Noh, is featured with no transmission of signal particles. This exhibits evident security advantage, such as its immunity to the well known PNS attack. In this paper, the theoretical security of CQC protocol against the general intercept-resend attacks is proved by bounding the information of an eavesdropper Eve more tightly than in Yin's proposal[Phys. Rev. A 82, 042335 (2010)]. It is also showed that practical CQC implementations may be vulnerable when equipped with imperfect apparatuses, by proving that a negative key rate can be achieved when Eve launches a time-shift attack based on imperfect detector efficiency.

id: 1103.0604
title: Two-photon quantum walks in an elliptical direct-write waveguide array
authors: J. O. Owens, M. A. Broome, D. N. Biggerstaff, M. E. Goggin, A. Fedrizzi, T. Linjordet, M. Ams, G. D. Marshall, J. Twamley, M. J. Withford, A. G. White
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0604
abstract: Integrated optics provides an ideal test bed for the emulation of quantum systems via continuous-time quantum walks. Here we study the evolution of two-photon states in an elliptic array of waveguides. We characterise the photonic chip via coherent-light tomography and use the results to predict distinct differences between temporally indistinguishable and distinguishable two-photon inputs which we then compare with experimental observations. Our work highlights the feasibility for emulation of coherent quantum phenomena in three-dimensional waveguide structures.

id: 1103.0625
title: Quantum Entanglement and Quantum Discord of Two-Mode Gaussian States in a Thermal Environment
authors: Aurelian Isar
comments: Added references; 18 pages, 4 figures; talk at the 42th Symposium on Mathematical Physics "Quantum Channels, Quantum Information - Theory and Applications", Torun, Poland (2010)
journal: Open Sys. Inf. Dynamics, vol. 18, no. 2, 175-190 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0625
abstract: In the framework of the theory of open systems based on completely positive quantum dynamical semigroups, we give a description of the continuous-variable quantum entanglement and quantum discord for a system consisting of two noninteracting modes embedded in a thermal environment. Entanglement and discord are used to quantify the quantum correlations of the system. For all values of the temperature of the thermal reservoir, an initial separable Gaussian state remains separable for all times. We study the time evolution of logarithmic negativity, which characterizes the degree of entanglement, and show that in the case of an entangled initial Gaussian state, entanglement suppression (entanglement sudden death) takes place, for non-zero temperatures of the environment. Only for a zero temperature of the thermal bath the initial entangled state remains entangled for finite times. We analyze the time evolution of the Gaussian quantum discord, which is a measure of all quantum correlations in the bipartite state, including entanglement, and show that quantum discord decays asymptotically in time under the effect of the thermal bath. This is contrast with the sudden death of entanglement. Before the suppression of the entanglement, the qualitative evolution of quantum discord is very similar to that of the entanglement. We describe also the time evolution of the degree of classical correlations and of quantum mutual information, which measures the total correlations of the quantum system.

id: 1103.0638
title: Third-order interference and a principle of `quantumness'
authors: Gerd Niestegge
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0638
abstract: Are there physical, probabilistic or information-theoretic principles which characterize the quantum probabilities and distinguish them from the classical case as well as from other probability theories, or which reveal why quantum mechanics requires its very special mathematical formalism? The paper identifies the fundamental absence of third-order interference as such a principle of `quantumness'. Considering three-slit experiments, the concept of third-order interference was originally introduced by Sorkin in 1994.

id: 1103.0640
title: Quantum communication through Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard arrays
authors: R. Chakrabarti, G. Sreekumari
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0640
abstract: We study the dynamics of an one dimensional array of Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard system of arbitrary number of coupled cavities, each containing a two level atom that interacts with a field mode. In particular, we consider propagation of a single excitation quantum state for two different couplings of the photonic modes of the adjacent cavities, namely, a translation invariant closed chain of uniformly coupled cavities, and also a linear chain with nonuniform parabolically varying intercavity coupling where the interaction Hamiltonian is associated with the Jacobi matrix of the Krawtchouk polynomials. Using a description via the delocalized atomic and field modes we observe that for a large detuning of these two degrees of freedom atomic excitations propagate without populating the field modes, and vice versa. For the near-resonance scenario between these modes the atomic excitations, say, while propagating mix with the photonic states. In the context of the parabolic coupling between photons of adjacent cavities an arbitrary element of the time-dependent correlation function between two arbitrary cavities may be expressed in closed form for dominant values of the detuning parameter, when an exact transmission of the quantum state at pre-specified times is realized.

id: 1103.0649
title: Approximate simulation of quantum channels
authors: C¨¦dric B¨¦ny, Ognyan Oreshkov
comments: 15 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022333 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0649
abstract: In Ref. [1], we proved a duality between two optimizations problems. The primary one is, given two quantum channels M and N, to find a quantum channel R such that RN is optimally close to M as measured by the worst-case entanglement fidelity. The dual problem involves the information obtained by the environment through the so-called complementary channels M* and N*, and consists in finding a quantum channel R' such that R'M* is optimally close to N*. It turns out to be easier to find an approximate solution to the dual problem in certain important situations, notably when M is the identity channel---the problem of quantum error correction---yielding a good near-optimal worst-case entanglement fidelity as well as the corresponding near-optimal correcting channel. Here we provide more detailed proofs of these results. In addition, we generalize the main theorem to the case where there are certain constraints on the implementation of R, namely on the number of Kraus operators. We also offer a simple algebraic form for the near-optimal correction channel in the case M=id. For approximate error correction, we show that any epsilon-correctable channel is, up to appending an ancilla, epsilon-close to an exactly correctable one. We also demonstrate an application of our theorem to the problem of minimax state discrimination.

id: 1103.0704
title: Properties of a geometric measure for quantum discord
authors: J. Batle, A. Plastino, A.R. Plastino, M. Casas
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0704
abstract: We discuss some properties of the quantum discord based on the geometric distance advanced by Dakic, Vedral, and Brukner [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 105}, 190502 (2010)], with emphasis on Werner- and MEM-states. We ascertain just how good the measure is in representing quantum discord. We explore the dependence of quantum discord on the degree of mixedness of the bipartite states, and also its connection with non-locality as measured by the maximum violation of a Bell inequality within the CHSH scenario.

id: 1103.0736
title: Spiked oscillators: exact solution
authors: F. J. Gomez, J. Sesma
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 385302 (24pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0736
abstract: A procedure to obtain the eigenenergies and eigenfunctions of a quantum spiked oscillator is presented. The originality of the method lies in an adequate use of asymptotic expansions of Wronskians of algebraic solutions of the Schroedinger equation. The procedure is applied to three familiar examples of spiked oscillators.

id: 1103.0747
title: Transmission of classical and quantum information through a quantum memory channel with damping
authors: A. D'Arrigo, G. Benenti, G. Falci
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures. The final publication is available at this http URL
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 66(6), 147 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0747
abstract: We consider the transfer of classical and quantum information through a memory amplitude damping channel. Such a quantum channel is modeled as a damped harmonic oscillator, the interaction between the information carriers - a train of qubits - and the oscillator being of the Jaynes-Cummings kind. We prove that this memory channel is forgetful, so that quantum coding theorems hold for its capacities. We analyze entropic quantities relative to two uses of this channel. We show that memory effects improve the channel aptitude to transmit both classical and quantum information, and we investigate the mechanism by which memory acts in changing the channel transmission properties.

id: 1103.0766
title: Symmetric extension of bipartite quantum states and its use in quantum key distribution with two-way postprocessing
authors: Geir Ove Myhr
comments: 183 pages, PhD thesis, Friedrich-Alexander-Universit\"at Erlangen-N\"urnberg, November 2010. Contains material first published in arXiv:0812.3607, arXiv:0812.3667, and some unpublished material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0766
abstract: We investigate which bipartite quantum states admit a symmetric extension and apply the results in the analysis of noise thresholds in quantum key distribution protocols with two-way postprocessing. We find that states that admit a symmetric extension can be decomposed into a convex combination of states that admit a_pure_ symmetric extension. For a state to have a pure symmetric extension, its nonzero eigenvalues must be equal to the nonzero eigenvalues of one of the subsystems. While this does not fully characterize the set of states with a pure symmetric extension in all dimensions, it is a full characterization for two qubits. A conjectured formula characterizing two-qubit states with a (mixed or pure) symmetric extension is presented. Proofs are given for some special classes. For multi-qubit Bell-diagonal states, the symmetric extension is simplified using the symmetries of the states and formulated as a semidefinite program. Quantum key distribution with two-way advantage distillation steps is then analyzed. For the commonly used repetition code advantage distillation, the failure to distill a secret key beyond the currently known noise thresholds is explained by a failure to break a symmetric extension. More general linear advantage distillation schemes are analyzed, but for those schemes analyzed, we find that they tolerate strictly less noise than repetition code advantage distillation before they fail to break a symmetric extension. The results suggest that no other linear advantage distillation scheme can reach the noise threshold of 27.6 % for the six-state protocol which is achieved by repetition code advantage distillation.

id: 1103.0774
title: Comment on "Information flow of quantum states interacting with closed timelike curves"
authors: Waldemar Klobus, Andrzej Grudka, Antoni Wojcik
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 056301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0774
abstract: We show that recent results on the interaction of causality-respecting particles with particles on closed timelike curves derived in [Phys. Rev. A 82, 062330 (2010)] depend on ambiguous assumption about the form of the state which is inputted into the proposed equivalent circuit. Choosing different form of this state leads to opposite conclusion on the power of closed timelike curves.

id: 1103.0835
title: Stimulating uncertainty: Amplifying the quantum vacuum with superconducting circuits
authors: P. D. Nation, J. R. Johansson, M. P. Blencowe, Franco Nori
comments: 27 pages, 10 figures, version published in Rev. Mod. Phys. as a Colloquium
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 84, 1 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0835
abstract: The ability to generate particles from the quantum vacuum is one of the most profound consequences of Heisenberg's uncertainty principle. Although the significance of vacuum fluctuations can be seen throughout physics, the experimental realization of vacuum amplification effects has until now been limited to a few cases. Superconducting circuit devices, driven by the goal to achieve a viable quantum computer, have been used in the experimental demonstration of the dynamical Casimir effect, and may soon be able to realize the elusive verification of analogue Hawking radiation. This article describes several mechanisms for generating photons from the quantum vacuum and emphasizes their connection to the well-known parametric amplifier from quantum optics. Discussed in detail is the possible realization of each mechanism, or its analogue, in superconducting circuit systems. The ability to selectively engineer these circuit devices highlights the relationship between the various amplification mechanisms.

id: 1103.0836
title: Diverging equilibration times in long-range quantum spin models
authors: Michael Kastner
comments: 4+ pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 130601, 4 pages (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0836
abstract: The approach to equilibrium is studied for long-range quantum Ising models where the interaction strength decays like r^{-\alpha} at large distances r with an exponent $\alpha$ not exceeding the lattice dimension. For a large class of observables and initial states, the time evolution of expectation values can be calculated. We prove analytically that, at a given instant of time t and for sufficiently large system size N, the expectation value of some observable <A>(t) will practically be unchanged from its initial value <A>(0). This finding implies that, for large enough N, equilibration effectively occurs on a time scale beyond the experimentally accessible one and will not be observed in practice.

id: 1103.0842
title: Span-program-based quantum algorithm for the rank problem
authors: Aleksandrs Belovs
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0842
abstract: Recently, span programs have been shown to be equivalent to quantum query algorithms. It is an open problem whether this equivalence can be utilized in order to come up with new quantum algorithms. We address this problem by providing span programs for some linear algebra problems. We develop a notion of a high level span program, that abstracts from loading input vectors into a span program. Then we give a high level span program for the rank problem. The last section of the paper deals with reducing a high level span program to an ordinary span program that can be solved using known quantum query algorithms.

id: 1103.0855
title: Chopped random-basis quantum optimization
authors: Tommaso Caneva, Tommaso Calarco, Simone Montangero
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022326 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0855
abstract: In this work we describe in detail the "Chopped RAndom Basis" (CRAB) optimal control technique recently introduced to optimize t-DMRG simulations [arXiv:1003.3750]. Here we study the efficiency of this control technique in optimizing different quantum processes and we show that in the considered cases we obtain results equivalent to those obtained via different optimal control methods while using less resources. We propose the CRAB optimization as a general and versatile optimal control technique.

id: 1103.0872
title: The FermiFab Toolbox for Fermionic Many-Particle Quantum Systems
authors: Christian B. Mendl
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: Computer Physics Communications 182, pp 1327-1337 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0872
abstract: This paper introduces the FermiFab toolbox for many-particle quantum systems. It is mainly concerned with the representation of (symbolic) fermionic wavefunctions and the calculation of corresponding reduced density matrices (RDMs). The toolbox transparently handles the inherent antisymmetrization of wavefunctions and incorporates the creation/annihilation formalism. Thus, it aims at providing a solid base for a broad audience to use fermionic wavefunctions with the same ease as matrices in Matlab, say. Leveraging symbolic computation, the toolbox can greatly simply tedious pen-and-paper calculations for concrete quantum mechanical systems, and serves as "sandbox" for theoretical hypothesis testing. FermiFab (including full source code) is freely available as a plugin for both Matlab and Mathematica.

id: 1103.0886
title: Thermal entanglement and efficiency of the quantum Otto cycle for the su(1,1) Tavis-Cummings system
authors: L. Chotorlishvili, Z. Toklikishvili, J. Berakdar
comments: to appear in J.Phys. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0886
abstract: The influence of the dynamical Stark shift on the thermal entanglement and the efficiency of the quantum Otto cycle is studied for the su(1,1) Tavis-Cummings system. It is shown that the degree of the thermal entanglement becomes larger as the dynamical Stark shift increases. In contrast, the efficiency of the Otto cycle is degraded with an increase of the values of dynamical Stark shift. Expressions for the efficiency coefficient are derived. Using those expressions we identify the maximal efficiency of the quantum Otto cycle from the experimentally measured values of the dynamical Stark shift

id: 1103.0927
title: Conditional control of quantum beats in a cavity QED system
authors: D G Norris, A D Cimmarusti, L A Orozco
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, XVII Reuni\'on Iberoamericana de \'Optica, X Encuentro de \'Optica, L\'aseres y Aplicaciones (RIAO-OPTILAS-2010)
journal: D G Norris et al 2011 J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 274 012143
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0927
abstract: We probe a ground-state superposition that produces a quantum beat in the intensity correlation of a two-mode cavity QED system. We mix drive with scattered light from an atomic beam traversing the cavity, and effectively measure the interference between the drive and the light from the atom. When a photon escapes the cavity, and upon detection, it triggers our feedback which modulates the drive at the same beat frequency but opposite phase for a given time window. This results in a partial interruption of the beat oscillation in the correlation function, that then returns to oscillate.

id: 1103.0929
title: Coherent open-loop optimal control of light-harvesting dynamics
authors: Filippo Caruso, Simone Montangero, Tommaso Calarco, Susana F. Huelga, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 12 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042331 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0929
abstract: We apply theoretically open-loop quantum optimal control techniques to provide methods for the verification of various quantum coherent transport mechanisms in natural and artificial light-harvesting complexes under realistic experimental constraints. We demonstrate that optimally shaped laser pulses allow to faithfully prepare the photosystem in specified initial states (such as localized excitation or coherent superposition, i.e. propagating and non-propagating states) and to probe efficiently the dynamics. These results provide a path towards the discrimination of the different transport pathways and to the characterization of environmental properties, enhancing our understanding of the role that coherent processes may play in biological complexes.

id: 1103.0931
title: Anomalous decoherence and absence of thermalization in a photonic many-body system
authors: Jonas Larson
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052103 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0931
abstract: The intention of this work is twofold, first to present a most simple system capable of simulating the intrinsic bosonic Josephson effect with photons, and second to study various outcomes deriving from inherent or external decoherence. A qubit induces an effective coupling between two externally pumped cavity modes. Without cavity losses and in the dispersive regime, intrinsic Josephson oscillations of photons between the two modes occurs. In this case, contrary to regular Markovian decoherence, the qubit purity shows a Gaussian decay and recurrence of its coherence. Due to intrinsic non-linearities, both the Josephson oscillations as well as the qubit properties display a rich collapse-revival structure, where, however, the complexity of the qubit evolution is in some sense stronger. The qubit as a meter of the photon dynamics is considered, and it is shown that qubit dephasing, originating for example from non-demolition measurements, results in an exponential destruction of the oscillations which manifests the collectiveness of the Josephson effect. Non-selective qubit measurements, on the other hand, render a Zeno effect seen in a slowing down of the Josephson oscillations. Contrary to dephasing, cavity dissipation results in a Gaussian decay of the scaled Josephson oscillations. Finally, following Ponomarev et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 010405 (2011)] we analyze aspects of thermalization. In particular, despite similarities with the generic model studied by Ponomarev {\it et al.}, our system does not seem to thermalize.

id: 1103.1000
title: Quantum entanglement and teleportation in quantum dot
authors: Li-Guo Qin, Li-Jun Tian, Guo-Hong Yang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1000
abstract: We study the thermal entanglement and quantum teleportation using quantum dot as a resource. We first consider entanglement of the resource, and then focus on the effects of different parameters on the teleportation fidelity under different conditions. The critical temperature of disentanglement is obtained. Based on Bell measurements in two subspaces, we find the anisotropy measurements is optimal to the isotropy arising from the entangled eigenstates of the system in the anisotropy subspace. In addition, it is shown that the anisotropy transmission fidelity is very high and stable for quantum dot as quantum channel when the parameters are adjusted. The possible applications of quantum dot are expected in the quantum teleportation.

id: 1103.1020
title: Spin Squeezing with Coherent Light via Entanglement Swapping
authors: Mehmet Emre Tasgin, Pierre Meystre
comments: 6 pages, 10 figures
journal: Physical Review A 83, 053848 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1020
abstract: We analyze theoretically a scheme that produces spin squeezing via the continuous swapping of atom-photon entanglement into atom-atom entanglement, and propose an explicit experimental system where the necessary atom-field coupling can be realized. This scheme is found to be robust against perturbations due to other atom-field coupling channels.

id: 1103.1025
title: Mutually unbiased bases in dimension six: The four most distant bases
authors: Philippe Raynal, Xin L¨¹, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1025
abstract: We consider the average distance between four bases in dimension six. The distance between two orthonormal bases vanishes when the bases are the same, and the distance reaches its maximal value of unity when the bases are unbiased. We perform a numerical search for the maximum average distance and find it to be strictly smaller than unity. This is strong evidence that no four mutually unbiased bases exist in dimension six. We also provide a two-parameter family of three bases which, together with the canonical basis, reach the numerically-found maximum of the average distance, and we conduct a detailed study of the structure of the extremal set of bases.

id: 1103.1104
title: Direct Measurement of the System-Environment Coupling as a Tool For Understanding Decoherence and Dynamical Decoupling
authors: Ido Almog, Yoav Sagi, Goren Gordon, Guy Bensky, Gershon Kurizki, Nir Davidson
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44, 154006 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1104
abstract: Decoherence is a major obstacle to any practical implementation of quantum information processing. One of the leading strategies to reduce decoherence is dynamical decoupling --- the use of an external field to average out the effect of the environment. The decoherence rate under any control field can be calculated if the spectrum of the coupling to the environment is known. We present a direct measurement of the bath coupling spectrum in an ensemble of optically trapped ultracold atoms, by applying a spectrally narrow-band control field. The measured spectrum follows a Lorentzian shape at low frequencies, but exhibits non-monotonic features at higher frequencies due to the oscillatory motion of the atoms in the trap. These features agree with our analytical models and numerical Monte-Carlo simulations of the collisional bath. From the inferred bath-coupling spectrum, we predict the performance of well-known dynamical decoupling sequences: CPMG, UDD and CDD. We then apply these sequences in experiment and compare the results to predictions, finding good agreement in the weak-coupling limit. Thus, our work establishes experimentally the validity of the overlap integral formalism, and is an important step towards the implementation of an optimal dynamical decoupling sequence for a given measured bath spectrum.

id: 1103.1120
title: Erlangen Programme at Large 3.2: Ladder Operators in Hypercomplex Mechanics
authors: Vladimir V. Kisil
comments: LaTeX2e, 12 pages, 3 EPS pictures in one figures; v2: the illustration is added, several small improvements; v3: minor corrections, several references are added; v4: minor corrections
journal: Acta Polytechnica, v. 51(2011), n. 4, pp. 44--53
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Complex Variables (math.CV); Representation Theory (math.RT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1120
abstract: We revise the construction of creation/annihilation operators in quantum mechanics based on the representation theory of the Heisenberg and symplectic groups. Besides the standard harmonic oscillator (the elliptic case) we similarly treat the repulsive oscillator (hyperbolic case) and the free particle (the parabolic case). The respective hypercomplex numbers turn to be handy on this occasion, this provides a further illustration to Similarity and Correspondence Principle. Keywords: Heisenberg group, Kirillov's method of orbits, geometric quantisation, quantum mechanics, classical mechanics, Planck constant, dual numbers, double numbers, hypercomplex, jet spaces, hyperbolic mechanics, interference, Fock--Segal--Bargmann representation, Schr\"odinger representation, dynamics equation, harmonic and unharmonic oscillator, contextual probability, symplectic group, metaplectic representation, Shale--Weil representation

id: 1103.1123
title: Rabi Waves and Peculiarities of Raman Scattering in Carbon Nanotubes, Produced by High Energy Ion Beam Modification of Diamond Single Crystals
authors: Dmitry Yearchuck, Alla Dovlatova
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1123
abstract: QED-model for multichain coupled qubit system, proposed in \cite{Part1}, was confirmed by Raman scattering studies of carbon zigzag-shaped nanotubes, produced by high energy ion beam modification of natural diamond single crystals. New quantum optics phenomenon - Rabi waves - has been experimentally identified for the first time. Raman spectra in perfect quasi-1D carbon nanotubes are quite different in comparison with well known Raman spectra in 2D carbon nanotubes of larger diameter. They characterized by vibronic mode of Su-Schriffer-Heeger $\sigma$-polaron lattice and its revival part in frequency representation, which is the consequence of Rabi wave packet formation.

id: 1103.1135
title: The apex of the family tree of protocols: Optimal rates and resource inequalities
authors: Nilanjana Datta, Min-Hsiu Hsieh
comments: 31 pages, 2 figures. Published version
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 093042
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1135
abstract: We establish bounds on the maximum entanglement gain and minimum quantum communication cost of the Fully Quantum Slepian-Wolf protocol in the one-shot regime, which is considered to be at the apex of the existing family tree in Quantum Information Theory. These quantities, which are expressed in terms of smooth min- and max-entropies, reduce to the known rates of quantum communication cost and entanglement gain in the asymptotic i.i.d. scenario. We also provide an explicit proof of the optimality of these asymptotic rates. We introduce a resource inequality for the one-shot FQSW protocol, which in conjunction with our results, yields achievable one-shot rates of its children protocols. In particular, it yields bounds on the one-shot quantum capacity of a noisy channel in terms of a single entropic quantity, unlike previously bounds. We also obtain an explicit expression for the achievable rate for one-shot state redistribution.

id: 1103.1136
title: Deterministic spin-wave interferometer based on Rydberg blockade
authors: Ran Wei, Bo Zhao, Youjin Deng, Yu-Ao Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A 83, 063623 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1136
abstract: The spin-wave (SW) NOON state is an $N$-particle Fock state with two atomic spin-wave modes maximally entangled. Attributed to the property that the phase is sensitive to collective atomic motion, the SW NOON state can be utilized as a novel atomic interferometer and has promising application in quantum enhanced measurement. In this paper we propose an efficient protocol to deterministically produce the atomic SW NOON state by employing Rydberg blockade. Possible errors in practical manipulations are analyzed. A feasible experimental scheme is suggested. Our scheme is far more efficient than the recent experimentally demonstrated one, which only creates a heralded second-order SW NOON state.

id: 1103.1150
title: Semigroup evolution in Wigner Weisskopf pole approximation with Markovian spectral coupling
authors: F. Shikerman, A. Peer, L. P. Horwitz
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1150
abstract: We establish the relation between the Wigner-Weisskopf theory for the description of an unstable system and the theory of coupling to an environment. According to the Wigner-Weisskopf general approach, even within the pole approximation (neglecting the background contribution) the evolution of a total system subspace is not an exact semigroup for the multi-channel decay, unless the projectors into eigesntates of the reduced evolution generator $W(z)$ are orthogonal. In this case these projectors must be evaluated at different pole locations $z_\alpha\neq z_\beta$. Since the orthogonality relation does not generally hold at different values of $z$, for example, when there is symmetry breaking, the semigroup evolution is a poor approximation for the multi-channel decay, even for a very weak coupling. Nevertheless, there exists a possibility not only to ensure the orthogonality of the $W(z)$ projectors regardless the number of the poles, but also to simultaneously suppress the effect of the background contribution. This possibility arises when the theory is generalized to take into account interactions with an environment. In this case $W(z)$, and hence its eigenvectors as well, are {\it independent} of $z$, which corresponds to a structure of the coupling to the continuum spectrum associated with the Markovian limit.

id: 1103.1154
title: Electromagnetic vacuum of complex media II: the Lamb shift and the total vacuum energy
authors: M. Donaire
comments: Comments added, some sections rewritten
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1154
abstract: We study the physical content of the electromagnetic vacuum energy of a random medium made of atomic electric dipoles. First, we evaluate the contribution of statistical fluctuations to the average total vacuum energy, which is made out of the integration of the variations of the Lamb shift with respect to the coupling constant. While the Lamb shift is a function of the electrical susceptibility only, the vacuum energy is generally not. Second, we make clear why the effective medium bulk energy does not account for the total vacuum energy of a molecular dielectric. Consequently, the Lamb shift does not derive from the effective medium bulk energy except at leading order in the molecular density. The local field factors provide natural cutoffs for the spectrum of the total vacuum energy at a wavelength of the order of the correlation length. Third, we investigate to what extent shifts in the spectrum of the dielectric constant may be attributed to the binding energy of a dielectric. In particular, in the continuum approximation we have found a relation between the electrostatic binding energy and the Lorentz-Lorenz shift. Nonetheless, we conclude that the knowledge of the spectrum of the refractive index is insufficient either to quantify the energy of radiative modes or to estimate the electrostatic binding energy of molecular clusters.

id: 1103.1180
title: Return probability of one-dimensional discrete-time quantum walks with final-time dependence
authors: Yusuke Ide, Norio Konno, Takuya Machida, Etsuo Segawa
comments: 11 pages, title changed, Quantum Information and Computation (in press)
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol.11 No.9&10, pp.761-773 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1180
abstract: We analyze final-time dependent discrete-time quantum walks in one dimension. We compute asymptotics of the return probability of the quantum walk by a path counting approach. Moreover, we discuss a relation between the quantum walk and the corresponding final-time dependent classical random walk.

id: 1103.1206
title: Criteria for two distinguishable fermions to behave like a boson
authors: Ravishankar Ramanathan, Pawel Kurzynski, Tan Kok Chuan, Marcelo F. Santos, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure (in color)
journal: Physical Review A, 84, 034304 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1206
abstract: We study the necessary conditions for bosons composed of two distinguishable fermions to exhibit bosonic-like behaviour. We base our analysis on tools of quantum information theory such as entanglement and the majorization criterion for probability distributions. In particular we scrutinize a recent interesting hypothesis by C. K. Law in the Ref. Phys. Rev. A 71, 034306 (2005) that suggests that the amount of entanglement between the constituent fermions is related to the bosonic properties of the composite boson. We show that a large amount of entanglement does not necessarily imply a good boson-like behaviour by constructing an explicit counterexample. Moreover, we identify more precisely the role entanglement may play in this situation.

id: 1103.1212
title: Density of defects and the scaling law of the entanglement entropy in quantum phase transition of one dimensional spin systems induced by a quench
authors: Banasri Basu, Pratul Bandyopadhyay, Priyadarshi Majumdar
comments: 4 figures, Accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1212
abstract: We have studied quantum phase transition induced by a quench in different one dimensional spin systems. Our analysis is based on the dynamical mechanism which envisages nonadiabaticity in the vicinity of the critical point. This causes spin fluctuation which leads to the random fluctuation of the Berry phase factor acquired by a spin state when the ground state of the system evolves in a closed path. The two-point correlation of this phase factor is associated with the probability of the formation of defects. In this framework, we have estimated the density of defects produced in several one dimensional spin chains. At the critical region, the entanglement entropy of a block of $L$ spins with the rest of the system is also estimated which is found to increase logarithmically with $L$. The dependence on the quench time puts a constraint on the block size $L$. It is also pointed out that the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model in point-splitting regularized form appears as a combination of the XXX model and Ising model with magnetic field in the negative z-axis. This unveils the underlying conformal symmetry at criticality which is lost in the sharp point limit. Our analysis shows that the density of defects as well as the scaling behavior of the entanglement entropy follows a universal behavior in all these systems.

id: 1103.1219
title: Quantum Metrology in Non-Markovian Environments
authors: Alex W. Chin, Susana F. Huelga, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 233601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1219
abstract: We analyze precision bounds for a local phase estimation in the presence of general, non-Markovian phase noise. We demonstrate that the metrological equivalence of product and maximally entangled states that holds under strictly Markovian dephasing fails in the non-Markovian case. Using an exactly solvable model of a physically realistic finite bandwidth dephasing environment, we demonstrate that the ensuing non-Markovian dynamics enables quantum correlated states to outperform metrological strategies based on uncorrelated states using otherwise identical resources. We show that this conclusion is a direct result of the coherent dynamics of the global state of the system and environment and therefore the obtained scaling with the number of particles, which surpasses the standard quantum limit but does not achieve Heisenberg resolution, possesses general validity that goes beyond specific models. This is in marked contrast with the situation encountered under general Markovian noise, where an arbitrarily small amount of noise is enough to restore the scaling dictated by the standard quantum limit.

id: 1103.1236
title: Testing spontaneous localization theories with matter-wave interferometry
authors: Stefan Nimmrichter, Klaus Hornberger, Philipp Haslinger, Markus Arndt
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; corresponds to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 043621 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1236
abstract: We propose to test the theory of continuous spontaneous localization (CSL) in an all-optical time-domain Talbot-Lau interferometer for clusters with masses exceeding 1000000 amu. By assessing the relevant environmental decoherence mechanisms, as well as the growing size of the particles relative to the grating fringes, we argue that it will be feasible to test the quantum superposition principle in a mass range excluded by recent estimates of the CSL effect.

id: 1103.1245
title: Fourth moments reveal the negativity of the Wigner function
authors: Adam Bednorz, Wolfgang Belzig
comments: 5 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052113 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1245
abstract: The presence of unique quantum correlations is the core of quantum information processing and general quantum theory. We address the fundamental question of how quantum correlations of a generic quantum system can be probed using correlation functions defined for quasiprobability distributions. In particular we discuss the possibility of probing the negativity of a quasiprobability by comparing moments of the Wigner function. We show that one must take at least the fourth moments to find the negativity in general and the eighth moments for states with a rotationally invariant Wigner function.

id: 1103.1280
title: The discrete-time Grover walk on star graphs with one loop
authors: Takuya Machida
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1280
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author because the result of this paper was already obtained.

id: 1103.1281
title: Systematic analysis of SNR in bipartite Ghost Imaging with classical and quantum light
authors: G. Brida, M.V. Chekhova, G.A. Fornaro, M. Genovese, L. Lopaeva, I. Ruo Berchera
comments: 
journal: Phys Rev. A 83, 063807 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1281
abstract: We present a complete and exhaustive theory of signal-to-noise-ratio in bipartite ghost imaging with classical (thermal) and quantum (twin beams) light. The theory is compared with experiment for both twin beams and thermal light in a certain regime of interest.

id: 1103.1287
title: Determination of the Schmidt number
authors: J. Sperling, W. Vogel
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, PRA in press, previously: Section IV in arXiv:0908.3974v2
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042315 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1287
abstract: Optimized, necessary and sufficient conditions for the identification of the Schmidt number will be derived in terms of general Hermitian operators. These conditions apply to arbitrary mixed quantum states. The optimization procedure delivers equations similar to the eigenvalue problem of an operator. The properties of the solution of these equations will be studied. We solve these equations for classes of operators. The solutions will be applied to phase randomized two-mode squeezed-vacuum states in continuous variable systems.

id: 1103.1298
title: Multiphoton ionization and stabilization of helium in superintense xuv fields
authors: S. A. S?rng?rd, S. Askeland, R. Nepstad, M. F?rre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1298
abstract: Multiphoton ionization of helium is investigated in the superintense field regime, with particular emphasis on the role of the electron-electron interaction in the ionization and stabilization dynamics. To accomplish this, we solve ab initio the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation with the full electron-electron interaction included. By comparing the ionization yields obtained from the full calculations with corresponding results of an independent-electron model, we come to the somewhat counterintuitive conclusion that the single-particle picture breaks down at superstrong field strengths. We explain this finding from the perspective of the so-called Kramers-Henneberger frame, the reference frame of a free (classical) electron moving in the field. The breakdown is tied to the fact that shake-up and shake-off processes cannot be properly accounted for in commonly used independent-electron models. In addition, we see evidence of a change from the multiphoton to the shake-off ionization regime in the energy distributions of the electrons. From the angular distribution it is apparent that correlation is an important factor even in this regime.

id: 1103.1311
title: Robustness of non-Gaussian entanglement against noisy amplifier and attenuator environments
authors: Krishna Kumar Sabapathy, J. Solomon Ivan, R. Simon
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 130501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1311
abstract: The recently developed Kraus representation for bosonic Gaussian channels is employed to study analytically the robustness of non-Gaussian entanglement against evolution under noisy attenuator and amplifier environments, and compare it with the robustness of Gaussian entanglement. Our results show that some non-Gaussian states with one ebit of entanglement are more robust than all Gaussian states, even the ones with arbitrarily large entanglement, a conclusion of direct consequence to the recent conjecture by Allegra et al. [PRL, 105, 100503 (2010)].

id: 1103.1319
title: Artificial atoms can do more than atoms: Deterministic single photon subtraction from arbitrary light fields
authors: Jens Honer, Robert L?w, Hendrik Weimer, Tilman Pfau, Hans Peter B¨¹chler
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 093601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1319
abstract: We study the interplay of photons interacting with an artificial atom in the presence of a controlled dephasing. Such artifical atoms consisting of several independent scatterer can exhibit remarkable properties superior to single atoms with a prominent example being a superatom based on Rydberg blockade. We demonstrate that the induced dephasing allows for the controlled absorption of a single photon from an arbitrary incoming probe field. This unique tool in photon-matter interaction opens a way for building novel quantum devices and several potential applications like a single photon transistor, high fidelity n-photon counters, or for the creation of non-classical states of light by photon subtraction are presented.

id: 1103.1324
title: Experimental demonstration of coherent feedback control on optical field squeezing
authors: Sanae Iida, Mitsuyoshi Yukawa, Hidehiro Yonezawa, Naoki Yamamoto, Akira Furusawa
comments: 7 pages
journal: IEEE Trans. Automat. Contr. 57-8, 2045/2050 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1324
abstract: Coherent feedback is a non-measurement based, hence a back-action free, method of control for quantum systems. A typical application of this control scheme is squeezing enhancement, a purely non-classical effect in quantum optics. In this paper we report its first experimental demonstration that well agrees with the theory taking into account time delays and losses in the coherent feedback loop. The results clarify both the benefit and the limitation of coherent feedback control in a practical situation.

id: 1103.1345
title: Ramsey numbers and adiabatic quantum computing
authors: Frank Gaitan, Lane Clark
comments: 4 pages, 1 table, no figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 010501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1345
abstract: The graph-theoretic Ramsey numbers are notoriously difficult to calculate. In fact, for the two-color Ramsey numbers $R(m,n)$ with $m,n\geq 3$, only nine are currently known. We present a quantum algorithm for the computation of the Ramsey numbers $R(m,n)$. We show how the computation of $R(m,n)$ can be mapped to a combinatorial optimization problem whose solution can be found using adiabatic quantum evolution. We numerically simulate this adiabatic quantum algorithm and show that it correctly determines the Ramsey numbers R(3,3) and R(2,s) for $5\leq s\leq 7$. We then discuss the algorithm's experimental implementation, and close by showing that Ramsey number computation belongs to the quantum complexity class QMA.

id: 1103.1386
title: Physics and computer science: quantum computation and other approaches
authors: Salvador E. Venegas-Andraca
comments: 
journal: Math. Struct. in Comp. Science (2010), vol. 20, pp. 995-997
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1386
abstract: This is a position paper written as an introduction to the special volume on quantum algorithms I edited for the journal Mathematical Structures in Computer Science (Volume 20 - Special Issue 06 (Quantum Algorithms), 2010).

id: 1103.1399
title: Classical Simulation of Quantum Adiabatic Algorithms using Mathematica on GPUs
authors: Sandra D¨ªaz-Pier, Salvador E. Venegas-Andraca, Jos¨¦ Luis G¨®mez-Mu?oz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1399
abstract: In this paper we present a simulation environment enhanced with parallel processing which can be used on personal computers, based on a high-level user interface developed on Mathematica\copyright which is connected to C++ code in order to make our platform capable of communicating with a Graphics Processing Unit. We introduce the reader to the behavior of our proposal by simulating a quantum adiabatic algorithm designed for solving hard instances of the 3-SAT problem. We show that our simulator is capable of significantly increasing the number of qubits that can be simulated using classical hardware. Finally, we present a review of currently available classical simulators of quantum systems together with some justifications, based on our willingness to further understand processing properties of Nature, for devoting resources to building more powerful simulators.

id: 1103.1442
title: Two-photon dipole-dipole blockade
authors: Khulud Almutairi, Ryszard Tanas, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: Title changed, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 013831 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1442
abstract: We describe a mechanism for a controlled generation of a pure Bell state with correlated atoms that involve two or zero excitations. The mechanism inhibits transitions into singly excited collective states of a two-atom system by shifting them from their unperturbed energies. The shift is accomplished by the dipole-dipole interaction between the atoms. The creation of the Bell state is found to be dependent on the relaxation of the atomic excitation. When the relaxation is not present or can be ignored, the state of the system evolves harmonically between a separable to the maximally entangled state. We follow the temporal evolution of the state and find that the concurrence can be different from zero only in the presence of the dipole-dipole interaction. Furthermore, in the limit of a large dipole-dipole interaction, the concurrence reduces to that predicted for an X-state of the system. A general inequality is found which shows that the concurrence of an X-state system is a lower bound for the concurrence of the two-atom system. With the relaxation present, the general state of the system is a mixed state that under a strong dipole-dipole interaction reduces the system to an X-state form. We find that mixed states admit of lower level of entanglement, and the entanglement may occur over a finite range of time. A simple analytical expression is obtained for the steady-state concurrence which shows that there is a threshold value for the dipole-dipole interaction relative to the Rabi frequency of the driving field above which the atoms can be entangled over the entire time of the evolution.

id: 1103.1446
title: Modified Born-Jordan Method For Constructing The Commutation Relation Of Coordinate and Momentum
authors: Ze-Sen Yang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1446
abstract: The Born-Jordan method for constructing the quantum condition of the Matrix Mechanics is pointed out to be inappropriate in the present work. We modify this method and reconstruct the quantum condition by setting up a new expression for the Bohr quantum condition with the help of the (n,n) elements of the matrix $\oint\hat{p}(t){\rm d}\hat{x}(t)$.

id: 1103.1502
title: Non-Markovian finite-temperature two-time correlation functions of system operators: beyond the quantum regression theorem
authors: Hsi-Sheng Goan, Po-Wen Chen, Chung-Chin Jian
comments: To appear in the Journal of Chemical Physics (12 pages, 1 figure)
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 134, 124112 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1502
abstract: An extremely useful evolution equation that allows systematically calculating the two-time correlation functions (CF's) of system operators for non-Markovian open (dissipative) quantum systems is derived. The derivation is based on perturbative quantum master equation approach, so non-Markovian open quantum system models that are not exactly solvable can use our derived evolution equation to easily obtain their two-time CF's of system operators, valid to second order in the system-environment interaction. Since the form and nature of the Hamiltonian are not specified in our derived evolution equation, our evolution equation is applicable for bosonic and/or fermionic environments and can be applied to a wide range of system-environment models with any factorized (separable) system-environment initial states (pure or mixed). When applied to a general model of a system coupled to a finite-temperature bosonic environment with a system coupling operator L in the system-environment interaction Hamiltonian, the resultant evolution equation is valid for both L = L^+ and L \neq L^+ cases, in contrast to those evolution equations valid only for L = L^+ case in the literature. The derived equation that generalizes the quantum regression theorem (QRT) to the non-Markovian case will have broad applications in many different branches of physics. We then give conditions on which the QRT holds in the weak system-environment coupling case, and apply the derived evolution equation to a problem of a two-level system (atom) coupled to a finite-temperature bosonic environment (electromagnetic fields) with L \neq L^+.

id: 1103.1515
title: Comment on "The Jones-Hore theory of radical-ion-pair reactions is not self-consistent" (arXiv:1010.3888v3)
authors: Kiminori Maeda
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1515
abstract: A short comment on "The Jones-Hore theory of radical-ion-pair reactions is not self-consistent" (arXiv:1010.3888v3) is presented. In the comment, it is pointed out that the paper includes a misconception about the Jones-Hore approach in Chem. Phys. Lett. 488 (2010) 90-93. The re-formulation is presented and it is demonstrated that the Jones-Hore theory is consistent at least on the point claimed by I. K. Kominis in the paper.

id: 1103.1528
title: A Single-Atom Quantum Memory
authors: Holger P. Specht, Christian N?lleke, Andreas Reiserer, Manuel Uphoff, Eden Figueroa, Stephan Ritter, Gerhard Rempe
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures including supplementary information; 2 movies in Flash Video format as ancillary files
journal: Nature 473, 190-193 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1528
abstract: The faithful storage of a quantum bit of light is essential for long-distance quantum communication, quantum networking and distributed quantum computing. The required optical quantum memory must, first, be able to receive and recreate the photonic qubit and, second, store an unknown quantum state of light better than any classical device. These two requirements have so far been met only by ensembles of material particles storing the information in collective excitations. Recent developments, however, have paved the way for a new approach in which the information exchange happens between single quanta of light and matter. This single-particle approach allows one to address the material qubit and thus has fundamental advantages for realistic implementations: First, to combat inevitable losses and finite efficiencies, it enables a heralding mechanism that signals the successful storage of a photon by means of state detection. Second, it allows for individual qubit manipulations, opening up avenues for in situ processing of the stored quantum information. Here we demonstrate the most fundamental implementation of such a quantum memory by mapping arbitrary polarization states of light into and out of a single atom trapped inside an optical cavity. The memory performance is analyzed through full quantum process tomography. The average fidelity is measured to be 93% and low decoherence rates result in storage times exceeding 180\mu s. This makes our system a versatile quantum node with excellent perspectives for optical quantum gates and quantum repeaters.

id: 1103.1546
title: Quadrature noise in light propagating through a cold 87Rb atomic gas
authors: Travis Horrom, Arturo Lezama, Salim Balik, Mark D. Havey, Eugeniy E. Mikhailov
comments: 
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, Issue 21, 58, 1936-1941, (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1546
abstract: We report on the study of the noise properties of laser light propagating through a cold 87Rb atomic sample held in a magneto-optical trap. The laser is tuned around the Fg = 2 \rightarrow Fe = 1, 2 D1 transitions of 87Rb. We observe quadrature-dependent noise in the light signal, an indication that it may be possible to produce squeezed states of light. We measure the minimum and maximum phase-dependent noise as a function of detuning and compare these results to theoretical predictions to explore the best conditions for light squeezing using cold atomic Rb.

id: 1103.1549
title: Model independence in two dimensions and polarized cold dipolar molecules
authors: A. G. Volosniev, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 4.1 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 250401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1549
abstract: We calculate the energy and wave functions of two particles confined to two spatial dimensions interacting via arbitrary anisotropic potentials with negative or zero net volume. The general rigorous analytic expressions are given in the weak coupling limit where universality or model independence are approached. The monopole part of anisotropic potentials is crucial in the universal limit. We illustrate the universality with a system of two arbitrarily polarized cold dipolar molecules in a bilayer. We discuss the transition to universality as function of polarization and binding energy, and compare analytic and numerical results obtained by the stochastic variational method. The universal limit is essentially reached for experimentally accessible strengths.

id: 1103.1570
title: Saturation of a spin 1/2 particle by generalized Local control
authors: F. Mintert, M. Lapert, Y. Zhang, S. J. Glaser, D. Sugny
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, submitted to new journal of physics (2011)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1570
abstract: We show how to apply a generalization of Local control design to the problem of saturation of a spin 1/2 particle by magnetic fields in Nuclear Magnetic Resonance. The generalization of local or Lyapunov control arises from the fact that the derivative of the Lyapunov function does not depend explicitly on the control field. The second derivative is used to determine the local control field. We compare the efficiency of this approach with respect to the time-optimal solution which has been recently derived using geometric methods.

id: 1103.1581
title: Atomic states in optical traps near a planar surface
authors: Riccardo Messina, Sophie Pelisson, Marie-Christine Angonin, Peter Wolf
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052111 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1581
abstract: In this work we discuss the atomic states in a vertical optical lattice in proximity of a surface. We study the modifications to the ordinary Wannier-Stark states in presence of a surface and we characterize the energy shifts produced by the Casimir-Polder interaction between atom and mirror. In this context, we introduce an effective model describing the finite size of the atom in order to regularize the energy corrections. In addition, the modifications to the energy levels due to a hypothetical non-Newtonian gravitational potential as well as their experimental observability are investigated.

id: 1103.1589
title: Timescales for dynamical relaxation to the Born rule
authors: M.D. Towler, N.J. Russell, A. Valentini
comments: 27 pages, 8 figures; Replacement with small number of changes reflecting referees' comments
journal: Proc. Roy. Soc. A 468, 990 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1589
abstract: We illustrate through explicit numerical calculations how the Born-rule probability densities of non-relativistic quantum mechanics emerge naturally from the particle dynamics of de Broglie-Bohm pilot-wave theory. The time evolution of a particle distribution initially not equal to the absolute square of the wave function is calculated for a particle in a two-dimensional infinite potential square well. Under the de Broglie-Bohm ontology, the box contains an objectively-existing 'pilot wave' which guides the electron trajectory, and this is represented mathematically by a Schroedinger wave function composed of a finite out-of-phase superposition of M energy eigenstates (with M ranging from 4 to 64). The electron density distributions are found to evolve naturally into the Born-rule ones and stay there; in analogy with the classical case this represents a decay to 'quantum equilibrium'. The proximity to equilibrium is characterized by the coarse-grained subquantum H-function which is found to decrease roughly exponentially towards zero over the course of time. The timescale tau for this relaxation is calculated for various values of M and the coarse-graining length epsilon. Its dependence on M is found to disagree with an earlier theoretical prediction. A power law - tau inversely proportional to M - is found to be fairly robust for all coarse-graining lengths and, although a weak dependence of tau on epsilon is observed, it does not appear to follow any straightforward scaling. A theoretical analysis is presented to explain these results. This improvement in our understanding of timescales for relaxation to quantum equilibrium is likely to be of use in the development of models of relaxation in the early universe, with a view to constraining possible violations of the Born rule in inflationary cosmology.

id: 1103.1607
title: Quantum Measurement and the Aharonov-Bohm Effect with Superposed Magnetic Fluxes
authors: Ka?a Bradonji?, John D. Swain
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures; Changes from version 3: corrected typo (not present in versions 1 and 2) in Eq. 8; Changes from version 2: shortened abstract; added refs and material in Section IV. The final publication is available at: this http URL
journal: Quantum Information Processing. October 2013. pp. 1-9
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1607
abstract: We consider the magnetic flux in a quantum mechanical superposition of two values and find that the Aharonov-Bohm effect interference pattern contains information about the nature of the superposition, allowing information about the state of the flux to be extracted without disturbance. The information is obtained without transfer of energy or momentum and by accumulated nonlocal interactions of the vector potential $\vec{A}$ with many charged particles forming the interference pattern, rather than with a single particle. We suggest an experimental test using already experimentally realized superposed currents in a superconducting ring and discuss broader implications.

id: 1103.1609
title: QED Model of Resonance Phenomena in Quasionedimensional Multichain Qubit Systems with Axial Symmetry
authors: Alla Dovlatova, Dmitry Yearchuck
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1609
abstract: The analytical solution of the task of the interaction of quantized EM-field with multichain quasionedimensional axially symmetric qubit system by taking into account both the intrachain and interchain qubit coupling has been obtained for the first time. The appearance of additional lines in optical spectra of quasionedimensional systems strongly interacting with EM-field is predicted. They are result of nonstationary registration conditions, to be consequence of Rabi wave packet formation and correspond to Fourier transformation of revival part of Rabi wave packets in temporal dependence of the integral inversion. It is argued the applicability of Su-Schrieffer-Heeger-model of organic conductors for perfect quasionedimensional carbon zigzag shaped nanotubes to be consequence of 2D-1D transition with diameter decrease.

id: 1103.1633
title: Evaluation of Doppler Shifts to Improve the Accuracy of Primary Atomic Fountain Clocks
authors: Jocelyne Gu¨¦na, Ruoxin Li, Kurt Gibble, S¨¦bastien Bize, Andr¨¦ Clairon
comments: To appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 130801 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1633
abstract: We demonstrate agreement between measurements and ab initio calculations of the frequency shifts caused by distributed cavity phase variations in the microwave cavity of a primary atomic fountain clock. Experimental verification of the finite element models of the cavities gives the first quantitative evaluation of this leading uncertainty and allows it to be reduced to delta nu / nu = 8.4\times10^-17. Applying these experimental techniques to clocks with improved microwave cavities will yield negligible distributed cavity phase uncertainties, less than \pm1\times10^-17.

id: 1103.1643
title: Nonclassical properties of coherent states and excited coherent states for continuous spectra
authors: G.R. Honarasa, M.K. Tavassoly, M. Hatami, R. Roknizadeh
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 085303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1643
abstract: Based on the definition of coherent states for continuous spectra and analogous to photon added coherent states for discrete spectra, we introduce the excited coherent states for continuous spectra. It is shown that, the main axioms of Gazeau-Klauder coherent states will be satisfied, properly. Nonclassical properties and quantum statistics of coherent states, as well as the introduced excited coherent states are discussed. In particular, through the study of quadrature squeezing and amplitude squared squeezing, it will be observed that both classes of the above states can be classified in the intelligent states category.

id: 1103.1722
title: Heterodyne non-demolition measurements on cold atomic samples: towards the preparation of non-classical states for atom interferometry
authors: Simon Bernon, Thomas Vanderbruggen, Ralf Kohlhaas, Andrea Bertoldi, Arnaud Landragin, Philippe Bouyer
comments: 23 pages
journal: New Journal of Physics 13, 065021 (2011) 24 pages,
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1722
abstract: We report on a novel experiment to generate non-classical atomic states via quantum non-demolition (QND) measurements on cold atomic samples prepared in a high finesse ring cavity. The heterodyne technique developed for the QND detection exhibits an optical shot-noise limited behavior for local oscillator optical power of a few hundred \muW, and a detection bandwidth of several GHz. This detection tool is used in single pass to follow non destructively the internal state evolution of an atomic sample when subjected to Rabi oscillations or a spin-echo interferometric sequence.

id: 1103.1734
title: Continuous-variable multipartite unlockable bound entangled Gaussian states
authors: Jing Zhang
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052327 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1734
abstract: Continuous-variable (CV) multipartite unlockable bound-entangled states is investigated in this paper. Comparing with the qubit multipartite unlockable bound-entangled states, CV multipartite unlockable bound-entangled states present the new and different properties. CV multipartite unlockable bound-entangled states may serve as a useful quantum resource for new multiparty communication schemes. The experimental protocol for generating CV unlockable bound-entangled states is proposed with a setup that is at present accessible.

id: 1103.1737
title: A semiclassical analysis of the Efimov energy spectrum in the unitary limit
authors: Rajat K. Bhaduri, Matthias Brack, M. V. N. Murthy
comments: LaTeX (revtex 4), 18pp., 4 Figs., already published in Phys. Rev. A but here a note with a new referece is added on p. 14
journal: Phys. Ref. A 83, 063612 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1737
abstract: We demonstrate that the (s-wave) geometric spectrum of the Efimov energy levels in the unitary limit is generated by the radial motion of a primitive periodic orbit (and its harmonics) of the corresponding classical system. The action of the primitive orbit depends logarithmically on the energy. It is shown to be consistent with an inverse-squared radial potential with a lower cut-off radius. The lowest-order WKB quantization, including the Langer correction, is shown to reproduce the geometric scaling of the energy spectrum. The (WKB) mean-squared radii of the Efimov states scale geometrically like the inverse of their energies. The WKB wavefunctions, regularized near the classical turning point by Langer's generalized connection formula, are practically indistinguishable from the exact wave functions even for the lowest ($n=0$) state, apart from a tiny shift of its zeros that remains constant for large $n$.

id: 1103.1753
title: Photoelectron ionization spectra in a system interacting with a neighbor atom
authors: Jan Perina Jr, Antonin Luks, Wieslaw Leonski, Vlasta Perinova
comments: 10 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 053416 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1753
abstract: Photoelectron ionization spectra of a system interacting with a neighbor two-level atom are investigated using the Laplace-transform method. These spectra are typically composed of several peaks. Photoelectron ionization spectra conditioned by the measurement on the two-level atom show oscillations at the Rabi frequency. The presence of spectral zeros occurring periodically with the Rabi period is predicted. This phenomenon is analyzed in detail.

id: 1103.1782
title: The Single-Photon Router
authors: Io-Chun Hoi, C.M. Wilson, G?ran Johansson, Tauno Palomaki, Borja Peropadre, Per Delsing
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 073601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1782
abstract: We have embedded an artificial atom, a superconducting "transmon" qubit, in an open transmission line and investigated the strong scattering of incident microwave photons ($\sim6$ GHz). When an input coherent state, with an average photon number $N\ll1$ is on resonance with the artificial atom, we observe extinction of up to 90% in the forward propagating field. We use two-tone spectroscopy to study scattering from excited states and we observe electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). We then use EIT to make a single-photon router, where we can control to what output port an incoming signal is delivered. The maximum on-off ratio is around 90% with a rise and fall time on the order of nanoseconds, consistent with theoretical expectations. The router can easily be extended to have multiple output ports and it can be viewed as a rudimentary quantum node, an important step towards building quantum information networks.

id: 1103.1817
title: Strong Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen entanglement from a single squeezed light source
authors: Tobias Eberle, Vitus H?ndchen, J?rg Duhme, Torsten Franz, Reinhard F. Werner, Roman Schnabel
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052329 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1817
abstract: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) entanglement is a criterion that is more demanding than just certifying entanglement. We theoretically and experimentally analyze the low resource generation of bi-partite continuous variable entanglement, as realized by mixing a squeezed mode with a vacuum mode at a balanced beam splitter, i.e. the generation of so-called vacuum-class entanglement. We find that in order to observe EPR entanglement the total optical loss must be smaller than 33.3 %. However, arbitrary strong EPR entanglement is generally possible with this scheme. We realize continuous wave squeezed light at 1550 nm with up to 9.9 dB of non-classical noise reduction, which is the highest value at a telecom wavelength so far. Using two phase controlled balanced homodyne detectors we observe an EPR co-variance product of 0.502 \pm 0.006 < 1, where 1 is the critical value. We discuss the feasibility of strong Gaussian entanglement and its application for quantum key distribution in a short-distance fiber network.

id: 1103.1820
title: Coupling ultracold atoms to mechanical oscillators
authors: David Hunger, Stephan Camerer, Maria Korppi, Andreas J?ckel, Theodor W. H?nsch, Philipp Treutlein
comments: 19 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1820
abstract: In this article we discuss and compare different ways to engineer an interface between ultracold atoms and micro- and nanomechanical oscillators. We start by analyzing a direct mechanical coupling of a single atom or ion to a mechanical oscillator and show that the very different masses of the two systems place a limit on the achievable coupling constant in this scheme. We then discuss several promising strategies for enhancing the coupling: collective enhancement by using a large number of atoms in an optical lattice in free space, coupling schemes based on high-finesse optical cavities, and coupling to atomic internal states. Throughout the manuscript we discuss both theoretical proposals and first experimental implementations.

id: 1103.1840
title: Experimental investigation of dynamical invariants in bipartite entanglement
authors: O. Jim¨¦nez Far¨ªas, A. Vald¨¦s Hern¨¢ndez, G. H. Aguilar, P. H. Souto Ribeiro, S. P. Walborn, L. Davidovich, Xiao-Feng Qian, J. H. Eberly
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1840
abstract: The non-conservation of entanglement, when two or more particles interact, sets it apart from other dynamical quantities like energy and momentum. It does not allow the interpretation of the subtle dynamics of entanglement as a flow of this quantity between the constituents of the system. Here we show that adding a third party to a two-particle system may lead to a conservation law that relates the quantities characterizing the bipartite entanglement between each of the parties and the other two. We provide an experimental demonstration of this idea using entangled photons, and generalize it to N-partite GHZ states.

id: 1103.1852
title: A unitary quantum lattice gas algorithm for two dimensional quantum turbulence
authors: Bo Zhang, George Vahala, Linda Vahala, Min Soe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1852
abstract: Quantum vortex structures and energy cascades are examined for two dimensional quantum turbulence (2D QT) at zero temperature. A special unitary evolution algorithm, the quantum lattice gas (QLG) algorithm, is employed to simulate the Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) governed by the Gross-Pitaevskii (GP) equation. A parameter regime is uncovered in which, as in 3D QT, there is a short Poincar\'e recurrence time. It is demonstrated that such short recurrence times are destroyed as the nonlinear interaction is strengthened. The similar loss of Poincar\'e recurrence is also reported in 3D QT [1] Energy cascades for 2D QT are considered to examine whether 2D QT exhibits inverse cascades as in 2D classical turbulence. In the parameter regime considered, the spectra analysis reveals no such dual cascades-dual cascades being a hallmark of 2D classical turbulence.

id: 1103.1862
title: Scaling Behavior of Quantum Nanosystems: Emergence of Quasi-particles, Collective Modes, and Mixed Exchange Symmetry States
authors: Zeina Shreif, Peter Ortoleva
comments: Copyright 2011 American Institute of Physics. This article may be downloaded for personal use only. Any other use requires prior permission of the author and the American Institute of Physics; Keywords: Quantum nanosystems, coarse-grained wave equation, mean field theory, multiscale analysis
journal: Journal of Chemical Physics, 2011. 134, 104106
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1862
abstract: Quantum nanosystems such as graphene nanoribbons or superconducting nanoparticles are studied via a multiscale approach. Long space-time dynamics is derived using a perturbation expansion in the ratio of the nearest-neighbor distance to a nanometer-scale characteristic length, and a theorem on the equivalence of long-time averages and expectation values. This dynamics is shown to satisfy a coarse-grained wave equation (CGWE) which takes a Schr\"odinger-like form with modified masses and interactions. The scaling of space and time is determined by the orders of magnitude of various contributions to the N-body potential. If the spatial scale of the coarse-graining is too large, the CGWE would imply an unbounded growth of gradients; if it is too short, the system's size would display uncontrolled growth inappropriate for the bound states of interest, i.e., collective motion or migration within a stable nano-assembly. The balance of these two extremes removes arbitrariness in the choice of the scaling of space-time. Since the long-scale dynamics of each fermion involves its interaction with many others, we hypothesize that the solutions of the CGWE have mean-field character to good approximation, i.e., can be factorized into single-particle functions. This leads to a Coarse-grained Mean-field (CGMF) approximation that is distinct in character from traditional Hartree-Fock theory. A variational principle is used to derive equations for the single-particle functions. This theme is developed and used to derive an equation for low-lying disturbances from the ground state corresponding to long wavelength density disturbances or long-scale migration. An algorithm for the efficient simulation of quantum nanosystems is suggested.

id: 1103.1868
title: Atom Counting in Expanding Ultracold Clouds
authors: Sibylle Braungardt, Mirta Rodr¨ªguez, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84 043635 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1868
abstract: We study the counting statistics of ultracold bosonic atoms that are released from an optical lattice. We show that the counting probability distribution of the atoms collected at a detector located far away from the optical lattice can be used as a method to infer the properties of the initially trapped states. We consider initial superfluid and insulating states with different occupation patterns. We analyze how the correlations between the initially trapped modes that develop during the expansion in the gravitational field are reflected in the counting distribution. We find that for detectors that are large compared to the size of the expanded wave function, the long-range correlations of the initial states can be distinguished by observing the counting statistics. We consider counting at one detector, as well as the joint probability distribution of counting particles at two detectors. We show that using detectors that are small compared to the size of the expanded wave function, insulating states with different occupation patterns, as well as supersolid states with different density distributions can be distinguished.

id: 1103.1872
title: A New Phase Time Formula for Opaque Barrier Tunneling
authors: Stefano De Leo, Vinicius Leonardi
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Journal of Physics A: Math. Theor. 44, 085305-9 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1872
abstract: After a brief review of the derivation of the standard phase time formula, based on the use of the stationary phase method, we propose, in the opaque limit, an alternative method to calculate the phase time. The new formula for the phase time is in excellent agreement with the numerical simulations and shows that for wave packets whose upper limit of the momentum distribution is very close to the barrier height, the transit time is proportional to the barrier width.

id: 1103.1879
title: Disproof of Bell's Theorem
authors: Joy Christian
comments: 1 page; Forthcoming in a FQXi sponsored book on Bell's Theorem and Quantum Entanglement (2011)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1879
abstract: We illustrate an explicit counterexample to Bell's theorem by constructing a pair of dichotomic variables that exactly reproduce the EPR-Bohm correlations in a manifestly local-realistic manner.

id: 1103.1885
title: Feasibility of self-correcting quantum memory and thermal stability of topological order
authors: Beni Yoshida
comments: 72 pages, 37 figures; final version, added discussion on topological order, Annals of Physics
journal: Annals of Physics 326, (2011) 2566-2633
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1885
abstract: Recently, it has become apparent that the thermal stability of topologically ordered systems at finite temperature, as discussed in condensed matter physics, can be studied by addressing the feasibility of self-correcting quantum memory, as discussed in quantum information science. Here, with this correspondence in mind, we propose a model of quantum codes that may cover a large class of physically realizable quantum memory. The model is supported by a certain class of gapped spin Hamiltonians, called stabilizer Hamiltonians, with translation symmetries and a small number of ground states that does not grow with the system size. We show that the model does not work as self-correcting quantum memory due to a certain topological constraint on geometric shapes of its logical operators. This quantum coding theoretical result implies that systems covered or approximated by the model cannot have thermally stable topological order, meaning that no system can be stable against both thermal fluctuations and local perturbations simultaneously in two and three spatial dimensions.

id: 1103.1904
title: Adiabatic quantum optimization with qudits
authors: M. H. S. Amin, Neil G. Dickson, Peter Smith
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1904
abstract: Most realistic solid state devices considered as qubits are not true two-state systems but multi-level systems. They can approximately be considered as qubits only if the energy separation of the upper energy levels from the lowest two is very large. If this condition is not met, the upper states may affect the evolution and therefore cannot be neglected. Here, we consider devices with double-well potential as basic logical elements, and study the effect of higher energy levels, beyond the lowest two, on adiabatic quantum optimization. We show that the extra levels can be modeled by adding additional (ancilla) qubits coupled to the original (logical) qubits. The presence of these levels is shown to have no effect on the final ground state. We also study their influence on the minimum gap for a set of 8-qubit spin glass instances.

id: 1103.1907
title: Sequential measurement-based quantum computing with memories
authors: Augusto J. Roncaglia, Leandro Aolita, Alessandro Ferraro, Antonio Acin
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062332 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1907
abstract: We introduce a general scheme for sequential one-way quantum computation where static systems with long-living quantum coherence (memories) interact with moving systems that may possess very short coherence times. Both the generation of the cluster state needed for the computation and its consumption by measurements are carried out simultaneously. As a consequence, effective clusters of one spatial dimension fewer than in the standard approach are sufficient for computation. In particular, universal computation requires only a one-dimensional array of memories. The scheme applies to discrete-variable systems of any dimension as well as to continuous-variable ones, and both are treated equivalently under the light of local complementation of graphs. In this way our formalism introduces a general framework that encompasses and generalizes in a unified manner some previous system-dependent proposals. The procedure is intrinsically well-suited for implementations with atom-photon interfaces.

id: 1103.1969
title: Coherent cavity networks with complete connectivity
authors: Elica S. Kyoseva, Almut Beige, Leong Chuan Kwek
comments: revised version, improved analysis, 4 pages and 4 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 14, 023023 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1969
abstract: When cavity photons couple to an optical fiber with a continuum of modes, they usually leak out within a finite amount of time. However, if the fiber is about one meter long and linked to a mirror, photons bounce back and forth within the fiber on a much faster time scale. As a result, {\em dynamical decoupling} prevents the cavity photons from entering the fiber. In this paper we use the simultaneous dynamical decoupling of a large number of distant cavities from the fiber modes of linear optics networks to mediate effective cavity-cavity interactions in a huge variety of configurations. Coherent cavity networks with complete connectivity can be created with potential applications in quantum computing and simulation of the complex interaction Hamiltonians of biological systems.

id: 1103.1972
title: Informational power of quantum measurements
authors: Michele Dall'Arno, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Massimiliano F. Sacchi
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, added references, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062304 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1972
abstract: We introduce the informational power of a quantum measurement as the maximum amount of classical information that the measurement can extract from any ensemble of quantum states. We prove the additivity by showing that the informational power corresponds to the classical capacity of a quantum-classical channel. We restate the problem of evaluating the informational power as the maximization of the accessible information of a suitable ensemble. We provide a numerical algorithm to find an optimal ensemble, and quantify the informational power.

id: 1103.2032
title: Raman-assisted Rabi resonances in two-mode cavity QED
authors: P. Gr¨¹nwald, S. K. Singh, W. Vogel
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A Vol. 83, 063806 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2032
abstract: The dynamics of a vibronic system in a lossy two-mode cavity is studied, with the first mode being resonant to the electronic transition and the second one being nearly resonant due to Raman transitions. We derive analytical solutions for the dynamics of this system. For a properly chosen detuning of the second mode from the exact Raman resonance, we obtain conditions that are closely related to the phenomenon of Rabi resonance as it is well known in laser physics. Such resonances can be observed in the spontaneous emission spectra, where the spectrum of the second mode in the case of weak Raman coupling is enhanced substantially.

id: 1103.2131
title: Light storage in an optically thick atomic ensemble under conditions of electromagnetically induced transparency and four-wave mixing
authors: Nathaniel B. Phillips, Alexey V. Gorshkov, Irina Novikova
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 063823 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2131
abstract: We study the modification of a traditional electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) stored light technique that includes both EIT and four-wave mixing (FWM) in an ensemble of hot Rb atoms. The standard treatment of light storage involves the coherent and reversible mapping of one photonic mode onto a collective spin coherence. It has been shown that unwanted, competing processes such as four-wave mixing are enhanced by EIT and can significantly modify the signal optical pulse propagation. We present theoretical and experimental evidence to indicate that while a Stokes field is indeed detected upon retrieval of the signal field, any information originally encoded in a seeded Stokes field is not independently preserved during the storage process. We present a simple model that describes the propagation dynamics of the fields and the impact of FWM on the spin wave.

id: 1103.2144
title: Sideband Cooling Micromechanical Motion to the Quantum Ground State
authors: J. D. Teufel, T. Donner, Dale Li, J. H. Harlow, M. S. Allman, K. Cicak, A. J. Sirois, J. D. Whittaker, K. W. Lehnert, R. W. Simmonds
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: Nature 475, 359-363 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2144
abstract: The advent of laser cooling techniques revolutionized the study of many atomic-scale systems. This has fueled progress towards quantum computers by preparing trapped ions in their motional ground state, and generating new states of matter by achieving Bose-Einstein condensation of atomic vapors. Analogous cooling techniques provide a general and flexible method for preparing macroscopic objects in their motional ground state, bringing the powerful technology of micromechanics into the quantum regime. Cavity opto- or electro-mechanical systems achieve sideband cooling through the strong interaction between light and motion. However, entering the quantum regime, less than a single quantum of motion, has been elusive because sideband cooling has not sufficiently overwhelmed the coupling of mechanical systems to their hot environments. Here, we demonstrate sideband cooling of the motion of a micromechanical oscillator to the quantum ground state. Entering the quantum regime requires a large electromechanical interaction, which is achieved by embedding a micromechanical membrane into a superconducting microwave resonant circuit. In order to verify the cooling of the membrane motion into the quantum regime, we perform a near quantum-limited measurement of the microwave field, resolving this motion a factor of 5.1 from the Heisenberg limit. Furthermore, our device exhibits strong-coupling allowing coherent exchange of microwave photons and mechanical phonons. Simultaneously achieving strong coupling, ground state preparation and efficient measurement sets the stage for rapid advances in the control and detection of non-classical states of motion, possibly even testing quantum theory itself in the unexplored region of larger size and mass.

id: 1103.2178
title: Experimental magic state distillation for fault-tolerant quantum computing
authors: Alexandre M. Souza, Jingfu Zhang, Colm A. Ryan, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications, 2, 169 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2178
abstract: Any physical quantum device for quantum information processing is subject to errors in implementation. In order to be reliable and efficient, quantum computers will need error correcting or error avoiding methods. Fault-tolerance achieved through quantum error correction will be an integral part of quantum computers. Of the many methods that have been discovered to implement it, a highly successful approach has been to use transversal gates and specific initial states. A critical element for its implementation is the availability of high-fidelity initial states such as |0> and the Magic State. Here we report an experiment, performed in a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum processor, showing sufficient quantum control to improve the fidelity of imperfect initial magic states by distilling five of them into one with higher fidelity.

id: 1103.2195
title: An optical fusion gate for W-states
authors: Sahin Kaya Ozdemir, Eiji Matsunaga, Toshiyuki Tashima, Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 13 Pages, 5 Figures, 38 References
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2195
abstract: We introduce a simple optical gate to fuse arbitrary size polarization entangled W-states to prepare larger W-states. The gate requires a polarizing beam splitter (PBS), a half wave plate (HWP) and two photon detectors. We study numerically and analytically the necessary resource consumption for preparing larger W-states by fusing smaller ones with the proposed fusion gate. We show analytically that resource requirement scales at most sub-exponentially with the increasing size of the state to be prepared. We numerically determine the resource cost for fusion without recycling where W-states of arbitrary size can be optimally prepared. Moreover, we introduce another strategy which is based on recycling and outperforms the optimal strategy for non-recycling case.

id: 1103.2201
title: A New Paradigm for Quantum Nonlocality
authors: Yang D. Li
comments: submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2201
abstract: Bell's theorem basically states that local hidden variable theory cannot predict the correlations produced by quantum mechanics. It is based on the assumption that Alice and Bob can choose measurements from a measurement set containing multiple elements. We establish a new paradigm that departs from Bell's paradigm by assuming that there are no choices for Alice and Bob and that the measurements Alice and Bob will make are fixed from the start. We include a process of quantum computation in our model. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to connect quantum computation and nonlocality, the two faces of entanglement.

id: 1103.2253
title: A single ion as a shot noise limited magnetic field gradient probe
authors: Andreas Walther, Ulrich Poschinger, Frank Ziesel, Max Hettrich, Alex Wiens, Jens Welzel, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 83, 062329 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2253
abstract: It is expected that ion trap quantum computing can be made scalable through protocols that make use of transport of ion qubits between sub-regions within the ion trap. In this scenario, any magnetic field inhomogeneity the ion experiences during the transport, may lead to dephasing and loss of fidelity. Here we demonstrate how to measure, and compensate for, magnetic field gradients inside a segmented ion trap, by transporting a single ion over variable distances. We attain a relative magnetic field sensitivity of \Delta B/B_0 ~ 5*10^{-7} over a test distance of 140 \micro m, which can be extended to the mm range, still with sub \micro m resolution. A fast experimental sequence is presented, facilitating its use as a magnetic field gradient calibration routine, and it is demonstrated that the main limitation is the quantum shot noise.

id: 1103.2270
title: Visibility bound caused by a distinguishable noise particle
authors: Miroslav Gavenda, Lucie Celechovska, Jan Soubusta, Miloslav Dusek, Radim Filip
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, Accepted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042320 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2270
abstract: We investigate how distinguishability of a "noise" particle degrades interference of the "signal" particle. The signal, represented by an equatorial state of a photonic qubit, is mixed with noise, represented by another photonic qubit, via linear coupling on the beam splitter. We report on the degradation of the "signal" photon interference depending on the degree of indistinguishability between "signal" and "noise" photon. When the photons are principally completely distinguishable but technically indistinguishable the visibility drops to the value 1/sqrt(2). As the photons become more indistinguishable the maximal visibility increases and reaches the unit value for completely indistinguishable photons. We have examined this effect experimentally using setup with fiber optics two-photon Mach-Zehnder interferometer.

id: 1103.2272
title: The Impact of Giulio Racah on Crystal- and Ligand-field Theories
authors: Maurice Robert Kibler
comments: 
journal: International Conference in Commemoration of the Centenary of the Birth of G. Racah (1909-1965) - Zaragoza, Spain, 22-24 February 2010, Zaragoza : Spain (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2272
abstract: This paper focuses on the impact of Racah on crystal- and ligand-field theories, two branches of molecular physics and condensed matter physics (dealing with ions embedded in aggregates of finite symmetry). The role of Racah and some of his students in developing a symmetry-adapted weak-field model for crystal-field theory is examined. Then, we discuss the extension of this model to a generalized symmetry-adapted weak-field model for ligand-field theory. Symmetry considerations via the use of the Wigner-Racah algebra for chains of type SU(2) > G is essential for these weak-field models. Therefore, the basic ingredients for the Wigner-Racah algebra of a finite or compact group are reviewed with a special attention paid to the SU(2) group in a SU(2) > G basis. Finally, as an unexpected application of nonstandard SU(2) bases, it is shown how SU(2) bases adapted to the cyclic group allow to build bases of relevance in quantum information.

id: 1103.2283
title: Extended coherence time on the clock transition of optically trapped Rubidium
authors: G. Kleine B¨¹ning, J. Will, W. Ertmer, E. Rasel, J. Arlt, C. Klempt, F. Ramirez-Martinez, F. Pi¨¦chon, P. Rosenbusch
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 240801 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2283
abstract: Optically trapped ensembles are of crucial importance for frequency measurements and quantum memories, but generally suffer from strong dephasing due to inhomogeneous density and light shifts. We demonstrate a drastic increase of the coherence time to 21 s on the magnetic field insensitive clock transition of Rb-87 by applying the recently discovered spin self-rephasing. This result confirms the general nature of this new mechanism and thus shows its applicability in atom clocks and quantum memories. A systematic investigation of all relevant frequency shifts and noise contributions yields a stability of 2.4E-11 x tau^(-1/2), where tau is the integration time in seconds. Based on a set of technical improvements, the presented frequency standard is predicted to rival the stability of microwave fountain clocks in a potentially much more compact setup.

id: 1103.2286
title: Variational matrix product ansatz for dispersion relations
authors: Jutho Haegeman, Bogdan Pirvu, David J. Weir, J. Ignacio Cirac, Tobias J. Osborne, Henri Verschelde, Frank Verstraete
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 100408(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2286
abstract: A variational ansatz for momentum eigenstates of translation invariant quantum spin chains is formulated. The matrix product state ansatz works directly in the thermodynamic limit and allows for an efficient implementation (cubic scaling in the bond dimension) of the variational principle. Unlike previous approaches, the ansatz includes topologically non-trivial states (kinks, domain walls) for systems with symmetry breaking. The method is benchmarked using the spin-1/2 XXZ antiferromagnet and the spin-1 Heisenberg antiferromagnet and we obtain surprisingly accurate results.

id: 1103.2304
title: NOON-state formation from Fock-state Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: H. Cable, F. Lalo?, W. J. Mullin
comments: 18 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 053626 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2304
abstract: NOON states (states of the form $|N>_{a}|0>_{b}+|0>_{a}|N>_{b}$ where $a$ and $b$ are single particle states) have been used for predicting violations of local realism (Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger violations) and are valuable in metrology for precision measurements of phase at the Heisenberg limit. We show theoretically how the use of two Fock state Bose-Einstein condensates as sources in a modified Mach-Zehnder interferometer can lead to the creation of the NOON state in which $a$ and $b$ refer to arms of the interferometer and $N$ is a subset of the total number of particles in the two condensates. The modification of the interferometer involves making {}"side" measurements of a few particles near the sources. These measurements put the remaining particles in a superposition of two phase states, which are converted into NOON states by a beam splitter if the phase states are orthogonal. When they are not orthogonal, a {}"feedforward" correction circuit is shown to convert them into proper form so a NOON results. We apply the NOON to the measurement of phase. Here the NOON experiment is equivalent to one in which a large molecule passes through two slits. The NOON components can be recombined in a final beam splitter to show interference.

id: 1103.2316
title: Entropic uncertainty relations and the stabilizer formalism
authors: S?nke Niekamp, Matthias Kleinmann, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures; published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 012202 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2316
abstract: Entropic uncertainty relations express the quantum mechanical uncertainty principle by quantifying uncertainty in terms of entropy. Central questions include the derivation of lower bounds on the total uncertainty for given observables, the characterization of observables that allow strong uncertainty relations, and the construction of such relations for the case of several observables. We demonstrate how the stabilizer formalism can be applied to these questions. We show that the Maassen-Uffink entropic uncertainty relation is tight for the measurement in any pair of stabilizer bases. We compare the relative strengths of variance-based and various entropic uncertainty relations for dichotomic anticommuting observables.

id: 1103.2327
title: Device calibration impacts security of quantum key distribution
authors: Nitin Jain, Christoffer Wittmann, Lars Lydersen, Carlos Wiechers, Dominique Elser, Christoph Marquardt, Vadim Makarov, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 4 pages + 1 page of supplementary information. Considerable modification of Eve's attack strategy and QBER minimization technique. All figures have also been improved
journal: Physical Review Letters 107, 110501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2327
abstract: Characterizing the physical channel and calibrating the cryptosystem hardware are prerequisites for establishing a quantum channel for quantum key distribution (QKD). Moreover, an inappropriately implemented calibration routine can open a fatal security loophole. We propose and experimentally demonstrate a method to induce a large temporal detector efficiency mismatch in a commercial QKD system by deceiving a channel length calibration routine. We then devise an optimal and realistic strategy using faked states to break the security of the cryptosystem. A fix for this loophole is also suggested.

id: 1103.2339
title: Coherent adiabatic transport of atoms in radio-frequency traps
authors: T. Morgan, B. O'Sullivan, Th. Busch
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 053620 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2339
abstract: Coherent transport by adiabatic passage has recently been suggested as a high-fidelity technique to engineer the centre-of-mass state of single atoms in inhomogenous environments. While the basic theory behind this process is well understood, several conceptual challenges for its experimental observation have still to be addressed. One of these is the difficulty that currently available optical or magnetic micro-trap systems have in adjusting the tunneling rate time-dependently while keeping resonance between the asymptotic trapping states at all times. Here we suggest that both requirements can be fulfilled to a very high degree in an experimentally realistic setup based on radio frequency traps on atom chips. We show that operations with close to 100% fidelity can be achieved and that these systems also allow significant improvements for performing adiabatic passage with interacting atomic clouds.

id: 1103.2343
title: Time evolution of projected entangled pair states in the single layer picture
authors: Iztok Pizorn, Ling Wang, Frank Verstraete
comments: 7 pages, 5 pdf figures, revtex4-1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052321 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2343
abstract: We propose an efficient algorithm for simulating quantum many-body systems in two spatial dimensions using projected entangled pair states. This is done by approximating the environment, arising in the context of updating tensors in the process of time evolution, using a single-layered tensor network structure. This significantly reduces the computational costs and allows simulations in a larger submanifold of the Hilbert space as bounded by the bond dimension of the tensor network. We present numerical evidence for stability of the method on an antiferromagnetic isotropic Heisenberg model where good agreement is found with the available accurate results.

id: 1103.2365
title: Optimal signal states for quantum detectors
authors: Ognyan Oreshkov, John Calsamiglia, Ramon Munoz-Tapia, Emili Bagan
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure, example section extended
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 073032 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2365
abstract: Quantum detectors provide information about quantum systems by establishing correlations between certain properties of those systems and a set of macroscopically distinct states of the corresponding measurement devices. A natural question of fundamental significance is how much information a quantum detector can extract from the quantum system it is applied to. In the present paper we address this question within a precise framework: given a quantum detector implementing a specific generalized quantum measurement, what is the optimal performance achievable with it for a concrete information readout task, and what is the optimal way to encode information in the quantum system in order to achieve this performance? We consider some of the most common information transmission tasks - the Bayes cost problem (of which minimal error discrimination is a special case), unambiguous message discrimination, and the maximal mutual information. We provide general solutions to the Bayesian and unambiguous discrimination problems. We also show that the maximal mutual information has an interpretation of a capacity of the measurement, and derive various properties that it satisfies, including its relation to the accessible information of an ensemble of states, and its form in the case of a group-covariant measurement. We illustrate our results with the example of a noisy two-level symmetric informationally complete measurement, for whose capacity we give analytical proofs of optimality. The framework presented here provides a natural way to characterize generalized quantum measurements in terms of their information readout capabilities.

id: 1103.2368
title: Proposal for entangling remote micromechanical oscillators via optical measurements
authors: K. Borkje, A. Nunnenkamp, S. M. Girvin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures + supplementary material (7 pages, 2 figs). Updates in v2: New Eq. (7) and Fig. 1 - results unchanged. Added supplementary material with various details. Updates in v3: Minor changes, journal ref. added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 123601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2368
abstract: We propose an experiment to create and verify entanglement between remote mechanical objects by use of an optomechanical interferometer. Two optical cavities, each coupled to a separate mechanical oscillator, are coherently driven such that the oscillators are laser cooled to the quantum regime. The entanglement is induced by optical measurement and comes about by combining the output from the two cavities to erase which-path information. It can be verified through measurements of degrees of second-order coherence of the optical output field. The experiment is feasible in the regime of weak optomechanical coupling. Realistic parameters for the membrane-in-the-middle geometry suggest entangled state lifetimes on the order of milliseconds.

id: 1103.2395
title: Dipolar Bose-Einstein condensate of Stationary-Light Dark-state Polaritons
authors: Frank E. Zimmer, Gor Nikoghosyan, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2395
abstract: We put forward and discuss in detail a scheme to achieve Bose-Einstein condensation of stationary-light dark-state polaritons with dipolar interaction. To this end we have introduced a diamond-like coupling scheme in a vapor of Rydberg atoms under the frozen gas approximation. To determine the system's dynamics we employ normal modes and identify the dark-state polariton corresponding to one of the modes. We show that in contrast to atomic dipolar ultra-cold vapors dark-state polariton Bose-Einstein condensates proposed here can be stable for a negative dipolar interaction constant.

id: 1103.2399
title: Some ambiguities with point split regularization and its impact on a proof of the spatial quantum inequality
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2399
abstract: In classical physics the energy density of a field is always positive. However this does not hold true for quantum physics where the energy density of a field can be locally negative. There are limits on the weighted average of this negative energy density called the quantum inequalities. Recently this author has provided a number of examples which show that the quantum inequalities are not valid. In this paper we will examine a previously published proof of the spatial quantum inequality for a zero mass scalar field in 1-1 dimensional space-time. It will be shown that there is a possible problem with this proof due to an ambiguity associated with point split regularization and the definition of the Hadamard form for the two point function.

id: 1103.2400
title: Onset of a Quantum Phase Transition with a Trapped Ion Quantum Simulator
authors: R. Islam, E. E. Edwards, K. Kim, S. Korenblit, C. Noh, H. Carmichael, G.-D.Lin, L.-M. Duan, C.-C. Joseph Wang, J. K. Freericks, C. Monroe
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Commun. 2, 377 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2400
abstract: A quantum simulator is a well controlled quantum system that can simulate the behavior of another quantum system which may require exponentially large classical computing resources to understand otherwise. In the 1980s, Feynman proposed the use of quantum logic gates on a standard controllable quantum system to efficiently simulate the behavior of a model Hamiltonian. Recent experiments using trapped ions and neutral atoms have realized quantum simulation of Ising model in presence of external magnetic fields, and showed almost arbitrary control in generating non-trivial Ising coupling patterns. Here we use laser-cooled trapped 171-Yb+ ions to simulate the emergence of magnetism in a system of interacting spins by implementing a fully-connected non-uniform ferromagnetic Ising model in a transverse magnetic field. To link this quantum simulation to condensed matter physics, we measure scalable correlation functions and order parameters appropriate for the description of larger systems, such as various moments of the magnetization. By increasing the Ising coupling strengths compared with the external field, the crossover from paramagnetism to ferromagnetic order sharpens as the system is scaled up from N = 2 to 9 trapped ion spins. This points toward the onset of a quantum phase transition that should become infinitely sharp as the system approaches the macroscopic scale. We compare the measured ground state order to theory, which may become intractable for non-uniform Ising couplings as the number of spins grows beyond 20- 30 and even NP complete for a fully-connected frustrated Ising model, making this experiment an important benchmark for large-scale quantum simulation.

id: 1103.2435
title: Non-Abelian quantum holonomy of hydrogen-like atoms
authors: Vahid Azimi Mousolou, Carlo M. Canali, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: Shortened version; journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032111 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2435
abstract: We study the Uhlmann holonomy [Rep. Math. Phys. 24, 229 (1986)] of quantum states for hydrogen-like atoms where the intrinsic spin and orbital angular momentum are coupled by the spin-orbit interaction and subject to a slowly varying magnetic field. We show that the holonomy for the orbital angular momentum and spin subsystems is non-Abelian, while the holonomy of the whole system is Abelian. Quantum entanglement in the states of the whole system is crucially related to the non-Abelian gauge structure of the subsystems. We analyze the phase of the Wilson loop variable associated with the Uhlmann holonomy, and find a relation between the phase of the whole system with corresponding marginal phases. Based on the result for the model system we provide evidence that the phase of the Wilson loop variable and the mixed-state geometric phase [E. Sj\"oqvist {\it et al.} Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 2845 (2000)] are in general inequivalent.

id: 1103.2460
title: On the Dirac equation with PT-symmetric potentials in the presence of position-dependent mass
authors: Luis B. Castro
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375 (2011) 2510
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2460
abstract: The relativistic problem of fermions subject to a PT-symmetric potential in the presence of position-dependent mass is reinvestigated. The influence of the PT-symmetric potential in the continuity equation and in the orthonormalization condition are analyzed. In addition, a misconception diffused in the literature on the interaction of neutral fermions is clarified.

id: 1103.2461
title: On the Integrability of the Rabi Model
authors: Daniel Braak
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, figure captions corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 100401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2461
abstract: The exact spectrum of the Rabi hamiltonian is analytically found for arbitrary coupling strength and detuning. I present a criterion for integrability of quantum systems containing discrete degrees of freedom which shows that in this case a finite symmetry group may entail integrability, even without the presence of conserved charges beyond the hamiltonian itself. Moreover, I introduce and solve a natural generalization of the Rabi model which has no symmetries and is therefore probably the smallest non-integrable physical system.

id: 1103.2492
title: Action Duality: A Constructive Principle for Quantum Foundations
authors: K.B. Wharton, D.J. Miller, Huw Price
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures
journal: Symmetry, v3, pp 524-540 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2492
abstract: An analysis of the path-integral approach to quantum theory motivates the hypothesis that two experiments with the same classical action should have dual ontological descriptions. If correct, this hypothesis would not only constrain realistic interpretations of quantum theory, but would also act as a constructive principle, allowing any realistic model of one experiment to generate a corresponding model for its action-dual. Two pairs of action-dual experiments are presented, including one experiment that violates the Bell inequality and yet is action-dual to a single particle. The implications generally support retrodictive and retrocausal interpretations.

id: 1103.2499
title: A note on the realignment criterion
authors: Chi-Kwong Li, Yiu-Tung Poon, Nung-Sing Sze
comments: 11 pages, to appear in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor., 44:315304, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2499
abstract: For a quantum state in a bipartite system represented as a density matrix, researchers used the realignment matrix and functions on its singular values to study the separability of the quantum state. We obtain bounds for elementary symmetric functions of singular values of realignment matrices. This answers some open problems proposed by Lupo, Aniello, and Scardicchio. As a consequence, we show that the proposed scheme by these authors for testing separability would not work if the two subsystems of the bipartite system have the same dimension.

id: 1103.2500
title: How much of quantum mechanics is really needed to defy Extended Church-Turing Thesis?
authors: Leonid Gurvits, Vwani Roychowdhury, Sudhir Kumar Singh, Farrokh Vatan
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2500
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the author as one of the coauthors needs institutional permission.

id: 1103.2526
title: Continuous Observations and the Wave Function Collapse
authors: A. Marchewka, Z. Schuss
comments: 12 pages and 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2526
abstract: We propose to modify the collapse axiom of quantum measurement theory by replacing the instantaneous with a continuous collapse of the wave function in finite time $\tau$. We apply it to coordinate measurement of a free quantum particle that is initially confined to a domain $D\subset\rR^d$ and is observed continuously by illuminating $\rR^d-D$. The continuous collapse axiom (CCA) defines the post-measurement wave function (PMWF)in $D$ after a negative measurement as the solution of Schr\"odinger's equation at time $\tau$ with instantaneously collapsed initial condition and homogeneous Dirichlet condition on the boundary of $D$. The CCA applies to all cases that exhibit the Zeno effect. It rids quantum mechanics of the unphysical artifacts caused by instantaneous collapse and introduces no new artifacts.

id: 1103.2532
title: Fast transport of Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: E. Torrontegui, Xi Chen, M. Modugno, S. Schmidt, A. Ruschhaupt, J. G. Muga
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics 14 (2012) 013031
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2532
abstract: We propose an inverse method to accelerate without final excitation the adiabatic transport of a Bose Einstein condensate. The method, applicable to arbitrary potential traps, is based on a partial extension of the Lewis-Riesenfeld invariants, and provides transport protocols that satisfy exactly the no-excitation conditions without constraints or approximations. This inverse method is complemented by optimizing the trap trajectory with respect to different physical criteria and by studying the effect of noise.

id: 1103.2557
title: Structural unification of space and time correlations in quantum theory
authors: Shmuel Marcovitch, Benni Reznik
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2557
abstract: We suggest a natural mapping between bipartite states and quantum evolutions of local states, which is a Jamiolkowski map. It is shown that spatial correlations of weak measurements in bipartite systems precisely coincide with temporal correlations of local systems. This mapping has several practical and conceptual implications on the correspondence between Bell and Leggett-Garg inequalities, the statistical properties of evolutions in large systems, temporal decoherence and computational gain, in evaluation of spatial correlations of large systems.

id: 1103.2587
title: Geometric Phase: a Diagnostic Tool for Entanglement
authors: S. N. Sandhya, Subhashish Banerjee
comments: 13 pages 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2587
abstract: Using a kinematic approach we show that the non-adiabatic, non-cyclic, geometric phase corresponding to the radiation emitted by a three level cascade system provides a sensitive diagnostic tool for determining the entanglement properties of the two modes of radiation. The nonunitary, noncyclic path in the state space may be realized through the same control parameters which control the purity/mixedness and entanglement. We show analytically that the geometric phase is related to concurrence in certain region of the parameter space. We further show that the rate of change of the geometric phase reveals its resilience to fluctuations only for pure Bell type states. Lastly, the derivative of the geometric phase carries information on both purity/mixedness and entanglement/separability.

id: 1103.2615
title: Information capacity of quantum observable
authors: A. S. Holevo
comments: 13 pages. New section and references are added concerning the ensemble-observable duality
journal: Problems of Information Transmission, vol. 48 (2012), 1-10
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2615
abstract: In this paper we consider the classical capacities of quantum-classical channels corresponding to measurement of observables. Special attention is paid to the case of continuous observables. We give the formulas for unassisted and entanglement-assisted classical capacities $C,C_{ea}$ and consider some explicitly solvable cases which give simple examples of entanglement-breaking channels with $C<C_{ea}.$ We also elaborate on the ensemble-observable duality to show that $C_{ea}$ for the measurement channel is related to the $\chi$-quantity for the dual ensemble in the same way as $C$ is related to the accessible information. This provides both accessible information and the $\chi$-quantity for the quantum ensembles dual to our examples.

id: 1103.2621
title: Quantum vortices and trajectories in particle diffraction
authors: N. Delis, C. Efthymiopoulos, G. Contopoulos
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures, accepted by IJBC
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2621
abstract: We investigate the phenomenon of the diffraction of charged particles by thin material targets using the method of the de Broglie-Bohm quantum trajectories. The particle wave function can be modeled as a sum of two terms $\psi=\psi_{ingoing}+\psi_{outgoing}$. A thin separator exists between the domains of prevalence of the ingoing and outgoing wavefunction terms. The structure of the quantum-mechanical currents in the neighborhood of the separator implies the formation of an array of \emph{quantum vortices}. The flow structure around each vortex displays a characteristic pattern called `nodal point - X point complex'. The X point gives rise to stable and unstable manifolds. We find the scaling laws characterizing a nodal point-X point complex by a local perturbation theory around the nodal point. We then analyze the dynamical role of vortices in the emergence of the diffraction pattern. In particular, we demonstrate the abrupt deflections, along the direction of the unstable manifold, of the quantum trajectories approaching an X-point along its stable manifold. Theoretical results are compared to numerical simulations of quantum trajectories. We finally calculate the {\it times of flight} of particles following quantum trajectories from the source to detectors placed at various scattering angles $\theta$, and thereby propose an experimental test of the de Broglie - Bohm formalism.

id: 1103.2686
title: A Study of Optimal 4-bit Reversible Toffoli Circuits and Their Synthesis
authors: Oleg Golubitsky, Dmitri Maslov
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1003.1914
journal: IEEE Transactions on Computers, 61(9):1341-1353, September 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2686
abstract: Optimal synthesis of reversible functions is a non-trivial problem. One of the major limiting factors in computing such circuits is the sheer number of reversible functions. Even restricting synthesis to 4-bit reversible functions results in a huge search space (16! {\approx} 2^{44} functions). The output of such a search alone, counting only the space required to list Toffoli gates for every function, would require over 100 terabytes of storage. In this paper, we present two algorithms: one, that synthesizes an optimal circuit for any 4-bit reversible specification, and another that synthesizes all optimal implementations. We employ several techniques to make the problem tractable. We report results from several experiments, including synthesis of all optimal 4-bit permutations, synthesis of random 4-bit permutations, optimal synthesis of all 4-bit linear reversible circuits, synthesis of existing benchmark functions; we compose a list of the hardest permutations to synthesize, and show distribution of optimal circuits. We further illustrate that our proposed approach may be extended to accommodate physical constraints via reporting LNN-optimal reversible circuits. Our results have important implications in the design and optimization of reversible and quantum circuits, testing circuit synthesis heuristics, and performing experiments in the area of quantum information processing.

id: 1103.2703
title: Illustrating the Geometry of Coherently Controlled Quantum Channels
authors: C. O'Meara, G. Dirr, T. Schulte-Herbrueggen
comments: condensed and updated version; 14 pages; comments welcome
journal: IEEE Trans. Autom. Contr. (IEEE TAC) 57 (2012), 2050-2055
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2703
abstract: We extend standard Markovian open quantum systems (quantum channels) by allowing for Hamiltonian controls and elucidate their geometry in terms of Lie semigroups. For standard dissipative interactions with the environment and different coherent controls, we particularly specify the tangent cones (Lie wedges) of the respective Lie semigroups of quantum channels. These cones are the counterpart of the infinitesimal generator of a single one-parameter semigroup. They comprise all directions the underlying open quantum system can be steered to and thus give insight into the geometry of controlled open quantum dynamics. Such a differential characterisation is highly valuable for approximating reachable sets of given initial quantum states in a plethora of experimental implementations.

id: 1103.2704
title: Two-state quantum walk on two- and three-dimensional lattices
authors: C. M. Chandrashekar
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2704
abstract: We present a new scheme for a discrete-time quantum walk on two- and three-dimensional lattices using a two-state particle. We use different Pauli basis as translational eigestates for different axis and show that the coin operation, which is necessary for one-dimensional walk is not a necessary requirement for two- and three- dimensional walk but can serve as an additional resource. Using this scheme, the probability distribution from Grover walk using four-state particle and other equivalent schemes on a square lattice using coin operation is reproduced. We also present the Hamiltonian form of evolution which can serve as a general framework to simulate, control, and study the dynamics in different physical systems.

id: 1103.2716
title: Coherent Optical Spectroscopy of a Single Quantum Dot Via an Off-Resonant Cavity
authors: Arka Majumda, Alexander Papageorge, Erik D. Kim, Michal Bajscy, Hyochul Kim, Pierre Petroff, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2716
abstract: In recent experiments on coupled quantum dot (QD) optical cavity systems a pronounced interaction between the dot and the cavity has been observed even for detunings of many cavity linewidths. This interaction has been attributed to an incoherent phonon-mediated scattering process and is absent in atomic systems. Here, we demonstrate that despite its incoherent nature, this process preserves the signatures of coherent interaction between a QD and a strong driving laser, which may be observed via the optical emission from the off-resonant cavity. Under bichromatic driving of the QD, the cavity emission exhibits spectral features consistent with optical dressing of the QD transition. In addition to revealing new aspects of the off-resonant QD-cavity interaction, this result provides a new, simpler means of coherently probing QDs than traditional approaches and opens the possibility of employing off-resonant cavities to optically interface QD-nodes in quantum networks.

id: 1103.2720
title: Elliptic billiard - a non-trivial integrable system
authors: Tao Ma, R. A. Serota
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2720
abstract: We investigate the semiclassical energy spectrum of quantum elliptic billiard. The nearest neighbor spacing distribution, level number variance and spectral rigidity support the notion that the elliptic billiard is a generic integrable system. However, second order statistics exhibit a novel property of long-range oscillations. Classical simulation shows that all the periodic orbits except two are not isolated. In Fourier analysis of the spectrum, all the peaks correspond to periodic orbits. The two isolated periodic orbits have small contribution to the fluctuation of level density, while non-isolated periodic orbits have the main contribution. The heights of the majority of the peaks match our semiclassical theory except for type-O periodic orbits. Elliptic billiard is a nontrivial integrable system that will enrich our understanding of integrable systems.

id: 1103.2735
title: A matrix product state based algorithm for determining dispersion relations of quantum spin chains with periodic boundary conditions
authors: Bogdan Pirvu, Jutho Haegeman, Frank Verstraete
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures, 5 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 035130 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2735
abstract: We study a matrix product state (MPS) algorithm to approximate excited states of translationally invariant quantum spin systems with periodic boundary conditions. By means of a momentum eigenstate ansatz generalizing the one of \"Ostlund and Rommer [1], we separate the Hilbert space of the system into subspaces with different momentum. This gives rise to a direct sum of effective Hamiltonians, each one corresponding to a different momentum, and we determine their spectrum by solving a generalized eigenvalue equation. Surprisingly, many branches of the dispersion relation are approximated to a very good precision. We benchmark the accuracy of the algorithm by comparison with the exact solutions of the quantum Ising and the antiferromagnetic Heisenberg spin-1/2 model.

id: 1103.2774
title: Quantum rejection sampling
authors: Maris Ozols, Martin Roetteler, J¨¦r¨¦mie Roland
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures, minor changes and a more compact style (to appear in proceedings of ITCS 2012)
journal: Proceedings of the 3rd Conference on Innovations in Theoretical Computer Science (ITCS'12), ACM Press, 2012, pages 290-308
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2774
abstract: Rejection sampling is a well-known method to sample from a target distribution, given the ability to sample from a given distribution. The method has been first formalized by von Neumann (1951) and has many applications in classical computing. We define a quantum analogue of rejection sampling: given a black box producing a coherent superposition of (possibly unknown) quantum states with some amplitudes, the problem is to prepare a coherent superposition of the same states, albeit with different target amplitudes. The main result of this paper is a tight characterization of the query complexity of this quantum state generation problem. We exhibit an algorithm, which we call quantum rejection sampling, and analyze its cost using semidefinite programming. Our proof of a matching lower bound is based on the automorphism principle which allows to symmetrize any algorithm over the automorphism group of the problem. Our main technical innovation is an extension of the automorphism principle to continuous groups that arise for quantum state generation problems where the oracle encodes unknown quantum states, instead of just classical data. Furthermore, we illustrate how quantum rejection sampling may be used as a primitive in designing quantum algorithms, by providing three different applications. We first show that it was implicitly used in the quantum algorithm for linear systems of equations by Harrow, Hassidim and Lloyd. Secondly, we show that it can be used to speed up the main step in the quantum Metropolis sampling algorithm by Temme et al.. Finally, we derive a new quantum algorithm for the hidden shift problem of an arbitrary Boolean function and relate its query complexity to "water-filling" of the Fourier spectrum.

id: 1103.2779
title: Detecting entanglement in spatial interference
authors: Clemens Gneiting, Klaus Hornberger
comments: 4 pages; corresponds to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 210501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2779
abstract: We discuss an experimentally amenable class of two-particle states of motion giving rise to nonlocal spatial interference under position measurements. Using the concept of modular variables, we derive a separability criterion which is violated by these non-Gaussian states. While we focus on the free motion of material particles, the presented results are valid for any pair of canonically conjugate continuous variable observables and should apply to a variety of bipartite interference phenomena.

id: 1103.2803
title: Reconstructing the relaxation dynamics induced by an unknown heat bath
authors: Jochen Rau
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure; v3: final version to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: Physics Letters A 376, 370-373 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2803
abstract: In quantum state tomography, one potential source of error is uncontrolled contact of the system with a heat bath whose detailed properties are not known, and whose impact on the system moreover varies between different runs of the experiment. Precisely these variations provide a handle for reconstructing the system's effective relaxation dynamics. I propose a pertinent estimation scheme which is based on a steepest-descent ansatz and maximum likelihood. After reconstructing the relaxation dynamics, the original quantum state of the system can be constrained to a curve in state space.

id: 1103.2816
title: Universal low-rank matrix recovery from Pauli measurements
authors: Yi-Kai Liu
comments: v2: corrected typos, added proof details, 9+8 pages, to appear in NIPS 2011
journal: Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS) 24, pp.1638-1646 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Statistics Theory (math.ST); Machine Learning (stat.ML)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2816
abstract: We study the problem of reconstructing an unknown matrix M of rank r and dimension d using O(rd poly log d) Pauli measurements. This has applications in quantum state tomography, and is a non-commutative analogue of a well-known problem in compressed sensing: recovering a sparse vector from a few of its Fourier coefficients. We show that almost all sets of O(rd log^6 d) Pauli measurements satisfy the rank-r restricted isometry property (RIP). This implies that M can be recovered from a fixed ("universal") set of Pauli measurements, using nuclear-norm minimization (e.g., the matrix Lasso), with nearly-optimal bounds on the error. A similar result holds for any class of measurements that use an orthonormal operator basis whose elements have small operator norm. Our proof uses Dudley's inequality for Gaussian processes, together with bounds on covering numbers obtained via entropy duality.

id: 1103.2836
title: Coupled-resonator-induced transparency with a squeezed vacuum
authors: Ke Di, Changde Xie, Jing Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 153602 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2836
abstract: We present the first experimental observation of quantum fluctuation spectra in two coupled optical cavities with an injected squeezed vacuum light. The quadrature components of the reflected squeezed vacuum spectra are measured by phase sensitive homodyne detector. The experimental results demonstrate coupled-resonator-induced transparency in the quantum regime, in which electromagnetically-induced-transparency-like characteristic of the absorption and dispersion properties of the coupled optical cavities determines the line-shape of the reflected quantum noise spectra.

id: 1103.2875
title: Qubit thermometry for micromechanical resonators
authors: Matteo Brunelli, Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, revised version, to appear on PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032105 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2875
abstract: We address estimation of temperature for a micromechanical oscillator lying arbitrarily close to its quantum ground state. Motivated by recent experiments, we assume that the oscillator is coupled to a probe qubit via Jaynes-Cummings interaction and that the estimation of its effective temperature is achieved via quantum limited measurements on the qubit. We first consider the ideal unitary evolution in a noiseless environment and then take into account the noise due to non dissipative decoherence. We exploit local quantum estimation theory to assess and optimize the precision of estimation procedures based on the measurement of qubit population, and to compare their performances with the ultimate limit posed by quantum mechanics. In particular, we evaluate the Fisher information (FI) for population measurement, maximize its value over the possible qubit preparations and interaction times, and compare its behavior with that of the quantum Fisher information (QFI). We found that the FI for population measurement is equal to the QFI, i.e., population measurement is optimal, for a suitable initial preparation of the qubit and a predictable interaction time. The same configuration also corresponds to the maximum of the QFI itself. Our results indicate that the achievement of the ultimate bound to precision allowed by quantum mechanics is in the capabilities of the current technology.

id: 1103.2930
title: Zitterbewegung in External Magnetic Field: Classic versus Quantum Approach
authors: Mehran Zahiri-Abyaneh, Mehrdad Farhoudi
comments: 16 pages, no figures
journal: Foud. Phys. 41 (No. 8) (2011), 1355-1374
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2930
abstract: We investigate variations of the Zitterbewegung frequency of electron due to an external static and uniform magnetic field employing the expectation value quantum approach, and compare our results with the classical model of spinning particles. We demonstrate that these two so far compatible approaches are not in agreement in the presence of an external uniform static magnetic field, in which the classical approach breaks the usual symmetry of free particles and antiparticles states, i.e. it leads to CP violation. Hence, regarding the Zitterbewegung frequency of electron, the classical approach in the presence of an external magnetic field is unlikely to correctly describe the spin of electron, while the quantum approach does, as expected. We also show that the results obtained via the expectation value are in close agreement with the quantum approach of the Heisenberg picture derived in the literature. However, the method we use is capable of being compared with the classical approach regarding the spin aspects. The classical interpretation of spin produced by the altered Zitterbewegung frequency, in the presence of an external magnetic field, are discussed.

id: 1103.2938
title: Entangling photons via the double quantum Zeno effect
authors: Nicolai ten Brinke, Andreas Osterloh, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 4 pages RevTeX, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2938
abstract: We propose a scheme for entangling two photons via the quantum Zeno effect, which describes the inhibition of quantum evolution by frequent measurements and is based on the difference between summing amplitudes and probabilities. For a given error probability $P_{\rm error}$, our scheme requires that the one-photon loss rate $\xi_{1\gamma}$ and the two-photon absorption rate $\xi_{2\gamma}$ in some medium satisfy $\xi_{1\gamma}/\xi_{2\gamma}=2P_{\rm error}^2/\pi^2$, which is significantly improved in comparison to previous approaches. Again based on the quantum Zeno effect, as well as coherent excitations, we present a possibility to fulfill this requirement in an otherwise linear optics set-up.

id: 1103.2944
title: The optimization topography of exciton transport
authors: Torsten Scholak, Thomas Wellens, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Europhys. Lett. 96, 10001 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2944
abstract: Stunningly large exciton transfer rates in the light harvesting complex of photosynthesis, together with recent experimental 2D spectroscopic data, have spurred a vivid debate on the possible quantum origin of such efficiency. Here we show that configurations of a random molecular network that optimize constructive quantum interference from input to output site yield systematically shorter transfer times than classical transport induced by ambient dephasing noise.

id: 1103.2949
title: Lifetime and Emission Characteristics of Electronic Excitations in 2D Optical Lattices
authors: Hashem Zoubi, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 5 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 063831 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2949
abstract: Collective electronic excitations "excitons" in planar optical lattices exhibit strong modifications of the radiative damping rate and directional emission pattern as compared to a single excited atom. Excitons for long wave numbers and polarizations orthogonal to the lattice plane exhibit superradiance with a very short life time and a tightly confined emission direction. For shorter wavelength and in plane polarization they can posses a long life time, which beyond a critical wave number tends to infinity. Those excitons thus become metastable and decoupled from the free radiation field. They can store a single energy quantum for a long time and transfer the excitation over long distances. In general the spatial, polarization and frequency dependence of the emission pattern can provide us with optical and electronic properties of optical lattices.

id: 1103.2969
title: Coherent entangled light generated by quantum dots in the presence of nuclear magnetic fields
authors: R. M. Stevenson, C. L. Salter, A. Boyer de la Giroday, I. A. Farrer, C. A. Nicoll, D. A. Ritchie, A. J. Shields
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2969
abstract: A practical source of high fidelity entangled photons is desirable for quantum information applications and exploring quantum physics. Semiconductor quantum dots have recently been shown to conveniently emit entangled light when driven electrically, however the fidelity was not optimal. Here we show that the fidelity is not limited by decoherence, but by coherent interaction with nuclei. Furthermore we predict that on 100\mu s timescales, strongly enhanced fidelities could be achieved. This insight could allow tailoring of quantum logic to operate using quantum dots in the fault tolerant regime.

id: 1103.2991
title: Quantum characterization of superconducting photon counters
authors: Giorgio Brida, Luigi Ciavarella, Ivo P. Degiovanni, Marco Genovese, Lapo Lolli, Maria G. Mingolla, Fabrizio Piacentini, Mauro Rajteri, Emanuele Taralli, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 3 figures, NJP (to appear)
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 085001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2991
abstract: We address the quantum characterization of photon counters based on transition-edge sensors (TESs) and present the first experimental tomography of the positive operator-valued measure (POVM) of a TES. We provide the reliable tomographic reconstruction of the POVM elements up to 11 detected photons and M=100 incoming photons, demonstrating that it is a linear detector.

id: 1103.3017
title: Quantum algorithm for the Boolean hidden shift problem
authors: Dmitry Gavinsky, Martin Roetteler, J¨¦r¨¦mie Roland
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 17th International Computing & Combinatorics Conference (COCOON'11), Lecture Notes in Computer Science 6842 (Springer, 2011), pages 158-167
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3017
abstract: The hidden shift problem is a natural place to look for new separations between classical and quantum models of computation. One advantage of this problem is its flexibility, since it can be defined for a whole range of functions and a whole range of underlying groups. In a way, this distinguishes it from the hidden subgroup problem where more stringent requirements about the existence of a periodic subgroup have to be made. And yet, the hidden shift problem proves to be rich enough to capture interesting features of problems of algebraic, geometric, and combinatorial flavor. We present a quantum algorithm to identify the hidden shift for any Boolean function. Using Fourier analysis for Boolean functions we relate the time and query complexity of the algorithm to an intrinsic property of the function, namely its minimum influence. We show that for randomly chosen functions the time complexity of the algorithm is polynomial. Based on this we show an average case exponential separation between classical and quantum time complexity. A perhaps interesting aspect of this work is that, while the extremal case of the Boolean hidden shift problem over so-called bent functions can be reduced to a hidden subgroup problem over an abelian group, the more general case studied here does not seem to allow such a reduction.

id: 1103.3043
title: Quantum computation with prethreshold superconducting qubits: Single-excitation subspace approach
authors: Andrei Galiautdinov, Michael R. Geller
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3043
abstract: We describe an alternative approach to quantum computation that is ideally suited for today's sub-threshold-fidelity qubits, and which can be applied to a family of hardware models that includes superconducting qubits with tunable coupling. In this approach, the computation on an n-qubit processor is carried out in the n-dimensional single-excitation subspace (SES) of the full 2^n-dimensional Hilbert space. Because any real Hamiltonian can be directly generated in the SES [E. J. Pritchett et al., arXiv:1008.0701], high-dimensional unitary operations can be carried out in a single step, bypassing the need to decompose into single- and two-qubit gates. Although technically nonscalable and unsuitable for applications (including Shor's) requiring enormous Hilbert spaces, this approach would make practical a first-generation quantum computer capable of achieving significant quantum speedup.

id: 1103.3098
title: Fast and robust two- and three-qubit swapping gates on multi-atomic ensembles in quantum electrodynamic cavity
authors: Sergey N. Andrianov, Sergey A. Moiseev
comments: 
journal: EPTCS 52, 2011, pp. 13-21
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3098
abstract: Creation of quantum computer is outstanding fundamental and practical problem. The quantum computer could be used for execution of very complicated tasks which are not solvable with the classical computers. The first prototype of solid state quantum computer was created in 2009 with superconducting qubits. However, it suffers from the decoherent processes and it is desirable to find more practical encoding of qubits with long-lived coherence. It could be single impurity or vacancy centers in solids, but their interaction with electromagnetic radiation is rather weak. So, here, ensembles of atoms were proposed for the qubit encoding by using the dipole blockade mechanism in order to turn multilevel systems in two level ones. But dipole-dipole based blockade introduces an additional decoherence that limits its practical significance. Recently, the collective blockade mechanism has been proposed for the system of three-level atoms by using the different frequency shifts for the Raman transitions between the collective atomic states characterized by a different number of the excited atoms. Here, we propose two qubit gate by using another collective blockade mechanism in the system of two level atoms based on exchange interaction via the virtual photons between the multi-atomic ensembles in the resonator. Also we demonstrate the possibility of three qubit gate (Controlled SWAP gate) using a suppression of the swap-process between two multi-atomic ensembles due to dynamical shift of the atomic levels controlled by the states of photon encoded qubit.

id: 1103.3100
title: The Notion of a Random Gauge and its Interpretation
authors: John E Gray
comments: To Appear in SPIE Proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3100
abstract: We introduce the concept of a random gauge. We propose two distinct types of random gauge that can be defined based on the concept of phase noise in scattering theory. In the context of quantum physics, we discuss a variety of possible realizations of this concept that can be connected to various Aharonov-other effects and make some connections with relativity as well.

id: 1103.3104
title: Asymmetry of bipartite quantum discord
authors: E.B.Fel'dman, A.I.Zenchuk
comments: 5 pages 3 figures
journal: JETP Letters, 2011, Vol. 93, No. 8, pp. 459--462
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3104
abstract: It is known from the analysis of the density matrix for bipartite systems that the quantum discord (as a measure of quantum correlations) depends on the particular subsystem chosen for the projective measurements. We study asymmetry of the discord in a simple physical model of two spin-1/2 particles with the dipole-dipole interaction governed by the XY Hamiltonian in the inhomogeneous magnetic field. The dependence of the above discord asymmetry on the Larmour frequencies at both T=0 (the ground state) and $T>0$ has been investigated. It is demonstrated, in particular, that the asymmetry is negligible for high temperatures but it may become significant with the decrease in temperature.

id: 1103.3119
title: Continuous-variable controlled-Z gate using an atomic ensemble
authors: Ming-Feng Wang, Nian-Quan Jiang, Qing-Li Jin, Yi-Zhuang Zheng
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3119
abstract: The continuous-variable controlled-Z gate is a canonical two-mode gate for universal continuous-variable quantum computation. It is considered as one of the most fundamental continuous-variable quantum gates. Here we present a scheme for realizing continuous-variable controlled-Z gate between two optical beams using an atomic ensemble. The gate is performed by simply sending the two beams propagating in two orthogonal directions twice through a spin-squeezed atomic medium. Its fidelity can run up to one if the input atomic state is infinitely squeezed. Considering the noise effects due to atomic decoherence and light losses, we show that the observed fidelities of the scheme are still quite high within presently available techniques.

id: 1103.3124
title: Relative state measures of correlations in bipartite quantum systems
authors: Pierre Rudolfsson, Erik Sj?qvist
comments: Extended version, 3 new figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 12, 0119 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3124
abstract: Everett's concept of relative state can be viewed as a map that contains information about correlations between measurement outcomes on two quantum systems. We demonstrate how geometric properties of the relative state map can be used to develop operationally well-defined measures of the total correlation in bipartite quantum systems of arbitrary state space dimension. These measures are invariant under local unitary transformations and non-increasing under local operations. We show that some known correlation measures have a natural interpretation in terms of relative states.

id: 1103.3186
title: Information and Entanglement Measures in Quantum Systems With Applications to Atomic Physics
authors: Daniel Manzano
comments: Phd Thesis of Daniel Manzano, directed by Jes\'us S\'anchez-Dehesa and \'Angel Ricardo Plastino. All it is in English except the legal texts, acknowledgments and the introduction that are in Spanish. Defended at the University of Granada, April 12, 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3186
abstract: This thesis is a multidisciplinary contribution to the information theory of single-particle Coulomb systems in their relativistic and not relativistic description, to the theory of special functions of mathematical physics with the proposal and analysis of a new set of measures of spreading for orthogonal polynomials, to quantum computation and learning devices and to the analysis of entanglement in systems of identical fermions, in this field we propose a separability criteria for pure states of N identical fermions and the entanglement of two-electron atoms is studied, a new separability criteria for continuous variable systems is also analyzed. The notions of information, complexity and entanglement play a central role.

id: 1103.3189
title: Quantum discord for general two--qubit states: Analytical progress
authors: Davide Girolami, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052108 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3189
abstract: We present a reliable algorithm to evaluate quantum discord for general two--qubit states, amending and extending an approach recently put forward for the subclass of X--states. A closed expression for the discord of arbitrary states of two qubits cannot be obtained, as the optimization problem for the conditional entropy requires the solution to a pair of transcendental equations in the state parameters. We apply our algorithm to run a numerical comparison between quantum discord and an alternative, computable measure of non-classical correlations, namely the geometric discord. We identify the extremally non-classically correlated two--qubit states according to the (normalized) geometric discord, at fixed value of the conventional quantum discord. The latter cannot exceed the square root of the former for systems of two qubits.

id: 1103.3208
title: Defect Formation Preempts Dynamical Symmetry Breaking in Closed Quantum Systems
authors: Carmine Ortix, Jorrit Rijnbeek, Jeroen van den Brink
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3208
abstract: We show that no matter how slowly a quantum-to-classical symmetry breaking process is driven, the adiabatic limit can never be reached in a macroscopic body. Massive defect formation preempts an adiabatic quantum-classical crossover and triggers the appearance of a symmetric non-equilibrium state that recursively collapses into the classical state, breaking the symmetry at punctured times. The presence of this state allows the quantum-classical transition to be investigated and controlled in mesoscopic devices by supplying externally the proper dynamical symmetry breaking perturbation.

id: 1103.3213
title: Quantum state reconstruction from dynamical systems theory
authors: D. Goyeneche, A. C. de la Torre
comments: A completely new paper has been written with the same aim of this work. See D. Goyeneche, A.C. de la Torre "Quantum tomography meets dynamical systems and bifurcations theory"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3213
abstract: When an informationally incomplete set of observables is considered there are several solutions to the quantum state reconstruction problem using von Neumann measurements. The set of solutions are known as Pauli partners, which are not easy to find even numerically. We present, in a self-contained paper, a new way to find this solutions using the physical imposition operator. We show that every Pauli partner is an attractive fixed point of this operator, which means that we can find complete sets of Pauli partners very efficiently. As a particular case, we found numerically 24 mutually unbiased bases in dimension N=23 in less than 30 seconds in a standard PC. We hope that the algorithm presented can be adapted to construct MU Constellations, SIC-POVMs, Equiangular Tight Frames and Quantum t-Designs, which could open new possibilities to find numerical solutions to these open problems related with quantum information theory.

id: 1103.3227
title: How is spontaneous symmetry breaking possible?
authors: David John Baker, Hans Halvorson
comments: 13 pages, 2 diagrams
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3227
abstract: We pose and resolve a seeming paradox about spontaneous symmetry breaking in the quantum theory of infinite systems. For a symmetry to be spontaneously broken, it must not be implementable by a unitary operator. But Wigner's theorem guarantees that every symmetry is implemented by a unitary operator that preserves transition probabilities between pure states. We show how it is possible for a unitary operator of this sort to connect the folia of unitarily inequivalent representations. This result undermines interpretations of quantum theory that hold unitary equivalence to be necessary for physical equivalence.

id: 1103.3248
title: Index of refraction engineering in five level DIGS atoms
authors: Steven A. Sagona-Stophel, James Owen Weatherall, Christopher P. Search
comments: 3 pages; 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3248
abstract: We present a five level atomic system in which the index of refraction of a probe laser can be enhanced or reduced below unity with vanishing absorption in the region between pairs of absorption and gain lines formed by dressing of the atoms with a control laser and RF/microwave fields. By weak incoherent pumping of population into a single metastable state, one can create several narrow amplifying resonances. At frequencies between these gain lines and additional absorption lines, there exist regions of vanishing absorption but resonantly enhanced index of refraction. In $Rb$ vapors with density $N$ in units of $cm^{-3}$, we predict an index of refraction up to $n \approx \sqrt{1+1.2\times10^{-14}N}$ for the D1 line, which is more than an order of magnitude larger than other proposals for index of refraction enhancement. Furthermore, the index can be readily reduced below 1 by simply changing the sign of the probe or RF field detunings. This enhancement is robust with respect to homogeneous and inhomogeneous broadening.

id: 1103.3251
title: Information criteria for efficient quantum state estimation
authors: J. O. S. Yin, S. J. van Enk
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3251
abstract: Recently several more efficient versions of quantum state tomography have been proposed, with the purpose of making tomography feasible even for many-qubit states. The number of state parameters to be estimated is reduced by tentatively introducing certain simplifying assumptions on the form of the quantum state, and subsequently using the data to rigorously verify these assumptions. The simplifying assumptions considered so far were (i) the state can be well approximated to be of low rank, or (ii) the state can be well approximated as a matrix product state. We add one more method in that same spirit: we allow in principle any model for the state, using any (small) number of parameters (which can, e.g., be chosen to have a clear physical meaning), and the data are used to verify the model. The proof that this method is valid cannot be as strict as in above-mentioned cases, but is based on well-established statistical methods that go under the name of "information criteria." We exploit here, in particular, the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC). We illustrate the method by simulating experiments on (noisy) Dicke states.

id: 1103.3318
title: Entanglement and decoherence: fragile and robust entanglement
authors: Jaroslav Novotn?, Gernot Alber, Igor Jex
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 090501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3318
abstract: The destruction of entanglement of open quantum systems by decoherence is investigated in the asymptotic long-time limit. Starting from a general and analytically solvable decoherence model which does not involve any weak-coupling or Markovian assumption it is shown that two fundamentally different classes of entangled states can be distinguished. Quantum states of the first class are fragile against decoherence so that they can be disentangled asymptotically even if coherences between pointer states are still present. Quantum states of the second type are robust against decoherence. Asymptotically they can be disentangled only if also decoherence is perfect. A simple criterion for identifying these two classes on the basis of two-qubit entanglement is presented.

id: 1103.3324
title: Entanglement, EPR steering, and Bell-nonlocality criteria for multipartite higher-spin systems
authors: Q. Y. He, P. D. Drummond, M. D. Reid
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032120 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3324
abstract: We develop criteria to detect three classes of nonlocality that have been shown by Wiseman et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 98, 140402 (2007)] to be nonequivalent: entanglement, EPR steering, and the failure of local hidden-variable theories. We use the approach of Cavalcanti et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 210405 (2007)] for continuous variables to develop the nonlocality criteria for arbitrary spin observables defined on a discrete Hilbert space. The criteria thus apply to multisite qudits, i.e., systems of fixed dimension d, and take the form of inequalities. We find that the spin moment inequalities that test local hidden variables (Bell inequalities) can be violated for arbitrary d by optimized highly correlated nonmaximally entangled states provided the number of sites N is high enough. On the other hand, the spin inequalities for entanglement are violated and thus detect entanglement for such states, for arbitrary d and N, and with a violation that increases with N.We show that one of the moment entanglement inequalities can detect the entanglement of an arbitrary generalized multipartite Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state. Because they involve the natural observables for atomic systems, the relevant spin-operator correlations should be readily observable in trapped ultracold atomic gases and ion traps.

id: 1103.3334
title: Phase-coherent detection of an optical dipole force by Doppler velocimetry
authors: M.J. Biercuk, H. Uys, J.W. Britton, A.P. VanDevender, J.J. Bollinger
comments: Related manuscripts at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3334
abstract: We report phase-coherent Doppler detection of optical dipole forces using large ion crystals in a Penning trap. The technique is based on laser Doppler velocimetry using a cycling transition in $^{9}$Be$^{+}$ near 313 nm and the center-of-mass (COM) ion motional mode. The optical dipole force is tuned to excite the COM mode, and measurements of photon arrival times synchronized with the excitation potential show oscillations with a period commensurate with the COM motional frequency. Experimental results compare well with a quantitative model for a driven harmonic oscillator. This technique permits characterization of motional modes in ion crystals; the measurement of both frequency and phase information relative to the driving force is a key enabling capability -- comparable to lockin detection -- providing access to a parameter that is typically not available in time-averaged measurements. This additional information facilitates discrimination of nearly degenerate motional modes.

id: 1103.3377
title: Quantum algorithm for simulating the dynamics of an open quantum system
authors: Hefeng Wang, S. Ashhab, Franco Nori
comments: 5 figures, two tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 83, 062317 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3377
abstract: In the study of open quantum systems, one typically obtains the decoherence dynamics by solving a master equation. The master equation is derived using knowledge of some basic properties of the system, the environment and their interaction: one basically needs to know the operators through which the system couples to the environment and the spectral density of the environment. For a large system, it could become prohibitively difficult to even write down the appropriate master equation, let alone solve it on a classical computer. In this paper, we present a quantum algorithm for simulating the dynamics of an open quantum system. On a quantum computer, the environment can be simulated using ancilla qubits with properly chosen single-qubit frequencies and with properly designed coupling to the system qubits. The parameters used in the simulation are easily derived from the parameters of the system+environment Hamiltonian. The algorithm is designed to simulate Markovian dynamics, but it can also be used to simulate non-Markovian dynamics provided that this dynamics can be obtained by embedding the system of interest into a larger system that obeys Markovian dynamics. We estimate the resource requirements for the algorithm. In particular, we show that for sufficiently slow decoherence a single ancilla qubit could be sufficient to represent the entire environment, in principle.

id: 1103.3386
title: Study of Electromagnetically Induced Transparency using long-lived Singlet States
authors: Soumya Singha Roy, T. S. Mahesh
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3386
abstract: The long-lived singlet states are useful to study a variety of interesting quantum phenomena. In this work we study electromagnetically induced transparency using a two-qubit system. The singlet state acts as a `dark state' which does not absorb a probe radiation in the presence of a control radiation. Further we demonstrate that the simultaneous irradiation of probe and control radiations acts as a dynamical decoupling preserving the singlet state at higher correlation for longer durations.

id: 1103.3432
title: Sensing electric fields using single diamond spins
authors: Florian Dolde, Helmut Fedder, Marcus W. Doherty, Tobias N?bauer, Florian Rempp, Gopalakrishnan Balasubramanian, Thomas Wolf, Friedemann Reinhard, Lloyd C.L. Hollenberg, Fedor Jelezko, J?rg Wrachtrup
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3432
abstract: The ability to sensitively detect charges under ambient conditions would be a fascinating new tool benefitting a wide range of researchers across disciplines. However, most current techniques are limited to low-temperature methods like single-electron transistors (SET), single-electron electrostatic force microscopy and scanning tunnelling microscopy. Here we open up a new quantum metrology technique demonstrating precision electric field measurement using a single nitrogen-vacancy defect centre(NV) spin in diamond. An AC electric field sensitivity reaching ~ 140V/cm/\surd Hz has been achieved. This corresponds to the electric field produced by a single elementary charge located at a distance of ~ 150 nm from our spin sensor with averaging for one second. By careful analysis of the electronic structure of the defect centre, we show how an applied magnetic field influences the electric field sensing properties. By this we demonstrate that diamond defect centre spins can be switched between electric and magnetic field sensing modes and identify suitable parameter ranges for both detector schemes. By combining magnetic and electric field sensitivity, nanoscale detection and ambient operation our study opens up new frontiers in imaging and sensing applications ranging from material science to bioimaging.

id: 1103.3454
title: Importance of Reversibility in the Quantum Formalism
authors: Francois David
comments: 4 pages, LaTeX. Title modified and a few misprints corrected from version 2. Differences with version 1: Extensive rewriting, no changes in the results, review material much shortened, starting points more extensively discussed, more emphasis on the three original points of the paper. The reader interested in the underlying formalism may still look at the compatible version arXiv:1103.3454v1
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 180401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3454
abstract: In this letter I stress the role of causal reversibility (time-symmetry), together with causality and locality, in the justification of the quantum formalism. Firstly, in the algebraic quantum formalism, I show that the assumption of reversibility implies that the observables of a quantum theory form an abstract real C*-algebra, and can be represented as an algebra of operators on a real Hilbert space. Secondly, in the quantum logic formalism, I emphasize which axioms for the lattice of propositions (existence of an orthocomplementation and the covering property) derive from reversibility. A new argument based on locality and Soler's theorem is used to derive the representation as projectors on a regular Hilbert space from the general quantum logic formalism. In both cases it is recalled that the restriction to complex algebras and Hilbert spaces comes from the constraints of locality and separability.

id: 1103.3478
title: Quantum Reading of a Classical Digital Memory
authors: Stefano Pirandola
comments: PRL selected by the APS editors for a synopsis in "Physics". This document is the published Letter only. See arXiv:0907.3398 for a longer document which includes both the Letter (4 pages) and the Supplemental Material (21 pages)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 090504 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3478
abstract: We consider a basic model of digital memory where each cell is composed of a reflecting medium with two possible reflectivities. By fixing the mean number of photons irradiated over each memory cell, we show that a non-classical source of light can retrieve more information than any classical source. This improvement is shown in the regime of few photons and high reflectivities, where the gain of information can be surprising. As a result, the use of quantum light can have non-trivial applications in the technology of digital memories, such as optical disks and barcodes.

id: 1103.3506
title: The paleoclassical interpretation of quantum theory
authors: I. Schmelzer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3506
abstract: This interpretation establishes a completely classical ontology -- only the classical trajectory in configuration space -- and interpretes the wave function as describing incomplete information (in form of a probability flow) about this trajectory. This combines basic ideas of de Broglie-Bohm theory and Nelsonian stochastics about the trajectory with a Bayesian interpretation of the wave function. Various objections are considered and discussed. In particular a regularity principle for the zeros of the wave function allows to meet the Wallstrom objection.

id: 1103.3547
title: Quaternionic Quantum Dynamics on Complex Hilbert Spaces
authors: Matthew A. Graydon
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3547
abstract: We consider a quaternionic quantum formalism for the description of quantum states and quantum dynamics. We prove that generalized quantum measurements on physical systems in quaternionic quantum theory can be simulated by usual quantum measurements with positive operator valued measures on complex Hilbert spaces. Furthermore, we prove that quaternionic quantum channels can be simulated by completely positive trace preserving maps on complex matrices. These novel results map all quaternionic quantum processes to algorithms in usual quantum information theory.

id: 1103.3557
title: Remark on Entropic Characterization of Quantum Operations
authors: Lin Zhang
comments: 5 pages, LaTeX. A conjecture for some entropic inequality is added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3557
abstract: In the present paper, the reduction of some proofs in \cite{Roga1} is presented. An entropic inequality for quantum state and bi-stochastic CP super-operators is conjectured.

id: 1103.3566
title: Field test of quantum key distribution in the Tokyo QKD Network
authors: M. Sasaki, M. Fujiwara, H. Ishizuka, W. Klaus, K. Wakui, M. Takeoka, A. Tanaka, K. Yoshino, Y. Nambu, S. Takahashi, A. Tajima, A. Tomita, T. Domeki, T. Hasegawa, Y. Sakai, H. Kobayashi, T. Asai, K. Shimizu, T. Tokura, T. Tsurumaru, M. Matsui, T. Honjo, K. Tamaki, H. Takesue, Y. Tokura, J. F. Dynes, A. R. Dixon, A. W. Sharpe, Z. L. Yuan, A. J. Shields, S. Uchikoga, M. Legre, S. Robyr, P. Trinkler, L. Monat, J.-B. Page, G. Ribordy, A. Poppe, A. Allacher, O. Maurhart, T. Langer, M. Peev, A. Zeilinger
comments: 21 pages, 19 figures
journal: Optics Express Vol. 19, Iss. 11, pp. 10387-10409 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3566
abstract: A novel secure communication network with quantum key distribution in a metropolitan area is reported. Different QKD schemes are integrated to demonstrate secure TV conferencing over a distance of 45km, stable long-term operation, and application to secure mobile phones.

id: 1103.3587
title: Quantum dynamics by the constrained adiabatic trajectory method
authors: A. Leclerc, S. Gu¨¦rin, G. Jolicard, J. P. Killingbeck
comments: 12 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032113 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3587
abstract: We develop the constrained adiabatic trajectory method (CATM) which allows one to solve the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation constraining the dynamics to a single Floquet eigenstate, as if it were adiabatic. This constrained Floquet state (CFS) is determined from the Hamiltonian modified by an artificial time-dependent absorbing potential whose forms are derived according to the initial conditions. The main advantage of this technique for practical implementation is that the CFS is easy to determine even for large systems since its corresponding eigenvalue is well isolated from the others through its imaginary part. The properties and limitations of the CATM are explored through simple examples.

id: 1103.3589
title: General linear dynamics - quantum, classical or hybrid
authors: H-T Elze, G Gambarotta, F Vallone
comments: 17 pages; based on invited talks at the conferences DICE2010 (Castiglioncello, Italia, Sept 13-17, 2010) and Quantum Field Theory and Gravity (Regensburg, Germany, Sept 28 - Oct 1, 2010)
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser. 306 (2011) 012010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3589
abstract: We describe our recent proposal of a path integral formulation of classical Hamiltonian dynamics. Which leads us here to a new attempt at hybrid dynamics, which concerns the direct coupling of classical and quantum mechanical degrees of freedom. This is of practical as well as of foundational interest and no fully satisfactory solution of this problem has been established to date. Related aspects will be observed in a general linear ensemble theory, which comprises classical and quantum dynamics in the form of Liouville and von Neumann equations, respectively, as special cases. Considering the simplest object characterized by a two-dimensional state-space, we illustrate how quantum mechanics is special in several respects among possible linear generalizations.

id: 1103.3593
title: Sub-nanosecond Electro-optic Modulation of Triggered Single Photons from a Quantum Dot
authors: Matthew T. Rakher, Kartik Srinivasan
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 98, 211103 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3593
abstract: Control of single photon wave-packets is an important resource for developing hybrid quantum systems which are composed of different physical systems interacting via photons. Here we extend this control to triggered photons emitted by a quantum dot, temporally shaping single photon wave-packets on timescales fast compared to their radiative decay by electro-optic modulation. In particular, telecommunications-band single photons resulting from the recombination of an exciton in a quantum dot with exponentially decaying wave-packets are synchronously modulated to create Gaussian-shaped single photon wave-packets. We explore other pulse-shapes and investigate the feasibility of this technique for increasing the indistinguishability of quantum dot generated single photons.

id: 1103.3594
title: Generation of hybrid polarization-orbital angular momentum entangled states
authors: Eleonora Nagali, Fabio Sciarrino
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Express 18, 18243 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3594
abstract: Hybrid entangled states exhibit entanglement between different degrees of freedom of a particle pair and thus could be useful for asymmetric optical quantum network where the communication channels are characterized by different properties. We report the first experimental realization of hybrid polarization-orbital angular momentum (OAM) entangled states by adopting a spontaneous parametric down conversion source of polarization entangled states and a polarization-OAM transferrer. The generated quantum states have been characterized through quantum state tomography. Finally, the violation of Bell's inequalities with the hybrid two photon system has been observed.

id: 1103.3612
title: Thermal effects in Jaynes-Cummings model derived with low-temperature expansion
authors: Hiroo Azuma, Masashi Ban
comments: 43 pages, 6 eps figures, Latex2e; v2: a new section about thermal effects of the counter-rotating terms is added
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. C 22, 1015-1062 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3612
abstract: In this paper, we investigate thermal effects of the Jaynes-Cummings model (JCM) at finite temperature with a perturbative approach. We assume a single two-level atom and a single cavity mode to be initially in the thermal equilibrium state and the thermal coherent state, respectively, at a certain finite low temperature. Describing this system with Thermo Field Dynamics formalism, we obtain a low-temperature expansion of the atomic population inversion in a systematic manner. Letting the system evolve in time with the JCM Hamiltonian, we examine thermal effects of the collapse and the revival of the Rabi oscillations by means of the third-order perturbation theory under the low-temperature limit, that is to say, using the low-temperature expansion up to the third order terms. From an intuitive discussion, we can expect that the period of the revival of the Rabi oscillations becomes longer as the temperature rises. Numerical results obtained with the perturbation theory reproduce well this temperature dependence of the period.

id: 1103.3640
title: Majorana representation of symmetric multiqubit states
authors: A.R. Usha Devi, Sudha, A.K.Rajagopal
comments: 17 pages, No figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Volume 11, pages 685--710 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3640
abstract: As early as 1932, Majorana had proposed that a pure permutation symmetric state of N spin- 1 2 particles can be represented by N spinors, which correspond geometrically to N points on the Bloch sphere. Several decades after its conception, the Majorana representation has recently attracted a great deal of attention in connection with multiparticle entanglement. A novel use of this represen- tation led to the classification of entanglement families of permutation symmetric qubits - based on the number of distinct spinors and their arrangement in constituting the multiqubit state. An elegant approach to explore how correlation information of the whole pure symmetric state gets imprinted in its parts is developed for specific entanglement classes of symmetric states. More- over, an elegant and simplified method to evaluate geometric measure of entanglement in N-qubit states obeying exchange symmetry has been developed based on the distribution of the constituent Majorana spionors over the unit sphere. Multiparticle entanglement being a key resource in sev- eral quantum information processing tasks, its deeper understanding is essential. In this review, we present a detailed description of the Majorana representation of pure symmetric states and its applicability in investigating various aspects of multiparticle entanglement.

id: 1103.3644
title: Bell inequalities as constraints on unmeasurable correlations
authors: Costantino Budroni, Giovanni Morchio
comments: Some modifications have been done in order to improve clarity of presentation and comparison with other approaches
journal: Found. Phys. 42, 544 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3644
abstract: The interpretation of the violation of Bell-Clauser-Horne inequalities is revisited, in relation with the notion of extension of QM predictions to unmeasurable correlations. Such extensions are compatible with QM predictions in many cases, in particular for observables with compatibility relations described by tree graphs. This implies classical representability of any set of correlations < A_i >, < B >, < A_i B >, and the equivalence of the Bell-Clauser-Horne inequalities to a non void intersection between the ranges of values for the unmeasurable correlation < A_1 A_2 > associated to different choices for B. The same analysis applies to the Hardy model and to the "perfect correlations" discussed by Greenberger, Horne, Shimony and Zeilinger. In all the cases, the dependence of an unmeasurable correlation on a set of variables allowing for a classical representation is the only basis for arguments about violations of locality and causality.

id: 1103.3682
title: Local solutions of Maximum Likelihood Estimation in Quantum State Tomography
authors: Douglas S. Gon?alves, M¨¢rcia A. Gomes-Ruggiero, Carlile Lavor, Osvaldo Jim¨¦nez Far¨ªas, P. H. Souto Ribeiro
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, v.12 (9), p.775 - 790, (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3682
abstract: Maximum likelihood estimation is one of the most used methods in quantum state tomography, where the aim is to reconstruct the density matrix of a physical system from measurement results. One strategy to deal with positivity and unit trace constraints is to parameterize the matrix to be reconstructed in order to ensure that it is physical. In this case, the negative log-likelihood function in terms of the parameters, may have several local minima. In various papers in the field, a source of errors in this process has been associated to the possibility that most of these local minima are not global, so that optimization methods could be trapped in the wrong minimum, leading to a wrong density matrix. Here we show that, for convex negative log-likelihood functions, all local minima of the unconstrained parameterized problem are global, thus any minimizer leads to the maximum likelihood estimation for the density matrix. We also discuss some practical sources of errors.

id: 1103.3692
title: Extended WKB method, resonances and supersymmetric radial barriers
authors: Nicolas Fernandez-Garcia, Oscar Rosas-Ortiz
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, 3 tables
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 50 (2011) 2057-2066
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3692
abstract: Semiclassical approximations are implemented in the calculation of position and width of low energy resonances for radial barriers. The numerical integrations are delimited by t/T<<8, with t the period of a classical particle in the barrier trap and T the resonance lifetime. These energies are used in the construction of `haired' short range potentials as the supersymmetric partners of a given radial barrier. The new potentials could be useful in the study of the transient phenomena which give rise to the Moshinsky's diffraction in time.

id: 1103.3700
title: Photon-Photon Interactions via Rydberg Blockade
authors: Alexey V. Gorshkov, Johannes Otterbach, Michael Fleischhauer, Thomas Pohl, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figure. Download source files to see movies for Figures 2 and 3
journal: Phys. Rev. lett. 107, 133602 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3700
abstract: We develop the theory of light propagation under the conditions of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in systems involving strongly interacting Rydberg states. Taking into account the quantum nature and the spatial propagation of light, we analyze interactions involving few-photon pulses. We demonstrate that this system can be used for the generation of nonclassical states of light including trains of single photons with an avoided volume between them, for implementing photon-photon quantum gates, as well as for studying many-body phenomena with strongly correlated photons.

id: 1103.3740
title: Geometric phases in a scattering process
authors: H. D. Liu, X. X. Yi
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022114 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3740
abstract: The study of geometric phase in quantum mechanics has so far be confined to discrete (or continuous) spectra and trace preserving evolutions. Consider only the transmission channel, a scattering process with internal degrees of freedom is neither a discrete spectrum problem nor a trace preserving process. We explore the geometric phase in a scattering process taking only the transmission process into account. We find that the geometric phase can be calculated by the some method as in an unitary evolution. The interference visibility depends on the transmission amplitude. The dependence of the geometric phase on the barrier strength and the spin-spin coupling constant is also presented and discussed.

id: 1103.3769
title: Correlated photon-pair generation in a periodically poled MgO doped stoichiometric lithium tantalate reverse proton exchanged waveguide
authors: M. Lobino, G. D. Marshall, C. Xiong, A. S. Clark, D. Bonneau, C. M. Natarajan, M. G. Tanner, R. H. Hadfield, S. N. Dorenbos, T. Zijlstra, V. Zwiller, M. Marangoni, R. Ramponi, M. G. Thompson, B. J. Eggleton, J. L. O'Brien
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 99, 081110 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3769
abstract: We demonstrate photon-pair generation in a reverse proton exchanged waveguide fabricated on a periodically poled magnesium doped stoichiometric lithium tantalate substrate. Detected pairs are generated via a cascaded second order nonlinear process where a pump laser at wavelength of 1.55 $\mu$m is first doubled in frequency by second harmonic generation and subsequently downconverted around the same spectral region. Pairs are detected at a rate of 42 per second with a coincidence to accidental ratio of 0.7. This cascaded pair generation process is similar to four-wave-mixing where two pump photons annihilate and create a correlated photon pair.

id: 1103.3776
title: Berry Phase and Hannay's Angle in a Quantum-Classical Hybrid System
authors: H. D. Liu, S. L. Wu, X. X. Yi
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062101 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3776
abstract: Berry phase, which had been discovered for more than two decades, provides us a very deep insight on the geometric structure of quantum mechanics. Its classical counterpart--Hannay's angle is defined if closed curves of action variables return to the same curves in phase space after a time evolution. In this paper, we study the Berry phase and Hannay's angle in a quantum-classical hybrid system under the Born-Oppenheimer approximation. By quantum-classical hybrid system, we denote a composite system consists of a quantum subsystem and a classical subsystem. The effects of subsystem-subsystem couplings on the Berry phase and Hannay's angle are explored. The results show that the Berry phase has been changed sharply by the couplings, whereas the couplings have small effect on the Hannay's angle.

id: 1103.3793
title: Asymptotic Entanglement and Lindblad Dynamics: a Perturbative Approach
authors: Fabio Benatti, Adam Nagy, Heide Narnhofer
comments: 15 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 155303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3793
abstract: We consider an open bipartite quantum system with dissipative Lindblad type dynamics. In order to study the entanglement of the stationary states, we develop a perturbative approach and apply it to the physically significant case when a purely dissipative perturbation is added to the unperturbed generator which by itself would produce reversible unitary dynamics.

id: 1103.3818
title: Entanglement Patterns in Mutually Unbiased Basis Sets for N Prime-state Particles
authors: Jay Lawrence
comments: 27 pages, one figure, to be submitted to Physical Review
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3818
abstract: A few simply-stated rules govern the entanglement patterns that can occur in mutually unbiased basis sets (MUBs), and constrain the combinations of such patterns that can coexist (ie, the stoichiometry) in full complements of p^N+1 MUBs. We consider Hilbert spaces of prime power dimension (as realized by systems of N prime-state particles, or qupits), where full complements are known to exist, and we assume only that MUBs are eigenbases of generalized Pauli operators, without using a particular construction. The general rules include the following: 1) In any MUB, a particular qupit appears either in a pure state, or totally entangled, and 2) in any full MUB complement, each qupit is pure in p+1 bases (not necessarily the same ones), and totally entangled in the remaining p^N-p. It follows that the maximum number of product bases is p+1, and when this number is realized, all remaining p^N-p bases in the complement are characterized by the total entanglement of every qupit. This "standard distribution" is inescapable for two qupits (of any p), where only product and generalized Bell bases are admissible MUB types. This and the following results generalize previous results for qubits and qutrits. With three qupits there are three MUB types, and a number of combinations (p+2) are possible in full complements. With N=4, there are 6 MUB types for p=2, but new MUB types become possible with larger p, and these are essential to the realization of full complements. With this example, we argue that new MUB types, showing new entanglement characteristics, should enter with every step in N, and when N is a prime plus 1, also at critical p values, p=N-1. Such MUBs should play critical roles in filling complements.

id: 1103.3823
title: Efficient estimation of energy transfer efficiency in light-harvesting complexes
authors: Alireza Shabani, Masoud Mohseni, Herschel Rabitz, Seth Lloyd
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures, modified version, updated appendices and reference list
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86, 011915 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3823
abstract: The fundamental physical mechanisms of energy transfer in photosynthetic complexes is not yet fully understood. In particular, the degree of efficiency or sensitivity of these systems for energy transfer is not known given their non-perturbative and non-Markovian interactions with proteins backbone and surrounding photonic and phononic environments. One major problem in studying light-harvesting complexes has been the lack of an efficient method for simulation of their dynamics in biological environments. To this end, here we revisit the second-order time-convolution (TC2) master equation and examine its reliability beyond extreme Markovian and perturbative limits. In particular, we present a derivation of TC2 without making the usual weak system-bath coupling assumption. Using this equation, we explore the long time behaviour of exciton dynamics of Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) protein complex. Moreover, we introduce a constructive error analysis to estimate the accuracy of TC2 equation in calculating energy transfer efficiency, exhibiting reliable performance for environments with weak and intermediate memory and strength. Furthermore, we numerically show that energy transfer efficiency is optimal and robust for the FMO protein complex of green sulphur bacteria with respect to variations in reorganization energy and bath correlation time-scales.

id: 1103.3836
title: Ergodicity from Nonergodicity in Quantum Correlations of Low-dimensional Spin Systems
authors: R. Prabhu, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, RevTeX 4.1
journal: Europhys. Letts. 102, 30001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3836
abstract: Correlations between the parts of a many-body system, and its time dynamics, lie at the heart of sciences, and they can be classical as well as quantum. Quantum correlations are traditionally viewed as constituted out of classical correlations and magnetizations. While that of course remains so, we show that quantum correlations can have statistical mechanical properties like ergodicity, which is not inherited from the corresponding classical correlations and magnetizations, for the transverse anisotropic quantum XY model in one-, two-, and quasi two-dimension, for suitably chosen transverse fields and temperatures. The results have the potential for applications in decoherence effects in realizable quantum computers.

id: 1103.3894
title: Fidelity matters: the birth of entanglement in the interference of Gaussian states
authors: Stefano Olivares, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; revised version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 170505 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3894
abstract: We address the interaction of two Gaussian states interferring at a beam splitter and analyze the correlations exhibited by the resulting bipartite system. We demonstrate that nonlocal correlations (entanglement) arise if and only if the fidelity between the two input Gaussian states falls under a threshold value depending only on their purities and on the transmissivity of the beam splitter. Our result clarifies the role of squeezing as a prerequisite for entanglement and provide a tool to optimize the generation of entanglement by passive devices.

id: 1103.3899
title: Limit Theorems For Quantum Walks Associated with Hadamard Matrices
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A, Volume 84, Number 1,012324 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3899
abstract: We study a one-parameter family of discrete-time quantum walk models on the line and in the xy-plane associated with the Hadamard walk. Weak convergence in the long-time limit of all moments of the walker's pseudo-velocity on the line and in the xy-plane is proved. Symmetrization on the line and in the xy-plane is theoretically investigated, leading to the resolution of the Konno-Namiki-Soshi conjecture in the special case of symmetrization of the unbiased Hadamard walk on the line . A necessary condition for the existence of a phenomenon known as localization is given.

id: 1103.3914
title: Quantum corrections to the dynamics of the Bose-Einstein condensate in a double-well potential
authors: Wei Fan, Yan Xu, Bing Chen
comments: accepted by Internal Journal of Modern Physics B recently
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3914
abstract: The dynamics of the Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) in a double-well potential is of- ten investigated under the mean-field theory (MFT). This works successfully for large particle numbers with dynamical stability. But for dynamical instabilities, quantum cor- rections to the MFT becomes important [Phys.Rev.A 64, 013605(2001)]. Recently the adiabatic dynamics of the double-well BEC is investigated under the MFT in terms of a dark variable [Phys.Rev.A 81, 043621(2010)], which generalizes the adiabatic passage techniques in quantum optics to the nonlinear matter-wave case. We give a fully quan- tized version of it using second-quantization and introduce new correction terms from higher order interactions beyond the on-site interaction, which are interactions between the tunneling particle and the particle in the well and interactions between the tunneling particles. If only the on-site interaction is considered, this reduces to the usual two-mode BEC.

id: 1103.3962
title: Spin-orbit hybrid entanglement of photons and quantum contextuality
authors: Ebrahim Karimi, Jonathan Leach, Sergei Slussarenko, Bruno Piccirillo, Lorenzo Marrucci, Lixiang Chen, Weilong She, Sonja Franke-Arnold, Miles J. Padgett, Enrico Santamato
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 022115 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3962
abstract: We demonstrate electromagnetic quantum states of single photons and of correlated photon pairs exhibiting "hybrid" entanglement between spin and orbital angular momentum. These states are obtained from entangled photon pairs emitted by spontaneous parametric down conversion, by employing a $q$-plate for coupling the spin and orbital degrees of freedom of a photon. Entanglement and contextual quantum behavior (that is also non-local, in the case of photon pairs) is demonstrated by the reported violation of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt inequality. In addition a classical analog of the hybrid spin-orbit photonic entanglement is reported and discussed.

id: 1103.3974
title: Relativistic state reduction model
authors: Daniel Bedingham
comments: 7 pages, prepared for DICE2010 conference proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3974
abstract: In order to address the measurement problem of quantum theory we make the assumption that quantum state reduction should be regarded as a genuine physical process deserving of a dynamical description. Generalizing the nonrelativistic spontaneous localization models of Ghirardi, Rimini, Weber, and Pearle, a relativistic state reduction mechanism is proposed. The mechanism involves nonlinear stochastic modifications to the standard description of unitary state evolution and the introduction of a mediating field to facilitate smearing of quantum field interactions.

id: 1103.3980
title: How much contextuality?
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3980
abstract: The amount of contextuality is quantified in terms of the probability of the necessary violations of noncontextual assignments to counterfactual elements of physical reality.

id: 1103.3989
title: Proton radius, bound state QED and the nonlocality of the electromagnetic interaction
authors: Renat Kh. Gainutdinov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3989
abstract: The result of a recent measurement of the size of the proton [R. Pohl et al., Nature 466, 213] performed on the base of the muonic hydrogen spectroscopy turned out to be significantly different, by five standard deviations, from the results derived from the atomic hydrogen spectroscopy. This large discrepancy could come from the calculations of the Lamb shift in atomic hydrogen and muonic hydrogen. Here we show that there is a gap in the standard bound-state QED that may be the source of the discrepancy. This gap originates in the fact that within the framework of this theory the QED corrections are described in terms of the respective Green functions. The character of the time evolution of a system which should manifest itself in the general definition of bound states as stationary states of the system cannot be described in terms of the Green functions. We present a consistent way of solving the bound-state problem in QED starting from the condition of stationarity of the bound states. Formulae for the energies and the vectors of the states of one-electron (muon) atoms derived in this way indicate that the standard bound-state QED does not obey the exact description of the atomic states and, as a result, the Lamb shift obtained in its framework should be supplemented by an additional "dynamical" energy shift. It is shown that in this shift natural nonlocality of the electromagnetic interaction that in describing the S matrix and the Green functions is hidden in the renormalization procedure manifest itself explicitly.

id: 1103.3994
title: Entanglement and SU(n) symmetry in one-dimensional valence bond solid states
authors: Roman Orus, Hong-Hao Tu
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 201101(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3994
abstract: Here we evaluate the many-body entanglement properties of a generalized SU(n) valence bond solid state on a chain. Our results follow from a derivation of the transfer matrix of the system which, in combination with symmetry properties, allows for a new, elegant and straightforward evaluation of different entanglement measures. In particular, the geometric entanglement per block, correlation length, von Neumann and R\'enyi entropies of a block, localizable entanglement and entanglement length are obtained in a very simple way. All our results are in agreement with previous derivations for the SU(2) case.

id: 1103.4001
title: The horizons of observability in PT-symmetric four-site quantum lattices
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 18 pp, 20 figures, contribution to the proceedings of the AAMP-VII meeting (this http URL)
journal: Acta Polytechnica 51 (2011) 104 - 113
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4001
abstract: The "Hermitizability" problem of quantum theory is explained, discussed and illustrated via the discrete-lattice cryptohermitian quantum graphs. In detail, the description of the domain ${\cal D}$ of admissible parameters is provided for the "circular-model" three-parametric quantum Hamiltonian $H$ using periodic boundary conditions. It is emphasized that even in such an elementary system the weak- and strong-coupling subdomains of ${\cal D}$ become, unexpectedly, non-empty and disconnected.

id: 1103.4017
title: Statistical properties of one dimensional attractive Bose gas
authors: Przemyslaw Bienias, Krzysztof Pawlowski, Mariusz Gajda, Kazimierz Rzazewski
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4017
abstract: Using classical field approximation we present the first study of statistical properties of one dimensional Bose gas with attractive interaction. The canonical probability distribution is generated with the help of a Monte Carlo method. This way we obtain not only the depletion of the condensate with growing temperature but also its fluctuations. The most important is our discovery of a reduced coherence length, the phenomenon observed earlier only for the repulsive gas, known as quasicondensation.

id: 1103.4021
title: Entangling two distant nanocavities via a waveguide
authors: Hua-Tang Tan, Wei-Min Zhang, Gao-xiang Li
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A83, 062310 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4021
abstract: In this paper, we investigate the generation of continuous variable entanglement between two spatially-separate nanocavities mediated by a coupled resonator optical waveguide in photonic crystals. By solving the exact dynamics of the cavity system coupled to the waveguide, the entanglement and purity of the two-mode cavity state are discussed in detail for the initially separated squeezing inputs. It is found that the stable and pure entangled state of the two distant nanocavities can be achieved with the requirement of only a weak cavity-waveguide coupling when the cavities are resonant with the band center of the waveguide. The strong couplings between the cavities and the waveguide lead to the entanglement sudden death and sudden birth. When the frequencies of the cavities lie outside the band of the waveguide, the waveguide-induced cross frequency shift between the cavities can optimize the achievable entanglement. It is also shown that the entanglement can be easily manipulated through the changes of the cavity frequencies within the waveguide band.

id: 1103.4032
title: All non-classical correlations can be activated into distillable entanglement
authors: Marco Piani, Sevag Gharibian, Gerardo Adesso, John Calsamiglia, Pawel Horodecki, Andreas Winter
comments: 4+4 pages, 1 figure. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 220403 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4032
abstract: We devise a protocol in which general non-classical multipartite correlations produce a physically relevant effect, leading to the creation of bipartite entanglement. In particular, we show that the relative entropy of quantumness, which measures all non-classical correlations among subsystems of a quantum system, is equivalent to and can be operationally interpreted as the minimum distillable entanglement generated between the system and local ancillae in our protocol. We emphasize the key role of state mixedness in maximizing non-classicality: Mixed entangled states can be arbitrarily more non-classical than separable and pure entangled states.

id: 1103.4033
title: Clusters of Exceptional Points for a Laser Control of Selective Vibrational Transfer
authors: Roland Lefebvre, Amine Jaouadi, Osman Atabek
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4033
abstract: When a molecule is exposed to a laser field, all field-free vibrational states become resonances, with complex quasi energies calculated using Floquet theory. There are many ways to produce the coalescences of pairs of such quasi energies, with appropriate wavelength-intensity choices which define Exceptional Points (EP) in the laser parameter plane. We dress for the molecular ion H$_2^+$ an exhaustive map of these exceptional points which appear in clusters. Such clusters can be used to define several vibrational transfer scenarios implying more than a single exceptional point, exchanging single or multiple vibrational quanta. The ultimate goal is molecular vibrational cooling by transferring an initial (thermal, for instance) population on a final (ground, for instance) single vibrational state. When a molecule is exposed to a laser field, all field-free vibrational states become resonances, with complex quasi energies calculated using Floquet theory. There are many ways to produce the coalescences of pairs of such quasi energies, with appropriate wavelength-intensity choices which define Exceptional Points (EP) in the laser parameter plane. We dress for the molecular ion H$_2^+$ an exhaustive map of these exceptional points which appear in clusters. Such clusters can be used to define several vibrational transfer scenarios implying more than a single exceptional point, exchanging single or multiple vibrational quanta. The ultimate goal is molecular vibrational cooling by transferring an initial (thermal, for instance) population on a final (ground, for instance) single vibrational state.

id: 1103.4035
title: Comments on: "Impossibility of the existence of the universal density functional"
authors: Ramon A. Miranda Quintana, Daniel Codorniu Pujals
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4035
abstract: An analisys is done about the paper "Impossibility of the existence of the universal density functional" of V.B. Bobrov and S.A. Trigger considering the constrained-search reformulation of DFT.

id: 1103.4077
title: Angular Schmidt Modes in Spontaneous Parametric Down-Conversion
authors: S.S.Straupe, D.P.Ivanov, A.A.Kalinkin, I.B.Bobrov, S.P.Kulik
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 060302(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4077
abstract: We report a proof-of-principle experiment demonstrating that appropriately chosen set of Hermite-Gaussian modes constitutes a Schmidt decomposition for transverse momentum states of biphotons generated in the process of spontaneous parametric down conversion. We experimentally realize projective measurements in Schmidt basis and observe correlations between appropriate pairs of modes. We perform tomographical state reconstruction in the Schmidt basis, by direct measurement of single-photon density matrix eigenvalues.

id: 1103.4081
title: Large Quantum Superpositions and Interference of Massive Nanometer-Sized Objects
authors: O. Romero-Isart, A. C. Pflanzer, F. Blaser, R. Kaltenbaek, N. Kiesel, M. Aspelmeyer, J. I. Cirac
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, to appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 020405 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4081
abstract: We propose a method to prepare and verify spatial quantum superpositions of a nanometer-sized object separated by distances of the order of its size. This method provides unprecedented bounds for objective collapse models of the wave function by merging techniques and insights from cavity quantum optomechanics and matter wave interferometry. An analysis and simulation of the experiment is performed taking into account standard sources of decoherence. We provide an operational parameter regime using present day and planned technology.

id: 1103.4091
title: Energy Spectrum and Exact Cover in an Extended Quantum Ising Model
authors: G. M. M. Wakker, R. Ockhorst, M. Blaauboer
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022337 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4091
abstract: We investigate an extended version of the quantum Ising model which includes beyond-nearest neighbour interactions and an additional site-dependent longitudinal magnetic field. Treating the interaction exactly and using perturbation theory in the longitudinal field, we calculate the energy spectrum and find that the presence of beyond-nearest-neighbour interactions enhances the minimal gap between the ground state and the first excited state, irrespective of the nature of decay of these interactions along the chain. The longitudinal field adds a correction to this gap that is independent of the number of qubits. We discuss the application of our model to implementing specific instances of 3-satisfiability problems (Exact Cover) and make a connection to a chain of flux qubits.

id: 1103.4105
title: Semi-device-independent security of one-way quantum key distribution
authors: Marcin Pawlowski, Nicolas Brunner
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 010302(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4105
abstract: By testing nonlocality, the security of entanglement-based quantum key distribution (QKD) can be enhanced to being 'device-independent'. Here we ask whether such a strong form of security could also be established for one-way (prepare and measure) QKD. While fully device-independent security is impossible, we show that security can be guaranteed against individual attacks in a semi-device-independent scenario. In the latter, the devices used by the trusted parties are non-characterized, but the dimensionality of the quantum systems used in the protocol is assumed to be bounded. Our security proof relies on the analogies between one-way QKD, dimension witnesses and random-access codes.

id: 1103.4129
title: The Fermi problem with artificial atoms in circuit QED
authors: Carlos Sabin, Marco del Rey, Juan Jose Garcia-Ripoll, Juan Leon
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; typos corrected, introduction revised and experimental discussion extended, results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 107, 150402 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4129
abstract: We propose a feasible experimental test of a 1-D version of the Fermi problem using superconducting qubits. We give an explicit non-perturbative proof of strict causality in this model, showing that the probability of excitation of a two-level artificial atom with a dipolar coupling to a quantum field is completely independent of the other qubit until signals from it may arrive. We explain why this is in perfect agreement with the existence of nonlocal correlations and previous results which were used to claim apparent causality problems for Fermi's two-atom system.

id: 1103.4130
title: Tight Finite-Key Analysis for Quantum Cryptography
authors: Marco Tomamichel, Charles Ci Wen Lim, Nicolas Gisin, Renato Renner
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Nat. Commun. 3, 634 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4130
abstract: Despite enormous progress both in theoretical and experimental quantum cryptography, the security of most current implementations of quantum key distribution is still not established rigorously. One of the main problems is that the security of the final key is highly dependent on the number, M, of signals exchanged between the legitimate parties. While, in any practical implementation, M is limited by the available resources, existing security proofs are often only valid asymptotically for unrealistically large values of M. Here, we demonstrate that this gap between theory and practice can be overcome using a recently developed proof technique based on the uncertainty relation for smooth entropies. Specifically, we consider a family of Bennett-Brassard 1984 quantum key distribution protocols and show that security against general attacks can be guaranteed already for moderate values of M.

id: 1103.4150
title: Finite-time quantum-to-classical transition for a Schroedinger-cat state
authors: Janika Paavola, Michael J. W. Hall, Matteo G. A. Paris, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 9+epsilon pages, 4 figures, published version. Originally submitted as "Sudden death of the Schroedinger cat", a bit too cool for APS policy :-)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012121 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4150
abstract: The transition from quantum to classical, in the case of a quantum harmonic oscillator, is typically identified with the transition from a quantum superposition of macroscopically distinguishable states, such as the Schr\"odinger cat state, into the corresponding statistical mixture. This transition is commonly characterized by the asymptotic loss of the interference term in the Wigner representation of the cat state. In this paper we show that the quantum to classical transition has different dynamical features depending on the measure for nonclassicality used. Measures based on an operatorial definition have well defined physical meaning and allow a deeper understanding of the quantum to classical transition. Our analysis shows that, for most nonclassicality measures, the Schr\"odinger cat dies after a finite time. Moreover, our results challenge the prevailing idea that more macroscopic states are more susceptible to decoherence in the sense that the transition from quantum to classical occurs faster. Since nonclassicality is prerequisite for entanglement generation our results also bridge the gap between decoherence, which appears to be only asymptotic, and entanglement, which may show a sudden death. In fact, whereas the loss of coherences still remains asymptotic, we have shown that the transition from quantum to classical can indeed occur at a finite time.

id: 1103.4174
title: Improved Error Bounds for the Adiabatic Approximation
authors: Donny Cheung, Peter Hoyer, Nathan Wiebe
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 415302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4174
abstract: Since the discovery of adiabatic quantum computing, a need has arisen for rigorously proven bounds for the error in the adiabatic approximation. We present in this paper, a rigorous and elementary derivation of upper and lower bounds on the error incurred from using the adiabatic approximation for quantum systems. Our bounds are often asymptotically tight in the limit of slow evolution for fixed Hamiltonians, and are used to provide sufficient conditions for the application of the adiabatic approximation. We show that our sufficiency criteria exclude the Marzlin--Sanders counterexample from the class of Hamiltonians that obey the adiabatic approximation. Finally, we demonstrate the existence of classes of Hamiltonians that resemble the Marzlin--Sanders counterexample Hamiltonian, but also obey the adiabatic approximation.

id: 1103.4185
title: Discrete Time Quantum Walk Approach to State Transfer
authors: Pawel Kurzynski, Antoni Wojcik
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062315 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4185
abstract: We show that a quantum state transfer, previously studied as a continuous time process in networks of interacting spins, can be achieved within the model of discrete time quantum walks with position dependent coin. We argue that due to additional degrees of freedom, discrete time quantum walks allow to observe e?ects which cannot be observed in the corresponding continuous time case. First, we study a discrete time version of the engineered coupling protocol due to Christandl et. al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 187902 (2004)] and then discuss the general idea of conversion between continuous time quantum walks and discrete time quantum walks.

id: 1103.4197
title: Nondeterminstic ultrafast ground state cooling of a mechanical resonator
authors: Yong Li, Lian-Ao Wu, Ying-Dan Wang, Li-Ping Yang
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4197
abstract: We present an ultrafast feasible scheme for ground state cooling of a mechanical resonator via repeated random time-interval measurements on an auxiliary flux qubit. We find that the ground state cooling can be achieved with \emph{several} such measurements. The cooling efficiency hardly depends on the time-intervals between any two consecutive measurements. The scheme is also robust against environmental noises.

id: 1103.4199
title: Demonstrating various quantum effects with two entangled laser beams
authors: B. Hage, J. Janou?ek, S. Armstrong, T. Symul, J. Bernu, H.M. Chrzanowski, P.K. Lam, H.A. Bachor
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4199
abstract: We report on the preparation of entangled two mode squeezed states of yet unseen quality. Based on a measurement of the covariance matrix we found a violation of the Reid and Drummond EPR-criterion at a value of only 0.36\pm0.03 compared to the threshold of 1. Furthermore, quantum state tomography was used to extract a single photon Fock state solely based on homodyne detection, demonstrating the strong quantum features of this pair of laser-beams. The probability for a single photon in this ensemble measurement exceeded 2/3.

id: 1103.4240
title: Bloch space structure, the qutrit wave function and atom-field entanglement in three-level systems
authors: Surajit Sen, Mihir Ranjan Nath, Tushar Kanti Dey, Gautam Gangopadhyay
comments: 33 pages, 6 figures, revised version
journal: Annals of Physics, 327 (2012) 224-252
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4240
abstract: We have given a novel formulation of the exact solutions for the lambda, vee and cascade three-level systems where the Hamiltonian of each configuration is expressed in the SU(3) basis. The solutions are discussed from the perspective of the Bloch equation and the atom-field entanglement scenario. For the semiclassical systems, the Bloch space structure of each configuration is studied by solving the corresponding Bloch equation and it is shown that at resonance, the eight-dimensional Bloch sphere is broken up into two distinct subspaces due to the existence of a pair of quadratic constants. Because of the different structure of the Hamiltonian in the SU(3) basis, the non-linear constants are found to be distinct for different configurations. We propose a possible representation of the qutrit wave function and show its equivalence with the three-level system. Taking the bichromatic cavity modes to be in the coherent state, the amplitudes of all three quantized systems are calculated by developing an Euler angle based dressed state scheme. Finally following the Phoenix-Knight formalism, the interrelation between the atom-field entanglement and population inversion for all configurations is studied and the existence of collapses and revivals of two different types is pointed out for the equidistant cascade system in particular.

id: 1103.4294
title: Purification of genuine multipartite entanglement
authors: Marcus Huber, Martin Plesch
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062321 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4294
abstract: In tasks, where multipartite entanglement plays a central role, state purification is, due to inevitable noise, a crucial part of the procedure. We consider a scenario exploiting the multipartite entanglement in a straightforward multipartite purification algorithm and compare it to bipartite purification procedures combined with state teleportation. While complete purification requires an infinite amount of input states in both cases, we show that for an imperfect output fidelity the multipartite procedure exhibits a major advantage in terms of input states used.

id: 1103.4318
title: Philosophical lessons of entanglement
authors: Anthony Sudbery
comments: Talk given at 75 Years of Quantum Entanglement, Kolkata, India, 10 January 2011
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1384, 7-14 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4318
abstract: The quantum-mechanical description of the world, including human observers, makes substantial use of entanglement. In order to understand this, we need to adopt concepts of truth, probability and time which are unfamiliar in modern scientific thought. There are two kinds of statements about the world: those made from inside the world, and those from outside. The conflict between contradictory statements which both appear to be true can be resolved by recognising that they are made in different perspectives. Probability, in an objective sense, belongs in the internal perspective, and to statements in the future tense. Such statements obey a many-valued logic, in which the truth values are identified as probabilities.

id: 1103.4332
title: Real-time feedback control of a mesoscopic superposition
authors: Kurt Jacobs, Justin Finn, Sai Vinjanampathy
comments: 4 pages, revtex4, 1 png figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 041801(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4332
abstract: We show that continuous real-time feedback can be used to track, control, and protect a mesoscopic superposition of two spatially separated wave-packets. The feedback protocol is enabled by an approximate state-estimator, and requires two continuous measurements, performed simultaneously. For nanomechanical and superconducting resonators, both measurements can be implemented by coupling the resonators to superconducting qubits.

id: 1103.4355
title: Generating coherent state of entangled spins
authors: Hongyi Yu, Yu Luo, Wang Yao
comments: updated version to appear on Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032337 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4355
abstract: A coherent state of many spins contains quantum entanglement which increases with a decrease in the collective spin value. We present a scheme to engineer this class of pure state based on incoherent spin pumping with a few collective raising/lowering operators. In a pumping scenario aimed for maximum entanglement, the steady-state of N pumped spin qubits realizes the ideal resource for the 1 to N/2 quantum telecloning. We show how the scheme can be implemented in a realistic system of atomic spin qubits in optical lattice. Error analysis show that high fidelity state engineering is possible for N ~ O(100) spins in the presence of decoherence. The scheme can also prepare a resource state for the secret sharing protocol and for the construction of large scale Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki (AKLT) state.

id: 1103.4381
title: Quantum random number generators and their use in cryptography
authors: Mario Stipcevic
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4381
abstract: Random number generators (RNG) are an important resource in many areas: cryptography (both quantum and classical), probabilistic computation (Monte Carlo methods), numerical simulations, industrial testing and labeling, hazard games, scientific research, etc. Because today's computers are deterministic, they can not create random numbers unless complemented with a RNG. Randomness of a RNG can be precisely, scientifically characterized and measured. Especially valuable is the information-theoretic provable RNG (True RNG - TRNG) which, at state of the art, seem to be possible only by use of physical randomness inherent to certain (simple) quantum systems. On the other hand, current industry standard dictates use of RNG's based on free running oscillators (FRO) whose randomness is derived from electronics noise present in logic circuits and which cannot be strictly proven. This approach is currently used in 3-rd and 4-th generation FPGA and ASIC hardware, unsuitable for realization of quantum TRNG. We compare weak and strong aspects of the two approaches and discuss possibility of building quantum TRNG in the recently appeared Mixed Signal FPGA technology. Finally, we discuss several examples where use of a TRNG is critical and show how it can significantly improve security of cryptographic systems.

id: 1103.4383
title: Exact solution of the Schrodinger equation with the spin-boson Hamiltonian
authors: Bartlomiej Gardas
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX, to appear in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 195301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4383
abstract: We address the problem of obtaining the exact reduced dynamics of the spin-half (qubit) immersed within the bosonic bath (enviroment). An exact solution of the Schrodinger equation with the paradigmatic spin-boson Hamiltonian is obtained. We believe that this result is a major step ahead and may ultimately contribute to the complete resolution of the problem in question. We also construct the constant of motion for the spin-boson system. In contrast to the standard techniques available within the framework of the open quantum systems theory, our analysis is based on the theory of block operator matrices.

id: 1103.4396
title: Study of Multiple Rounds of Error Correction in Solid State NMR QIP
authors: Ben Criger, Osama Moussa, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 10 pages, 15 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4396
abstract: Methods to control errors will be essential for quantum information processing. It is widely believed that fault-tolerant quantum error correction is the leading contender to achieve this goal. Although the theory of fault-tolerant quantum error correction is very well understood, experimental implementation has been lagging. We study the feasibility of implementing repeated rounds of quantum error correction with refreshed ancillas in solid state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). In particular we study the procedure proposed for extracting entropy that consists of two stages; an error correcting code optimized to function at finite temperature, and an implementation of heat-bath algorithmic cooling to refresh the ancilla qubits. Two algorithms are presented which implement this method, one for performing tests on 4 qubits, the other for practical implementation on 6 qubits. The effects of imperfect implementation are examined in both the error correction and refreshing stages.

id: 1103.4411
title: Atom state evolution and collapse in ultracold gases during light scattering into a cavity
authors: Igor B. Mekhov, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Laser Phys. 21, 1486 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4411
abstract: We consider the light scattering from ultracold atoms trapped in an optical lattice inside a cavity. In such a system, both the light and atomic motion should be treated in a fully quantum mechanical way. The unitary evolution of the light-matter quantum state is shown to demonstrate the non-trivial phase dependence, quadratic in the atom number. This is essentially due to the dynamical self-consistent nature of the light modes assumed in our model. The collapse of the quantum state during the photocounting process is analyzed as well. It corresponds to the measurement-induced atom number squeezing. We show that, at the final stage of the state collapse, the shrinking of the width of the atom number distribution behaves exponentially in time. This is much faster than the square root time dependence, obtained for the initial stage of the state collapse. The exponentially fast squeezing appears due to the discrete nature of the atom number distribution.

id: 1103.4421
title: Zeptometer displacement sensing using a superconducting nonlinear interferometer
authors: Dian Wahyu Utami, Stojan Rebic, Jason Twamley
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4421
abstract: We propose a design for a superconducting nonlinear interferometer operating at microwave frequencies which allows the measurement of the optical nonlinearity \eta, with a precision which scales better than the Heisenberg-like limit as \delta \eta similar to R^{-3/2}, with R the quantification of resources. By designing the nonlinear optical element to possess physically moving parts we are able to use the superconducting nonlinear interferometer to measure the physical displacement r, of the moving parts to a spatial precision of \delta (rt) on the order of 10^{-21}m/Hz

id: 1103.4500
title: Local Gaussian operations can enhance continuous-variable entanglement distillation
authors: ShengLi Zhang, Peter van Loock
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4500
abstract: Entanglement distillation is a fundamental building block in long-distance quantum communication. Though known to be useless on their own for distilling Gaussian entangled states, local Gaussian operations may still help to improve non-Gaussian entanglement distillation schemes. Here we show that by applying local squeezing operations, both the performance and the efficiency of existing distillation protocols can be enhanced. We derive the optimal enhancement through local Gaussian unitaries, which can be obtained even in the most natural scenario when Gaussian mixed entangled states are shared after their distribution through a lossy-fiber communication channel.

id: 1103.4542
title: Parametrizations of density matrices
authors: E. Br¨¹ning, H. M?kel?, A. Messina, F. Petruccione
comments: 31 pages. v2: 32 pages, Abstract and Introduction rewritten and Conclusion section added, references added
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 59, 1-20 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4542
abstract: This article gives a brief overview of some recent progress in the characterization and parametrization of density matrices of finite dimensional systems. We discuss in some detail the Bloch-vector and Jarlskog parametrizations and mention briefly the coset parametrization. As applications of the Bloch parametrization we discuss the trace invariants for the case of time dependent Hamiltonians and in some detail the dynamics of three-level systems. Furthermore, the Bloch vector of two-qubit systems as well as the use of the polarization operator basis is indicated. As the main application of the Jarlskog parametrization we construct density matrices for composite systems. In addition, some recent related articles are mentioned without further discussion.

id: 1103.4546
title: Localization effects induced by decoherence in superpositions of many-spin quantum states
authors: Gonzalo A. Alvarez, Dieter Suter
comments: 12 pages, 13 figures. Revised version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012320 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4546
abstract: The spurious interaction of quantum systems with their environment known as decoherence leads, as a function of time, to a decay of coherence of superposition states. Since the interactions between system and environment are local, they can also cause a loss of spatial coherence: correlations between spatially distant parts of the system are lost and the equilibrium states can become localized. This effect limits the distance over which quantum information can be transmitted, e.g., along a spin chain. We investigate this issue in a nuclear magnetic resonance quantum simulator, where it is possible to monitor the spreading of quantum information in a three-dimensional network: states that are initially localized on individual spins (qubits) spread under the influence of a suitable Hamiltonian apparently without limits. If we add a perturbation to this Hamiltonian, the spreading stops and the system reaches a limiting size, which becomes smaller as the strength of the perturbation increases. This limiting size appears to represent a dynamical equilibrium. We present a phenomenological model to describe these results.

id: 1103.4563
title: Robust dynamical decoupling for quantum computing and quantum memory
authors: Alexandre M. Souza, Gonzalo A. Alvarez, Dieter Suter
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 240501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4563
abstract: Dynamical decoupling (DD) is a popular technique for protecting qubits from the environment. However, unless special care is taken, experimental errors in the control pulses used in this technique can destroy the quantum information instead of preserving it. Here, we investigate techniques for making DD sequences robust against different types of experimental errors while retaining good decoupling efficiency in a fluctuating environment. We present experimental data from solid-state nuclear spin qubits and introduce a new DD sequence that is suitable for quantum computing and quantum memory.

id: 1103.4606
title: Universal topological phase of 2D stabilizer codes
authors: H. Bombin, Guillaume Duclos-Cianci, David Poulin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 073048
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4606
abstract: Two topological phases are equivalent if they are connected by a local unitary transformation. In this sense, classifying topological phases amounts to classifying long-range entanglement patterns. We show that all 2D topological stabilizer codes are equivalent to several copies of one universal phase: Kitaev's topological code. Error correction benefits from the corresponding local mappings.

id: 1103.4625
title: Zitterbewegung is not an observable
authors: R. F. O'Connell
comments: 
journal: Modern Physics Letters A 26, 469-471 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4625
abstract: It has recently been claimed that Zitterbewegung has been observed. However, we argue that it is not an observable and that the authors' observations must be reinterpreted.

id: 1103.4641
title: Single-step implementation of the controlled-Z gate in a qubit/bus/qubit device
authors: Andrei Galiautdinov
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4641
abstract: We propose a simple scheme for generating a high-fidelity controlled-Z (CZ) gate in a three-component qubit/bus/qubit device. The corresponding tune/detune pulse is single-step, with a near-resonant constant undershoot between the 200 and 101 states. During the pulse, the frequency of the first qubit is kept fixed, while the frequency of the second qubit is varied in such a way as to bring the 200 and 101 states close to resonance. As a result, the phase of the 101 state is accumulated via the corresponding second-order anticrossing. For experimentally realistic qubit frequencies and a 75 MHz coupling (150 MHz splitting), a 45 ns gate time can be realized with >99.99% intrinsic fidelity, with errors arising due to the non-adiabaticity of the ramps. The CZ pulse is characterized by two adjustable parameters: the undershoot magnitude and undershoot duration. The pulse does not load an excitation into the bus. This by-passes the previously proposed need for two additional qubit-to-bus and bus-to-qubit MOVE operations. Combined with the recently predicted high-fidelity idling operation in the RezQu architecture [A. Galiautdinov, J. Martinis, A. Korotkov (unpublished)], this controlled-Z scheme may prove useful for implementations on the first generation quantum computers.

id: 1103.4733
title: Quantum model for electro-optical amplitude modulation
authors: Jose Capmany, Carlos R. Fernandez-Pousa
comments: !5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Opt. Express 18, 25127-25142 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4733
abstract: We present a quantum model for electro-optic amplitude modulation, which is built upon quantum models of the main photonic components that constitute the modulator, that is, the guided-wave beamsplitter and the electro-optic phase modulator and accounts for all the different available modulator structures. General models are developed both for single and dual drive configurations and specific results are obtained for the most common configurations currently employed. Finally, the operation with two-photon input for the control of phase-modulated photons and the important topic of multicarrier modulation are also addressed.

id: 1103.4737
title: Quantum fluctuations as deviation from classical dynamics of ensemble of trajectories parameterized by unbiased hidden random variable
authors: Agung Budiyono
comments: 14 pages, accepted in Physica A
journal: Physica A 391 (2012) 3102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4737
abstract: A quantization method based on replacement of c-number by c-number parameterized by an unbiased hidden random variable is developed. In contrast to canonical quantization, the replacement has straightforward physical interpretation as statistical modification of classical dynamics of ensemble of trajectories, and implies a unique operator ordering. We then apply the method to develop quantum measurement without wave function collapse \'a la pilot-wave theory.

id: 1103.4747
title: Quantum Modelling of Electro-Optic Modulators
authors: Jose Capmany, Carlos R. Fernandez-Pousa
comments: 29 pages, 10 figures, Laser and Photonics Reviews (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4747
abstract: Many components that are employed in quantum information and communication systems are well known photonic devices encountered in standard optical fiber communication systems, such as optical beamsplitters, waveguide couplers and junctions, electro-optic modulators and optical fiber links. The use of these photonic devices is becoming increasingly important especially in the context of their possible integration either in a specifically designed system or in an already deployed end-to-end fiber link. Whereas the behavior of these devices is well known under the classical regime, in some cases their operation under quantum conditions is less well understood. This paper reviews the salient features of the quantum scattering theory describing both the operation of the electro-optic phase and amplitude modulators in discrete and continuous-mode formalisms. This subject is timely and of importance in light of the increasing utilization of these devices in a variety of systems, including quantum key distribution and single-photon wavepacket measurement and conformation. In addition, the paper includes a tutorial development of the use of these models in selected but yet important applications, such as single and multi-tone modulation of photons, two-photon interference with phase-modulated light or the description of amplitude modulation as a quantum operation.

id: 1103.4810
title: A Conjecture on the Amount of Non-Locality
authors: Alexei Grinbaum
comments: 5 pages. Typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4810
abstract: Imagine a world in which there exist physical resources for non-local correlations whose CHSH value lies between 2 and $X\leq 4$. Assume that such resources can be mixed in some sense. Using Connes's result on the extension of characteristic 1 semi-rings, we conjecture a possible motivation for quantum mechanical resources obeying the Tsirelson bound $X=2\sqrt{2}$.

id: 1103.4816
title: Nanoscale magnetometry using a single spin system in diamond
authors: R. S. Said, D. W. Berry, J. Twamley
comments: 8 pages and 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 125410 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4816
abstract: We propose a protocol to estimate magnetic fields using a single nitrogen-vacancy (N-V) center in diamond, where the estimate precision scales inversely with time, ~1/T$, rather than the square-root of time. The method is based on converting the task of magnetometry into phase estimation, performing quantum phase estimation on a single N-V nuclear spin using either adaptive or nonadaptive feedback control, and the recently demonstrated capability to perform single-shot readout within the N-V [P. Neumann et. al., Science 329, 542 (2010)]. We present numerical simulations to show that our method provides an estimate whose precision scales close to ~1/T (T is the total estimation time), and moreover will give an unambiguous estimate of the static magnetic field experienced by the N-V. By combining this protocol with recent proposals for scanning magnetometry using an N-V, our protocol will provide a significant decrease in signal acquisition time while providing an unambiguous spatial map of the magnetic field.

id: 1103.4832
title: Characterization process of emission sources of spin entangled pairs with several species
authors: Francisco Delgado
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4832
abstract: Normally, sources of entangled pairs generate several species of them. This work proposes a characterization algorithm for relatively general bipartite entangled states, generating several standard Bell states with controlled population as output.

id: 1103.4836
title: Teleportation algorithm using two species of entangled pairs
authors: Francisco Delgado
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4836
abstract: Teleportation algorithm assumes specific Bell states as input, but actual sources typically generates more than one. This work presents a teleportation algorithm for a two Bell states mixture, including remaining distortion from previous control process.

id: 1103.4856
title: Pinning quantum phase transition of photons in a hollow-core fiber
authors: MingXia Huo, Dimitris G. Angelakis
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Comments welcomed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 023821 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4856
abstract: We show that a pinning quantum phase transition for photons could be observed in a hollow-core one-dimensional fiber loaded with a cold atomic gas. Utilizing the strong light confinement in the fiber, a range of different strongly correlated polaritonic and photonic states, corresponding to both strong and weak interactions can be created and probed. The key ingredient is the creation of a tunable effective lattice potential acting on the interacting polaritonic gas which is possible by slightly modulating the atomic density. We analyze the relevant phase diagram corresponding to the realizable Bose-Hubbard (weak) and sine-Gordon (strong) interacting regimes and conclude by describing the measurement process. The latter consists of mapping the stationary excitations to propagating light pulses whose correlations can be efficiently probed once they exit the fiber using available optical technologies

id: 1103.4889
title: Criteria For $K$-Separability Of Multipartite Quantum State
authors: Zhi-Hao Ma, Zhi-Hua Chen, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4889
abstract: We derive criteria for $k$-separability of multipartite Quantum state

id: 1103.4903
title: Multipartite entanglement for open system in noninertial frames
authors: Wenpin Zhang, Jiliang Jing
comments: 19 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4903
abstract: Based on Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger ($GHZ$) and $W$ initial states, the tripartite entanglement of a fermionic system under the amplitude damping channel and in depolarizing noise when two subsystems accelerated is investigated. Unlike the case of two-qubit system in which sudden death occurs easily, we find here that the sudden death never occurs even all subsystems are under the noise environment. We note that both acceleration and environment can destroy the symmetry between the subsystems, but the effect of environment is much stronger than that of acceleration. We also show that an entanglement rebound process will take place when $P>0.75$ in the depolarizing noise and the larger acceleration will result in the weaker rebound process.

id: 1103.4949
title: Violation of a temporal Bell inequality for single spins in solid by over 50 standard deviations
authors: G. Waldherr, P. Neumann, S. F. Huelga, F. Jelezko, J. Wrachtrup
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 107, 129901 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4949
abstract: Quantum non-locality has been experimentally investigated by testing different forms of Bell's inequality, yet a loophole-free realization has not been achieved up to now. Much less explored are temporal Bell inequalities, which are not subject to the locality assumption, but impose a constrain on the system's time-correlations. In this paper, we report on the experimental violation of a temporal Bell's inequality using a nitrogen vacancy defect (NV) in diamond and provide a novel quantitative test of quantum coherence. We therefore present a new technique to initialize the electronic state of the NV with high fidelity, a necessary requirement for reliable quantum information processing and/or the implementation of protocols for quantum metrology.

id: 1103.4989
title: The H$_2^+$ molecular ion: a solution
authors: Alexander V. Turbiner, Horacio Olivares-Pil¨®n
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, 6 tables, typos are corrected and small additions are inserted, to be published at JPB (fast track comm)
journal: Journ of Phys B 44 (2011) 101002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4989
abstract: Combining the WKB expansion at large distances and Perturbation Theory at small distances it is constructed a compact uniform approximation for eigenfunctions. For lowest states $1s\si_{g}$ and $2p\si_{u}$ this approximation provides the relative accuracy $\lesssim 10^{-5}$ (5 s.d.) for any real $x$ in eigenfunctions and for total energy $E(R)$ it gives 10-11 s.d. for internuclear distances $R \in [0,50]$. Corrections to proposed approximations are evaluated. Separation constants and the oscillator strength for the transition $1s\si_{g} \rar 2p\si_{u}$ are calculated and compared with existing data.

id: 1103.5014
title: Independent nonclassical tests for states and measurements in the same experiment
authors: Alfredo Luis, ?ngel Rivas
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures. Proceedings of 17th CEWQO 2010
journal: Phys. Scr. T143, 014015 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5014
abstract: We show that one single experiment can test simultaneously and independently both the nonclassicality of states and measurements by the violation or fulfillment of classical bounds on the statistics. Nonideal measurements affected by imperfections can be characterized by two bounds depending on whether we test the ideal measurement or the real one.

id: 1103.5037
title: Stabilizer notation for Spekkens' toy theory
authors: Matthew F. Pusey
comments: 7+4 pages, 5 tables. v2: Clarifications added and typos fixed in response to referee comments
journal: Found. Phys. 42, 688 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5037
abstract: Spekkens has introduced a toy theory [Phys. Rev. A, 75, 032110 (2007)] in order to argue for an epistemic view of quantum states. I describe a notation for the theory (excluding certain joint measurements) which makes its similarities and differences with the quantum mechanics of stabilizer states clear. Given an application of the qubit stabilizer formalism, it is often entirely straightforward to construct an analogous application of the notation to the toy theory. This assists calculations within the toy theory, for example of the number of possible states and transformations, and enables superpositions to be defined for composite systems.

id: 1103.5058
title: Communication cost of simulating entanglement swapping
authors: Nicolas Brunner, Cyril Branciard, Nicolas Gisin, Denis Rosset
comments: 4 pages. This paper has been withdrawn by the authors. It is actually shown in Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 100401 (2012) (preprint arXiv:1203.0445) that entanglement swapping can be simulated in a bilocal manner with finite communication, which contradicts the wrong claims of this paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5058
abstract: Entanglement appears in two different ways in quantum mechanics, namely as a property of states and as a property of measurement outcomes in joint measurements. By combining these two aspects of entanglement, it is possible to generate nonlocality between particles that never interacted, using the protocol of entanglement swapping. We investigate the communication cost of classically simulating this process. While the communication cost of simulating nonlocal correlations of entangled states appears to be generally quite low, we show here that infinite communication is required to simulate entanglement swapping. This result is derived in the scenario of bilocality, where distant sources of particles are assumed to be independent, and takes advantage of a previous result of Massar et al. [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 63}, 052305 (2001)]. Our result implies that any classical model simulating entanglement swapping must either assume that (i) infinite shared randomness is available between any two locations in the universe, or that (ii) infinite communication takes place.

id: 1103.5065
title: Decoherence and dephasing errors caused by D.C. Stark effect in rapid ion transport
authors: Hoi-Kwan Lau, Daniel F.V. James
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. v2: Title is changed in this version to make our argument more focused. Introduction is rewritten. A new section IV is added to make our point more prominent. v3: Title is changed to make our argument more specific. Abstract, introduction, and summary are revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5065
abstract: We investigate the error due to D.C. Stark effect for quantum information processing for trapped ion quantum computers using the scalable architecture proposed in J. Res. Natl. Inst. Stan. 103, 259 (1998) and Nature 417, 709 (2002). As the operation speed increases, dephasing and decoherence due to the D.C. Stark effect becomes prominent as a large electric field is applied for transporting ions rapidly. We estimate the relative significance of the decoherence and dephasing effects and find that the latter is dominant. We find that the minimum possible of dephasing is quadratic in the time of flight, and an inverse cubic in the operational time scale. From these relations, we obtain the operational speed-range at which the shifts caused by D.C. Stark effect, no matter follow which trajectory the ion is transported, are no longer negligible. Without phase correction, the maximum speed a qubit can be transferred across a 100 micron-long trap, without excessive error, in about 10 ns for Calcium ion and 50 ps for Beryllium ion. In practice, the accumulated error is difficult to be tracked and calculated, our work gives an estimation to the range of speed limit imposed by D.C. Stark effect.

id: 1103.5076
title: Holonomic quantum computing in symmetry-protected ground states of spin chains
authors: Joseph M. Renes, Akimasa Miyake, Gavin K. Brennen, Stephen D. Bartlett
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures. v2: published version
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 025020 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5076
abstract: While solid-state devices offer naturally reliable hardware for modern classical computers, thus far quantum information processors resemble vacuum tube computers in being neither reliable nor scalable. Strongly correlated many body states stabilized in topologically ordered matter offer the possibility of naturally fault tolerant computing, but are both challenging to engineer and coherently control and cannot be easily adapted to different physical platforms. We propose an architecture which achieves some of the robustness properties of topological models but with a drastically simpler construction. Quantum information is stored in the symmetry-protected degenerate ground states of spin-1 chains, while quantum gates are performed by adiabatic non-Abelian holonomies using only single-site fields and nearest-neighbor couplings. Gate operations respect the symmetry, and so inherit some protection from noise and disorder from the symmetry-protected ground states.

id: 1103.5096
title: Necessary and sufficient conditions for local manipulation of multipartite pure quantum states
authors: Gilad Gour, Nolan R. Wallach
comments: Published version. Abstract and introduction revised significantly
journal: New J. Phys. 13 073013 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5096
abstract: Suppose several parties jointly possess a pure multipartite state, |\psi>. Using local operations on their respective systems and classical communication (i.e. LOCC) it may be possible for the parties to transform deterministically |\psi> into another joint state |\phi>. In the bipartite case, Nielsen majorization theorem gives the necessary and sufficient conditions for this process of entanglement transformation to be possible. In the multipartite case, such a deterministic local transformation is possible only if both the states in the same stochastic LOCC (SLOCC) class. Here we generalize Nielsen majorization theorem to the multipartite case, and find necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of a local separable transformation between two multipartite states in the same SLOCC class. When such a deterministic conversion is not possible, we find an expression for the maximum probability to convert one state to another by local separable operations. In addition, we find necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of a separable transformation that converts a multipartite pure state into one of a set of possible final states all in the same SLOCC class. Our results are expressed in terms of (1) the stabilizer group of the state representing the SLOCC orbit, and (2) the associate density matrices (ADMs) of the two multipartite states. The ADMs play a similar role to that of the reduced density matrices, when considering local transformations that involves pure bipartite states. We show in particular that the requirement that one ADM majorize another is a necessary condition but in general far from being also sufficient as it happens in the bipartite case.

id: 1103.5107
title: Testing tripartite Mermin inequalities by spectral joint-measurements of qubits
authors: J. S. Huang, C. H. Oh, L. F. Wei
comments: 7pages,3figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5107
abstract: It is well known that Bell inequality supporting the local realism can be violated in quantum mechanics. Numerous tests of such a violation have been demonstrated with bipartite entanglements. Using spectral jointmeasurements of the qubits, we here propose a scheme to test the tripartite Mermin inequality (a three-qubit Bell-type inequality) with three qubits dispersively-coupled to a driven cavity. First, we show how to generate a three-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state by only one-step quantum operation. Then, spectral joint-measurements are introduced to directly confirm such a tripartite entanglement. Assisted by a series of single-qubit operations, these measurements are further utilized to test the Mermin inequality. The feasibility of the proposal is robustly demonstrated by the present numerical experiments.

id: 1103.5253
title: High-fidelity state detection and tomography of a single ion Zeeman qubit
authors: Anna Keselman, Yinnon Glickman, Nitzan Akerman, Shlomi Kotler, Roee Ozeri
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 073027
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5253
abstract: We demonstrate high-fidelity Zeeman qubit state detection in a single trapped 88 Sr+ ion. Qubit readout is performed by shelving one of the qubit states to a metastable level using a narrow linewidth diode laser at 674 nm followed by state-selective fluorescence detection. The average fidelity reached for the readout of the qubit state is 0.9989(1). We then measure the fidelity of state tomography, averaged over all possible single-qubit states, which is 0.9979(2). We also fully characterize the detection process using quantum process tomography. This readout fidelity is compatible with recent estimates of the detection error-threshold required for fault-tolerant computation, whereas high-fidelity state tomography opens the way for high-precision quantum process tomography.

id: 1103.5256
title: Surface-electrode ion trap with integrated light source
authors: Tony Hyun Kim, Peter F. Herskind, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 98, 214103 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5256
abstract: An atomic ion is trapped at the tip of a single-mode optical fiber in a cryogenic (8 K) surface-electrode ion trap. The fiber serves as an integrated source of laser light, which drives the quadrupole qubit transition of $^{88}$Sr$^+$. Through \emph{in situ} translation of the nodal point of the trapping field, the Gaussian beam profile of the fiber output is imaged, and the fiber-ion displacement, in units of the mode waist at the ion, is optimized to within $0.13\pm0.10$ of the mode center despite an initial offset of $3.30\pm0.10$. Fiber-induced charging at $125 \mu$W is observed to be ${\sim}10$ V/m at an ion height of $670 \mu$m, with charging and discharging time constants of $1.6\pm0.3$ s and $4.7\pm0.6$ s respectively. This work is of importance to large-scale, ion-based quantum information processing, where optics integration in surface-electrode designs may be a crucial enabling technology.

id: 1103.5311
title: Possible resolution to the conflict between the principle of noninvasive measurability and quantum measurement
authors: Eyal Buks, Lior Ella
comments: the paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5311
abstract: The paper has been withdrawn.

id: 1103.5324
title: Cloning of arbitrary mirror-symmetric distributions on Bloch sphere: Optimality proof and proposal for practical photonic realization
authors: Karol Bartkiewicz, Adam Miranowicz
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Scr. T147, 014003 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5324
abstract: We study state-dependent quantum cloning which can outperform universal cloning. This is possible by using some a priori information on a given quantum state to be cloned. Specifically, we propose a generalization and optical implementation of quantum optimal mirror phase-covariant cloning, which refers to optimal cloning of sets of qubits of known modulus of expectation value of Pauli's Z operator. Our results can be applied for cloning of an arbitrary mirror-symmetric distribution of qubits on Bloch sphere including in special cases the universal cloning and phase-covariant cloning. We show that the cloning is optimal by adapting our former optimality proof for axisymmetric cloning [Phys. Rev. 82, 042330 (2010)]. Moreover, we propose an optical realization of the optimal mirror phase-covariant 1 to 2 cloning of a qubit, for which the mean probability of successful cloning varies from 1/6 to 1/3 depending on prior information on the set of qubits to be cloned. The qubits are represented by polarization states of photons generated by the type-I spontaneous parametric down-conversion. The scheme is based on the interference of two photons on an unbalanced polarization-dependent beam splitter with different splitting ratios for vertical and horizontal polarization components and the additional application of feedforward by means of Pockels cells. The experimental feasibility of the proposed setup is carefully studied including various kinds of imperfections and losses including: (i) finite efficiency of generating a pair of entangled photons in the type-I spontaneous parametric down conversion, (ii) the influence of choosing various splitting ratios of the unbalanced beam splitter, (iii) the application of conventional and single-photon discriminating detectors, (iv) dark counts and finite efficiency of the detectors.

id: 1103.5340
title: Parallel generation of quadripartite cluster entanglement in the optical frequency comb
authors: Matthew Pysher, Yoshichika Miwa, Reihaneh Shahrokhshahi, Russell Bloomer, Olivier Pfister
comments: 4 pages + 7 supplemental-info pages, 6+1 figures, accepted by Physical Review Letters. One minor revision to main text. One error corrected in Eq. (18) of Supplemental information
journal: Physical Review Letters 107, 030505 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5340
abstract: Scalability and coherence are two essential requirements for the experimental implementation of quantum information and quantum computing. Here, we report a breakthrough toward scalability: the simultaneous generation of a record 15 quadripartite entangled cluster states over 60 consecutive cavity modes (Qmodes), in the optical frequency comb of a single optical parametric oscillator. The amount of observed entanglement was constant over the 60 Qmodes, thereby proving the intrnisic scalability of this system. The number of observable Qmodes was restricted by technical limitations, and we conservatively estimate the actual number of similar clusters to be at least three times larger. This result paves the way to the realization of large entangled states for scalable quantum information and quantum computing.

id: 1103.5395
title: Implications of the Babinet Principle for Casimir Interactions
authors: Mohammad F. Maghrebi, Ronen Abravanel, Robert L. Jaffe
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. D 84, 061701(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5395
abstract: We formulate the Babinet Principle (BP) as a relation between the scattering amplitudes for electromagnetic waves, and combine it with multiple scattering techniques to derive new properties of Casimir forces. We show that the Casimir force exerted by a planar conductor or dielectric on a self- complementary perforated planar mirror is approximately half that on a uniform mirror independent of the distance between them. The BP suggests that Casimir edge effects are anomalously small, supporting results obtained earlier in special cases. Finally, we illustrate how the BP can be used to estimate Casimir forces between perforated planar mirrors.

id: 1103.5398
title: Benford's Law Detects Quantum Phase Transitions similarly as Earthquakes
authors: Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: v1: 3 pages, 2 figures; v2: 6 (+epsilon) epl pages, 5 figures, significant additions, previous results unchanged
journal: Europhys. Lett. vol. 95, 50008 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Geophysics (physics.geo-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5398
abstract: A century ago, it was predicted that the first significant digit appearing in a data would be nonuniformly distributed, with the number one appearing with the highest frequency. This law goes by the name of Benford's law. It holds for data ranging from infectious disease cases to national greenhouse gas emissions. Quantum phase transitions are cooperative phenomena where qualitative changes occur in many-body systems at zero temperature. We show that the century-old Benford's law can detect quantum phase transitions, much like it detects earthquakes. Therefore, being certainly of very different physical origins, seismic activity and quantum cooperative phenomena may be detected by similar methods. The result has immediate implications in precise measurements in experiments in general, and for realizable quantum computers in particular. It shows that estimation of the first significant digit of measured physical observables is enough to detect the presence of quantum phase transitions in macroscopic systems.

id: 1103.5400
title: Optical theorem for Aharonov-Bohm scattering
authors: Yu.A. Sitenko, N.D. Vlasii
comments: 22 pages
journal: J.Phys.A44:315301,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5400
abstract: Quantum-mechanical scattering off a magnetic vortex is considered, and the optical theorem is derived. The vortex core is assumed to be impermeable to scattered particles, and its transverse size is taken into account. We show that the scattering Aharonov-Bohm effect is independent of the choice of boundary conditions from the variety of the Robin ones. The behaviour of the scattering amplitude in the forward direction is analyzed, and the persistence of the Fraunhofer diffraction in the short-wavelength limit is shown to be crucial for maintaining the optical theorem in the quasiclassical limit.

id: 1103.5428
title: Two-Dimensional Arrays of RF Ion Traps with Addressable Interactions
authors: Muir Kumph, Michael Brownnutt, Rainer Blatt
comments: 23 pages, 13 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 073043
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5428
abstract: We describe the advantages of 2-dimensional, addressable arrays of spherical Paul traps. They would provide for the ability to address and tailor the interaction strengths of trapped objects in 2D and could establish a valuable new tool for quantum information processing. Simulations of trapping ions are compared to first tests using printed circuit board trap arrays loaded with dust particles. Pair-wise interactions in the array are addressed by means of an adjustable radio-frequency (RF) electrode shared between trapping sites. By attenuating this RF electrode potential, neighboring pairs of trapped objects have their interaction strength increase and are moved closer to one another. In the limit of the adjustable electrode being held at RF ground, the two formerly spherical traps are merged into one linear Paul trap.

id: 1103.5435
title: Efficient Algorithms for Optimal Control of Quantum Dynamics: The "Krotov'' Method unencumbered
authors: Sophie G Schirmer, Pierre de Fouquieres
comments: 19 pages, many figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 13 (7), 073029 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5435
abstract: Efficient algorithms for the discovery of optimal control designs for coherent control of quantum processes are of fundamental importance. One important class of algorithms are sequential update algorithms generally attributed to Krotov. Although widely and often successfully used, the associated theory is often involved and leaves many crucial questions unanswered, from the monotonicity and convergence of the algorithm to discretization effects, leading to the introduction of ad-hoc penalty terms and suboptimal update schemes detrimental to the performance of the algorithm. We present a general framework for sequential update algorithms including specific prescriptions for efficient update rules with inexpensive dynamic search length control, taking into account discretization effects and eliminating the need for ad-hoc penalty terms. The latter, while necessary to regularize the problem in the limit of infinite time resolution, i.e., the continuum limit, are shown to be undesirable and unnecessary in the practically relevant case of finite time resolution. Numerical examples show that the ideas underlying many of these results extend even beyond what can be rigorously proved.

id: 1103.5440
title: Motion of position-dependent mass as a damping-antidamping process: Application to the Fermi gas and to the Morse potential
authors: Yamen Hamdouni
comments: Preprint, 24 pages, 2 figures. We now derive the correct condition that should be satisfied by the derivative of the wave function at the discontinuity point and show that the reflexion coefficient is independent of $\eta$. Figure 1 and the corresponding discussion have been removed. Two references added. To be published in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 385301 ( 2011 )
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5440
abstract: The object of this paper is to investigate, classically and quantum mechanically, the relation existing between the position-dependent effective mass and damping-antidamping dynamics. The quantization of the equations of motion is carried out using the geometric interpretation of the motion, and we compare it with the one based on the ordering ambiguity scheme. Furthermore, we apply the obtained results to a Fermi gas of damped-antidamped particles, and we solve the Schr\"odinger equation for an exponentially increasing (decreasing) mass in the presence of the Morse potential.

id: 1103.5448
title: Numerical treatment of interfaces in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Oscar A. Reula
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Numerical Analysis (cs.NA); Numerical Analysis (math.NA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5448
abstract: In this article we develop a numerical scheme to deal with interfaces between touching numerical grids when solving Schr\"o{}dinger equation. In order to pass the information among grids we use the values of the fields only at the contact point between them. Surprisingly we obtain a convergent methods which is third order accurate with respect to the spatial resolution. In test cases, at the minimal resolution needed to describe correctly the waves, the error of this approximation is similar to that of a homogeneous (centered differences everywhere) scheme with three points stencil, that is a sixth order finite difference operator. The semi-discrete approximation preserves the norm and uses standard finite difference operators satisfying summation by parts. For the time integrator we use a semi-implicit IMEX Runge Kutta method.

id: 1103.5449
title: Dissipation-induced pure Gaussian state
authors: Kei Koga, Naoki Yamamoto
comments: 8 pages
journal: Physical Review A 85, 022103 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5449
abstract: This paper provides some necessary and sufficient conditions for a generalMarkovian Gaussian master equation to have a unique pure steady state. The conditions are described by simple matrix equations; thus the so-called environment engineering problem for pure-Gaussian-state preparation can be straightforwardly dealt with in the linear algebraic framework. In fact, based on one of those conditions, for an arbitrary given pure Gaussian state,we obtain a complete parametrization of the Gaussian master equation having that state as a unique steady state; this leads to a systematic procedure for engineering a desired dissipative system.We demonstrate some examples including Gaussian cluster states.

id: 1103.5471
title: Evaluation of Polarization Mode Dispersion and Chromatic Dispersion using Quantum Interferometry
authors: A. Fraine, D.S. Simon, O. Minaeva, R. Egorov, A.V. Sergienko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5471
abstract: The use of quantum correlations between photons to measure polarization mode dispersion (PMD) and chromatic dispersion is investigated. Two types of apparatus are discussed which use coincidence counting of entangled photon pairs to allow sub-femtosecond resolution for measurement of both PMD and chromatic dispersion, as well as separation of even-order and odd-order chromatic effects in the PMD. Group delays can be measured with a resolution of order 0.1 fs, whereas attosecond resolution can be achieved for phase delays.

id: 1103.5512
title: Macroscopic quantum computation using Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Tim Byrnes, Kai Wen, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 040306(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5512
abstract: Quantum computation using qubits made of two component Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) is analysed. The use of BECs allows for an increase of energy scales via bosonic enhancement, resulting in gate operations that can be performed at a macroscopically large energy scale. The large energy scale of the gate operations results in quantum algorithms that may be executed at a time reduced by a factor of N, where N is the number of bosons per qubit. The encoding of the qubits allows for no intrinsic penalty on decoherence times. We illustrate the scheme by an application to Deutsch's and Grover's algorithms.

id: 1103.5515
title: Quantum motion in superposition of Aharonov-Bohm with some additional electromagnetic fields
authors: V.G. Bagrov, D.M. Gitman, A.D. Levin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5515
abstract: The structure of additional electromagnetic fields to the Aharonov-Bohm field, for which the Schr\"odinger, Klein-Gordon, and Dirac equations can be solved exactly are described and the corresponding exact solutions are found. It is demonstrated that aside from the known cases (a constant and uniform magnetic field that is parallel to the Aharonov-Bohm solenoid, a static spherically symmetrical electric field, and the field of a magnetic monopole), there are broad classes of additional fields. Among these new additional fields we have physically interesting electric fields acting during a finite time, or localized in a restricted region of space. There are additional time-dependent uniform and isotropic electric fields that allow exact solutions of the Schrodinger equation. In the relativistic case there are additional electric fields propagating along the Aharonov-Bohm solenoid with arbitrary electric pulse shape.

id: 1103.5545
title: Topological phases and delocalization of quantum walks in random environments
authors: Hideaki Obuse, Norio Kawakami
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 195139 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5545
abstract: We investigate one-dimensional (1D) discrete time quantum walks (QWs) with spatially or temporally random defects as a consequence of interactions with random environments. We focus on the QWs with chiral symmetry in a topological phase, and reveal that chiral symmetry together with bipartite nature of the QWs brings about intriguing behaviors such as coexistence of topologically protected edge states at zero energy and Anderson transitions in the 1D chiral class at non-zero energy in their dynamics. Contrary to the previous studies, therefore, the spatially disordered QWs can avoid complete localization due to the Anderson transition. It is further confirmed that the edge states are robust for spatial disorder but not for temporal disorder.

id: 1103.5585
title: The Fermi Problem in Discrete Systems
authors: Erez Zohar, Benni Reznik
comments: Second version - minor changes
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 075016
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5585
abstract: The Fermi two-atom problem illustrates an apparent causality violation in Quantum Field Theory which has to do with the nature of the built in correlations in the vacuum. It has been a constant subject of theoretical debate and discussions during the last few decades. Nevertheless, although the issues at hand could in principle be tested experimentally, the smallness of such apparent violations of causality in Quantum Electrodynamics prevented the observation of the predicted effect. In the present paper we show that the problem can be simulated within the framework of discrete systems that can be manifested, for instance, by trapped atoms in optical lattices or trapped ions. Unlike the original continuum case, the causal structure is no longer sharp. Nevertheless, as we show, it is possible to distinguish between "trivial" effects due to "direct" causality violations, and the effects associated with Fermi's problem, even in such discrete settings. The ability to control externally the strength of the atom-field interactions, enables us also to study both the original Fermi problem with "bare atoms", as well as correction in the scenario that involves "dressed" atoms. Finally, we show that in principle, the Fermi effect can be detected using trapped ions.

id: 1103.5592
title: Quantum receiver beyond the standard quantum limit of coherent optical communication
authors: Kenji Tsujino, Daiji Fukuda, Go Fujii, Shuichiro Inoue, Mikio Fujiwara, Masahiro Takeoka, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 250503 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5592
abstract: The most efficient modern optical communication is known as coherent communication and its standard quantum limit (SQL) is almost reachable with current technology. Though it has been predicted for a long time that this SQL could be overcome via quantum mechanically optimized receivers, such a performance has not been experimentally realized so far. Here we demonstrate the first unconditional evidence surpassing the SQL of coherent optical communication. We implement a quantum receiver with a simple linear optics configuration and achieve more than 90% of the total detection efficiency of the system. Such an efficient quantum receiver will provide a new way of extending the distance of amplification-free channels, as well as of realizing quantum information protocols based on coherent states and the loophole-free test of quantum mechanics.

id: 1103.5620
title: The Hartman effect and weak measurements "which are not really weak"
authors: D.Sokolovski, E.Akhmatskaya
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5620
abstract: We show that in wavepacket tunnelling localisation of the transmitted particle amounts to a quantum measurement of the delay it experiences in the barrier. With no external degree of freedom involved, the envelope of the wavepacket plays the role of the initial pointer state. Under tunnelling conditions such 'self measurement' is necessarily weak, and the Hartman effect just reflects the general tendency of weak values to diverge, as post-selection in the final state becomes improbable. We also demonstrate that it is a good precision, or 'not really weak' quantum measurement: no matter how wide the barrier d, it is possible to transmit a wavepacket with a width {\sigma} small compared to the observed advancement. As is the case with all weak measurements, the probability of transmission rapidly decreases with the ratio {\sigma}/d.

id: 1103.5650
title: Photonic band-gap properties for two-component slow light
authors: J. Ruseckas, V. Kudriasov, G. Juzeliunas, R. G. Unanyan, J. Otterbach, M. Fleischhauer
comments: 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 063811 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5650
abstract: We consider two-component "spinor" slow light in an ensemble of atoms coherently driven by two pairs of counterpropagating control laser fields in a double tripod-type linkage scheme. We derive an equation of motion for the spinor slow light (SSL) representing an effective Dirac equation for a massive particle with the mass determined by the two-photon detuning. By changing the detuning the atomic medium acts as a photonic crystal with a controllable band gap. If the frequency of the incident probe light lies within the band gap, the light tunnels through the sample. For frequencies outside the band gap, the transmission probability oscillates with increasing length of the sample. In both cases the reflection takes place into the complementary mode of the probe field. We investigate the influence of the finite excited state lifetime on the transmission and reflection coefficients of the probe light. We discuss possible experimental implementations of the SSL using alkali atoms such as Rubidium or Sodium.

id: 1103.5670
title: Coherently manipulating cold ions in separated traps by their vibrational couplings
authors: Miao Zhang, L. F. Wei
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 83, 064301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5670
abstract: Recent experiments [K. R. Brown, et al., Nature 471, 196 (2011); and M. Harlander, et al., Nature 471, 200 (2011)] have demonstrated the coherent manipulations on the external vibrations of two ions, confined individually in the separated ion traps. Using these recently developed techniques, we propose here an approach to realize the coherent operations, e.g., the universal quantum gates, between the separated ion-trap qubits encoded by two internal atomic states of the trapped ions. Our proposal operates beyond the usual Lamb-Dicke limits, and could be applied to the scalable ion traps coupled by their vibrations.

id: 1103.5697
title: Initial value representation for the SU(n) semiclassical propagator
authors: Thiago F. Viscondi, Marcus A. M. de Aguiar
comments: 24 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 134, 234105 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5697
abstract: The semiclassical propagator in the representation of SU(n) coherent states is characterized by isolated classical trajectories subjected to boundary conditions in a doubled phase space. In this paper we recast this expression in terms of an integral over a set of initial-valued trajectories. These trajectories are monitored by a filter that collects only the appropriate contributions to the semiclassical approximation. This framework is suitable for the study of bosonic dynamics in n modes with fixed total number of particles. We exemplify the method for a Bose-Einstein condensate trapped in a triple-well potential, providing a detailed discussion on the accuracy and efficiency of the procedure.

id: 1103.5709
title: Cloning of a quantum measurement
authors: Alessandro Bisio, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti, Michal Sedlak
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042330 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5709
abstract: We analyze quantum algorithms for cloning of a quantum measurement. Our aim is to mimic two uses of a device performing an unknown von Neumann measurement with a single use of the device. When the unknown device has to be used before the bipartite state to be measured is available we talk about 1 -> 2 learning of the measurement, otherwise the task is called 1 -> 2 cloning of a measurement. We perform the optimization for both learning and cloning for arbitrary dimension of the Hilbert space. For 1 -> 2 cloning we also propose a simple quantum network that realizes the optimal strategy.

id: 1103.5750
title: Ultra-Efficient Cooling of Resonators: Beating Sideband Cooling with Quantum Control
authors: Xiaoting Wang, Sai Vinjanampathy, Frederick W. Strauch, Kurt Jacobs
comments: 4 pages, revtex4-1, 2 png figures
journal: PRL 107, 177204 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5750
abstract: The present state-of-the-art in cooling mechanical resonators is a version of "sideband" cooling. Here we present a method that uses the same configuration as sideband cooling --- coupling the resonator to be cooled to a second microwave (or optical) auxiliary resonator --- but will cool significantly colder. This is achieved by varying the strength of the coupling between the two resonators over a time on the order of the period of the mechanical resonator. As part of our analysis, we also obtain a method for fast, high-fidelity quantum information-transfer between resonators.

id: 1103.5781
title: Acceleration of trapped particles and beams
authors: Er'el Granot, Boris Malomed
comments: 7 Figures, J. Phys. B., in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5781
abstract: The dynamics of a quantum particle bound by an accelerating delta-functional potential is investigated. Three cases are considered, using the reference frame moving along with the {\delta}-function, in which the acceleration is converted into the additional linear potential. (i) A stationary regime, which corresponds to a resonance state, with a minimum degree of delocalization, supported by the accelerating potential trap. (ii) A pulling scenario: an initially bound particle follows the accelerating delta-functional trap, within a finite time. (iii) The pushing scenario: the particle, which was initially localized to the right of the repulsive delta-function, is shoved to the right by the accelerating potential. For the two latter scenarios, the life time of the trapped particle, and the largest velocity to which it can be accelerated while staying trapped, are found. Analytical approximations are developed for the cases of small and large accelerations in the pulling regime, and also for a small acceleration in the stationary situation, and in the regime of pushing. The same regimes may be realized by Airy-like planar optical beams guided by a narrow bending potential channel or crest. Physical estimates are given for an atom steered by a stylus of a scanning tunneling microscope (STM), and for the optical beam guided by a bending stripe.

id: 1103.5875
title: Reaction operators for spin-selective chemical reactions of radical pairs
authors: Jonathan A. Jones, Kiminori Maeda, Peter J. Hore
comments: 10 pages, pdf from MS Word. Chem. Phys. Lett. (in press)
journal: Chem. Phys. Lett. 507, 269-273 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5875
abstract: Spin-selective reactions of radical pairs have traditionally been modelled theoretically by adding phenomenological rate equations to the quantum mechanical equation of motion of the radical pair spin density matrix. More recently an alternative set of rate expressions, based on a quantum measurement approach, has been suggested. Here we show how these two reaction operators can be seen as limiting cases of a more general reaction scheme.

id: 1103.5891
title: Single-electron shuttle based on a silicon quantum dot
authors: K. W. Chan, M. Mottonen, A. Kemppinen, N. S. Lai, K. Y. Tan, W. H. Lim, A. S. Dzurak
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 98, 212103 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5891
abstract: We report on single-electron shuttling experiments with a silicon metal-oxide-semiconductor quantum dot at 300 mK. Our system consists of an accumulated electron layer at the Si/SiO_2 interface below an aluminum top gate with two additional barrier gates used to deplete the electron gas locally and to define a quantum dot. Directional single-electron shuttling from the source and to the drain lead is achieved by applying a dc source-drain bias while driving the barrier gates with an ac voltage of frequency f_p. Current plateaus at integer levels of ef_p are observed up to f_p = 240 MHz operation frequencies. The observed results are explained by a sequential tunneling model which suggests that the electron gas may be heated substantially by the ac driving voltage.

id: 1103.5941
title: Probing statistical properties of Anderson localization with quantum emitters
authors: Stephan Smolka, Henri Thyrrestrup, Luca Sapienza, Tau B. Lehmann, Kristian R. Rix, Luis S. Froufe-P¨¦rez, Pedro D. Garc¨ªa, Peter Lodahl
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 063044 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5941
abstract: Wave propagation in disordered media can be strongly modified by multiple scattering and wave interference. Ultimately the so-called Anderson-localized regime is reached when the waves become strongly confined in space. So far, Anderson localization of light has been probed in transmission experiments by measuring the intensity of an external light source after propagation through a disordered medium. However, discriminating between Anderson localization and losses in these experiments remains a major challenge. Here we present an alternative approach where we use quantum emitters embedded in disordered photonic crystal waveguides as light sources. Anderson-localized modes are efficiently excited and the analysis of the photoluminescence spectra allows to explore their statistical properties paving a way for controlling Anderson localization in disordered photonic crystals.

id: 1103.5942
title: Electromagnetic Casimir Forces of Parabolic Cylinder and Knife-Edge Geometries
authors: Noah Graham, Alexander Shpunt, Thorsten Emig, Sahand Jamal Rahi, Robert L. Jaffe, Mehran Kardar
comments: 17 pages, 10 figures, uses RevTeX 4
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:125007,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5942
abstract: An exact calculation of electromagnetic scattering from a perfectly conducting parabolic cylinder is employed to compute Casimir forces in several configurations. These include interactions between a parabolic cylinder and a plane, two parabolic cylinders, and a parabolic cylinder and an ordinary cylinder. To elucidate the effect of boundaries, special attention is focused on the "knife-edge" limit in which the parabolic cylinder becomes a half-plane. Geometrical effects are illustrated by considering arbitrary rotations of a parabolic cylinder around its focal axis, and arbitrary translations perpendicular to this axis. A quite different geometrical arrangement is explored for the case of an ordinary cylinder placed in the interior of a parabolic cylinder. All of these results extend simply to nonzero temperatures.

id: 1103.5950
title: Bayesian Conditioning, the Reflection Principle, and Quantum Decoherence
authors: Christopher A. Fuchs, Ruediger Schack
comments: 14 pages, written in memory of Itamar Pitowsky
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5950
abstract: The probabilities a Bayesian agent assigns to a set of events typically change with time, for instance when the agent updates them in the light of new data. In this paper we address the question of how an agent's probabilities at different times are constrained by Dutch-book coherence. We review and attempt to clarify the argument that, although an agent is not forced by coherence to use the usual Bayesian conditioning rule to update his probabilities, coherence does require the agent's probabilities to satisfy van Fraassen's [1984] reflection principle (which entails a related constraint pointed out by Goldstein [1983]). We then exhibit the specialized assumption needed to recover Bayesian conditioning from an analogous reflection-style consideration. Bringing the argument to the context of quantum measurement theory, we show that "quantum decoherence" can be understood in purely personalist terms---quantum decoherence (as supposed in a von Neumann chain) is not a physical process at all, but an application of the reflection principle. From this point of view, the decoherence theory of Zeh, Zurek, and others as a story of quantum measurement has the plot turned exactly backward.

id: 1103.5989
title: Bipartite quantum states and random complex networks
authors: Silvano Garnerone, Paolo Giorda, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics (January 2012), 14 (1), pg. 013011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5989
abstract: We introduce a mapping between graphs and pure quantum bipartite states and show that the associated entanglement entropy conveys non-trivial information about the structure of the graph. Our primary goal is to investigate the family of random graphs known as complex networks. In the case of classical random graphs we derive an analytic expression for the averaged entanglement entropy $\bar S$ while for general complex networks we rely on numerics. For large number of nodes $n$ we find a scaling $\bar{S} \sim c \log n +g_e$ where both the prefactor $c$ and the sub-leading O(1) term $g_e$ are a characteristic of the different classes of complex networks. In particular, $g_e$ encodes topological features of the graphs and is named network topological entropy. Our results suggest that quantum entanglement may provide a powerful tool in the analysis of large complex networks with non-trivial topological properties.

id: 1103.6048
title: Controlling the phase of a light beam with a single molecule
authors: M. Pototschnig, Y. Chassagneux, J. Hwang, G. Zumofen, A. Renn, V. Sandoghdar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.6048
abstract: We employ heterodyne interferometry to investigate the effect of a single organic molecule on the phase of a propagating laser beam. We report on the first phase-contrast images of individual molecules and demonstrate a single-molecule electro-optical phase switch by applying a voltage to the microelectrodes embedded in the sample. Our results may find applications in single-molecule holography, fast optical coherent signal processing, and single-emitter quantum operations.

id: 1103.6050
title: The Quantum Speed Limit of Optimal Controlled Phasegates for Trapped Neutral Atoms
authors: Michael H. Goerz, Tommaso Calarco, Christiane P. Koch
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures, 1 table
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 154011 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.6050
abstract: We study controlled phasegates for ultracold atoms in an optical potential. A shaped laser pulse drives transitions between the ground and electronically excited states where the atoms are subject to a long-range 1/R^3 interaction. We fully account for this interaction and use optimal control theory to calculate the pulse shapes. This allows us to determine the minimum pulse duration, respectively, gate time T that is required to obtain high fidelity. We accurately analyze the speed limiting factors, and we find the gate time to be limited either by the interaction strength in the excited state or by the ground state vibrational motion in the trap. The latter needs to be resolved by the pulses in order to fully restore the motional state of the atoms at the end of the gate.

id: 1103.6058
title: Parity proofs of the Kochen-Specker theorem based on the 24 rays of Peres
authors: Mordecai Waegell, P.K.Aravind
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures and 3 tables. Three references have been added. Minor typos have been corrected
journal: Found Phys (2011) 41:1786-1799
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.6058
abstract: A diagrammatic representation is given of the 24 rays of Peres that makes it easy to pick out all the 512 parity proofs of the Kochen-Specker theorem contained in them. The origin of this representation in the four-dimensional geometry of the rays is pointed out.

id: 1103.6067
title: Short proofs of the Quantum Substate Theorem
authors: Rahul Jain, Ashwin Nayak
comments: 11 pages. Rewritten; included new references; presented the results in terms of smooth relative min-entropy; stronger results; included converse and proof using SDP duality
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.6067
abstract: The Quantum Substate Theorem due to Jain, Radhakrishnan, and Sen (2002) gives us a powerful operational interpretation of relative entropy, in fact, of the observational divergence of two quantum states, a quantity that is related to their relative entropy. Informally, the theorem states that if the observational divergence between two quantum states rho, sigma is small, then there is a quantum state rho' close to rho in trace distance, such that rho' when scaled down by a small factor becomes a substate of sigma. We present new proofs of this theorem. The resulting statement is optimal up to a constant factor in its dependence on observational divergence. In addition, the proofs are both conceptually simpler and significantly shorter than the earlier proof.

id: 1103.6071
title: Optical Quantum Computation
authors: T.C.Ralph, G.J.Pryde
comments: 
journal: Progress in Optics, Ed. E.Wolf, 54, 209 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.6071
abstract: We review the field of Optical Quantum Computation, considering the various implementations that have been proposed and the experimental progress that has been made toward realizing them. We examine both linear and nonlinear approaches and both particle and field encodings. In particular we discuss the prospects for large scale optical quantum computing in terms of the most promising physical architectures and the technical requirements for realizing them.

id: 1103.6078
title: The role of quantum fluctuations in the optomechanical properties of a Bose-Einstein condensate in a ring cavity
authors: Steven K. Steinke, Pierre Meystre
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.6078
abstract: We analyze a detailed model of a Bose-Einstein condensate trapped in a ring optical resonator and contrast its classical and quantum properties to those of a Fabry-P{\'e}rot geometry. The inclusion of two counter-propagating light fields and three matter field modes leads to important differences between the two situations. Specifically, we identify an experimentally realizable region where the system's behavior differs strongly from that of a BEC in a Fabry-P\'{e}rot cavity, and also where quantum corrections become significant. The classical dynamics are rich, and near bifurcation points in the mean-field classical system, the quantum fluctuations have a major impact on the system's dynamics.

id: 1103.6094
title: High Q-factor Sapphire Whispering Gallery Mode Microwave Resonator at Single Photon Energies and milli-Kelvin Temperatures
authors: Daniel L. Creedon, Yarema Reshitnyk, Warrick Farr, John M. Martinis, Timothy L. Duty, Michael E. Tobar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.6094
abstract: The microwave properties of a crystalline sapphire dielectric whispering gallery mode resonator have been measured at very low excitation strength (E/hf=1) and low temperatures (T = 30 mK). The measurements were sensitive enough to observe saturation due to a highly detuned electron spin resonance, which limited the loss tangent of the material to about 2e-8 measured at 13.868 and 13.259 GHz. Small power dependent frequency shifts were also measured which correspond to an added magnetic susceptibility of order 1e-9. This work shows that quantum limited microwave resonators with Q-factors > 1e8 are possible with the implementation of a sapphire whispering gallery mode system.

id: 1103.6116
title: Does Measurement Necessarily Destroy Coherence?
authors: Partha Ghose
comments: 10 pages, no figure; to be published in Advanced Science Letters. Original submission revised
journal: Advanced Science Letters vol. 18, pp 73-76, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.6116
abstract: It has been proposed that measurement in quantum mechanics results from spontaneous breaking of a symmetry of the measuring apparatus and could be a unitary process that preserves coherence. Viewed in this manner, it is argued, non-destructive measurements should preserve this coherence and be reversible. It is shown that experiments with maximally entangled bipartite states can indeed distinguish between projective and unitary measurements.

id: 1103.6123
title: Generation and characterization of multimode quantum frequency combs
authors: Olivier Pinel, Pu Jian, Renn¨¦ Medeiros De Araujo, Jingxia Feng, Beno?t Chalopin, Claude Fabre, Nicolas Treps
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.6123
abstract: Multimode nonclassical states of light are an essential resource in quantum computation with continuous variables, for example in cluster state computation. They can be generated either by mixing different squeezed light sources using linear optical operations, or directly in a multimode optical device. In parallel, frequency combs are perfect tools for high precision metrological applications and for quantum time transfer. Synchronously Pumped Optical Parametric Oscillators (SPOPOs) have been theoretically shown to produce multimode non-classical frequency combs. In this paper, we present the first experimental generation and characterization of a femtosecond quantum frequency comb generated by a SPOPO. In particular, we give the experimental evidence of the multimode nature of the generated quantum state and, by studying the spectral noise distribution of this state, we show that at least three nonclassical independent modes are required to describe it.

id: 1103.6131
title: Energy-time entanglement, Elements of Reality, and Local Realism
authors: Jonathan Jogenfors, Jan-?ke Larsson
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures, v2 rewritten and extended
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47 424032 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.6131
abstract: The Franson interferometer, proposed in 1989 [J. D. Franson, Phys. Rev. Lett. 62:2205-2208 (1989)], beautifully shows the counter-intuitive nature of light. The quantum description predicts sinusoidal interference for specific outcomes of the experiment, and these predictions can be verified in experiment. In the spirit of Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen it is possible to ask if the quantum-mechanical description (of this setup) can be considered complete. This question will be answered in detail in this paper, by delineating the quite complicated relation between energy-time entanglement experiments and Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) elements of reality. The mentioned sinusoidal interference pattern is the same as that giving a violation in the usual Bell experiment. Even so, depending on the precise requirements made on the local realist model, this can imply a) no violation, b) smaller violation than usual, or c) full violation of the appropriate statistical bound. Alternatives include a) using only the measurement outcomes as EPR elements of reality, b) using the emission time as EPR element of reality, c) using path realism, or d) using a modified setup. This paper discusses the nature of these alternatives and how to choose between them. The subtleties of this discussion needs to be taken into account when designing and setting up experiments intended to test local realism. Furthermore, these considerations are also important for quantum communication, for example in Bell-inequality-based quantum cryptography, especially when aiming for device independence.

id: 1103.6162
title: Resonant energy transfer enhanced by off-diagonal exciton-phonon coupling
authors: Ning Wu, Zhe Chang, Yang Zhao
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors due to a derivation error
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.6162
abstract: Dynamics of resonant energy transfer of a single excitation in a molecular dimer system is studied in the simultaneous presence of diagonal and off-diagonal exciton-phonon coupling. It is found that the off-diagonal coupling plays an important role in the excitation energy transfer process. Coherent transfer can be found at arbitrary temperature for a non-vanishing off-diagonal coupling strength with an oscillation frequency of site populations that increases with the off-diagonal coupling strength. Furthermore, we identify a threshold of the off-diagonal coupling strength below which there exists an optimal temperature that maximizes the total population transfer from the initially excited monomer to the acceptor monomer at long times. As the off-diagonal coupling strength is increased beyond the threshold, however, the optimal temperature is found to abruptly drop to zero.

id: 1103.6188
title: New bases for a general definition for the moving preferred basis
authors: Mario Castagnino, Sebastian Fortin
comments: 6 pages
journal: Modern Physics Letters A, Vol. 26, No. 31 (2011) 2365-2373
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.6188
abstract: One of the challenges of the Environment-Induced Decoherence (EID) approach is to provide a simple general definition of the moving pointer basis or moving preferred basis. In this letter we prove that the study of the poles that produce the decaying modes in non-unitary evolution, could yield a general definition of the relaxation, the decoherence times, and the moving preferred basis. These probably are the most important concepts in the theory of decoherence, one of the most relevant chapters of theoretical (and also practical) quantum mechanics. As an example we solved the Omnes (or Lee-Friedrich) model using our theory.

id: 1103.6195
title: Quantum description and properties of electrons emitted from pulsed nanotip electron sources
authors: Pavel Lougovski, Herman Batelaan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 023417 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.6195
abstract: We present a quantum calculation of the electron degeneracy for electron sources. We explore quantum interference of electrons in the temporal and spatial domain and demonstrate how it can be utilized to characterize a pulsed electron source. We estimate effects of Coulomb repulsion on two-electron interference and show that currently available nano tip pulsed electron sources operate in the regime where the quantum nature of electrons can be made dominant.

id: 1103.6240
title: Evidence of an Internally Generated Optical-Dipole Potential in Matter-Wave Superradiance
authors: Xinyu Lou, L. Deng, E.W. Hagley, Kuiyi Gao, Xiaorui Wang, Ruquan Wang
comments: This article has been withdrawn because of the recent submission of a new manuscript that contains much more theoretical and experimental materials
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.6240
abstract: We present the first experimental evidence supporting the postulation that an optical-dipole potential in a condensate undergoing superradiant scattering modifies the structure factor of the system and significantly impacts the scattering. Several consequences of this new detuning-dependent mechanism are discussed and verified experimentally. Our experiments indicate that whenever the generation and propagation growth of a new field are significant, the dynamic response of the condensate can have a profound impact on the scattering process.

id: 1103.6267
title: Mixing rules and the Casimir force between composite systems
authors: R. Esquivel-Sirvent, G. C. Schatz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.6267
abstract: The Casimir-Lifshitz force is calculated between two inhomogeneous composite slabs, each made of a homogeneous matrix with spherical metallic inclusions. The effective dielectric function of the slabs is calculated using several effective medium approximations and we compare the resulting forces as a function of slab separation and filling fraction. We show that the choice of effective medium approximation is critical in making precise comparisons between theory and experiment. The role that the spectral representation of the effective medium plays in making a Wick rotation to the complex frequency axis is also discussed.

id: 1103.0022
title: Characterizing and Quantifying Frustration in Quantum Many-Body Systems
authors: S. M. Giampaolo, G. Gualdi, A. Monras, F. Illuminati
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 260602 (2011)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0022
abstract: We present a general scheme for the study of frustration in quantum systems. We introduce a universal measure of frustration for arbitrary quantum systems and we relate it to a class of entanglement monotones via an exact inequality. If all the (pure) ground states of a given Hamiltonian saturate the inequality, then the system is said to be inequality saturating. We introduce sufficient conditions for a quantum spin system to be inequality saturating and confirm them with extensive numerical tests. These conditions provide a generalization to the quantum domain of the Toulouse criteria for classical frustration-free systems. The models satisfying these conditions can be reasonably identified as geometrically unfrustrated and subject to frustration of purely quantum origin. Our results therefore establish a unified framework for studying the intertwining of geometric and quantum contributions to frustration.

id: 1103.0034
title: On quantum mechanics with a magnetic field on R^n and on a torus T^n, and their relation
authors: Gaetano Fiore
comments: Latex2e file, 22 pages. Final version appeared in IJTP
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics 52 (2013), 877-896
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0034
abstract: We show in elementary terms the equivalence in a general gauge of a U(1)-gauge theory of a scalar charged particle on a torus T^n = R^n/L to the analogous theory on R^n constrained by quasiperiodicity under translations in the lattice L. The latter theory provides a global description of the former: the quasiperiodic wavefunctions defined on R^n play the role of sections of the associated hermitean line bundle E on T^n, since also E admits a global description as a quotient. The components of the covariant derivatives corresponding to a constant (necessarily integral) magnetic field B = dA generate a Lie algebra g_Q and together with the periodic functions the algebra of observables O_Q . The non-abelian part of g_Q is a Heisenberg Lie algebra with the electric charge operator Q as the central generator; the corresponding Lie group G_Q acts on the Hilbert space as the translation group up to phase factors. Also the space of sections of E is mapped into itself by g in G_Q . We identify the socalled magnetic translation group as a subgroup of the observables' group Y_Q . We determine the unitary irreducible representations of O_Q, Y_Q corresponding to integer charges and for each of them an associated orthonormal basis explicitly in con?guration space. We also clarify how in the n = 2m case a holomorphic structure and Theta functions arise on the associated complex torus. These results apply equally well to the physics of charged scalar particles on R^n and on T^n in the presence of periodic magnetic field B and scalar potential. They are also necessary preliminary steps for the application to these theories of the deformation procedure induced by Drinfel'd twists.

id: 1103.0070
title: Comment on "Bound states of edge dislocations: The quantum dipole problem in two dimensions"
authors: Paolo Amore
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, one table
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0070
abstract: We show that the numerical results contained in a recent paper are affected by a non optimal implementation of the methods which have been used to obtain these results. A careful analysis done using the Rayleigh-Ritz method provides a rigorous upper bound for the energy of the ground state of an electron in a two dimensional potential generated by the edge dislocation, as well as precise values for the excited states. The extrapolation of the results corresponding to different subspaces is used to obtain a precise estimate of the fundamental energy of the model. The energies of the first 500 states that we have calculated are in perfect agreement with the expected asymptotic behavior.

id: 1103.0121
title: Multi-order interference is generally nonzero
authors: Hans De Raedt, Kristel Michielsen, Karl Hess
comments: Replaced Figs. 4,5 and caption of Fig.4
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0121
abstract: It is demonstrated that the third-order interference, as obtained from explicit solutions of Maxwell's equations for realistic models of three-slit devices, including an idealized version of the three-slit device used in a recent three-slit experiment with light (U. Sinha et al., Science 329, 418 (2010)), is generally nonzero. The hypothesis that the third-order interference should be zero is shown to be fatally flawed because it requires dropping the one-to-one correspondence between the symbols in the mathematical theory and the different experimental configurations.

id: 1103.0159
title: Classification of topological symmetry sectors on anyon rings
authors: Robert N. C. Pfeifer
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, 1 table, RevTeX 4.1
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 245126 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0159
abstract: The golden chain with antiferromagnetic interaction is an anyonic system of particular interest as when all anyons are confined to the chain, it is readily stabilised against fluctuations away from criticality. However, additional local scaling operators have recently been identified on the disc which may give rise to relevant fluctuations in the presence of free charges. Motivated by these results for Fibonacci anyons, this paper presents a systematic method of identifying all topological sectors of local scaling operators for critical anyon rings of arbitrary winding number on surfaces of arbitrary genus, extending the original classification scheme proposed in Feiguin et al. (2007). Using the new scheme it is then shown that for the golden chain, additional relevant scaling operators exist on the torus which are equivalent to those detected on the disc, and which may disrupt the stability of the critical system. Protection of criticality against perturbations generated by these additional scaling operators can be achieved by suppressing the exchange of charge between the anyon ring and the rest of the manifold.

id: 1103.0245
title: Phase diagram of the Bose Kondo-Hubbard model
authors: Michael Foss-Feig, Ana Maria Rey
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, V2: extended discussion of effective Hamiltonians and mean-field theory, added Fig. 3
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053619 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0245
abstract: We study a bosonic version of the Kondo lattice model with an on-site repulsion in the conduction band, implemented with alkali atoms in two bands of an optical lattice. Using both weak and strong-coupling perturbation theory, we find that at unit filling of the conduction bosons the superfluid to Mott insulator transition should be accompanied by a magnetic transition from a ferromagnet (in the superfluid) to a paramagnet (in the Mott insulator). Furthermore, an analytic treatment of Gutzwiller mean-field theory reveals that quantum spin fluctuations induced by the Kondo exchange cause the otherwise continuous superfluid to Mott-insulator phase transition to be first order. We show that lattice separability imposes a serious constraint on proposals to exploit excited bands for quantum simulations, and discuss a way to overcome this constraint in the context of our model by using an experimentally realized non-separable lattice. A method to probe the first-order nature of the transition based on collapses and revivals of the matter-wave field is also discussed.

id: 1103.0262
title: Cellular Algebras and Graph Invariants Based on Quantum Walks
authors: Jamie Smith
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0262
abstract: We consider two graph invariants inspired by quantum walks- one in continuous time and one in discrete time. We will associate a matrix algebra called a cellular algebra with every graph. We show that, if the cellular algebras of two graphs have a similar structure, then they are not distinguished by either of the proposed invariants.

id: 1103.0325
title: Solve the Master Equation by Python-An Introduction to the Python Computing Environment
authors: Wei Fan, Yan Xu, Bing Chen, Qianqian Ye
comments: 26 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0325
abstract: A brief introduction to the Python computing environment is given. By solving the master equation encountered in quantum transport, we give an example of how to solve the ODE problems in Python. The ODE solvers used are the ZVODE routine in Scipy and the bsimp solver in GSL. For the former, the equation can be in its complex-valued form, while for the latter, it has to be rewritten to a real-valued form. The focus is on the detailed workflow of the implementation process, rather than on the syntax of the python language, with the hope to help readers simulate their own models in Python.

id: 1103.0338
title: Response to Shalaby's Comment on "Families of Particles with Different Masses in PT-Symmetric Quantum Field Theory"
authors: Carl M. Bender, S. P. Klevansky
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0338
abstract: In a recent Comment [arXiv: 1101.3980] Shalaby criticised our paper "Families of Particles with Different Masses in PT-Symmetric Quantum Field Theory" [arXiv:1002.3253]. On examining his arguments, we find that there are serious flaws at almost every stage of his Comment. In view of space and time considerations, we point out the major flaws that render his arguments invalid. Essentially Shalaby is attempting to obtain our results from a variational principle and to find a physical interpretation of his calculation. The variational procedure that he uses is inapplicable, and his description of the physics is wrong. We thus refute his criticism on all levels.

id: 1103.0420
title: Quantum Mechanics: Incomplete and Non Local Theory
authors: M.Cattani
comments: 15 pages 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0420
abstract: We will show for undergraduate and graduate students of physics that Quantum Mechanics is an incomplete and non-local theory. The problem of non-locality is discussed by analyzing the Bell's theorem where are considered correlations between measurements results performed on physical systems that are far apart, but that interacted in the past. The experimental violations of Bell's theorem show a very general result thatquantum phenomena are nonlocal and that, inevitably, Quantum Mechanics is non-local.

id: 1103.0433
title: Quantum chaos in one dimension?
authors: Laszlo Ujfalusi, Imre Varga, Daniel Schumayer
comments: 7 pages, 10 figures, minor correction, references extended
journal: Phys. Rev. E 84, 016230 (2011)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0433
abstract: In this work we investigate the inverse of the celebrated Bohigas-Giannoni-Schmit conjecture. Using two inversion methods we compute a one-dimensional potential whose lowest N eigenvalues obey random matrix statistics. Our numerical results indicate that in the asymptotic limit, N->infinity, the solution is nowhere differentiable and most probably nowhere continuous. Thus such a counterexample does not exist.

id: 1103.0438
title: Laser Interaction with a Dielectric Block
authors: Stefano De Leo, Pietro Rotelli
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: European Physical Journal D 61 (2011) 481-488
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0438
abstract: Some optical experiments provide the easiest way to test quantum mechanical predictions. Such a situation applies to a laser beam traversing a dielectric structure. The dielectric structure mir- roring quantum mechanical potentials. The simplest of these, studied in this paper, involves a single dielectric block. We exhibit both by analytic and numerical calculations explicit examples of total coherence and total incoherence phenomena. Which case appears depends upon the angle of incidence of the laser beam and/or the dimensions of beam vs block width. Unlike our previ- ous studies our calculations here are three-dimensional, although, with suitable approximations, somewhat simpler planar expressions can be derived.

id: 1103.0472
title: Gaudin models solver based on the Bethe ansatz/ordinary differential equations correspondence
authors: Alexandre Faribault, Omar El Araby, Christoph Str?ter, Vladimir Gritsev
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 235124 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0472
abstract: We present a numerical approach which allows the solving of Bethe equations whose solutions define the eigenstates of Gaudin models. By focusing on a new set of variables, the canceling divergences which occur for certain values of the coupling strength no longer appear explicitly. The problem is thus reduced to a set of quadratic algebraic equations. The required inverse transformation can then be realized using only linear operations and a standard polynomial root finding algorithm. The method is applied to Richardson's fermionic pairing model, the central spin model and generalized Dicke model.

id: 1103.0476
title: Permanent tuning of quantum dot transitions to degenerate microcavity resonances
authors: Jan Gudat, Cristian Bonato, Evert van Nieuwenburg, Susanna Thon, Hyochul Kim, Pierre Petroff, Martin van Exter, Dirk Bouwmeester
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Applied Physics Letters 98, 121111 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0476
abstract: We demonstrate a technique for achieving spectral resonance between a polarization-degenerate micropillar cavity mode and an embedded quantum dot transition. Our approach is based on a combination of isotropic and anisotropic tensile strain effected by laser-induced surface defects, thereby providing permanent tuning. Such a technique is a prerequisite for the implementation of scalable quantum information schemes based on solid-state cavity quantum electrodynamics.

id: 1103.0517
title: Why does superfluid helium leak out of an open container?
authors: V. A. Golovko
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures; extra explications and a reference added
journal: 
subjects: Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0517
abstract: The fact that superfluid helium always leaks out of an open container is usually explained by the phenomenon of wetting. In the present paper it is demonstrated that this explanation is unconvincing. The fact can be readily explained from the viewpoint of the interpretation of superfluidity proposed earlier by the author according to which superfluidity is an equilibrium state of liquid helium where the symmetry is spontaneously broken because of an intrinsic superflow. Experiments on the thickness of moving helium films that have given rise to much controversy are discussed as well. Some experiments concerning the phenomena considered in the paper are proposed.

id: 1103.0546
title: Quantum control of proximal spins using nanoscale magnetic resonance imaging
authors: M. S. Grinolds, P. Maletinsky, S. Hong, M. D. Lukin, R. L Walsworth, A. Yacoby
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics 7, 687-692 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0546
abstract: Quantum control of individual spins in condensed matter systems is an emerging field with wide-ranging applications in spintronics, quantum computation, and sensitive magnetometry. Recent experiments have demonstrated the ability to address and manipulate single electron spins through either optical or electrical techniques. However, it is a challenge to extend individual spin control to nanoscale multi-electron systems, as individual spins are often irresolvable with existing methods. Here we demonstrate that coherent individual spin control can be achieved with few-nm resolution for proximal electron spins by performing single-spin magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which is realized via a scanning magnetic field gradient that is both strong enough to achieve nanometric spatial resolution and sufficiently stable for coherent spin manipulations. We apply this scanning field-gradient MRI technique to electronic spins in nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond and achieve nanometric resolution in imaging, characterization, and manipulation of individual spins. For NV centers, our results in individual spin control demonstrate an improvement of nearly two orders of magnitude in spatial resolution compared to conventional optical diffraction-limited techniques. This scanning-field-gradient microscope enables a wide range of applications including materials characterization, spin entanglement, and nanoscale magnetometry.

id: 1103.0592
title: Flying microwave qubits with nearly perfect transfer efficiency
authors: Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0592
abstract: We propose a procedure for transferring the state a microwave qubit via a transmission line from one resonator to another resonator, with a theoretical efficiency arbitrarily close to 100%. The emission and capture of the microwave energy is performed using tunable couplers, whose transmission coefficients vary in time. Using the superconducting phase qubit technology and tunable couplers with maximum coupling of 100 MHz, the procedure with theoretical efficiency $\eta=0.999$ requires a duration of about 400 ns (excluding propagation time) and an ON/OFF ratio of 45. The procedure may also be used for a quantum state transfer with optical photons.

id: 1103.0639
title: The theory of quantum levitators
authors: Fran?ois Impens, Franck Pereira Dos Santos, Christian J. Bord¨¦
comments: 11 pages, 6 Figures. Minor typos corrected. Final version
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 065024 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0639
abstract: We develop a unified theory for clocks and gravimeters using the interferences of multiple atomic waves put in levitation by traveling light pulses. Inspired by optical methods, we exhibit a propagation invariant, which enables to derive analytically the wave function of the sample scattering on the light pulse sequence. A complete characterization of the device sensitivity with respect to frequency or to acceleration measurements is obtained. These results agree with previous numerical simulations and confirm the conjecture of sensitivity improvement through multiple atomic wave interferences. A realistic experimental implementation for such clock architecture is discussed.

id: 1103.0669
title: A ring of BEC pools as a trap for persistent flow
authors: Jacek Dziarmaga, Marek Tylutki, Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: Decompressed version to appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 094528 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0669
abstract: Mott insulator - superfluid transition in a periodic lattice of Josephson junctions can be driven by tunneling rate increase. Resulting winding numbers $W$ of the condensate wavefunction decrease with increasing quench time in accord with the Kibble-Zurek mechanism (KZM). However, in very slow quenches Bose-Hubbard dynamics rearranges wavefunction phase so that its random walk cools, $\bar{W^2}$ decreases and eventually the wavefunction becomes too cold to overcome potential barriers separating different $W$. Thus, in contrast with KZM, in very slow quenches $\bar{W^2}$ is set by random walk with "critical" step size, independently of $\tau_Q$.

id: 1103.0670
title: Young-type interference in projectile-electron loss in energetic ion-molecule collisions
authors: A.B.Voitkiv, B.Najjari, D.Fischer, A.Artemyev, A.Surzhykov
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0670
abstract: Under certain conditions an electron bound in a fast projectile-ion, colliding with a molecule, interacts mainly with the nuclei and inner shell electrons of atoms forming the molecule. Due to their compact localization in space and distinct separation from each other these molecular centers play in such collisions a role similar to that of optical slits in light scattering leading to pronounced interference in the spectra of the electron emitted from the projectile.

id: 1103.0714
title: Frictionless quantum quenches in ultracold gases: a quantum dynamical microscope
authors: A. del Campo
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 031606(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0714
abstract: In this article, a method is proposed to spatially scale up a trapped ultracold gas while conserving the quantum correlations of the initial many-body state. For systems supporting self-similar dynamics, this is achieved by implementing a many-body finite-time frictionless quantum quench of the harmonic trap which acts as a quantum dynamical microscope.

id: 1103.0760
title: Atomic clocks with suppressed blackbody radiation shift
authors: V. I. Yudin, A. V. Taichenachev, M. V. Okhapkin, S. N. Bagayev, Chr. Tamm, E. Peik, N. Huntemann, T. E. Mehlstaubler, F. Riehle
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 030801 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0760
abstract: We develop a nonstandard concept of atomic clocks where the blackbody radiation shift (BBRS) and its temperature fluctuations can be dramatically suppressed (by one to three orders of magnitude) independent of the environmental temperature. The suppression is based on the fact that in a system with two accessible clock transitions (with frequencies v1 and v2) which are exposed to the same thermal environment, there exists a "synthetic" frequency v_{syn} (v1-e12 v2) largely immune to the BBRS. As an example, it is shown that in the case of ion 171Yb+ it is possible to create a clock in which the BBRS can be suppressed to the fractional level of 10^{-18} in a broad interval near room temperature (300\pm 15 K). We also propose a realization of our method with the use of an optical frequency comb generator stabilized to both frequencies v1 and v2. Here the frequency v_{syn} is generated as one of the components of the comb spectrum and can be used as an atomic standard.

id: 1103.0777
title: Linear dynamic polarizability and absorption spectrum of an exciton in a quantum ring in a magnetic field
authors: A. V. Ghazaryan, A. P. Djotyan, K. Moulopoulos, A. A. Kirakosyan
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physica Scripta 83 (2011) 035703
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0777
abstract: The problem of an electron-hole system interacting through a contact potential and moving in a one-dimensional quantum ring threaded by an Aharonov-Bohm flux is considered, both with respect to the system's energetics as well as its optical properties. An exact analytical expression for the energy spectrum is derived using a straightforward method based on boundary conditions for wavefunctions and their derivatives along the ring. The optical properties of this exciton system, namely the linear dynamic polarizability and absorption spectrum are investigated demonstrating certain unusual features. It is shown, for example, that for special values of the magnetic flux there are energies in the spectrum that correspond to the dark excitonic states.

id: 1103.0787
title: Quantum quenches in disordered systems: Approach to thermal equilibrium without a typical relaxation time
authors: Ehsan Khatami, Marcos Rigol, Armando Rela?o, Antonio M. Garcia-Garcia
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 050102(R) (2012)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0787
abstract: We study spectral properties and the dynamics after a quench of one-dimensional spinless fermions with short-range interactions and long-range random hopping. We show that a sufficiently fast decay of the hopping term promotes localization effects at finite temperature, which prevents thermalization even if the classical motion is chaotic. For slower decays, we find that thermalization does occur. However, within this model, the latter regime falls in an unexpected universality class, namely, observables exhibit a power-law (as opposed to an exponential) approach to their thermal expectation values.

id: 1103.0806
title: Time representation on the Beginning of space-time -- From a philosophical and mathematical view
authors: Tadashi Fujimoto
comments: 14 page
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0806
abstract: I would like to consider the Beginning of space-time in this paper. First of all, we do consideration historical thought. A lot of philosophers have considered the relation between this real phenomenal world and the basic world in which the phenomenal world is grounded. We will glimpse thought historical details about such respect. Afterwards, we interpret the representation of space-time on Quantum theory and Relativistic theory. In this case, we will take recent results of time operator theory into consideration.

id: 1103.0879
title: Explanations from contemporary quantum theories: some ontological characteristics
authors: Mladen Domazet
comments: Doctoral thesis from 2009, substantial content begins at p.10
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0879
abstract: We begin by surveying the historical positions in different attempts to understand the material world since the rise of modern science, with specific focus on the role of Cartesian primary qualities in explanatory conceptualisation. Moreover the opening chapter argues that although explanatory narratives are essentially epistemological constructions, they require a general metaphysical backing through the explainer's and explainee's commitments to take the concepts and higher structures composed of them as directly referential. Two methodological perspectives on theory construction, Einstein's division into principle and constructive theories, are then delineated along the lines of their metaphysical and explanatory potential, and presented as the research instrument with which to approach the specific-case-study instances of quantum theory reconstruction. A specific strategy of arguing for scientific realism ('the simple transcendental strategy') is then presented and connected to the challenges that the phenomena (EPR correlations and 'teleportation') from the domain of contemporary quantum theory pose for it. The opening chapter concludes with a survey of the general models of explanation and their position with respect to the principle-constructive dichotomy introduced above. Finally, an explanatory model containing extended material-like entities along with further primitives, universal laws of temporal evolution, is argued for. Consequently, in the interest of a wholesome realistic response to the sceptical challenge about the explanatory aims of science, we recommend that even the common sense conceptual framework replaces the extended material structure with 'generalised things' as re-identifiable invariants through change as the fundamental unit of the realist ontology.

id: 1103.0919
title: Quantum trajectory phase transitions in the micromaser
authors: Juan P. Garrahan, Andrew D. Armour, Igor Lesanovsky
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 84, 021115 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0919
abstract: We study the dynamics of the single atom maser, or micromaser, by means of the recently introduced method of thermodynamics of quantum jump trajectories. We find that the dynamics of the micromaser displays multiple space-time phase transitions, i.e., phase transitions in ensembles of quantum jump trajectories. This rich dynamical phase structure becomes apparent when trajectories are classified by dynamical observables that quantify dynamical activity, such as the number of atoms that have changed state while traversing the cavity. The space-time transitions can be either first-order or continuous, and are controlled not just by standard parameters of the micromaser but also by non-equilibrium "counting" fields. We discuss how the dynamical phase behavior relates to the better known stationary state properties of the micromaser.

id: 1103.0936
title: Time-dependent variational principle for quantum lattices
authors: Jutho Haegeman, J. Ignacio Cirac, Tobias J. Osborne, Iztok Pizorn, Henri Verschelde, Frank Verstraete
comments: main text (4+ pages, 2 figures, 1 table) + supplementary material (15 pages, 2 figures). Corrections and other small changes, added reference
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 070601 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0936
abstract: We develop a new algorithm based on the time-dependent variational principle applied to matrix product states to efficiently simulate the real- and imaginary time dynamics for infinite one-dimensional quantum lattice systems. This procedure: (1) is argued to be optimal; (2) does not rely on the Trotter decomposition and thus has no Trotter error; (3) explicitly preserves all symmetries and conservation laws; and (4) has low computational complexity. The algorithm is illustrated using both imaginary time and real-time examples.

id: 1103.0945
title: Relativistic Brownian motion on a graphene chip
authors: Andrey Pototsky, Fabio Marchesoni, Feodor V. Kusmartsev, Peter H?nggi, Sergey E. Savel'ev
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: European Physical Journal B 85, 356 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0945
abstract: Relativistic Brownian motion can be inexpensively demonstrated on a graphene chip. The interplay of stochastic and relativistic dynamics, governing the transport of charge carrier in graphene, induces noise-controlled effects such as (i) a stochastic effective mass, detectable as a suppression of the particle mobility with increasing the temperature; (ii) a transverse ratchet effect, measurable as a net current orthogonal to an ac drive on an asymmetric substrate, and (iii) a chaotic stochastic resonance. Such properties can be of practical applications in the emerging graphene technology.

id: 1103.0958
title: Semiclassical propagator for SU(n) coherent states
authors: Thiago F. Viscondi, Marcus A. M. de Aguiar
comments: 16 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 052104 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0958
abstract: We present a detailed derivation of the semiclassical propagator in the SU(n) coherent state representation. In order to provide support for immediate physical applications, we restrict this work to the fully symmetric irreducible representations, which are suitable for the treatment of bosonic dynamics in n modes, considering systems with conservation of total particle number. The derivation described here can be easily extended to other classes of coherent states, thus representing an alternative approach to previously published methods.

id: 1103.0993
title: Constraints on non-Newtonian gravity from measuring the Casimir force in a configuration with nanoscale rectangular corrugations
authors: V. B. Bezerra, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko, C. Romero
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:075004,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.0993
abstract: We report constraints on the parameters of Yukawa-type corrections to Newtonian gravity from measurements of the gradient of the Casimir force in the configuration of an Au-coated sphere above a Si plate covered with corrugations of trapezoidal shape. For this purpose, the exact expression for the gradient of Yukawa force in the experimental configuration is derived and compared with that obtained using the proximity force approximation. The reported constraints are of almost the same strength as those found previously from several different experiments on the Casimir force and extend over a wide interaction range from 30 to 1260\,nm. It is discussed how to make them stronger by replacing the material of the plate.

id: 1103.1021
title: Polarized entangled Bose-Einstein condensation
authors: Jinglong Wang, Yu Shi
comments: 14 pages, received by PRA on 27 October 2010
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 063637 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1021
abstract: We consider a mixture of two distinct species of atoms of pseudospin-1/2 with both intraspecies and Interspecies spin-exchange interactions, and find all the ground stats in a general case of the parameters in the effective Hamiltonian. In general, corresponding to the two species and two pseudo-spin states, there are four orbital wave functions into which the atoms condense. We find that in certain parameter regimes, the ground state is the so-called polarized entangled Bose-Einstein condensation, i.e. in addition to condensation of interspecies singlet pairs, there are unpaired atoms with spins polarized in the same direction. The interspecies entanglement and polarization significantly affect the generalized Gross-Pitaevskii equations governing the four orbital wave functions into which the atoms condense, as an interesting interplay between spin and orbital degrees of freedom.

id: 1103.1022
title: Orbital elementary excitations as probes of entanglement and quantum phase transitions of collective spins in an entangled Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Rukuan Wu, Yu Shi
comments: 5 pages, received by PRA on 22 December 2010
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 025601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1022
abstract: A mixture of two species of pseudospin-1/2 Bose gases exhibits interesting interplay between spin and orbital degrees of freedom. Expectation values of various quantities of the collective spins of the two species play crucial roles in the Gross-Pitaevskii-like equations governing the four orbital wave functions in which Bose-Einstein condensation occurs. Consequently, the elementary excitations of these orbital wave functions reflect properties of the collective spins. When the coupling between the two collective spins is isotropic, the energy gap of the gapped orbital excitation peaks, while there is a quantum phase transition in the ground state of the effective Hamiltonian of the two collective spins, which have previously been found to be maximally entangled.

id: 1103.1023
title: Three-dimensional quantum phase diagram of the exact ground states of a mixture of two species of spin-1 Bose gases with interspecies spin exchange
authors: Yu Shi, Li Ge
comments: 16 pages, received by PRA on 23 August 2010
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 013616 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1023
abstract: We find nearly all the exact ground states of a mixture of two species of spin-1 atoms with both interspecies and intraspecies spin exchanges in absence of a magnetic field. The quantum phase diagram in the three-dimensional parameter space and its two-dimensional cross sections are described. The boundaries where the ground states are either continuous or discontinuous are determined, with the latter identified as where quantum phase transitions take place. The two species are always disentangled if the interspecies spin coupling is ferromagnetic or zero. Quantum phase transitions occur when the interspecies spin coupling varies between antiferromagtic and zero or ferromagnetic while the two intraspecies spin couplings both remain ferromagnetic. On the other hand, by tuning the interspecies spin coupling from zero to antiferromagnetic and then back to zero, one can circumvent the quantum phase transition due to sign change of the intraspecies spin coupling of a single species, which is spin-decoupled with the other species with ferromagnetic intraspecies spin coupling. Overall speaking, interplay among interspecies and two intraspecies spin exchanges significantly enriches quantum phases of spinor atomic gases.

id: 1103.1045
title: Cavity QED with magnetically coupled collective spin states
authors: Robert Ams¨¹ss, Christian Koller, Tobias N?bauer, Stefan Putz, Stefan Rotter, Kathrin Sandner, Stephan Schneider, Matthias Schramb?ck, Georg Steinhauser, Helmut Ritsch, J?rg Schmiedmayer, Johannes Majer
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 060502 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1045
abstract: We report strong coupling between an ensemble of nitrogen-vacancy center electron spins in diamond and a superconducting microwave coplanar waveguide resonator. The characteristic scaling of the collective coupling strength with the square root of the number of emitters is observed directly. Additionally, we measure hyperfine coupling to 13C nuclear spins, which is a first step towards a nuclear ensemble quantum memory. Using the dispersive shift of the cavity resonance frequency, we measure the relaxation time T1 of the NV center at millikelvin temperatures in a non-destructive way.

id: 1103.1081
title: Numerical Analysis of Three-dimensional Acoustic Cloaks and Carpets
authors: Guillaume Dupont, Mohamed Farhat, Andre Diatta, Sebastien Guenneau, Stefan Enoch
comments: Latex, 21 pages, 7 Figures, last version submitted to Wave Motion. OCIS Codes: (000.3860) Mathematical methods in physics; (260.2110) Electromagnetic theory; (160.3918) Metamaterials; (160.1190) Anisotropic optical materials; (350.7420) Waves; (230.1040) Acousto-optical devices; (160.1050) Acousto-optical materials; (290.5839) Scattering,invisibility; (230.3205) Invisibility cloaks
journal: Wave Motion 48 (2011), no. 6, 483-496
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Differential Geometry (math.DG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1081
abstract: We start by a review of the chronology of mathematical results on the Dirichlet-to-Neumann map which paved the way towards the physics of transformational acoustics. We then rederive the expression for the (anisotropic) density and bulk modulus appearing in the pressure wave equation written in the transformed coordinates. A spherical acoustic cloak consisting of an alternation of homogeneous isotropic concentric layers is further proposed based on the effective medium theory. This cloak is characterised by a low reflection and good efficiency over a large bandwidth for both near and far fields, which approximates the ideal cloak with a inhomogeneous and anisotropic distribution of material parameters. The latter suffers from singular material parameters on its inner surface. This singularity depends upon the sharpness of corners, if the cloak has an irregular boundary, e.g. a polyhedron cloak becomes more and more singular when the number of vertices increases if it is star shaped. We thus analyse the acoustic response of a non-singular spherical cloak designed by blowing up a small ball instead of a point, as proposed in [Kohn, Shen, Vogelius, Weinstein, Inverse Problems 24, 015016, 2008]. The multilayered approximation of this cloak requires less extreme densities (especially for the lowest bound). Finally, we investigate another type of non-singular cloaks, known as invisibility carpets [Li and Pendry, Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 203901, 2008], which mimic the reflection by a flat ground.

id: 1103.1117
title: A spintronic source of circularly polarized single photons
authors: Pablo Asshoff, Andreas Merz, Heinz Kalt, Michael Hetterich
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 98, 112106 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1117
abstract: We present a spintronic single photon source which emits circularly polarized light, where the helicity is determined by an applied magnetic field. Photons are emitted from an InGaAs quantum dot inside an electrically operated spin light-emitting diode, which comprises the diluted magnetic semiconductor ZnMnSe. The circular polarization degree of the emitted light is high, reaching 83% at an applied magnetic field of 2T and 96% at 6 T. Autocorrelation traces recorded in pulsed operation mode prove the emitted light to be antibunched. The two circular polarization states could be used for representing quantum states |0> and |1> in quantum cryptography implementations.

id: 1103.1122
title: Lieb-Robinson Bounds and Existence of the Thermodynamic Limit for a Class of Irreversible Quantum Dynamics
authors: Bruno Nachtergaele, Anna Vershynina, Valentin A. Zagrebnov
comments: Added 3 references and comments after Theorem 2; corrected typos
journal: AMS Contemporary Mathematics, volume 552, (2011) pp 161-175
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1122
abstract: We prove Lieb-Robinson bounds and the existence of the thermodynamic limit for a general class of irreversible dynamics for quantum lattice systems with time-dependent generators that satisfy a suitable decay condition in space.

id: 1103.1130
title: Periodic excitations of bilinear quantum systems
authors: Thomas Chambrion
comments: Available online this http URL
journal: Automatica 48, 9 (2012) pp 2040-2046
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1130
abstract: A well-known method of transferring the population of a quantum system from an eigenspace of the free Hamiltonian to another is to use a periodic control law with an angular frequency equal to the difference of the eigenvalues. For finite dimensional quantum systems, the classical theory of averaging provides a rigorous explanation of this experimentally validated result. This paper extends this finite dimensional result, known as the Rotating Wave Approximation, to infinite dimensional systems and provides explicit convergence estimates.

id: 1103.1169
title: Method for Generating Additive Shape Invariant Potentials from an Euler Equation
authors: Jonathan Bougie, Asim Gangopadhyaya, Jeffry V. Mallow
comments: 1 figure, 4 tables, 18 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 275307
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1169
abstract: In the supersymmetric quantum mechanics formalism, the shape invariance condition provides a sufficient constraint to make a quantum mechanical problem solvable; i.e., we can determine its eigenvalues and eigenfunctions algebraically. Since shape invariance relates superpotentials and their derivatives at two different values of the parameter $a$, it is a non-local condition in the coordinate-parameter $(x, a)$ space. We transform the shape invariance condition for additive shape invariant superpotentials into two local partial differential equations. One of these equations is equivalent to the one-dimensional Euler equation expressing momentum conservation for inviscid fluid flow. The second equation provides the constraint that helps us determine unique solutions. We solve these equations to generate the set of all known $\hbar$-independent shape invariant superpotentials and show that there are no others. We then develop an algorithm for generating additive shape invariant superpotentials including those that depend on $\hbar$ explicitly, and derive a new $\hbar$-dependent superpotential by expanding a Scarf superpotential.

id: 1103.1226
title: Z$_2$ topological number of local quantum clusters in the orthogonal dimer model
authors: Isao Maruyama, Sho Tanaya, Mitsuhiro Arikawa, Yasuhiro Hatsugai
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, Proceedings of the International Conference on Frustration in Condensed Matter (ICFCM) 2011
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1226
abstract: We have studied the $Z_2$ topological number defined by the Berry phase for the gapped frustrated systems including the orthogonal dimer model which has a direct product state of local quantum clusters as the exact ground state. The $Z_2$ topological number can clarify what kind of the local quantum clusters is formed to lift the macroscopic degeneracy due to frustration, even when the exact ground state is unknown. As a demonstration, the dimer-singlet and plaquette-singlet phase are identified by two kinds of Z$_2$ topological numbers in the Shastry-Sutherland model and its generalization realized experimentally as SrCu$_2$(BO$_3$)$_2$ and CaV$_4$O$_9$.

id: 1103.1246
title: Information Entropy of conditionally exactly solvable potentials
authors: D.Dutta, P.Roy
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1246
abstract: We evaluate Shannon entropy for the position and momentum eigenstates of some conditionally exactly solvable potentials which are isospectral to harmonic oscillator and whose solutions are given in terms of exceptional orthogonal polynomials. The Bialynicki-Birula-Mycielski (BBM) inequality has also been tested for a number of states.

id: 1103.1350
title: Open XXZ spin chain: Nonequilibrium steady state and strict bound on ballistic transport
authors: Tomaz Prosen
comments: Slightly longer but essentially equivalent to a published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 217206 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1350
abstract: Explicit matrix product ansatz is presented, in first two orders in the (weak) coupling parameter, for the non-equilibrium steady state of the homogeneous, nearest neighbor Heisenberg XXZ spin-1/2 chain driven by Lindblad operators which act only at the edges of the chain. The first order of the density operator becomes in thermodynamic limit an exact pseudo-local conservation law and yields -- via Mazur inequality -- a rigorous lower bound on the high temperature spin Drude weight. Such Mazur bound is a non-vanishing fractal function of the anisotropy parameter Delta for |Delta|<1.

id: 1103.1372
title: Quantum Simulation of Antiferromagnetic Spin Chains in an Optical Lattice
authors: Jonathan Simon, Waseem S. Bakr, Ruichao Ma, M. Eric Tai, Philipp M. Preiss, Markus Greiner
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: Nature 472, 307(2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1372
abstract: Understanding exotic forms of magnetism in quantum mechanical systems is a central goal of modern condensed matter physics, with implications from high temperature superconductors to spintronic devices. Simulating magnetic materials in the vicinity of a quantum phase transition is computationally intractable on classical computers due to the extreme complexity arising from quantum entanglement between the constituent magnetic spins. Here we employ a degenerate Bose gas confined in an optical lattice to simulate a chain of interacting quantum Ising spins as they undergo a phase transition. Strong spin interactions are achieved through a site-occupation to pseudo-spin mapping. As we vary an applied field, quantum fluctuations drive a phase transition from a paramagnetic phase into an antiferromagnetic phase. In the paramagnetic phase the interaction between the spins is overwhelmed by the applied field which aligns the spins. In the antiferromagnetic phase the interaction dominates and produces staggered magnetic ordering. Magnetic domain formation is observed through both in-situ site-resolved imaging and noise correlation measurements. By demonstrating a route to quantum magnetism in an optical lattice, this work should facilitate further investigations of magnetic models using ultracold atoms, improving our understanding of real magnetic materials.

id: 1103.1379
title: A proposed spin qubit CNOT gate robust against noisy coupling
authors: J. P. Kestner, S. Das Sarma
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures; minor revisions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012315 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1379
abstract: We propose an implementation of the two-qubit gate in a quantum dot spin qubit system which is immune to charge noise problems. Our proposed implementation, if it could be realized in a physical system, would have the advantage of being robust against uncertainties and fluctuations in the tunnel coupling and barrier gate voltage pulse area. The key idea is to introduce an auxiliary dot and use an analog to the stimulated Raman adiabatic passage pulse sequence in three-level atomic systems, often referred to in the context of electron transport in quantum dot systems as Coherent Tunneling by Adiabatic Passage. Spin-dependent tunneling opens the possibility of performing two-qubit gate operations by this method.

id: 1103.1404
title: A quantum way for metamaterials
authors: Didier Felbacq
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure, submitted to Journal of Nanophotonics
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1404
abstract: A new future for metamaterials is suggested, involving the insertion of quantum degrees of freedom, under the guise of quantum dots or cold atoms, in an photonic matrix. It is argued that new emergent, quantum, properties could be obtained.

id: 1103.1405
title: Josephson Amplifier for Qubit Readout
authors: Baleegh Abdo, Flavius Schackert, Michael Hatridge, Chad Rigetti, Michel Devoret
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 99, 162506 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1405
abstract: We report on measurements of a Josephson amplifier (J-amp) suitable for quantum-state qubit readout in the microwave domain. It consists of two microstrip resonators which intersect at a Josephson ring modulator. A maximum gain of about 20 dB, a bandwidth of 9 MHz, and a center-frequency tunability of about 60 MHz with gain in excess of 10 dB have been attained for idler and signal of frequencies 6.4 GHz and 8.1 GHz, in accordance with theory. Maximum input power measurements of the J-amp show a relatively good agreement with theoretical prediction. We discuss how the amplifier characteristics can be improved.

id: 1103.1451
title: Generalized Heisenberg Algebras, SUSYQM and Degeneracies: Infinite Well and Morse Potential
authors: V¨¦ronique Hussin, Ian Marquette
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 7 (2011), 024, 16 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1451
abstract: We consider classical and quantum one and two-dimensional systems with ladder operators that satisfy generalized Heisenberg algebras. In the classical case, this construction is related to the existence of closed trajectories. In particular, we apply these results to the infinite well and Morse potentials. We discuss how the degeneracies of the permutation symmetry of quantum two-dimensional systems can be explained using products of ladder operators. These products satisfy interesting commutation relations. The two-dimensional Morse quantum system is also related to a generalized two-dimensional Morse supersymmetric model. Arithmetical or accidental degeneracies of such system are shown to be associated to additional supersymmetry.

id: 1103.1539
title: Quantum quench dynamics of the Bose-Hubbard model at finite temperatures
authors: J. M. Zhang, C. Shen, W. M. Liu
comments: preprint, 20 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review A (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1539
abstract: We study quench dynamics of the Bose-Hubbard model by exact diagonalization. Initially the system is at thermal equilibrium and of a finite temperature. The system is then quenched by changing the on-site interaction strength $U$ suddenly. Both the single-quench and double-quench scenarios are considered. In the former case, the time-averaged density matrix and the real-time evolution are investigated. It is found that though the system thermalizes only in a very narrow range of the quenched value of $U$, it does equilibrate or relax well in a much larger range. Most importantly, it is proven that this is guaranteed for some typical observables in the thermodynamic limit. In order to test whether it is possible to distinguish the unitarily evolving density matrix from the time-averaged (thus time-independent), fully decoherenced density matrix, a second quench is considered. It turns out that the answer is affirmative or negative according to the intermediate value of $U$ is zero or not.

id: 1103.1572
title: Non-extensive statistical mechanics: Gibbs-type formula, existence and uniqueness of its solution
authors: Lev Sakhnovich
comments: A revised and more complete version. The uniqueness result is added
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1572
abstract: Existence and uniqueness results for the solution of the Gibbs-type formula from non-extensive mechanics are derived rigorously. A new conditional extremal problem is proposed to get in a more simple way the Gibbs-type formula itself.

id: 1103.1636
title: Entanglement Entropy of the Two-Dimensional Heisenberg Antiferromagnet
authors: H. Francis Song, Nicolas Laflorencie, Stephan Rachel, Karyn Le Hur
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 224410 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1636
abstract: We compute the von Neumann and generalized R\'{e}nyi entanglement entropies in the ground-state of the spin-1/2 antiferromagnetic Heisenberg model on the square lattice using the modified spin-wave theory for finite lattices. The addition of a staggered magnetic field to regularize the Goldstone modes associated with symmetry-breaking is shown to be essential for obtaining well-behaved values for the entanglement entropy. The von Neumann and R\'{e}nyi entropies obey an area law with additive logarithmic corrections, and are in good quantitative agreement with numerical results from valence bond quantum Monte Carlo and density matrix renormalization group calculations. We also compute the spin fluctuations and observe a multiplicative logarithmic correction to the area law in excellent agreement with quantum Monte Carlo calculations.

id: 1103.1665
title: The Role of Singular Control in Frictionless Atom Cooling in a Harmonic Trapping Potential
authors: Dionisis Stefanatos, Jr-Shin Li
comments: 
journal: 2012 American Control Conference, Montreal, Canada, pp. 5061-5066, 2012
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1665
abstract: In this article we study the frictionless cooling of atoms trapped in a harmonic potential, while minimizing the transient energy of the system. We show that in the case of unbounded control, this goal is achieved by a singular control, which is also the time-minimal solution for a "dual" problem, where the energy is held fixed. In addition, we examine briefly how the solution is modified when there are bounds on the control. The results presented here have a broad range of applications, from the cooling of a Bose-Einstein condensate confined in a harmonic trap to adiabatic quantum computing and finite time thermodynamic processes.

id: 1103.1673
title: Casimir Effect Associated with Fractional Klein-Gordon Field
authors: S. C. Lim, L. P. Teo
comments: Review article
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1673
abstract: This paper gives a brief review on the recent work on fractional Klein-Gordon fields, in particular on the Casimir effect associated to fractional Klein-Gordon fields in various geometries and boundary conditions. New results on Casimir piston due to a fractional Klein-Gordon massive field are given.

id: 1103.1677
title: The thermodynamic properties of Davydov-Scott's protein model in thermal bath
authors: A. Sulaiman, F.P Zen, H. Alatas, L.T. Handoko
comments: 8 pages, Proceeding of the Conference in Honour of Murray Gell-Mann's 80th Birthday : Quantum Mechanics, Elementary Particles, Quantum Cosmology and Complexity (2011) 661-668
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1677
abstract: The thermodynamic properties of Davydov-Scott monomer contacting with thermal bath is investigated using Lindblad open quantum system formalism. The Lindblad equation is investigated through path integral method. It is found that the environmental effects contribute destructively to the specific heat, and large interaction between amide-I and amide-site is not preferred for a stable Davydov-Scott monomer.

id: 1103.1686
title: Fractional Quantum Hall Effect of Hard-Core Bosons in Topological Flat Bands
authors: Yi-Fei Wang, Zheng-Cheng Gu, Chang-De Gong, D. N. Sheng
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 146803 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1686
abstract: Recent proposals of topological flat band (TFB) models have provided a new route to realize the fractional quantum Hall effect (FQHE) without Landau levels. We study hard-core bosons with short-range interactions in two representative TFB models, one of which is the well known Haldane model (but with different parameters). We demonstrate that FQHE states emerge with signatures of even number of quasi-degenerate ground states on a torus and a robust spectrum gap separating these states from higher energy spectrum. We also establish quantum phase diagrams for the filling factor 1/2 and illustrate quantum phase transitions to other competing symmetry-breaking phases.

id: 1103.1832
title: PT-symmetry breaking in complex nonlinear wave equations and their deformations
authors: Andrea Cavaglia, Andreas Fring, Bijan Bagchi
comments: 50 pages, 39 figures (compressed in order to comply with arXiv policy; higher resolutions maybe obtained from the authors upon request)
journal: J.Phys.A44:325201,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1832
abstract: We investigate complex versions of the Korteweg-deVries equations and an Ito type nonlinear system with two coupled nonlinear fields. We systematically construct rational, trigonometric/hyperbolic, elliptic and soliton solutions for these models and focus in particular on physically feasible systems, that is those with real energies. The reality of the energy is usually attributed to different realisations of an antilinear symmetry, as for instance PT-symmetry. It is shown that the symmetry can be spontaneously broken in two alternative ways either by specific choices of the domain or by manipulating the parameters in the solutions of the model, thus leading to complex energies. Surprisingly the reality of the energies can be regained in some cases by a further breaking of the symmetry on the level of the Hamiltonian. In many examples some of the fixed points in the complex solution for the field undergo a Hopf bifurcation in the PT-symmetry breaking process. By employing several different variants of the symmetries we propose many classes of new invariant extensions of these models and study their properties. The reduction of some of these models yields complex quantum mechanical models previously studied.

id: 1103.1894
title: Separation of Coupled Systems of Schrodinger Equations by Darboux transformations
authors: Mayer Humi
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1894
abstract: Darboux transformations in one independent variable have found numerous applications in various field of mathematics and physics. In this paper we show that the extension of these transformations to two dimensions can be used to decouple systems of Schrodinger equations and provide explicit representation for three classes of such systems. We show also that there is an elegant relationship between these transformations and analytic complex matrix functions.

id: 1103.1976
title: Coherence and entanglement in the ground-state of a bosonic Josephson junction:from macroscopic Schr?dinger cats to separable Fock states
authors: Giovanni Mazzarella, Luca Salasnich, Alberto Parola, Flavio Toigo
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures, 1 table. Title and abstract changed. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 053607 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1976
abstract: We consider a bosonic Josephson junction made of $N$ ultracold and dilute atoms confined by a quasi one-dimensional double-well potential within the two-site Bose-Hubbard model framework. The behaviour of the system is investigated at zero temperature by varying the inter-atomic interaction from the strongly attractive regime to the repulsive one. We show that the ground-state exhibits a crossover from a macroscopic Schr\"odinger-cat state to a separable Fock state through an atomic coherent regime. By diagonalizing the Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian we characterize the emergence of the mascroscopic cat states by calculating the Fisher information $F$, the coherence by means of the visibility $\alpha$ of the interference fringes in the momentum distribution, and the quantum correlations by using the entanglement entropy $S$. Both Fisher information and visibility are shown to be related to the ground state energy by employing the Hellmann-Feynman theorem. This result, together with a perturbative calculation of the ground-state energy, makes possible to obtain simple analytical formulas for $F$ and $\alpha$ over a range of interactions, in excellent agreement with the exact diagonalization of the Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian. In the attractive regime the entanglement entropy attains values very close to its upper limit for a specific interaction strength lying in the region where coherence is lost and self trapping sets in.

id: 1103.1983
title: Domains of time-dependent density-potential mappings
authors: Markus Penz, Michael Ruggenthaler
comments: 7 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 335208
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1983
abstract: The key element in time-dependent density functional theory is the one-to-one correspondence between the one-particle density and the external potential. In most approaches this mapping is transformed into a certain type of Sturm-Liouville problem. Here we give conditions for existence and uniqueness of solutions and construct the weighted Sobolev space they lie in. As a result the class of v-representable densities is considerably widened with respect to previous work.

id: 1103.2030
title: From SICs and MUBs to Eddington
authors: Ingemar Bengtsson
comments: 12 pages; from the Festschrift for Tony Sudbery
journal: J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 254 (2010) 012007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2030
abstract: This is a survey of some very old knowledge about Mutually Unbiased Bases (MUB) and Symmetric Informationally Complete POVMs (SIC). In prime dimensions the former are closely tied to an elliptic normal curve symmetric under the Heisenberg group, while the latter are believed to be orbits under the Heisenberg group in all dimensions. In dimensions 3 and 4 the SICs are understandable in terms of elliptic curves, but a general statement escapes us. The geometry of the SICs in 3 and 4 dimensions is discussed in some detail.

id: 1103.2044
title: Vacuum polarization in light two-electron atoms and ions
authors: Alexei M. Frolov, David M. Wardlaw
comments: This paper has been withdrawn from Arxiv. The text has been changed substantially, since its first version
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2044
abstract: The original text has been changed substantially since the first version of this paper. Finally, we have decided to split that submission in two parts. Each of them includes a large number of updates and corrections. They were placed on ArXiv with new numbers (see: ArXiv:1110.3433 and 1111.2303).

id: 1103.2067
title: A new family of matrix product states with Dzyaloshinski-Moriya interactions
authors: Marzieh Asoudeh
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2067
abstract: We define a new family of matrix product states which are exact ground states of spin 1/2 Hamiltonians on one dimensional lattices. This class of Hamiltonians contain both Heisenberg and Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interactions but at specified and not arbitrary couplings. We also compute in closed forms the one and two-point functions and the explicit form of the ground state. The degeneracy structure of the ground state is also discussed.

id: 1103.2096
title: Adiabatic Formation of Rydberg Crystals with Chirped Laser Pulses
authors: R. M. W. van Bijnen, S. Smit, K. A. H. van Leeuwen, E. J. D. Vredenbregt, S. J. J. M. F. Kokkelmans
comments: 23 pages, 10 figures, MPIPKS-ITAMP Tandem Workshop, Cold Rydberg Gases and Ultracold Plasmas (CRYP10), Sept. 6-17, 2010
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 184008
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2096
abstract: Ultracold atomic gases have been used extensively in recent years to realize textbook examples of condensed matter phenomena. Recently, phase transitions to ordered structures have been predicted for gases of highly excited, 'frozen' Rydberg atoms. Such Rydberg crystals are a model for dilute metallic solids with tunable lattice parameters, and provide access to a wide variety of fundamental phenomena. We investigate theoretically how such structures can be created in four distinct cold atomic systems, by using tailored laser-excitation in the presence of strong Rydberg-Rydberg interactions. We study in detail the experimental requirements and limitations for these systems, and characterize the basic properties of small crystalline Rydberg structures in one, two and three dimensions.

id: 1103.2098
title: Quantum Mechanics on SO(3) via Non-commutative Dual Variables
authors: Daniele Oriti, Matti Raasakka
comments: 29 pages; matches the published version plus footnote 7, a journal reference included
journal: Phys.Rev.D84:025003,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2098
abstract: We formulate quantum mechanics on SO(3) using a non-commutative dual space representation for the quantum states, inspired by recent work in quantum gravity. The new non-commutative variables have a clear connection to the corresponding classical variables, and our analysis confirms them as the natural phase space variables, both mathematically and physically. In particular, we derive the first order (Hamiltonian) path integral in terms of the non-commutative variables, as a formulation of the transition amplitudes alternative to that based on harmonic analysis. We find that the non-trivial phase space structure gives naturally rise to quantum corrections to the action for which we find a closed expression. We then study both the semi-classical approximation of the first order path integral and the example of a free particle on SO(3). On the basis of these results, we comment on the relevance of similar structures and methods for more complicated theories with group-based configuration spaces, such as Loop Quantum Gravity and Spin Foam models.

id: 1103.2155
title: Analytic Time Evolution, Random Phase Approximation, and Green Functions for Matrix Product States
authors: Jesse M. Kinder, Claire C. Ralph, Garnet Kin-Lic Chan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2155
abstract: Drawing on similarities in Hartree-Fock theory and the theory of matrix product states (MPS), we explore extensions to time evolution, response theory, and Green functions. We derive analytic equations of motion for MPS from the least action principle, which describe optimal evolution in the small time-step limit. We further show how linearized equations of motion yield a MPS random phase approximation, from which one obtains response functions and excitations. Finally we analyze the structure of site-based Green functions associated with MPS, as well as the structure of correlations introduced via the fluctuation-dissipation theorem.

id: 1103.2162
title: A new estimate on the indirect Coulomb Energy
authors: Rafael D. Benguria, Gonzalo Bley, Michael Loss
comments: LaTex, 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2162
abstract: We prove a new lower bound on the indirect Coulomb energy in quantum mechanics in terms of the single particle density of the system. The new universal lower bound is an alternative to the classical Lieb--Oxford bound (with a smaller constant, 1.45 < 1.68) but involving an additive kinetic energy term of the single particle density.

id: 1103.2187
title: Atomic scale 0-pi transition in a high-Tc superconductor/ferromagnetic-insulator/high-T superconductor Josephson junction
authors: Shiro Kawabata, Yukio Tanaka, Yasuhiro Asano
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2187
abstract: We study the Josephson transport in a high-Tc superconductor/ferromagnetic-insulator(FI)/high-Tc superconductor numerically. We found the formation of a pi-junction in such systems. More remarkably the ground state of such junction alternates between 0- and pi-states when thickness of FI is increasing by a single atomic layer. We propose an experimental setup for observing the atomic-scale 0-pi transition. Such FI-based pi-junctions can be used to implement highly-coherent quantum bits.

id: 1103.2205
title: Violation of the area law and long range correlations in infinite matrix product states
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen, German Sierra, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 9+4 pages, 13+0 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 053807 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2205
abstract: We propose to construct a family of states of one-dimensional spin chains by replacing the finite dimensional matrices in matrix product states by infinite dimensional operators constructed from bosonic annihilation and creation operators. The resulting states are demonstrated to violate the area law and to exhibit long range correlations. In addition, we propose an efficient way to prepare the states experimentally, in which the spins interact sequentially with an ancilla system.

id: 1103.2219
title: Functional RG flow equation: regularization and coarse-graining in phase space
authors: G. P. Vacca, L. Zambelli
comments: 19 pages, latex, few remarks and an equation added, version to be published on Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:125024,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2219
abstract: Starting from the basic path integral in phase space we reconsider the functional approach to the RG flow of the one particle irreducible effective average action. On employing a balanced coarse-graining procedure for the canonical variables we obtain a functional integral with a non trivial measure which leads to a modified flow equation. We first address quantum mechanics for boson and fermion degrees of freedom and we then extend the construction to quantum field theories. For this modified flow equation we discuss the reconstruction of the bare action and the implications on the computation of the vacuum energy density.

id: 1103.2223
title: Decoherence, Autler-Townes effect, and dark states in two-tone driving of a three-level superconducting system
authors: Jian Li, G. S. Paraoanu, Katarina Cicak, Fabio Altomare, Jae I. Park, Raymond W. Simmonds, Mika A. Sillanpaa, Pertti J. Hakonen
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 104527 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2223
abstract: We present a detailed theoretical analysis of a multi-level quantum system coupled to two radiation fields and subject to decoherence. We concentrate on an effect known from quantum optics as the Autler-Townes splitting, which has been recently demonstrated experimentally [M. A. Sillanpaa et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 193601 (2009)] in a superconducting phase qubit. In the three-level approximation, we derive analytical solutions and describe how they can be used to extract the decoherence rates and to account for the measurement data. Better agreement with the experiment can be obtained by extending this model to five levels. Finally, we investigate the stationary states created in the experiment and show that their structure is close to that of dark states.

id: 1103.2232
title: Filtering and analyzing mobile qubit information via Rashba-Dresselhaus-Aharonov-Bohm interferometers
authors: Amnon Aharony, Yasuhiro Tokura, Guy Z. Cohen, Ora Entin-Wohlman, Shingo Katsumoto
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B84, 035323 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2232
abstract: Spin-1/2 electrons are scattered through one or two diamond-like loops, made of quantum dots connected by one-dimensional wires, and subject to both an Aharonov-Bohm flux and (Rashba and Dresselhaus) spin-orbit interactions. With some symmetry between the two branches of each diamond, and with appropriate tuning of the electric and magnetic fields (or of the diamond shapes) this device completely blocks electrons with one polarization, and allows only electrons with the opposite polarization to be transmitted. The directions of these polarizations are tunable by these fields, and do not depend on the energy of the scattered electrons. For each range of fields one can tune the site and bond energies of the device so that the transmission of the fully polarized electrons is close to unity. Thus, these devices perform as ideal spin filters, and these electrons can be viewed as mobile qubits; the device writes definite quantum information on the spinors of the outgoing electrons. The device can also read the information written on incoming polarized electrons: the charge transmission through the device contains full information on this polarization. The double-diamond device can also act as a realization of the Datta-Das spin field-effect transistor.

id: 1103.2260
title: Coherence of Single Electron Sources from Mach-Zehnder Interferometry
authors: G¨¦raldine Haack, Michael Moskalets, Janine Splettstoesser, Markus B¨¹ttiker
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 081303(R) (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2260
abstract: A new type of electron sources has emerged which permits to inject particles in a controllable manner, one at a time, into an electronic circuit. Such single electron sources make it possible to fully exploit the particles' quantum nature. We determine the single-particle coherence length from the decay of the Aharonov-Bohm oscillations as a function of the imbalance of a Mach-Zehnder interferometer connected to a single electron source. The single-particle coherence length is of particular importance as it is an intrinsic property of the source in contrast to the dephasing length.

id: 1103.2268
title: Proceedings CSR 2010 Workshop on High Productivity Computations
authors: Farid Ablayev, Bob Coecke, Alexander Vasiliev
comments: 
journal: EPTCS 52, 2011
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2268
abstract: This volume contains the proceedings of the Workshop on High Productivity Computations (HPC 2010) which took place on June 21-22 in Kazan, Russia. This workshop was held as a satellite workshop of the 5th International Computer Science Symposium in Russia (CSR 2010). HPC 2010 was intended to organize the discussions about high productivity computing means and models, including but not limited to high performance and quantum information processing.

id: 1103.2361
title: Nanoscale heat flux between anisotropic uniaxial media
authors: Svend-Age Biehs, Philippe Ben-Abdallah, Felipe S. S. Rosa, Karl Joulain, Jean-Jacques Greffet
comments: 
journal: Opt. Expr. 19, A1088-A1103 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2361
abstract: We present a theoretical study of near-field heat transfer between two anisotropic materials separated by a small vacuum gap and maintained in a stationary non-equilibrium thermal situation. By combining standard stochastic electrodynamics and the Maxwell-Garnett description for effective media, we show that heat flux can be significantly enhanced by air inclusions. This result is explained by : (a) the presence of extraordinary surface waves that give rise to supplementary channels for heat transfer throughout the gap, (b) an increase in the contribution given by the ordinary surface waves at resonance, (c) and the appearance of frustrated modes over a broad spectral range.

id: 1103.2364
title: A mesoscopic description of radiative heat transfer at the nanoscale
authors: Svend-Age Biehs, Emmanuel Rousseau, Jean-Jacques Greffet
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 234301 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2364
abstract: We present a formulation of the nanoscale radiative heat transfer (RHT) using concepts of mesoscopic physics. We introduce the analog of the Sharvin conductance using the quantum of thermal conductance. The formalism provides a convenient framework to analyse the physics of RHT at the nanoscale. Finally, we propose a RHT experiment in the regime of quantized conductance.

id: 1103.2367
title: Influence of roughness on near-field heat transfer between two plates
authors: Svend-Age Biehs, Jean-Jacques Greffet
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 82, 245410 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2367
abstract: The surface roughness correction to the near-field heat transfer between two rough bulk materials is discussed by using second-order perturbation theory. The results allow for estimating the impact of surface roughness to the heat transfer in recent experiments between two plates and between a microsphere and a plate (using the Derjaguin approximation). Furthermore, we show that the proximity approximation for describing rough surfaces is valid for distances much smaller than the correlation length of the surface roughness even if the heat transfer is dominated by the coupling of surface modes.

id: 1103.2374
title: Near-field heat transfer between a nanoparticle and a rough surface
authors: Svend-Age Biehs, Jean-Jacques Greffet
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 81, 245414 (2010)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2374
abstract: In this work we focus on the surface roughness correction to the near-field radiative heat transfer between a nanoparticle and a material with a rough surface utilizing a direct perturbation theory up to second order in the surface profile. We discuss the different distance regimes for the local density of states above the rough material and the heat flux analytically and numerically. We show that the heat transfer rate is larger than that corresponding to a flat surface at short distances. At larger distances it can become smaller due to surface polariton scattering by the rough surface. For distances much smaller than the correlation length of the surface profile, we show that the results converge to a proximity approximation, whereas in the opposite limit the rough surface can be replaced by an equivalent surface layer.

id: 1103.2381
title: Casimir-Polder interaction between a polarizable particle and a plate with a hole
authors: Claudia Eberlein, Robert Zietal
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A, 83, 052514 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2381
abstract: We determine exactly the non-retarded Casimir-Polder interaction between a neutral but polarizable particle and a perfectly reflecting sheet containing a circular hole. The calculation reveals a strong dependence of the interaction on the orientation of the particle's electric dipole moment with respect to the surface. For a dipole moment that is polarized perpendicularly to the surface the interaction potential has two saddle points lying above and below the plane of the surface, on a line through the centre of the aperture. For a dipole moment that is polarized parallel to the surface there is only one saddle point right in the middle of the aperture. Provided the particles' motion could be confined to a line through the middle of the aperture, this effect could potentially be used for population-sensitive trapping of particles.

id: 1103.2502
title: Parallel ion strings in linear multipole traps
authors: Mathieu Marciante, Caroline Champenois, J. Pedregosa-Gutierrez, Annette Calisti, Martina Knoop
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 83 (2011) 021404(R)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2502
abstract: Additional radio-frequency (rf) potentials applied to linear multipole traps create extra field nodes in the radial plane which allow one to confine single ions, or strings of ions, in totally rf field-free regions. The number of nodes depends on the order of the applied multipole potentials and their relative distance can be easily tuned by the amplitude variation of the applied voltages. Simulations using molecular dynamics show that strings of ions can be laser cooled down to the Doppler limit in all directions of space. Once cooled, organized systems can be moved with very limited heating, even if the cooling process is turned off.

id: 1103.2550
title: Vacuum polarization by a flat boundary in cosmic string spacetime
authors: E.R. Bezerra de Mello, A.A. Saharian
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 28 (2011) 145008
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2550
abstract: In this paper we analyze the vacuum expectation values of the field squared and the energy-momentum tensor associated to a massive scalar field in a higher dimensional cosmic string spacetime, obeying Dirichlet or Neumann boundary conditions on the surface orthogonal to the string. In order to develop this analysis the corresponding Green function is obtained. The Green function is given by the sum of two expressions: the first one corresponds to the standard Green function in the boundary-free cosmic string spacetime and the second contribution is induced by the boundary. The boundary induced parts have opposite signs for Dirichlet and Neumann scalars. Because the analysis of vacuum polarization effects in the boundary-free cosmic string spacetime have been developed in the literature, here we are mainly interested in the calculations of the effects induced by the boundary. In this way closed expressions for the corresponding expectation values are provided, as well as their asymptotic behavior in different limiting regions is investigated. We show that the non-trivial topology due to the cosmic string enhances the boundary induced vacuum polarization effects for both field squared and the energy-momentum tensor, compared to the case of a boundary in Minkowski spacetime. The presence of the cosmic string induces non-zero stress along the direction normal to the boundary. The corresponding vacuum force acting on the boundary is investigated.

id: 1103.2608
title: Pauli graphs, Riemann hypothesis, Goldbach pairs
authors: Michel Planat, Fabio Anselmi, Patrick Sol¨¦
comments: 11 pages
journal: Theoretical and Mathematical Physics 171, 3 (2012) 780-791
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2608
abstract: Let consider the Pauli group $\mathcal{P}_q=<X,Z>$ with unitary quantum generators $X$ (shift) and $Z$ (clock) acting on the vectors of the $q$-dimensional Hilbert space via $X|s> =|s+1>$ and $Z|s> =\omega^s |s>$, with $\omega=\exp(2i\pi/q)$. It has been found that the number of maximal mutually commuting sets within $\mathcal{P}_q$ is controlled by the Dedekind psi function $\psi(q)=q \prod_{p|q}(1+\frac{1}{p})$ (with $p$ a prime) \cite{Planat2011} and that there exists a specific inequality $\frac{\psi (q)}{q}>e^{\gamma}\log \log q$, involving the Euler constant $\gamma \sim 0.577$, that is only satisfied at specific low dimensions $q \in \mathcal {A}=\{2,3,4,5,6,8,10,12,18,30\}$. The set $\mathcal{A}$ is closely related to the set $\mathcal{A} \cup \{1,24\}$ of integers that are totally Goldbach, i.e. that consist of all primes $p2$) is equivalent to Riemann hypothesis. Introducing the Hardy-Littlewood function $R(q)=2 C_2 \prod_{p|n}\frac{p-1}{p-2}$ (with $C_2 \sim 0.660$ the twin prime constant), that is used for estimating the number $g(q) \sim R(q) \frac{q}{\ln^2 q}$ of Goldbach pairs, one shows that the new inequality $\frac{R(N_r)}{\log \log N_r} \gtrapprox e^{\gamma}$ is also equivalent to Riemann hypothesis. In this paper, these number theoretical properties are discusssed in the context of the qudit commutation structure.

id: 1103.2631
title: Dynamical Autler-Townes control of a phase qubit
authors: Jian Li, G. S. Paraoanu, Katarina Cicak, Fabio Altomare, Jae I. Park, Raymond W. Simmonds, Mika A. Sillanpaa, Pertti J. Hakonen
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Sci. Rep. 2, 645 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2631
abstract: Routers, switches, and repeaters are essential components of modern information-processing systems. Similar devices will be needed in future superconducting quantum computers. In this work we investigate experimentally the time evolution of Autler-Townes splitting in a superconducting phase qubit under the application of a control tone resonantly coupled to the second transition. A three-level model that includes independently determined parameters for relaxation and dephasing gives excellent agreement with the experiment. The results demonstrate that the qubit can be used as a ON/OFF switch with 100 ns operating time-scale for the reflection/transmission of photons coming from an applied probe microwave tone. The ON state is realized when the control tone is sufficiently strong to generate an Autler-Townes doublet, suppressing the absorption of the probe tone photons and resulting in a maximum of transmission.

id: 1103.2638
title: Moments of Wishart-Laguerre and Jacobi ensembles of random matrices: application to the quantum transport problem in chaotic cavities
authors: Giacomo Livan, Pierpaolo Vivo
comments: 27 pages, 3 figures. Typos fixed, references added
journal: Acta Physica Polonica B vol. 42 (2011) page 1081
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2638
abstract: We collect explicit and user-friendly expressions for one-point densities of the real eigenvalues $\{\lambda_i\}$ of $N\times N$ Wishart-Laguerre and Jacobi random matrices with orthogonal, unitary and symplectic symmetry. Using these formulae, we compute integer moments $\tau_n=<\sum_{i=1}^N\lambda_i^n>$ for all symmetry classes without any large $N$ approximation. In particular, our results provide exact expressions for moments of transmission eigenvalues in chaotic cavities with time-reversal or spin-flip symmetry and supporting a finite and arbitrary number of electronic channels in the two incoming leads.

id: 1103.2640
title: Relativistic tunneling through opaque barriers
authors: Stefano De Leo, Vinicius Leonardi
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 83, (2011) 022111-5
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2640
abstract: We propose an analytical study of relativistic tunneling through opaque barriers. We obtain a closed formula for the phase time. This formula is in excellent agreement with the numerical simulations and corrects the standard formula obtained by the stationary phase method. An important result is found when the upper limit of the incoming energy distribution coincides with the upper limit of the tunneling zone. In this case, the phase time is proportional to the barrier width.

id: 1103.2666
title: Time evolution of the QED vacuum in a uniform electric Field: Complete analytic solution by spinorial decomposition
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula, ?ukasz Rudnicki
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:065020,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2666
abstract: Exact analytical solutions are presented for the time evolution of the density of pairs produced in the QED vacuum by a time-independent, uniform electric field. The mathematical tool used here to describe the pair production is the Dirac-Heisenberg-Wigner function introduced before [Phys. Rev. D 44, 1825 (1991)]. The initial value problem for this function is solved by decomposing the solution into a product of spinors. The equations for spinors are much simpler and are solved analytically. These calculations are nonperturbative since pair production is due to quantum-mechanical tunneling and the explicit solutions clearly exhibit their nonanalytic behavior.

id: 1103.2706
title: On stability of continuous-time quantum-filters
authors: Hadis Amini, Mazyar Mirrahimi, Pierre Rouchon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2706
abstract: We prove that the fidelity between the quantum state governed by a continuous time stochastic master equation driven by a Wiener process and its associated quantum-filter state is a sub-martingale. This result is a generalization to non-pure quantum states where fidelity does not coincide in general with a simple Frobenius inner product. This result implies the stability of such filtering process but does not necessarily ensure the asymptotic convergence of such quantum-filters.

id: 1103.2776
title: The Bond-Algebraic Approach to Dualities
authors: Emilio Cobanera, Gerardo Ortiz, Zohar Nussinov
comments: 131 pages, 22 figures. Submitted to Advances in Physics. Second version including a new section on the eight-vertex model and the correction of several typos
journal: Advances in Physics 60 (2011), 679-798
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2776
abstract: An algebraic theory of dualities is developed based on the notion of bond algebras. It deals with classical and quantum dualities in a unified fashion explaining the precise connection between quantum dualities and the low temperature (strong-coupling)/high temperature (weak-coupling) dualities of classical statistical mechanics (or (Euclidean) path integrals). Its range of applications includes discrete lattice, continuum field, and gauge theories. Dualities are revealed to be local, structure-preserving mappings between model-specific bond algebras that can be implemented as unitary transformations, or partial isometries if gauge symmetries are involved. This characterization permits to search systematically for dualities and self-dualities in quantum models of arbitrary system size, dimensionality and complexity, and any classical model admitting a transfer matrix representation. Dualities like exact dimensional reduction, emergent, and gauge-reducing dualities that solve gauge constraints can be easily understood in terms of mappings of bond algebras. As a new example, we show that the (\mathbb{Z}_2) Higgs model is dual to the extended toric code model {\it in any number of dimensions}. Non-local dual variables and Jordan-Wigner dictionaries are derived from the local mappings of bond algebras. Our bond-algebraic approach goes beyond the standard approach to classical dualities, and could help resolve the long standing problem of obtaining duality transformations for lattice non-Abelian models. As an illustration, we present new dualities in any spatial dimension for the quantum Heisenberg model. Finally, we discuss various applications including location of phase boundaries, spectral behavior and, notably, we show how bond-algebraic dualities help constrain and realize fermionization in an arbitrary number of spatial dimensions.

id: 1103.2788
title: Single-photon Optomechanics
authors: A. Nunnenkamp, K. Borkje, S. M. Girvin
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 063602 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2788
abstract: Optomechanics experiments are rapidly approaching the regime where the radiation pressure of a single photon displaces the mechanical oscillator by more than its zero-point uncertainty. We show that in this limit the power spectrum has multiple sidebands and that the cavity response has several resonances in the resolved-sideband limit. Using master-equation simulations, we also study the crossover from the weak-coupling many-photon to the single-photon strong-coupling regime. Finally, we find non-Gaussian steady-states of the mechanical oscillator when multi-photon transitions are resonant. Our study provides the tools to detect and take advantage of this novel regime of optomechanics.

id: 1103.2811
title: Three qubit entanglement within graphical Z/X-calculus
authors: Bob Coecke, Bill Edwards
comments: In Proceedings HPC 2010, arXiv:1103.2268
journal: EPTCS 52, 2011, pp. 22-33
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2811
abstract: The compositional techniques of categorical quantum mechanics are applied to analyse 3-qubit quantum entanglement. In particular the graphical calculus of complementary observables and corresponding phases due to Duncan and one of the authors is used to construct representative members of the two genuinely tripartite SLOCC classes of 3-qubit entangled states, GHZ and W. This nicely illustrates the respectively pairwise and global tripartite entanglement found in the W- and GHZ-class states. A new concept of supplementarity allows us to characterise inhabitants of the W class within the abstract diagrammatic calculus; these method extends to more general multipartite qubit states.

id: 1103.2812
title: The GHZ/W-calculus contains rational arithmetic
authors: Bob Coecke, Aleks Kissinger, Alex Merry, Shibdas Roy
comments: In Proceedings HPC 2010, arXiv:1103.2268
journal: EPTCS 52, 2011, pp. 34-48
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2812
abstract: Graphical calculi for representing interacting quantum systems serve a number of purposes: compositionally, intuitive graphical reasoning, and a logical underpinning for automation. The power of these calculi stems from the fact that they embody generalized symmetries of the structure of quantum operations, which, for example, stretch well beyond the Choi-Jamiolkowski isomorphism. One such calculus takes the GHZ and W states as its basic generators. Here we show that this language allows one to encode standard rational calculus, with the GHZ state as multiplication, the W state as addition, the Pauli X gate as multiplicative inversion, and the Pauli Z gate as additive inversion.

id: 1103.2844
title: Origin of intrinsic dark count in superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors
authors: T. Yamashita, S. Miki, K. Makise, W. Qiu, H. Terai, M. Fujiwara, M. Sasaki, Z. Wang
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Applied Physics Letters 99, 161105 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2844
abstract: The origin of the decoherence in superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors, the so-called dark count, was investigated. We measured the direct-current characteristics and bias-current dependencies of the dark count rate in a wide range of temperatures from 0.5 K to 4 K, and analyzed the results by theoretical models of thermal fluctuations of vortices. Our results indicate that the current-assisted unbinding of vortex-antivortex pairs is the dominant origin of the dark count.

id: 1103.2878
title: Towards unambiguous calculation of the topological entropy for mixed states
authors: James R. Wootton
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 215309
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2878
abstract: Calculation of topological order parameters, such as the topological entropy and topological mutual information, are used to determine whether states possess topological order. Their calculation is expected to give reliable results when the ground states of gapped Hamiltonians are considered, since non-topological correlations are suppressed by a finite correlation length. However, studies of thermal states and the effects of incoherent errors require calculations involving mixed states. Here we show that such mixed states can effectively lead to a diverging correlation length, and hence may give misleading results when these order parameters are calculated. To solve this problem, we propose a novel method to calculate the quantity, allowing topologically ordered states to be identified with greater confidence.

id: 1103.2896
title: Can a Bose gas be saturated?
authors: Naaman Tammuz, Robert P. Smith, Robert L. D. Campbell, Scott Beattie, Stuart Moulder, Jean Dalibard, Zoran Hadzibabic
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 230401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2896
abstract: Bose-Einstein condensation is unique among phase transitions between different states of matter in the sense that it occurs even in the absence of interactions between particles. In Einstein's textbook picture of an ideal gas, purely statistical arguments set an upper bound on the number of particles occupying the excited states of the system, and condensation is driven by this saturation of the quantum vapour. Dilute ultracold atomic gases are celebrated as a realisation of Bose-Einstein condensation in close to its purely statistical form. Here we scrutinise this point of view using an ultracold gas of potassium (39K) atoms, in which the strength of interactions can be tuned via a Feshbach scattering resonance. We first show that under typical experi-mental conditions a partially condensed atomic gas strongly deviates from the textbook concept of a saturated vapour. We then use measurements at a range of interaction strengths and temperatures to extrapolate to the non-interacting limit, and prove that in this limit the behaviour of a Bose gas is consistent with the saturation picture. Finally, we provide evidence for the universality of our observations through additional measurements with a different atomic species, 87Rb. Our results suggest a new way of characterising condensation phenomena in different physical systems.

id: 1103.2917
title: Scalable parallel physical random number generator based on a superluminescent LED
authors: Xiaowen Li, Adam B Cohen, Thomas E Murphy, Rajarshi Roy
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Letters 2011
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2917
abstract: We describe an optoelectronic system for simultaneously generating parallel, independent streams of random bits using spectrally separated noise signals obtained from a single optical source. Using a pair of non-overlapping spectral filters and a fiber-coupled superluminescent light-emitting diode (SLED), we produced two independent 10 Gb/s random bit streams, for a cumulative generation rate of 20 Gb/s. The system relies principally on chip-based optoelectronic components that could be integrated in a compact, economical package.

id: 1103.2951
title: Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov critical polarization in one-dimensional fermionic optical lattices
authors: Vivian V. Fran?a, Dominik H?rdlein, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: Accepted by Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 033622 (2012)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2951
abstract: We deduce an expression for the critical polarization P_C below which the FFLO-state emerges in one-dimensional lattices with spin-imbalanced populations. We provide and explore the phase diagram of unconfined chains as a function of polarization, interaction and particle density. For harmonically confined systems we supply a quantitative mapping which allows to apply our phase diagram also for confined chains. We find analytically, and confirm numerically, that the upper bound for the critical polarization is universal: P_C^{max}=1/3 for any density, interaction and confinement strength.

id: 1103.2956
title: Effective unidirectional pumping for steady-state amplification without inversion
authors: Pankaj K. Jha
comments: 8 Pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 58, 1957 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2956
abstract: We discuss an opportunity to achieve amplification without inversion in three-level cascade scheme using an effective unidirectional pumping via bidirectional incoherent pump. Analytical solution to the population and the coherence are obtained in the steady-state regime. With a proper choice of the parameters, obtained here, the possibility for amplification without inversion is presented.

id: 1103.3046
title: Thermal heat radiation, near-field energy density and near-field radiative heat transfer of coated materials
authors: Svend-Age Biehs
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 58, 423-431 (2007)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3046
abstract: We investigate the thermal radiation and thermal near-field energy density of a metal-coated semi-infinite body for different substrates. We show that the surface polariton coupling within the metal coating leads to an enhancement of the TM-mode part of the thermal near-field energy density when a polar substrate is used. In this case the result obtained for a free standing metal film is retrieved. In contrast, in the case of a metal substrate there is no enhancement in the TM-mode part, as can also be explained within the framework of surface plasmon coupling within the coating. Finally, we discuss the influence of the enhanced thermal energy density on the near-field radiative heat transfer between a simple semi-infinite and a coated semi-infinite body for different material combinations.

id: 1103.3048
title: Many-Body Contributions to Green's Functions and Casimir Energies
authors: K. V. Shajesh, M. Schaden
comments: 22 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3048
abstract: The multiple scattering formalism is used to extract irreducible N-body parts of Green's functions and Casimir energies describing the interaction of N objects that are not necessarily mutually disjoint. The irreducible N-body scattering matrix is expressed in terms of single-body transition matrices. The irreducible N-body Casimir energy is the trace of the corresponding irreducible N-body part of the Green's function. This formalism requires the solution of a set of linear integral equations. The irreducible three-body Green's function and the corresponding Casimir energy of a massless scalar field interacting with potentials are obtained and evaluated for three parallel semitransparent plates. When Dirichlet boundary conditions are imposed on a plate the Green's function and Casimir energy decouple into contributions from two disjoint regions. We also consider weakly interacting triangular--and parabolic-wedges placed atop a Dirichlet plate. The irreducible three-body Casimir energy of a triangular--and parabolic-wedge is minimal when the shorter side of the wedge is perpendicular to the Dirichlet plate. The irreducible three-body contribution to the vacuum energy is finite and positive in all the cases studied.

id: 1103.3050
title: Near-field radiative heat transfer for structured surfaces
authors: Svend-Age Biehs, Oliver Huth, Felix R¨¹ting
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 78, 085414 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3050
abstract: We apply an analytical approach for determining the near-field radiative heat transfer between a metallic nanosphere and a planar semi-infinite medium with some given surface structure. This approach is based on a perturbative expansion, and evaluated to first order in the surface profile. With the help of numerical results obtained for some simple model geometries we discuss typical signatures that should be obtainable with a near-field scanning thermal microscope operated in either constant-height or constant-distance mode.

id: 1103.3059
title: Near-field thermal imaging of nanostructured surfaces
authors: Achim Kittel, Uli Wischnath, Joachim Welker, Oliver Huth, Felix R¨¹ting, Svend-Age Biehs
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 93, 193109 (2008)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3059
abstract: We show that a near-field scanning thermal microscope, which essentially detects the local density of states of the thermally excited electromagnetic modes at nanometer distances from some material, can be employed for nanoscale imaging of structures on that material's surface. This finding is explained theoretically by an approach which treats the surface structure perturbatively.

id: 1103.3091
title: Dephasing of a Qubit due to Quantum and Classical Noise
authors: Ebad Kamil, Sushanta Dattagupta
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3091
abstract: The qubit (or a system of two quantum dots) has become a standard paradigm for studying quantum information processes. Our focus is Decoherence due to interaction of the qubit with its environment, leading to noise. We consider quantum noise generated by a dissipative quantum bath. A detailed comparative study with the results for a classical noise source such as generated by a telegraph process, enables us to set limits on the applicability of this process vis a vis its quantum counterpart, as well as lend handle on the parameters that can be tuned for analyzing decoherence. Both Ohmic and non-Ohmic dissipations are treated and appropriate limits are analyzed for facilitating comparison with the telegraph process.

id: 1103.3108
title: The multiple quantum NMR dynamics in systems of equivalent spins with the dipolar ordered initial state
authors: S.I.Doronin, E.B.Fel'dman, A.I.Zenchuk
comments: 11 pages 4 figures
journal: JETP, Vol. 113, No. 3, pp. 495-501 (2011)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3108
abstract: The multiple quantum (MQ) NMR dynamics in the system of equivalent spins with the dipolar ordered initial state is considered. The high symmetry of the MQ Hamiltonian is used in order to develop the analytical and numerical methods for an investigation of the MQ NMR dynamics in the systems consisting of hundreds of spins from "the first principles". We obtain the dependence of the intensities of the MQ NMR coherences on their orders (profiles of the MQ NMR coherences) for the systems of $200 - 600$ spins. It is shown that these profiles may be well approximated by the exponential distribution functions. We also compare the MQ NMR dynamics in the systems of equivalent spins having two different initial states, namely the dipolar ordered state and the thermal equilibrium state in the strong external magnetic field.

id: 1103.3115
title: Experimental investigations of the change with magnetic flux of quantum number in superconducting ring
authors: A.V. Burlakov, V.L. Gurtovoi, A.I. Ilin, A.V. Nikulov, V.A. Tulin
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures, for the Proceedings of 19th International Symposium "NANOSTRUCTURES: Physics and Technology", 20 - 25 June 2011, Ekaterinburg, Russia
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3115
abstract: The magnetic dependencies of the critical current of aluminum ring with asymmetric link-up of current leads have been measured in order to clear up the essence of the paradoxical absence of the jump of the critical current at the quantum number change revealed before at the measurements of asymmetric superconducting ring. The measurements have shown that the experimental and theoretical dependencies agree in the region of magnetic field corresponding to integer numbers of the flux quantum and disagree at the half of the flux quantum. The jump is not observed as well as in the asymmetric rings.

id: 1103.3143
title: An exact lower energy bound for the infinite square well potential
authors: M. Ogren, M. Carlsson
comments: Final published version
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 32 L3 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3143
abstract: We give a lower bound for the energy of a quantum particle in the infinite square well. We show that the bound is exact and identify the well-known element that fulfils the equality. Our approach is not directly dependent on the Schroedinger equation and illustrates an example where the wavefunction is obtained directly by energy minimization. The derivation presented can serve as an example of a variational method in an undergraduate level university course in quantum mechanics.

id: 1103.3161
title: Complete Quantum Thermodynamics of the Black Body Photon Gas
authors: Vladan Pankovic, Darko V. Kapor
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3161
abstract: Kelly and Leff demonstrated and discussed formal and conceptual similarities between basic thermodynamic formulas for the classical ideal gas and black body photon gas. Leff pointed out that thermodynamic formulas for the photon gas cannot be deduced completely by thermodynamic methods since these formulas hold two characteristic parameters, {\it r} and {\it b}, whose accurate values can be obtained exclusively by accurate methods of the quantum statistics (by explicit use of the Planck's or Bose-Einstein distribution). In this work we prove that the complete quantum thermodynamics of the black body photon gas can be done by simple, thermodynamic (non-statistical) methods. We prove that both mentioned parameters and corresponding variables (photons number and pressure) can be obtained very simply and practically exactly (with relative error about few percent), by non-statistical (without any use of the Planck's or Bose-Einstein distribution), quantum thermodynamic methods. Corner-stone of these methods represents a quantum thermodynamic stability condition that is, in some degree, very similar to quantum stability condition in the Bohr quantum atomic theory (de Broglie's interpretation of the Bohr quantization postulate). Finally, we discuss conceptual similarities between black body photon gas entropy and Bekenstein-Hawking black hole entropy.

id: 1103.3166
title: Entanglement entropy of two disjoint intervals in c=1 theories
authors: Vincenzo Alba, Luca Tagliacozzo, Pasquale Calabrese
comments: 37 pages, 23 figures
journal: J.Stat.Mech.1106:P06012,2011
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3166
abstract: We study the scaling of the Renyi entanglement entropy of two disjoint blocks of critical lattice models described by conformal field theories with central charge c=1. We provide the analytic conformal field theory result for the second order Renyi entropy for a free boson compactified on an orbifold describing the scaling limit of the Ashkin-Teller (AT) model on the self-dual line. We have checked this prediction in cluster Monte Carlo simulations of the classical two dimensional AT model. We have also performed extensive numerical simulations of the anisotropic Heisenberg quantum spin-chain with tree-tensor network techniques that allowed to obtain the reduced density matrices of disjoint blocks of the spin-chain and to check the correctness of the predictions for Renyi and entanglement entropies from conformal field theory. In order to match these predictions, we have extrapolated the numerical results by properly taking into account the corrections induced by the finite length of the blocks to the leading scaling behavior.

id: 1103.3167
title: Fidelity decay in interacting two-level boson systems: Freezing and revivals
authors: Luis Benet, Sa¨²l Hern¨¢ndez-Quiroz, Thomas H. Seligman
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 056216 (2011)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3167
abstract: We study the fidelity decay in the $k$-body embedded ensembles of random matrices for bosons distributed in two single-particle states, considering the reference or unperturbed Hamiltonian as the one-body terms and the diagonal part of the $k$-body embedded ensemble of random matrices, and the perturbation as the residual off-diagonal part of the interaction. We calculate the ensemble-averaged fidelity with respect to an initial random state within linear response theory to second order on the perturbation strength, and demonstrate that it displays the freeze of the fidelity. During the freeze, the average fidelity exhibits periodic revivals at integer values of the Heisenberg time $t_H$. By selecting specific $k$-body terms of the residual interaction, we find that the periodicity of the revivals during the freeze of fidelity is an integer fraction of $t_H$, thus relating the period of the revivals with the range of the interaction $k$ of the perturbing terms. Numerical calculations confirm the analytical results.

id: 1103.3201
title: Equivalent forms of Dirac equations in curved spacetimes and generalized de Broglie relations
authors: Mayeul Arminjon, Frank Reifler
comments: PDF, 32 pages in referee format. Added significant material on canonical forms of Dirac equations. Simplified Theorem 1 for normal Dirac equations. Added section on Gordon decomposition of the probability current. Encapsulated main results in the statement of Theorem 2
journal: Brazilian Journal of Physics 43, No. 1-2, 64-77 (2013)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3201
abstract: One may ask whether the relations between energy and frequency and between momentum and wave vector, introduced for matter waves by de Broglie, are rigorously valid in the presence of gravity. In this paper, we show this to be true for Dirac equations in a background of gravitational and electromagnetic fields. We first transform any Dirac equation into an equivalent canonical form, sometimes used in particular cases to solve Dirac equations in a curved spacetime. This canonical form is needed to apply the Whitham Lagrangian method. The latter method, unlike the WKB method, places no restriction on the magnitude of Planck's constant to obtain wave packets, and furthermore preserves the symmetries of the Dirac Lagrangian. We show using canonical Dirac fields in a curved spacetime, that the probability current has a Gordon decomposition into a convection current and a spin current, and that the spin current vanishes in the Whitham approximation, which explains the negligible effect of spin on wave packet solutions, independent of the size of Planck's constant. We further discuss the classical-quantum correspondence in a curved spacetime based on both Lagrangian and Hamiltonian formulations of the Whitham equations. We show that the generalized de Broglie relations in a curved spacetime are a direct consequence of Whitham's Lagrangian method, and not just a physical hypothesis as introduced by Einstein and de Broglie, and by many quantum mechanics textbooks.

id: 1103.3264
title: Radiative heat transfer between dielectric bodies
authors: Svend-Age Biehs
comments: 
journal: Journal of the National Pedagogical University of Kasakhstan (2005), Proceedings of the 2nd International School of young Physicists,ISSN 1728-7901
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3264
abstract: The recent development of a scanning thermal microscope (SThM) has led to measurements of radiative heat transfer between a heated sensor and a cooled sample down to the nanometer range. This allows for comparision of the known theoretical description of radiative heat transfer, which is based on fluctuating electrodynamics, with experiment. The theory itself is a macroscopic theory, which can be expected to break down at distances much smaller than 10-8m. Against this background it seems to be reasonable to revisit the known macroscopic theory of fluctuating electrodynamics and of radiative heat transfer.

id: 1103.3295
title: Time Fractional Schr?dinger Equation; Fox's H-functions and the Effective Potential
authors: Selcuk S. Bayin
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 012103 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3295
abstract: After introducing the formalism of the general space and time fractional Schr\"odinger equation, we concentrate on the time fractional Schr\"odinger equation and present new results via the elegant language of Fox's H-functions. We show that the general time dependent part of the wave function for the separable solutions of the time fractional Schr\"odinger equation is the Mittag-Leffler function with an imaginary argument by two different methods. After separating the Mittag-Leffler function into its real and imaginary parts, in contrast to existing works, we show that the total probability is less than one and decays with time. Introducing the effective potential approach, we also write the Mittag-Leffler function with an imaginary argument as the product of its purely decaying and purely oscillating parts. In the light of these, we reconsider the simple box problem. PACS numbers: 03.65.Ca, 02.50.Ey, 02.30.Gp, 03.65.Db

id: 1103.3323
title: Complete classification of 1D gapped quantum phases in interacting spin systems
authors: Xie Chen, Zheng-Cheng Gu, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 235128 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3323
abstract: Quantum phases with different orders exist with or without breaking the symmetry of the system. Recently, a classification of gapped quantum phases which do not break time reversal, parity or on-site unitary symmetry has been given for 1D spin systems in [X. Chen, Z.-C. Gu, and X.-G. Wen, Phys. Rev. B \textbf{83}, 035107 (2011); arXiv:1008.3745]. It was found that, such symmetry protected topological (SPT) phases are labeled by the projective representations of the symmetry group which can be viewed as a symmetry fractionalization. In this paper, we extend the classification of 1D gapped phases by considering SPT phases with combined time reversal, parity, and/or on-site unitary symmetries and also the possibility of symmetry breaking. We clarify how symmetry fractionalizes with combined symmetries and also how symmetry fractionalization coexists with symmetry breaking. In this way, we obtain a complete classification of gapped quantum phases in 1D spin systems. We find that in general, symmetry fractionalization, symmetry breaking and long range entanglement(present in 2 or higher dimensions) represent three main mechanisms to generate a very rich set of gapped quantum phases. As an application of our classification, we study the possible SPT phases in 1D fermionic systems, which can be mapped to spin systems by Jordan-Wigner transformation.

id: 1103.3349
title: Power law decay and phase rigidity for large-amplitude coherent phonons in bismuth at helium temperature: Possible evidence for transient supersolid state
authors: O.V. Misochko, M.V. Lebedev
comments: Phonons2010 conference, Taiwan
journal: CHINESE JOURNAL OF PHYSICS VOL. 49, NO.1, p.141-150 (2011)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3349
abstract: Intense ultrafast laser excitation can produce transient states of condensed matter that would otherwise be inaccessible. At high excitation level, the interatomic forces can be altered resulting in an unusual lattice dynamics. Here we report the study of coherent lattice dynamics in Bi made for various excitation levels at helium temperature. We demonstrate that under certain conditions the fully symmetric phonons of large amplitude exhibit anomalous decay and phase rigidity, both of which possibly signaling the attainment of transient supersolid state.

id: 1103.3388
title: The Entropic Uncertainty Principle for Decaying Systems and CP violation
authors: Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures. To appear in the proceedings of the "Symposium on Prospects in the Physics of Discrete Symmetries", 6-11 December 2010, Rome, Italy
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3388
abstract: Employing an effective formalism for decaying system we are able to investigate Heisenberg's uncertainty relation for observables measured at accelerator facilities. In particular we investigate the neutral K--meson system and show that, firstly, due to the time evolution an uncertainty between strangeness measurements at different times is introduced and, secondly, due to the imbalance of matter and antimatter (CP violation) an uncertainty in the evolution of the eigenstates of the effective Hamiltonian of the system. Consequently, the existence of CP violation is linked to uncertainties of observables, i.e. the outcomes cannot be predicted even in principle to arbitrary precisions.

id: 1103.3408
title: Composite parameterization and Haar measure for all unitary and special unitary groups
authors: Christoph Spengler, Marcus Huber, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 28 pages, example and references added, accepted by J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 013501 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3408
abstract: We adopt the concept of the composite parameterization of the unitary group U(d) to the special unitary group SU(d). Furthermore, we also consider the Haar measure in terms of the introduced parameters. We show that the well-defined structure of the parameterization leads to a concise formula for the normalized Haar measure on U(d) and SU(d). With regard to possible applications of our results, we consider the computation of high-order integrals over unitary groups.

id: 1103.3413
title: Direct observation of spin-polarized surface states in the parent compound of topological insulator Bi-Sb using spin-resolved-ARPES in a 3D Mott-polarimetry spin mode
authors: D. Hsieh, Y. Xia, L. Wray, D. Qian, J. H. Dil, F. Meier, L. Patthey, J. Osterwalder, G. Bihlmayer, Y.S. Hor, R.J. Cava, M.Z. Hasan
comments: Invited article for NJP-IOP Focus issue on "Topological Insulators", Experimental discovery of 3D topological insulators (topological order in bulk solids) reported at KITP (2007) Conference Proceeding at this http URL (2007)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3413
abstract: We report high-resolution spin-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (Spin-ARPES) measurements on the parent compound Sb of the first discovered 3D topological insulator Bi{1-x}Sb{x} [D. Hsieh et al., Nature 452, 970 (2008) Submitted 2007]. By modulating the incident photon energy, we are able to map both the bulk and (111) surface band structure, from which we directly demonstrate that the surface bands are spin polarized by the spin-orbit interaction and connect the bulk valence and conduction bands in a topologically non-trivial way. A unique asymmetric Dirac surface state gives rise to a $k$-splitting of its spin polarized electronic channels. These results complement our previously published works on this materials class and re-confirm our discovery of first bulk (3D) topological insulator - topological order in bulk solids. [Invited article for NJP-IOP Focus issue on "Topological Insulators"]

id: 1103.3427
title: Entanglement spectrum and boundary theories with projected entangled-pair states
authors: J. Ignacio Cirac, Didier Poilblanc, Norbert Schuch, Frank Verstraete
comments: 13 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 245134 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3427
abstract: In many physical scenarios, close relations between the bulk properties of quantum systems and theories associated to their boundaries have been observed. In this work, we provide an exact duality mapping between the bulk of a quantum spin system and its boundary using Projected Entangled Pair States (PEPS). This duality associates to every region a Hamiltonian on its boundary, in such a way that the entanglement spectrum of the bulk corresponds to the excitation spectrum of the boundary Hamiltonian. We study various specific models, like a deformed AKLT [1], an Ising-type [2], and Kitaev's toric code [3], both in finite ladders and infinite square lattices. In the latter case, some of those models display quantum phase transitions. We find that a gapped bulk phase with local order corresponds to a boundary Hamiltonian with local interactions, whereas critical behavior in the bulk is reflected on a diverging interaction length of the boundary Hamiltonian. Furthermore, topologically ordered states yield non-local Hamiltonians. As our duality also associates a boundary operator to any operator in the bulk, it in fact provides a full holographic framework for the study of quantum many-body systems via their boundary.

id: 1103.3435
title: Role of hyperfine interaction for cavity-mediated coupling between spin qubits
authors: Julia Hildmann, Guido Burkard
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 205127 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3435
abstract: We consider two qubits interacting by means of an optical cavity, where each qubit is represented by a single electron spin confined to a quantum dot. It is known that electron spins in III-V semiconductor quantum dots are affected by the decoherence due to the hyperfine interaction with nuclear spins. Here we show that the interaction between two qubits is influenced by the Overhauser field as well. Starting from an unpolarizied nuclear ensemble, we investigate the dependance of the fidelities for two-qubit gates on the Overhauser field. We include the hyperfine interaction perturbatively to second order in our analytical results, and to arbitrary precision numerically.

id: 1103.3453
title: Product of Ginibre matrices: Fuss-Catalan and Raney distributions
authors: Karol A. Penson, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 10 pages including 7 figures, minor changes, figures improved
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 061118 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3453
abstract: Squared singular values of a product of s square random Ginibre matrices are asymptotically characterized by probability distribution P_s(x), such that their moments are equal to the Fuss-Catalan numbers or order s. We find a representation of the Fuss--Catalan distributions P_s(x) in terms of a combination of s hypergeometric functions of the type sF_{s-1}. The explicit formula derived here is exact for an arbitrary positive integer s and for s=1 it reduces to the Marchenko--Pastur distribution. Using similar techniques, involving Mellin transform and the Meijer G-function, we find exact expressions for the Raney probability distributions, the moments of which are given by a two parameter generalization of the Fuss-Catalan numbers. These distributions can also be considered as a two parameter generalization of the Wigner semicircle law.

id: 1103.3459
title: Polaritonic properties of the Jaynes-Cummings lattice model in two dimensions
authors: Michael Knap, Enrico Arrigoni, Wolfgang von der Linden
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, Proceedings of the Conference on Computational Physics CCP, June 2010, Trondheim, Norway
journal: Comp. Phys. Comm. 182, 2036 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3459
abstract: Light-matter systems allow to realize a strongly correlated phase where photons are present. In these systems strong correlations are achieved by optical nonlinearities, which appear due to the coupling of photons to atomic-like structures. This leads to intriguing effects, such as the quantum phase transition from the Mott to the superfluid phase. Here, we address the two-dimensional Jaynes-Cummings lattice model. We evaluate the boundary of the quantum phase transition and study polaritonic properties. In order to be able to characterize polaritons, we investigate the spectral properties of both photons as well as two-level excitations. Based on this information we introduce polariton quasiparticles as appropriate wavevector, band index, and filling dependent superpositions of photons and two-level excitations. Finally, we analyze the contributions of the individual constituents to the polariton quasiparticles.

id: 1103.3466
title: Nuclear Scission and Quantum Localization
authors: W. Younes, D. Gogny
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3466
abstract: We examine nuclear scission within a fully quantum-mechanical microscopic framework, focusing on the non-local aspects of the theory. Using $^{240}\textrm{Pu}$ hot fission as an example, we discuss the identification of the fragments and the calculation of their kinetic, excitation, and interaction energies, through the localization of the orbital wave functions. We show that the "disentanglement" of the fragment wave functions is essential to the quantum-mechanical definition of scission and the calculation of physical observables. Finally, we discuss the fragments' pre-scission excitation mechanisms and give a non-adiabatic description of their evolution beyond scission.

id: 1103.3497
title: Rank properties of exposed positive maps
authors: Marcin Marciniak
comments: 6 pages, last section removed - it will be a part of another paper
journal: Linear and Multilinear Algebra, vol. 61, 2013, pp. 970-975
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3497
abstract: Let $\cK$ and $\cH$ be finite dimensional Hilbert spaces and let $\fP$ denote the cone of all positive linear maps acting from $\fB(\cK)$ into $\fB(\cH)$. We show that each map of the form $\phi(X)=AXA^*$ or $\phi(X)=AX^TA^*$ is an exposed point of $\fP$. We also show that if a map $\phi$ is an exposed point of $\fP$ then either $\phi$ is rank 1 non-increasing or $\rank\phi(P)>1$ for any one-dimensional projection $P\in\fB(\cK)$.

id: 1103.3513
title: Detecting paired and counterflow superfluidity via dipole oscillations
authors: Anzi Hu, L. Mathey, Eite Tiesinga, Ippei Danshita, Carl J. Williams, Charles W. Clark
comments: 4 pages,5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 041609 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3513
abstract: We suggest an experimentally feasible procedure to observe paired and counterflow superfluidity in ultra-cold atom systems. We study the time evolution of one-dimensional mixtures of bosonic atoms in an optical lattice following an abrupt displacement of an additional weak confining potential. We find that the dynamic responses of the paired superfluid phase for attractive inter-species interactions and the counterflow superfluid phase for repulsive interactions are qualitatively distinct and reflect the quasi long-range order that characterizes these states. These findings suggest a clear experimental procedure to detect these phases, and give an intuitive insight into their dynamics.

id: 1103.3558
title: Similarity Solutions of a Class of Perturbative Fokker-Planck Equation
authors: Wen-Tsan Lin, Choon-Lin Ho
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3558
abstract: In a previous work, a perturbative approach to a class of Fokker-Planck equations, which have constant diffusion coefficients and small time-dependent drift coefficients, was developed by exploiting the close connection between the Fokker-Planck equations and the Schrodinger equations. In this work, we further explore the possibility of similarity solutions of such a class of Fokker-Planck equations. These solutions possess definite scaling behaviors, and are obtained by means of the so-called similarity method.

id: 1103.3631
title: Optical Cooling Using the Dipole Force
authors: Andr¨¦ Xuereb
comments: PhD Thesis. 287 pages, heavily compressed. This version fixes a few problems. High-resolution version available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3631
abstract: The term `laser cooling' is applied to the use of optical means to cool the motional energies of either atoms and molecules, or micromirrors. In the literature, these two strands are kept largely separate; both, however suffer from severe limitations. Laser cooling of atoms and molecules largely relies on the internal level structure of the species being cooled. As a result, only a small number of elements and a tiny number of molecules can be cooled this way. In the case of micromirrors, the problem lies in the engineering of micromirrors that need to satisfy a large number of constraints---these include a high mechanical Q-factor, high reflectivity and very good optical quality, weak coupling to the substrate, etc.---in order to enable efficient cooling. During the course of this thesis, I will draw these two sides of laser cooling closer together by means of a single, generically applicable scattering theory that can be used to explain the interaction between light and matter at a very general level. I use this `transfer matrix' formalism to explore the use of the retarded dipole--dipole interaction as a means of both enhancing the efficiency of micromirror cooling systems and rendering the laser cooling of atoms and molecules less species selective. In particular, I identify the `external cavity cooling' mechanism, whereby the use of an optical memory in the form of a resonant element (such as a cavity), outside which the object to be cooled sits, can potentially lead to the construction of fully integrated optomechanical systems and even two-dimensional arrays of translationally cold atoms, molecules or even micromirrors.

id: 1103.3656
title: Classical and Quantum Annealing in the Median of Three Satisfiability
authors: T. Neuhaus, M. Peschina, K. Michielsen, H. De Raedt
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 012309 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3656
abstract: We determine the classical and quantum complexities of a specific ensemble of three-satisfiability problems with a unique satisfying assignment for up to N=100 and N=80 variables, respectively. In the classical limit we employ generalized ensemble techniques and measure the time that a Markovian Monte Carlo process spends in searching classical ground states. In the quantum limit we determine the maximum finite correlation length along a quantum adiabatic trajectory determined by the linear sweep of the adiabatic control parameter in the Hamiltonian composed of the problem Hamiltonian and the constant transverse field Hamiltonian. In the median of our ensemble both complexities diverge exponentially with the number of variables. Hence, standard, conventional adiabatic quantum computation fails to reduce the computational complexity to polynomial. Moreover, the growth-rate constant in the quantum limit is 3.8 times as large as the one in the classical limit, making classical fluctuations more beneficial than quantum fluctuations in ground-state searches.

id: 1103.3664
title: Extended self-energy functional approach for strongly-correlated lattice bosons in the superfluid phase
authors: Enrico Arrigoni, Michael Knap, Wolfgang von der Linden
comments: 1 additional figure showing the region close to the tip of the Mott lobe, minor changes in the text
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 014535 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3664
abstract: Among the various numerical techniques to study the physics of strongly correlated quantum many-body systems, the self-energy functional approach (SFA) has become increasingly important. In its previous form, however, SFA is not applicable to Bose-Einstein condensation or superfluidity. In this paper we show how to overcome this shortcoming. To this end we identify an appropriate quantity, which we term $D$, that represents the correlation correction of the condensate order parameter, as it does the self-energy for the Green's function. An appropriate functional is derived, which is stationary at the exact physical realizations of $D$ and of the self-energy. Its derivation is based on a functional-integral representation of the grand potential followed by an appropriate sequence of Legendre transformations. The approach is not perturbative and therefore applicable to a wide range of models with local interactions. We show that the variational cluster approach based on the extended self-energy functional is equivalent to the "pseudoparticle" approach introduced in Phys. Rev. B, 83, 134507 (2011). We present results for the superfluid density in the two-dimensional Bose-Hubbard model, which show a remarkable agreement with those of Quantum-Monte-Carlo calculations.

id: 1103.3922
title: Exact Casimir-Polder potential between a particle and an ideal metal cylindrical shell and the proximity force approximation
authors: V.B. Bezerra, E.R. Bezerra de Mello, G.L. Klimchitskaya, V.M. Mostepanenko, A.A. Saharian
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, Accepted for publication in Eur. Phys. J. C
journal: Eur. Phys. J. C 71 (2011) 1614
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3922
abstract: We derive the exact Casimir-Polder potential for a polarizable microparticle inside an ideal metal cylindrical shell using the Green function method. The exact Casimir-Polder potential for a particle outside a shell, obtained recently by using the Hamiltonian approach, is rederived and confirmed. The exact quantum field theoretical result is compared with that obtained using the proximity force approximation and a very good agreement is demonstrated at separations below 0.1$R$, where $R$ is the radius of the cylinder. The developed methods are applicable in the theory of topological defects.

id: 1103.4002
title: Tunable waveguide lattices with non-uniform parity-symmetric tunneling
authors: Yogesh N. Joglekar, Clinton Thompson, Gautam Vemuri
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 063817 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4002
abstract: We investigate the single-particle time evolution and two-particle quantum correlations in a one-dimensional $N$-site lattice with a site-dependent nearest neighbor tunneling function $t_\alpha(k)=t_0[k(N-k)]^{\alpha/2}$. Since the bandwidth and the energy levels spacings for such a lattice both depend upon $\alpha$, we show that the observable properties of a wavepacket, such as its spread and the relative phases of its constitutents, vary dramatically as $\alpha$ is varied from positive to negative values. We also find that the quantum correlations are exquisitely sensitive to the form of the tunneling function. Our results suggest that arrays of waveguides with position-dependent evanascent couplings will show rich dynamics with no counterpart in present-day, traditional systems.

id: 1103.4018
title: On a stochastic Trotter formula with application to spontaneous localization models
authors: Detlef D¨¹rr, G¨¹nter Hinrichs, Martin Kolb
comments: submitted to Journal of Statistical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4018
abstract: We consider the relation between so called continuous localization models - i.e. non-linear stochastic Schr\"odinger evolutions - and the discrete GRW-model of wave function collapse. The former can be understood as scaling limit of the GRW process. The proof relies on a stochastic Trotter formula, which is of interest in its own right. Our Trotter formula also allows to complement results on existence theory of stochastic Schr\"odinger evolutions by Holevo and Mora/Rebolledo.

id: 1103.4046
title: Dynamical resurrection of the visibility in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer
authors: A. V. Lebedev, G. Blatter
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 076803 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4046
abstract: We study a single-electron pulse injected into the chiral edge-state of a quantum Hall device and subject to a capacitive Coulomb interaction. We find that the scattered multi-particle state remains unentangled and hence can be created itself by a suitable classical voltage-pulse $V(t)$. The application of the inverse pulse $-V(-t)$ corrects for the shake-up due to the interaction and resurrects the original injected wave packet. We suggest an experiment with an asymmetric Mach-Zehnder interferometer where the application of such pulses manifests itself in an improved visibility.

id: 1103.4094
title: Spin transport in a one-dimensional anisotropic Heisenberg model
authors: Marko Znidaric
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; v2.: few comments added and typos corrected; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 220601 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4094
abstract: We analytically and numerically study spin transport in a one-dimensional Heisenberg model in linear-response regime at infinite temperature. It is shown that as the anisotropy parameter Delta is varied spin transport changes from ballistic for Delta<1 to anomalous at the isotropic point Delta=1, to diffusive for finite Delta>1, ending up as a perfect isolator in the Ising limit of infinite Delta. Using perturbation theory for large Delta a quantitative prediction is made for the dependence of diffusion constant on Delta.

id: 1103.4163
title: The Many Worlds of Hugh Everett III
authors: Adrian Kent
comments: Small typo corrections
journal: Am.J.Phys.79: 790,2011
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4163
abstract: A review of Peter Byrne's biography of Hugh Everett III, "The Many Worlds of Hugh Everett III: Multiple Universes, Mutual Assured Destruction, and the Meltdown of a Nuclear Family", (Oxford University Press, 2010).

id: 1103.4232
title: Rydberg atoms in one-dimensional optical lattices
authors: M. Viteau, M. G. Bason, J. Radogostowicz, N. Malossi, D. Ciampini, O. Morsch, E. Arimondo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4232
abstract: We experimentally realize Rydberg excitations in Bose-Einstein condensates of rubidium atoms loaded into quasi one-dimensional traps and in optical lattices. Our results for condensates expanded to different sizes in the one-dimensional trap agree well with the intuitive picture of a chain of Rydberg excitations. We also find that the Rydberg excitations in the optical lattice do not destroy the phase coherence of the condensate, and our results in that system agree with the picture of localized collective Rydberg excitations including nearest-neighbour blockade.

id: 1103.4307
title: Ultrafast mapping of optical polarization states onto spin coherence of localized electrons in a semiconductor
authors: S. Z. Denega, M. Sladkov, D. Reuter, A. D. Wieck, T. L. C. Jansen, C. H. van der Wal
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures (processed a few minor corrections)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4307
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate an ultrafast method for preparing spin states of donor-bound electrons in GaAs with single laser pulses. Each polarization state of a preparation pulse has a direct mapping onto a spin state, with bijective correspondence between the Poincar\'{e}-sphere (for photon polarization) and Bloch-sphere (for spin) state representations. The preparation is governed by a stimulated Raman process and occurs orders of magnitude faster than the spontaneous emission and spin dephasing. Similar dynamics governs our ultrafast optical Kerr detection of the spin coherence, thus getting access to spin state tomography. Experiments with double preparation pulses show an additive character for the preparation method. Utilization of these phenomena is of value for quantum information schemes.

id: 1103.4382
title: Onset of a Pseudogap Regime in Ultracold Fermi Gases
authors: Piotr Magierski, Gabriel Wlaz?owski, Aurel Bulgac
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures + 5 pages of supplementary online material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107: 145304,2011
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4382
abstract: We show, using an ab initio approach based on Quantum Monte Carlo technique, that the pseudogap regime emerges in ultracold Fermi gases close to the unitary point. We locate the onset of this regime at a value of the interaction strength corresponding to (k_{F}a)^{-1}\approx -0.05 (a - scattering length). We determine the evolution of the gap as a function of temperature and interaction strength in the Fermi gas around the unitary limit and show that our results exhibit a remarkable agreement with the recent wave-vector resolved radio frequency spectroscopy data. Our results indicate that a finite temperature structure of the Fermi gas around unitarity is more complicated and involves the presence of the phase with preformed Cooper pairs, which however do not contribute to the long range order.

id: 1103.4405
title: Application of a semiclassical model for the second-quantized many-electron Hamiltonian to nonequilibrium quantum transport: The resonant level model
authors: David W.H. Swenson, Tal Levy, Guy Cohen, Eran Rabani, William H. Miller
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4405
abstract: A semiclassical (SC) approach is developed for nonequilibrium quantum transport in molecular junctions. Following the early work of Miller and White [J. Chem. Phys. 84, 5059 (1986)], the many-electron Hamiltonian in second quantization is mapped onto a classical model that preserves the fermionic character of electrons. The resulting classical electronic Hamiltonian allows for real-time molecular dynamics simulations of the many-body problem from an uncorrelated initial state to the steady state. Comparisons with exact results generated for the resonant level model reveal that a semiclassical treatment of transport provides a quantitative description of the dynamics at all relevant timescales for a wide range of bias and gate potentials, and for different temperatures. The approach opens a door to treating nontrivial quantum transport problems that remain far from the reach of fully quantum methodologies.

id: 1103.4426
title: Picoradian deflection measurement with an interferometric quasi-autocollimator using weak value amplification
authors: Matthew D. Turner, Charles A. Hagedorn, Stephan Schlamminger, Jens H. Gundlach
comments: To be published in Optics Letters
journal: Opt.Lett.36:1479-1481,2011
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4426
abstract: We present an "interferometric quasi-autocollimator" that employs weak value amplification to measure angular deflections of a target mirror. The device has been designed to be insensitive to all translations of the target. We present a conceptual explanation of the amplification effect used by the device. An implementation of the device demonstrates sensitivities better than 10 picoradians per root hertz between 10 and 200 hertz.

id: 1103.4428
title: Beyond the Gaussian II : A Mathematical Experiment
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Hiroshi Oike
comments: Latex ; 9 pages ; no figure
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4428
abstract: This is a sequel to the paper [K. Fujii : SIGMA {\bf 7} (2011), 022, 12 pages]. In this paper we treat a non-Gaussian integral based on a quartic polynomial and make a mathematical experiment by use of MATHEMATICA whether the integral is written in terms of its discriminant or not.

id: 1103.4537
title: E. Specker: "The logic of non-simultaneously decidable propositions" (1960)
authors: M.P. Seevinck
comments: Made available due to demand for citable version. A different translation by Allen Stairs is also available in C.A. Hooker (ed.), 'The Logico-Algebraic Approach to Quantum Mechanics. Volume I: Historical Evolution'. (Reidel, Dordrecht, 1975), pp. 135-140. v2: small corrections. v3: same as v2, but now with the correct revised source file
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4537
abstract: Translation of 'Die Logik Nicht Gleichzeitig Entscheidbarer Aussagen' by Ernst Specker, Dialectica, vol. 14, 239 - 246 (1960).

id: 1103.4592
title: Photon-photon polarization correlations as a tool for studying parity non-conservation in heliumlike Uranium
authors: Filippo Fratini, Sergiy Trotsenko, Stanislav Tashenov, Thomas Stoehlker, Andrey Surzhykov
comments: 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052505 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4592
abstract: Due to electron-nucleus weak interaction, atomic bound states with different parities turn out to be mixed. We discuss a prospect for measuring the mixing parameter between the nearly degenerate metastable states 1s_{1/2} 2s_{1/2} : J = 0 and 1s_{1/2} 2p_{1/2} : J = 0 in heliumlike Uranium. Our analysis is based on the polarization properties of the photons emitted in the two-photon decays of such states.

id: 1103.4639
title: Superradiant Phase Transitions and the Standard Description of Circuit QED
authors: Oliver Viehmann, Jan von Delft, Florian Marquardt
comments: 4+6 pages, 3+1 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 113602 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4639
abstract: We investigate the equilibrium behaviour of a superconducting circuit QED system containing a large number of artificial atoms. It is shown that the currently accepted standard description of circuit QED via an effective model fails in an important aspect: it predicts the possibility of a superradiant quantum phase transition, even though a full microscopic treatment reveals that a no-go theorem for such phase transitions known from cavity QED applies to circuit QED systems as well. We generalize the no-go theorem to the case of (artificial) atoms with many energy levels and thus make it more applicable for realistic cavity or circuit QED systems.

id: 1103.4709
title: Phase diagram for a Cubic Consistent-Q Interacting Boson Model Hamiltonian: signs of triaxiality
authors: Lorenzo Fortunato, Clara E. Alonso, Jos¨¦ M. Arias, Jos¨¦-Enrique Garc¨ªa-Ramos, Andrea Vitturi
comments: 18 pages, 19 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.C84:014326,2011
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4709
abstract: An extension of the Consistent-Q formalism for the Interacting Boson Model that includes the cubic QxQxQ term is proposed. The potential energy surface for the cubic quadrupole interaction is explicitly calculated within the coherent state formalism using the complete chi-dependent expression for the quadrupole operator. The Q-cubic term is found to depend on the asymmetry deformation parameter gamma as a linear combination of cos(3gamma) and cos^2(3\gamma) terms, thereby allowing for triaxiality. The phase diagram of the model in the large N limit is explored, it is described the order of the phase transition surfaces that define the phase diagram, and moreover, the possible nuclear equilibrium shapes are established. It is found that, contrary to expectations, there is only a very tiny region of triaxiality in the model, and that the transition from prolate to oblate shapes is so fast that, in most cases, the onset of triaxiality might go unnoticed.

id: 1103.4710
title: Non-equilibrium phase transition in a periodically driven XY spin chain
authors: Tomaz Prosen, Enej Ilievski
comments: 5 pages in RevTex 4-1, with 3 figures (2 in png and 1 in pdf format) and 1 page of supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 060403 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4710
abstract: We present a general formulation of Floquet states of periodically time-dependent open Markovian quasi-free fermionic many-body systems in terms of a discrete Lyapunov equation. Illustrating the technique, we analyze periodically kicekd XY spin 1/2 chain which is coupled to a pair of Lindblad reservoirs at its ends. A complex phase diagram is reported with re-entrant phases of long range and exponentially decaying spin-spin correlations as some of the system's parameters are varied. The structure of phase diagram is reproduced in terms of counting non-trivial stationary points of Floquet quasi-particle dispersion relation.

id: 1103.4771
title: Lensing and Waveguiding of Ultraslow Pulses in an Atomic Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: Devrim Tarhan, Alphan Sennaroglu, Ozgur E. Mustecaplioglu
comments: puplished version
journal: Optics Communications 284, 1197-1201 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4771
abstract: We investigate lensing and waveguiding properties of an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate for ultraslow pulse generated by electromagnetically induced transparency method. We show that a significant time delay can be controllably introduced between the lensed and guided components of the ultraslow pulse. In addition, we present how the number of guided modes supported by the condensate and the focal length can be controlled by the trap parameters or temperature.

id: 1103.4775
title: Nonequilibrium entropy production for open quantum systems
authors: Sebastian Deffner, Eric Lutz
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 107 (2011) 140404
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4775
abstract: We consider open quantum systems weakly coupled to a heat reservoir and driven by arbitrary time-dependent parameters. We derive exact microscopic expressions for the nonequilibrium entropy production and entropy production rate, valid arbitrarily far from equilibrium. By using the two-point energy measurement statistics for system and reservoir, we further obtain a quantum generalization of the integrated fluctuation theorem put forward by Seifert [PRL 95, 040602 (2005)].

id: 1103.4776
title: Hartree shift in unitary Fermi gases
authors: J. J. Kinnunen
comments: 31 pages, many figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012701 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4776
abstract: The Hartree energy shift is calculated for a unitary Fermi gas. By including the momentum dependence of the scattering amplitude explicitly, the Hartree energy shift remains finite even at unitarity. Extending the theory also for spin-imbalanced systems allows calculation of polaron properties. The results are in good agreement with more involved theories and experiments.

id: 1103.4839
title: Spectral characteristics for a spherically confined -1/r + br^2 potential
authors: Richard L. Hall, Nasser Saad, K. D. Sen
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A : Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 185307
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4839
abstract: We consider the analytical properties of the eigenspectrum generated by a class of central potentials given by V(r) = -a/r + br^2, b>0. In particular, scaling, monotonicity, and energy bounds are discussed. The potential $V(r)$ is considered both in all space, and under the condition of spherical confinement inside an impenetrable spherical boundary of radius R. With the aid of the asymptotic iteration method, several exact analytic results are obtained which exhibit the parametric dependence of energy on a, b, and R, under certain constraints. More general spectral characteristics are identified by use of a combination of analytical properties and accurate numerical calculations of the energies, obtained by both the generalized pseudo-spectral method, and the asymptotic iteration method. The experimental significance of the results for both the free and confined potential V(r) cases are discussed.

id: 1103.4880
title: Quantum kinetic theory of the filamentation instability
authors: A. Bret, F. Haas
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4880
abstract: The quantum electromagnetic dielectric tensor for a multi species plasma is re-derived from the gauge invariant Wigner-Maxwell system and presented under a form very similar to the classical one. The resulting expression is then applied to a quantum kinetic theory of the electromagnetic filamentation instability. Comparison is made with the quantum fluid theory including a Bohm pressure term, and with the cold classical plasma result. A number of analytical expressions are derived for the cutoff wave vector, the largest growth rate and the most unstable wave vector.

id: 1103.5023
title: Solvable rational extensions of the Morse and Kepler-Coulomb potentials
authors: Yves Grandati
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5023
abstract: We show that it is possible to generate an infinite set of solvable rational extensions from every exceptional first category translationally shape invariant potential. This is made by using Darboux-B\"acklund transformations based on unphysical regular Riccati-Schr\"odinger functions which are obtained from specific symmetries associated to the considered family of potentials.

id: 1103.5077
title: Levinson's theorem for graphs
authors: Andrew M. Childs, DJ Strouse
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure; v2: minor corrections
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 52, 082102 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5077
abstract: We prove an analog of Levinson's theorem for scattering on a weighted (m+1)-vertex graph with a semi-infinite path attached to one of its vertices. In particular, we show that the number of bound states in such a scattering problem is equal to m minus half the winding number of the phase of the reflection coefficient (where each so-called half-bound state is counted as half a bound state).

id: 1103.5204
title: X-ray Raman compression via two-stream instability in dense plasmas
authors: S. Son, Sung Joon Moon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5204
abstract: A Raman compression scheme suitable for x-rays, where the Langmuir wave is created by an intense beam rather than the pondermotive potential between the seed and pump pulses, is proposed. The required intensity of the seed and pump pulses enabling the compression could be mitigated by more than a factor of 100, compared to conventionally available other Raman compression schemes. The relevant wavelength of x-rays ranges from 1 to 10 nm.

id: 1103.5297
title: Massless Dirac Fermions in Electromagnetic Field
authors: Ahmed Jellal, Abderrahim El Mouhafid, Mohammed Daoud
comments: 15 pages, 3 tables, 1 figure, clarifications and references added, misprints corrected. Version published in JSTAT
journal: J.Stat.Mech.:P01021,2012
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5297
abstract: We study the relations between massless Dirac fermions in an electromagnetic field and atoms in quantum optics. After getting the solutions of the energy spectrum, we show that it is possible to reproduce the 2D Dirac Hamiltonian, with all its quantum relativistic effects, in a controllable system as a single trapped ion through the Jaynes--Cummings and anti-Jaynes--Cummings models. Also we show that under certain conditions the evolution of the Dirac Hamiltonian provides us with Rashba spin-orbit and linear Dresselhaus couplings. Considering the multimode multiphoton Jaynes-Cummings model interacting with N modes of electromagnetic field prepared in general pure quantum states, we analyze the Rabi oscillation. Evaluating time evolution of the Dirac position operator, we determine the Zitterbewegung frequency and the corresponding oscillating term as function of the electromagnetic field.

id: 1103.5390
title: Exploring the top and bottom of the quantum control landscape
authors: Vincent Beltrani, Jason Dominy, Tak-San Ho, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 38 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5390
abstract: A controlled quantum system possesses a search landscape defined by the target physical objective as a function of the controls. This paper focuses on the landscape for the transition probability Pif between the states of a finite level quantum system. Traditionally, the controls are applied fields; here we extend the notion of control to also include the Hamiltonian structure, in the form of time independent matrix elements. Level sets of controls that produce the same transition probability value are shown to exist at the bottom Pif = 0.0 and top Pif = 1.0 of the landscape with the field and/or Hamiltonian structure as controls. We present an algorithm to continuously explore these level sets starting from an initial point residing at either extreme value of Pif . The technique can also identify control solutions that exhibit the desirable properties of (a) robustness at the top and (b) the ability to rapidly rise towards an optimal control from the bottom. Numerical simulations are presented to illustrate the varied control behavior at the top and bottom of the landscape for several simple model systems.

id: 1103.5424
title: InAs/GaAs (211)B quantum dots with negligible FSS for the generation of entangled photons
authors: S.Germanis, A.Beveratos, G.E.Dialynas, G.Deligeorgis, P.G.Savvidis, Z.Hatzopoulos, N.T.Pelekanos
comments: 12 pages,4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5424
abstract: Polarization-resolved single dot spectroscopy performed on (211)B InAs/GaAs quantum dots reveals that the fine structure splitting of the excitonic levels in these dots is much lower compared to the usual (100)-grown InAs dots. Time-resolved measurements confirm the high oscillator strength of these dots, and thus their good quantum efficiency at 4 K, comparable with that of (100) InAs/GaAs dots. Last, photon correlation measurements demonstrate single photon emission out of the excitonic optical transition of these dots. All these features make this novel dot system very promising for implementing solid-state entangled photon sources.

id: 1103.5460
title: Hubbard model description of silicon spin qubits: charge stability diagram and tunnel coupling in Si double quantum dots
authors: S. Das Sarma, Xin Wang, Shuo Yang
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 235314 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5460
abstract: We apply the recently introduced Hubbard model approach to quantitatively describe the experimental charge stability diagram and tunnel coupling of silicon double quantum dot systems. The results calculated from both the generalized Hubbard model and the microscopic theory are compared with existing experimental data, and excellent agreement between theory and experiment is found. The central approximation of our theory is a reduction of the full multi-electron multi-band system to an effective two-electron model, which is numerically tractable. In the microscopic theory we utilize the Hund-Mulliken approximation to the electron wave functions and compare the results calculated with two different forms of confinement potentials (biquadratic and Gaussian). We discuss the implications of our work for future studies.

id: 1103.5530
title: Universal Sound Absorption in Amorphous Solids: A Theory of Elastically Coupled Generic Blocks
authors: Dervis C. Vural, Anthony J. Leggett
comments: (Revised) 16 pages, 2 figures. To appear in Journal of Non-Crystalline Solids
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5530
abstract: Glasses are known to exhibit quantitative universalities at low temperatures, the most striking of which is the ultrasonic attenuation coefficient 1/Q. In this work we develop a theory of coupled generic blocks with a certain randomness property to show that universality emerges essentially due to the interactions between elastic blocks, regardless of their microscopic nature.

id: 1103.5588
title: Numerical Solutions of the spectral problem for arbitrary self-adjoint extensions of the 1D Schroedinger equation
authors: Alberto Ibort, Juan Manuel Perez-Pardo
comments: 24 pages, 6 figures
journal: SIAM J. Numer. Anal., 51 (2), 1254--1279 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5588
abstract: A numerical algorithm to solve the spectral problem for arbitrary self-adjoint extensions of 1D regular Schroedinger operators is presented. It is shown that the set of all self-adjoint extensions of 1D regular Schroedinger operators is in one-to-one correspondence with the group of unitary operators on the finite dimensional Hilbert space of boundary data, and they are characterized by a generalized class of boundary conditions that include the well-known Dirichlet, Neumann, Robin, (quasi-)periodic boundary conditions, etc. The numerical algorithm is based on a nonlocal boundary extension of the finite element method and their convergence is proved. An appropriate basis of boundary functions must be introduced to deal with arbitrary boundary conditions and the conditioning of its computation is analyzed. Some significant numerical experiments are also discussed as well as the comparison with some standard algorithms. In particular it is shown that appropriate perturbations of standard boundary conditions for the free particle leads to the theoretically predicted result of very large absolute values of the negative groundlevels of the system as well as the localization of the corresponding eigenvectors at the boundary (edge states).

id: 1103.5663
title: Local approximation of observables and commutator bounds
authors: Bruno Nachtergaele, Volkher B. Scholz, Reinhard F. Werner
comments: 
journal: Operator Methods in Mathematical Physics, Operator Theory: Advances and Applications, vol. 227, 143-149 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5663
abstract: We discuss conditional expectations that can be used as generalizations of the partial trace for quantum systems with an infinite-dimensional Hilbert space of states.

id: 1103.5907
title: Damping in quantum love affairs
authors: Fabio Bagarello
comments: in press in Physica A
journal: 
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5907
abstract: In a series of recent papers we have used an operatorial technique to describe stock markets and, in a different context, {\em love affairs} and their time evolutions. The strategy proposed so far does not allow any dumping effect. In this short note we show how, within the same framework, a strictly non periodic or quasi-periodic effect can be introduced in the model by describing in some details a linear Alice-Bob love relation with damping.

id: 1103.5935
title: Bohr Hamiltonian with deformation-dependent mass term for the Davidson potential
authors: Dennis Bonatsos, P. E. Georgoudis, D. Lenis, N. Minkov, C. Quesne
comments: 23 pages, 2 figures, 5 tables
journal: Phys.Rev.C83:044321,2011
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5935
abstract: Analytical expressions for spectra and wave functions are derived for a Bohr Hamiltonian, describing the collective motion of deformed nuclei, in which the mass is allowed to depend on the nuclear deformation. Solutions are obtained for separable potentials consisting of a Davidson potential in the beta variable, in the cases of gamma-unstable nuclei, axially symmetric prolate deformed nuclei, and triaxial nuclei, implementing the usual approximations in each case. The solution, called the Deformation Dependent Mass (DDM) Davidson model, is achieved by using techniques of supersymmetric quantum mechanics (SUSYQM), involving a deformed shape invariance condition. Spectra and B(E2) transition rates are compared to experimental data. The dependence of the mass on the deformation, dictated by SUSYQM for the potential used, reduces the rate of increase of the moment of inertia with deformation, removing a main drawback of the model.

id: 1103.5944
title: Quantum simulation of frustrated magnetism in triangular optical lattices
authors: Julian Struck, Christoph ?lschl?ger, Rodolphe Le Targat, Parvis Soltan-Panahi, Andr¨¦ Eckardt, Maciej Lewenstein, Patrick Windpassinger, Klaus Sengstock
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Science 333, 996-999 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5944
abstract: Magnetism plays a key role in modern technology as essential building block of many devices used in daily life. Rich future prospects connected to spintronics, next generation storage devices or superconductivity make it a highly dynamical field of research. Despite those ongoing efforts, the many-body dynamics of complex magnetism is far from being well understood on a fundamental level. Especially the study of geometrically frustrated configurations is challenging both theoretically and experimentally. Here we present the first realization of a large scale quantum simulator for magnetism including frustration. We use the motional degrees of freedom of atoms to comprehensively simulate a magnetic system in a triangular lattice. Via a specific modulation of the optical lattice, we can tune the couplings in different directions independently, even from ferromagnetic to antiferromagnetic. A major advantage of our approach is that standard Bose-Einstein-condensate temperatures are sufficient to observe magnetic phenomena like N\'eel order and spin frustration. We are able to study a very rich phase diagram and even to observe spontaneous symmetry breaking caused by frustration. In addition, the quantum states realized in our spin simulator are yet unobserved superfluid phases with non-trivial long-range order and staggered circulating plaquette currents, which break time reversal symmetry. These findings open the route towards highly debated phases like spin-liquids and the study of the dynamics of quantum phase transitions.

id: 1103.5952
title: Visible light induced ocular delayed bioluminescence as a possible origin of negative afterimage
authors: I. Bokkon, R.L.P. Vimal, C. Wang, J. Dai, V. Salari, F. Grass, I. Antal
comments: accepted to be published in J. Photochem. Photobiol. B
journal: J Photochem Photobiol B , 103 , 192-199, (2011)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5952
abstract: The delayed luminescence of biological tissues is an ultraweak reemission of absorbed photons after exposure to external monochromatic or white light illumination. Recently, Wang, B\'okkon, Dai and Antal (Brain Res. 2011) presented the first experimental proof of the existence of spontaneous ultraweak biophoton emission and visible light induced delayed ultraweak photon emission from in vitro freshly isolated rat's whole eye, lens, vitreous humor and retina. Here, we suggest that the photobiophysical source of negative afterimage can also occur within the eye by delayed bioluminescent photons. In other words, when we stare at a colored (or white) image for few seconds, external photons can induce excited electronic states within different parts of the eye that is followed by a delayed reemission of absorbed photons for several seconds. Finally, these reemitted photons can be absorbed by nonbleached photoreceptors that produce a negative afterimage. Although this suggests the photobiophysical source of negative afterimages is related retinal mechanisms, cortical neurons have also essential contribution in the interpretation and modulation of negative afterimages.

id: 1103.5983
title: Massless Dirac fermions in a laser field as a counterpart of graphene superlattices
authors: Sergey E. Savel'ev, Alexandre S. Alexandrov
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 035428 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5983
abstract: We establish an analogy between spectra of Dirac fermions in laser fields and an electron spectrum of graphene superlattices formed by static 1D periodic potentials. The general relations between a laser-controlled spectrum where electron momentum depends on the quasi-energy and a superlattice mini-band spectrum in graphene are derived. As an example we consider two spectra generated by a pulsed laser and by a step-like electrostatic potential. We also calculate the graphene excitation spectrum in continuous strong laser fields in the resonance approximation for linear and circular polarizations and show that circular polarized laser fields cannot be reduced to any graphene electrostatic superlattice. Some physical phenomena related to the peculiar graphene energy spectrum in the strong electromagnetic field are discussed.

id: 1103.6183
title: FFLO- and N¨¦el States in finite-size Systems
authors: T. Gottwald, P. G. J. van Dongen
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.6183
abstract: The general structure of the $s$-wave fermionic superfluid pairing order parameter is discussed for systems in thermal equilibrium. We demonstrate that for finite-size systems with fixed boundary conditions the pairing-amplitude may always be chosen as a {\it real} function in space, in contrast to systems underlying periodic boundary conditions, with drastical consequences for several postulated Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov (FFLO) states. Using a simple mapping, we also investigate the consequences of our results for antiferromagnetic equilibrium states in a repulsive Hubbard model.

id: 1103.6264
title: Spin foam models with finite groups
authors: Benjamin Bahr, Bianca Dittrich, James P. Ryan
comments: 47 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.6264
abstract: Spin foam models, loop quantum gravity and group field theory are discussed as quantum gravity candidate theories and usually involve a continuous Lie group. We advocate here to consider quantum gravity inspired models with finite groups, firstly as a test bed for the full theory and secondly as a class of new lattice theories possibly featuring an analogue diffeomorphism symmetry. To make these notes accessible to readers outside the quantum gravity community we provide an introduction to some essential concepts in the loop quantum gravity, spin foam and group field theory approach and point out the many connections to lattice field theory and condensed matter systems.

id: 1103.2740
title: Quantitative study of quasi-one-dimensional Bose gas experiments via the stochastic Gross-Pitaevskii equation
authors: S. P. Cockburn, D. Gallucci, N. P. Proukakis
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures; updated figures with experimental data
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2740
abstract: The stochastic Gross-Pitaevskii equation is shown to be an excellent model for quasi-one-dimensional Bose gas experiments, accurately reproducing the in situ density profiles recently obtained in the experiments of Trebbia et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 97, 250403 (2006)] and van Amerongen et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 090402 (2008)], and the density fluctuation data reported by Armijo et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 230402 (2010)]. To facilitate such agreement, we propose and implement a quasi-one-dimensional stochastic equation for the low-energy, axial modes, while atoms in excited transverse modes are treated as independent ideal Bose gases.

id: 1103.4386
title: Casimir-Polder repulsion near edges: wedge apex and a screen with an aperture
authors: Kimball A. Milton, E. K. Abalo, Prachi Parashar, Nima Pourtolami, Iver Brevik, Simen A. Ellingsen
comments: 34 pages, 9 figures; minor revision includes more consistent notation, and comparison with nonretarded results
journal: Phys.Rev.A83:062507,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4386
abstract: Although repulsive effects have been predicted for quantum vacuum forces between bodies with nontrivial electromagnetic properties, such as between a perfect electric conductor and a perfect magnetic conductor, realistic repulsion seems difficult to achieve. Repulsion is possible if the medium between the bodies has a permittivity in value intermediate to those of the two bodies, but this may not be a useful configuration. Here, inspired by recent numerical work, we initiate analytic calculations of the Casimir-Polder interaction between an atom with anisotropic polarizability and a plate with an aperture. In particular, for a semi-infinite plate, and, more generally, for a wedge, the problem is exactly solvable, and for sufficiently large anisotropy, Casimir-Polder repulsion is indeed possible, in agreement with the previous numerical studies. In order to achieve repulsion, what is needed is a sufficiently sharp edge (not so very sharp, in fact) so that the directions of polarizability of the conductor and the atom are roughly normal to each other. The machinery for carrying out the calculation with a finite aperture is presented. As a motivation for the quantum calculation, we carry out the corresponding classical analysis for the force between a dipole and a metallic sheet with a circular aperture, when the dipole is on the symmetry axis and oriented in the same direction.

id: 1103.2578
title: Average mixing of continuous quantum walks
authors: Chris Godsil
comments: 20 pages, minor fixes, added section on discrete walks; fixed typos
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2578
abstract: If $X$ is a graph with adjacency matrix $A$, then we define $H(t)$ to be the operator $\exp(itA)$. The Schur (or entrywise) product $H(t)\circ H(-t)$ is a doubly stochastic matrix and, because of work related to quantum computing, we are concerned the \textsl{average mixing matrix}. This can be defined as the limit of $C^{-1} \int_0^C H(t)\circ H(-t)\dt$ as $C\to\infty$. We establish some of the basic properties of this matrix, showing that it is positive semidefinite and that its entries are always rational. We find that for paths and cycles this matrix takes on a surprisingly simple form, thus for the path it is a linear combination of $I$, $J$ (the all-ones matrix), and a permutation matrix.

id: 1103.1365
title: Design of Strict Control-Lyapunov Functions for Quantum Systems with QND Measurements
authors: Hadis Amini, Pierre Rouchon, Mazyar Mirrahimi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1365
abstract: We consider discrete-time quantum systems subject to Quantum Non-Demolition (QND) measurements and controlled by an adjustable unitary evolution between two successive QND measures. In open-loop, such QND measurements provide a non-deterministic preparation tool exploiting the back-action of the measurement on the quantum state. We propose here a systematic method based on elementary graph theory and inversion of Laplacian matrices to construct strict control-Lyapunov functions. This yields an appropriate feedback law that stabilizes globally the system towards a chosen target state among the open-loop stable ones, and that makes in closed-loop this preparation deterministic. We illustrate such feedback laws through simulations corresponding to an experimental setup with QND photon counting.

id: 1103.3996
title: Few-body bound states in dipolar gases and their detection
authors: B. Wunsch, N. T. Zinner, I. B. Mekhov, S.-J. Huang, D.-W. Wang, E. Demler
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 073201 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3996
abstract: We consider dipolar interactions between heteronuclear molecules in a low-dimensional setup consisting of two one-dimensional tubes. We demonstrate that attraction between molecules in different tubes can overcome intratube repulsion and complexes with several molecules in the same tube are stable. In situ detection schemes of the few-body complexes are proposed. We discuss extensions to the case of many tubes and layers, and outline the implications of our results on many-body physics.

id: 1103.1478
title: Effect of dimerization on dynamics of spin-charge separation in Pariser-Parr-Pople model: A time-dependent density matrix renormalization group study
authors: Tirthankar Dutta, S.Ramasesha
comments: Published in Phys. Rev. B; preprint format of published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 235147 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.1478
abstract: We investigate the effect of static electron-phonon coupling, on real-time dynamics of spin and charge transport in $\pi$-conjugated polyene chains. The polyene chain is modeled by the Pariser-Parr-Pople Hamiltonian with dimerized nearest-neighbor parameter $t_{0}(1+\delta)$ for short bonds and $t_{0}(1-\delta)$ for long bonds, and long-range electron-electron interactions. We follow the time evolution of the spin and charge using time-dependent density matrix renormalization group technique, when a hole is injected at one end of the chain in its ground state. We find that spin and charge dynamics followed through spin and charge velocities, depend both on chain length and extent of dimerization, $\delta$. Analysis of the results requires focusing on physical quantities such as average spin and charge polarizations, particularly in the large dimerization limit. In the dimerization range 0.0 $\le$ $\delta$ $\le$ 0.15, spin-charge dynamics is found to have a well defined behavior, with spin-charge separation (measured as the ratio of charge velocity to spin velocity) as well as, the total amount of charge and spin transported in a given time, along the chain, decreasing as dimerization increases. However, in the range 0.3 $\le$ $\delta$ $\le$ 0.5, it is observed that the dynamics of spin and charge transport becomes complicated. It is observed that for large $\delta$ values, spin-charge separation is suppressed and the injected hole fails to travel the entire length of the chain.

id: 1103.5066
title: Engineering interband transport by time-dependent disorder
authors: Ghazal Tayebirad, Riccardo Mannella, Sandro Wimberger
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 031605(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.5066
abstract: We show how the evolution of atoms in a tilted lattice can be changed and controlled by phase noise on the lattice. Dependent on the characteristic parameters of the noise, the interband transport can either be suppressed or enhanced, which is of interest for high precision control in experimental realization with Bose-Einstein condensates. The effect of the noise on the survival probability in the ground band is summarized in a scaling plot stressing the universality of our results.

id: 1103.2982
title: Addition theorems for spin spherical harmonics. I Preliminaries
authors: Antonio O. Bouzas
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 165301
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2982
abstract: We develop a systematic approach to deriving addition theorems for, and some other bilocal sums of, spin spherical harmonics. In this first part we establish some necessary technical results. We discuss the factorization of orbital and spin degrees of freedom in certain products of Clebsch-Gordan coefficients, and obtain general explicit results for the matrix elements in configuration space of tensor products of arbitrary rank of the position and angular-momentum operators. These results are the basis of the addition theorems for spin spherical harmonics obtained in part II.

id: 1103.2983
title: Addition theorems for spin spherical harmonics. II Results
authors: Antonio O Bouzas
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 165302
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.2983
abstract: Based on the results of part I, we obtain the general form of the addition theorem for spin spherical harmonics and give explicit results in the cases involving one spin-$s'$ and one spin-$s$ spherical harmonics with $s',s=1/2$, 1, 3/2, and $|s'-s|=0$, 1. We obtain also a fully general addition theorem for one scalar and one tensor spherical harmonic of arbitrary rank. A variety of bilocal sums of ordinary and spin spherical harmonics are given in explicit form, including a general explicit expression for bilocal spherical harmonics.

