id: 1104.0105
title: Zitterbewegung, Bloch Oscillations and Landau-Zener Tunneling in a Quantum Walk
authors: Alois Regensburger, Christoph Bersch, Benjamin Hinrichs, Georgy Onishchukov, Andreas Schreiber, Christine Silberhorn, Ulf Peschel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0105
abstract: We experimentally investigate a discrete time quantum walk in a system of coupled fiber loops and observe typical phenomena known from the wave propagation in periodic structures as ballistic spreading or an oscillation between two internal quantum states similar to Zitterbewegung (trembling motion). If a position-dependent phase gradient is applied we find localization and Bloch oscillations of the field for moderate as well as Landau-Zener tunneling for strong phase gradients.

id: 1104.0596
title: Symmetry and Quantum Transport on Networks
authors: S. Salimi, R. Radgohar, M. M. Soltanzadeh
comments: 18 pages, 20 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Vol. 8, No. 8 (2010) 1323-1335
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0596
abstract: We study the classical and quantum transport processes on some finite networks and model them by continuous-time random walks (CTRW) and continuous-time quantum walks (CTQW), respectively. We calculate the classical and quantum transition probabilities between two nodes of the network. We numerically show that there is a high probability to find the walker at the initial node for CTQWs on the underlying networks due to the interference phenomenon, even for long times. To get global information (independent of the starting node) about the transport efficiency, we average the return probability over all nodes of the network. We apply the decay rate and the asymptotic value of the average of the return probability to evaluate the transport efficiency. Our numerical results prove that the existence of the symmetry in the underlying networks makes quantum transport less efficient than the classical one. In addition, we find that the increasing of the symmetry of these networks decreases the efficiency of quantum transport on them.

id: 1104.2010
title: Notes on Inhomogeneous Quantum Walks
authors: Yutaka Shikano, Hosho Katsura
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, as the proceedings of QCMC 2010
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1363, 151 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2010
abstract: We study a class of discrete-time quantum walks with inhomogeneous coins defined in [Y. Shikano and H. Katsura, Phys. Rev. E {\bf 82}, 031122 (2010)]. We establish symmetry properties of the spectrum of the evolution operator, which resembles the Hofstadter butterfly.

id: 1104.2061
title: Brun-Type Formalism for Decoherence in Two Dimensional Quantum Walks
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: Presented as Poster Talk in "The International Meeting on Quantum Foundations and Quantum Information" at Seoul National University
journal: Communications in Theoretical Physics (2012),Volume 57, Number 1, pp 41-55
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2061
abstract: We study decoherence in the quantum walk on the xy-plane. We generalize the method of decoherent coin quantum walk, introduced by [T.A. Brun, et.al, Phys.Rev.A 67 (2003) 032304],which could be applicable to all sorts of decoherence in two dimensional quantum walks, irrespective of the unitary transformation governing the walk. As an application we study decoherence in the presence of broken line noise in which the quantum walk is governed by the two-dimensional Hadamard operator.

id: 1104.2653
title: Asymptotic evolution of quantum walks on the $N$-cycle subject to decoherence on both the coin and position degrees of freedom
authors: Chaobin Liu, Nelson Petulante
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012317 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2653
abstract: Consider a discrete-time quantum walk on the $N$-cycle subject to decoherence both on the coin and the position degrees of freedom. By examining the evolution of the density matrix of the system, we derive some new conclusions about the asymptotic behavior of the system. When $N$ is odd, the density matrix of the system tends, in the long run, to the maximally mixed state, independent of the initial state. When $N$ is even, although the behavior of the system is not necessarily asymptotically stationary, in this case too an explicit formulation is obtained of the asymptotic dynamics of the system. Moreover, this approach enables us to specify the limiting behavior of the mutual information, viewed as a measure of quantum entanglement between subsystems (coin and walker). In particular, our results provide efficient theoretical confirmation of the findings of previous authors, who arrived at their results through extensive numerical simulations. Our results can be attributed to an important theorem which, for a generalized random unitary operation, explicitly identifies the structure of all of its eigenspaces corresponding to eigenvalues of unit modulus.

id: 1104.4157
title: Numerical Study on Quantum Walks Implemented on the Cascade Rotational Transitions in a Diatomic Molecule
authors: Leo Matsuoka, Tatsuya Kasajima, Masashi Hashimoto, Keiichi Yokoyama
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures, submitted to J. Kor. Phys. Soc., Proceedings of AISAMP9
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4157
abstract: We propose an implementation scheme for the continuous-time quantum walk using a diatomic molecule and an optical frequency comb. We show an analogy between the quantum walk and the cascade rotational transitions induced by the optical frequency comb whose frequency peaks are tuned to the pure rotational transitions in the molecule. The strategy to compensate for the centrifugal distortion of the real molecule is also demonstrated.

id: 1104.5021
title: Universal dynamical decoupling of multiqubit states from environment
authors: Liang Jiang, Adilet Imambekov
comments: 4+ pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 060302(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5021
abstract: We study the dynamical decoupling of multiqubit states from environment. For a system of m qubits, the nested Uhrig dynamical decoupling (NUDD) sequence can efficiently suppress generic decoherence induced by system-environment interaction to order N using (N+1)^2m pulses. We prove that the NUDD sequence is universal, i.e., it can restore the coherence of m-qubit quantum system independent of the details of system-environment interaction. We also construct a general mapping between dynamical decoupling problems and discrete quantum walks in certain functional spaces.

id: 1104.5275
title: A Quantum Analogue of Parrondo's Game
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5275
abstract: We consider the discrete-time quantum walk in the plane, and present a quantum implementation of Parrondo's game for four players. Physical significance of the game strategies are also discussed.

id: 1104.3787
title: Projective simulation for artificial intelligence
authors: Hans J. Briegel, Gemma De las Cuevas
comments: 22 pages, 18 figures. Close to published version, with footnotes retained
journal: Sci. Rep. 2, 400 (2012)
subjects: Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3787
abstract: We propose a model of a learning agent whose interaction with the environment is governed by a simulation-based projection, which allows the agent to project itself into future situations before it takes real action. Projective simulation is based on a random walk through a network of clips, which are elementary patches of episodic memory. The network of clips changes dynamically, both due to new perceptual input and due to certain compositional principles of the simulation process. During simulation, the clips are screened for specific features which trigger factual action of the agent. The scheme is different from other, computational, notions of simulation, and it provides a new element in an embodied cognitive science approach to intelligent action and learning. Our model provides a natural route for generalization to quantum-mechanical operation and connects the fields of reinforcement learning and quantum computation.

