id: 1104.0018
title: The theory of manipulations of pure state asymmetry: basic tools and equivalence classes of states under symmetric operations
authors: Iman Marvian, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: Published version. Several new results added. 31 Pages, 3 Figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 033001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0018
abstract: If a system undergoes symmetric dynamics, then the final state of the system can only break the symmetry in ways in which it was broken by the initial state, and its measure of asymmetry can be no greater than that of the initial state. It follows that for the purpose of understanding the consequences of symmetries of dynamics, in particular, complicated and open-system dynamics, it is useful to introduce the notion of a state's asymmetry properties, which includes the type and measure of its asymmetry. We demonstrate and exploit the fact that the asymmetry properties of a state can also be understood in terms of information-theoretic concepts, for instance in terms of the state's ability to encode information about an element of the symmetry group. We show that the asymmetry properties of a pure state psi relative to the symmetry group G are completely specified by the characteristic function of the state, defined as chi_psi(g)=<psi|U(g)|psi> where g\in G and U is the unitary representation of interest. For a symmetry described by a compact Lie group G, we show that two pure states can be reversibly interconverted one to the other by symmetric operations if and only if their characteristic functions are equal up to a 1-dimensional representation of the group. Characteristic functions also allow us to easily identify the conditions for one pure state to be converted to another by symmetric operations (in general irreversibly) for the various paradigms of single-copy transformations: deterministic, state-to-ensemble, stochastic and catalyzed.

id: 1104.0062
title: On the role of complex phases in the quantum statistics of weak measurements
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 16 pages, including 2 figures, added explanations on physics and relevance for recent experiments, final version for publication in NJP
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 103009 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0062
abstract: Weak measurements performed between quantum state preparation and post-selection result in complex values for self-adjoint operators, corresponding to complex conditional probabilities for the projections on specific eigenstates. In this paper, it is shown that the complex phases of these weak conditional probabilities describe the dynamic response of the system to unitary transformations. Quantum mechanics thus unifies the statistical overlap of different states with the dynamical structure of transformations between these states. Specifically, it is possible to identify the phase of weak conditional probabilities directly with the action of a unitary transform that maximizes the overlap of initial and final states. This action provides a quantitative measure of how much quantum correlations can diverge from the deterministic relations between physical properties expected from classical physics or hidden variable theories. In terms of quantum information, the phases of weak conditional probabilities thus represent the logical tension between sets of three quantum states that is at the heart of quantum paradoxes.

id: 1104.0070
title: Equivalence of the measures of non-Markovianty for open two-level systems
authors: Hao-Sheng Zeng, Ning Tang, Yan-Ping Zheng, Guo-You Wang
comments: 13pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0070
abstract: In order to depict the deviation of quantum time evolution in open systems from Markovian processes, different measures have been presented. We demonstrate that the measure proposed by Breuer, Laine and Piilo [Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 210401 (2009)] and the two measures proposed by Rivas, Huelga and Plenio [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 050403 (2010)] have exactly the same non-Markovian time-evolution intervals and thus are really equivalent each other when they apply to open two-level systems coupled to environments via Jaynes-Cummings or dephasing models. This equivalence implies that the three measures in different ways capture the intrinsical characters of non-Markovianty of quantum evolutional processes. We also show that the maximization in the definition of the first measure can be actually removed for the considered models without influencing the sensibility of the measure to detect non-Markovianty.

id: 1104.0091
title: Three-slit experiments and quantum nonlocality
authors: Gerd Niestegge
comments: 9 pages, no figure
journal: 2013 Found. Phys. 43, 805 - 812
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0091
abstract: An interesting link between two very different physical aspects of quantum mechanics is revealed; these are the absence of third-order interference and Tsirelson's bound for the nonlocal correlations. Considering multiple-slit experiments - not only the traditional configuration with two slits, but also configurations with three and more slits - Sorkin detected that third-order (and higher-order) interference is not possible in quantum mechanics. The EPR experiments show that quantum mechanics involves nonlocal correlations which are demonstrated in a violation of the Bell or CHSH inequality, but are still limited by a bound discovered by Tsirelson. It now turns out that Tsirelson's bound holds in a broad class of probabilistic theories provided that they rule out third-order interference. A major characteristic of this class is the existence of a reasonable calculus of conditional probability or, phrased more physically, of a reasonable model for the quantum measurement process.

id: 1104.0105
title: Zitterbewegung, Bloch Oscillations and Landau-Zener Tunneling in a Quantum Walk
authors: Alois Regensburger, Christoph Bersch, Benjamin Hinrichs, Georgy Onishchukov, Andreas Schreiber, Christine Silberhorn, Ulf Peschel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0105
abstract: We experimentally investigate a discrete time quantum walk in a system of coupled fiber loops and observe typical phenomena known from the wave propagation in periodic structures as ballistic spreading or an oscillation between two internal quantum states similar to Zitterbewegung (trembling motion). If a position-dependent phase gradient is applied we find localization and Bloch oscillations of the field for moderate as well as Landau-Zener tunneling for strong phase gradients.

id: 1104.0114
title: From su(2) gauge theory to spin 1/2 quantum mechanics
authors: Paola Zizzi, Eliano Pessa
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0114
abstract: We consider a pure SU(2) gauge theory, and make an ansatz for the gauge field, which is gauge-invariant but manifestly non-Lorentz invariant. In a limit case of the ansatz, corresponding to a vacuum solution, the SU(2) gauge field reduces to a spin 1/2 observable times the generator of a global U(1). We find that the field equations written in terms of the ansatz make explicit the presence of an anomalous current which vanishes in the vacuum. This allows to interpret the components of the U(1) field as Goldstone bosons associated with the spontaneous breaking of Lorentz symmetry. Finally, we give an interpretation of the ansatz in the context of principal fiber bundles, which enlightens the geometrical aspects of the reduction of the gauge field theory to quantum mechanics.

id: 1104.0132
title: An approximate ¦Ê state solutions of the Dirac equation for the generalized Morse potential under spin and pseudospin symmetry
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 33 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52 (2011) 052303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0132
abstract: By using an improved approximation scheme to deal with the centrifugal (pseudo-centrifugal) term, we solve the Dirac equation for the generalized Morse potential with arbitrary spin-orbit quantum number {\kappa}. In the presence of spin and pseudospin symmetry, the analytic bound state energy eigenvalues and the associated upper- and lower-spinor components of two Dirac particles are found by using the basic concepts of the Nikiforov-Uvarov method. We study the special cases when {\kappa}=\pm1 (l=l=0, s-wave), the non-relativistic limit and the limit when {\alpha} becomes zero (Kratzer potential model). The present solutions are compared with those obtained by other methods. Keywords: Dirac equation, spin symmetry, pseudospin symmetry, generalized Morse potential,

id: 1104.0159
title: Geometric quantum gates with superconducting qubits
authors: I. Kamleitner, P. Solinas, C. M¨¹ller, A. Shnirman, M. M?tt?nen
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 83, 214518 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0159
abstract: We suggest a scheme to implement a universal set of non-Abelian geometric transformations for a single logical qubit composed of three superconducting transmon qubits coupled to a single cavity. The scheme utilizes an adiabatic evolution in a rotating frame induced by the effective tripod Hamiltonian which is achieved by longitudinal driving of the transmons. The proposal is experimentally feasible with the current state of the art and could serve as a first proof of principle for geometric quantum computing.

id: 1104.0182
title: Quantum light by atomic arrays in optical resonators
authors: Hessam Habibian, Stefano Zippilli, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures, version to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 033829 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0182
abstract: Light scattering by a periodic atomic array is studied when the atoms couple with the mode of a high-finesse optical resonator and are driven by a laser. When the von-Laue condition is not satified, there is no coherent emission into the cavity mode, and the latter is pumped via inelastic scattering processes. We consider this situation and identify conditions for which different non-linear optical processes can occur. We show that these processes can be controlled by suitably tuning the strength of laser and cavity coupling, the angle between laser and cavity axis, and the array periodicity. We characterize the coherence properties of the light when the system can either operate as degenerate parametric amplifier or as a source of antibunched-light. Our study permits us to identify the individual multi-photon components of the nonlinear optical response of the atomic array and the corresponding parameter regimes, thereby in principle allowing one for controlling the nonlinear optical response of the medium.

id: 1104.0202
title: Cyclic mutually unbiased bases, Fibonacci polynomials and Wiedemann's conjecture
authors: Ulrich Seyfarth, Kedar S. Ranade
comments: 11 pages, added chapter on equivalence
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0202
abstract: We relate the construction of a complete set of cyclic mutually unbiased bases, i. e., mutually unbiased bases generated by a single unitary operator, in power-of-two dimensions to the problem of finding a symmetric matrix over F_2 with an irreducible characteristic polynomial that has a given Fibonacci index. For dimensions of the form 2^(2^k) we present a solution that shows an analogy to an open conjecture of Wiedemann in finite field theory. Finally, we discuss the equivalence of mutually unbiased bases.

id: 1104.0217
title: Joint Hilbert-Schmidt Determinantal Moments of Product Form for the Two-Rebit and Two-Qubit and Higher-Dimensional Quantum Systems
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures; Greatly expanded set of computational results, largely stemming from a suggestion of C. Dunkl regarding the use of the Cholesky-decomposition to parameterize density matrices. A two-page appendix of Dunkl is also included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0217
abstract: We report formulas for the joint moments of the determinantal products (det{rho})^k (det{rho^PT})^K (k=0, 1, 2,...,N; K = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4) of Hilbert-Schmidt (HS) probability distributions over the two-rebit and (K = 0, 1) two-qubit density matrices rho. Here PT denotes the partial transposition operation of quantum-information-theoretic importance. Each formula is the product of the expression for the moments of (det{rho})^k, k=0,1,2,...,N--already known from work of Cappellini, Sommers and Zyczkowski (Phys. Rev. A 74, 062322 (1996))--and an adjustment factor. The factor is a biproper rational function, with its numerators and denominators both being 3 K-degree polynomials in k. We infer the structure that the denominators follow for arbitrary K in both the two-rebit and two-qubit cases, and the six leading-order coefficients of k of the numerators in the two-rebit scenario.. We also commence an analogous investigation of generic rebit-retrit and qubit-qutrit systems. This research was motivated, in part, by the objective of using the computed moments to well reconstruct the associated HS probabilities (for which we present plots) over the two determinants, and to ascertain--at least to high accuracy--the associated (separability) probabilities of "philosophical, practical and physical" interest that (det{rho^PT})>0.

id: 1104.0236
title: Minimally-destructive detection of magnetically-trapped atoms using frequency-synthesised light
authors: M. Kohnen, P. G. Petrov, R. A. Nyman, E. A. Hinds
comments: Submitted to New Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0236
abstract: We present a technique for atomic density measurements by the off-resonant phase-shift induced on a two-frequency, coherently-synthesised light beam. We have used this scheme to measure the column density of a magnetically trapped atom cloud and to monitor oscillations of the cloud in real time by making over a hundred non-destructive local density measurments. For measurements using pulses of 10,000-100,000 photons lasting ~10 microsecond, the precision is limited by statistics of the photons and the photodiode avalanche. We explore the relationship between measurement precision and the unwanted loss of atoms from the trap and introduce a figure of merit that characterises it. This method can be used to probe the density of a BEC with minimal disturbance of its phase.

id: 1104.0238
title: Violation of a Leggett-Garg inequality with ideal non-invasive measurements
authors: George C. Knee, Stephanie Simmons, Erik M. Gauger, John J. L. Morton, Helge Riemann, Nikolai V. Abrosimov, Peter Becker, Hans-Joachim Pohl, Kohei M. Itoh, Mike L. W. Thewalt, G. Andrew D. Briggs, Simon C. Benjamin
comments: 6+4 pages. Supplementary Methods section included
journal: Nat. Commun. 3:606 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0238
abstract: The quantum superposition principle states that an entity can exist in two different states simultaneously, counter to our 'classical' intuition. Is it possible to understand a given system's behaviour without such a concept? A test designed by Leggett and Garg can rule out this possibility. The test, originally intended for macroscopic objects, has been implemented in various systems. However to-date no experiment has employed the 'ideal negative result' measurements that are required for the most robust test. Here we introduce a general protocol for these special measurements using an ancillary system which acts as a local measuring device but which need not be perfectly prepared. We report an experimental realisation using spin-bearing phosphorus impurities in silicon. The results demonstrate the necessity of a non-classical picture for this class of microscopic system. Our procedure can be applied to systems of any size, whether individually controlled or in a spatial ensemble.

id: 1104.0260
title: Cooling by heating
authors: A. Mari, J. Eisert
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 120602 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0260
abstract: We introduce the idea of actually cooling quantum systems by means of incoherent thermal light, hence giving rise to a counter-intuitive mechanism of "cooling by heating". In this effect, the mere incoherent occupation of a quantum mechanical mode serves as a trigger to enhance the coupling between other modes. This notion of effectively rendering states more coherent by driving with incoherent thermal quantum noise is applied here to the opto-mechanical setting, where this effect occurs most naturally. We discuss two ways of describing this situation, one of them making use of stochastic sampling of Gaussian quantum states with respect to stationary classical stochastic processes. The potential of experimentally demonstrating this counter-intuitive effect in opto-mechanical systems with present technology is sketched.

id: 1104.0275
title: Experimental Quantum Simulation of Entanglement in Many-body Systems
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Tzu-Chieh Wei, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 010501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0275
abstract: We employ a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum information processor to simulate the ground state of an XXZ spin chain and measure its NMR analog of entanglement, or pseudo-entanglement. The observed pseudo-entanglement for a small-size system already displays singularity, a signature which is qualitatively similar to that in the thermodynamical limit across quantum phase transitions, including an infinite-order critical point. The experimental results illustrate a successful approach to investigate quantum correlations in many-body systems using quantum simulators.

id: 1104.0277
title: Comment on "Quantitative Condition is Necessary in Guaranteeing the Validity of the Adiabatic Approximation" [arXiv:1004.3100]
authors: Meisheng Zhao, Jianda Wu
comments: 1 page
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 138901 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0277
abstract: Recently, the authors of Ref.1[arXiv:1004.3100] claimed that they have proven the traditional adiabatic condition is a necessary condition. Here, it is claimed that there are some mistakes and an artificial over-strong constraint in [1], making its result inconvincible.

id: 1104.0299
title: Witness to detect quantum correlation of bipartite states in arbitrary dimension
authors: Zhi-Hao Ma, Zhi-Hua Chen, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0299
abstract: In this work we introduce a nonlinear witness that is a sufficient condition for detecting the vanishment of quantum correlation of bipartite states. Our result directly generalizes the result of [J. Maziero, R. M. Serra, arXiv:1012.3075] to arbitrary dimension based on the Bloch representation of density matrices.

id: 1104.0301
title: On the bound-state solutions of the Manning-Rosen potential including improved approximation to the orbital centrifugal term
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 21 pages
journal: Phys. Scr. 83 (2011) 015010 (10pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0301
abstract: The approximate analytical bound state solution of the Schr\"odinger equation for the Manning-Rosen potential is carried out by taking a new approximation scheme to the orbital centrifugal term. The Nikiforov-Uvarov method is used in the calculations. We obtain analytic forms for the energy eigenvalues and the corresponding normalized wave functions in terms of the Jacobi polynomials or hypergeometric functions for different screening parameters 1/b. The rotational-vibrational energy states for a few diatomic molecules are calculated for arbitrary quantum numbers n and l with different values of the potential parameter {\alpha}. The present numerical results agree within five decimal digits with the previously reported results for different 1/b values. A few special cases of the s-wave (l=0) Manning-Rosen potential and the Hulth\'en potential are also studied. Keywords: Energy eigenvalues; Manning-Rosen potential; Nikiforov-Uvarov method, Approximation schemes. 03.65.-w; 02.30.Gp; 03.65.Ge; 34.20.Cf

id: 1104.0302
title: Quantization rule solution to the Hulth¨¦n potential in arbitrary dimension by a new approximate scheme for the centrifugal term
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 15 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1009.5083
journal: Phys. Scr. 83 (2011) 025002 (7pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0302
abstract: The bound state energies and wave functions for a particle exposed to the Hulth\'en potential field in the D-dimensional space are obtained within the improved quantization rule for any arbitrary l state. The present approximation scheme used to deal with the centrifugal term in the effective Hulth\'en potential is systematic and accurate. The solutions for the three-dimensional (D=3) case and the s-wave (l=0) case are briefly discussed. Keywords: Hulth\'en potential, improved quantization rule, approximation schemes. 03.65.Ge, 12.39.Jh

id: 1104.0309
title: Propagator of Quantum Systems in the Probability Representation
authors: Yakov A. Korennoy, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0309
abstract: The evolution equation for the propagator of the quantum system in the optical probability representation (optical propagator) is obtained. The relations between the optical and quantum propagators for the Schr\"odinger equation and the optical propagator of an arbitrary quadratic system are found explicitly.

id: 1104.0374
title: Theoretical framework of entangled-photon generation from biexcitons in nano-to-bulk crossover regime with planar geometry
authors: Motoaki Bamba, Hajime Ishihara
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 045125 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0374
abstract: We have constructed a theoretical framework of the biexciton-resonant hyperparametric scattering for the pursuit of high-power and high-quality generation of entangled photon pairs. Our framework is applicable to nano-to-bulk crossover regime where the center-of-mass motion of excitons and biexcitons is confined. Material surroundings and the polarization correlation of generated photons can be considered. We have analyzed the entangled-photon generation from CuCl film, by which ultraviolet entangled-photon pairs are generated, and from dielectric microcavity embedding a CuCl layer. We have revealed that in the nano-to-bulk crossover regime we generally get a high performance from the viewpoint of statistical accuracy, and the generation efficiency can be enhanced by the optical cavity with maintaining the high performance. The nano-to-bulk crossover regime has a variety of degrees of freedom to tune the entangled-photon generation, and the scattering spectra explicitly reflect quantized exciton-photon coupled modes in the finite structure.

id: 1104.0409
title: Biphoton Spectrum Control
authors: K. G. Katamadze, S. P. Kulik
comments: 20 pages, 17 figures
journal: JOURNAL OF EXPERIMENTAL AND THEORETICAL PHYSICS Volume 112, Number 1, 20-37 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0409
abstract: The main methods for controlling the biphoton field, as well as the problems for which the width and the shape of the spectrum of the biphoton field are of decisive importance, are discussed. The method for controlling the spectrum of the spontaneous parametric downconversion of light based on the spatial modulation of the refractive indices of a nonlinear crystal in which the generation of biphotons has been analyzed. Modulation is due to the thermo-optic and electro-optic effects.

id: 1104.0421
title: Quantum properties of a non-Gaussian state in the large-N approximation
authors: F. Gautier, J. Serreau
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures. Published version (Phys. Rev. D, minor corrections)
journal: Phys.Rev.D83:125004,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0421
abstract: We study the properties of a non-Gaussian density matrix for a O(N) scalar field in the context of the incomplete description picture. This is of relevance for studies of decoherence and entropy production in quantum field theory. In particular, we study how the inclusion of the simplest non-Gaussian correlator in the set of measured observables modifies the effective (Gaussian) description one can infer from the knowledge of the two-point functions only. We compute exactly the matrix elements of the non-Gaussian density matrix at leading order in a 1/N-expansion. This allows us to study the quantum properties (purity, entropy, coherence) of the corresponding state for arbitrarily strong nongaussianity. We find that if the Gaussian and the non-Gaussian observers essentially agree concerning quantum purity or correlation entropy, their conclusion can significantly differ for other, more detailed aspects such as the degree of quantum coherence of the system.

id: 1104.0431
title: Comment on: "Non-relativistic treatment of diatomic molecules interacting with generalized Kratzer potential in hyperspherical coordinates"
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0431
abstract: We argue that the textbook method for solving eigenvalue equations is simpler, more elegant and efficient than the Asymptotic Iteration Method (AIM) applied in J. Phys. A {\bf 44} 155205. We show that the Kratzer potential is not a realistic model for the vibration--rotation spectrua of diatomic molecules because it predicts the position of the absorption infrared bands too far from the experimental ones (at least for the $HCl$ and $H_2$ molecules chosen as illustrative examples in that paper).

id: 1104.0451
title: Trapped ions in optical lattices for probing oscillator chain models
authors: Thaned Pruttivarasin, Michael Ramm, Ishan Talukdar, Axel Kreuter, Hartmut Haeffner
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. (13) 075012, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0451
abstract: We show that a chain of trapped ions embedded in microtraps generated by an optical lattice can be used to study oscillator models related to dry friction and energy transport. Numerical calculations with realistic experimental parameters demonstrate that both static and dynamic properties of the ion chain change significantly as the optical lattice power is varied. Finally, we lay out an experimental scheme to use the spin degree of freedom to probe the phase space structure and quantum critical behavior of the ion chain.

id: 1104.0485
title: Maximization of thermal entanglement of arbitrarily interacting two qubits
authors: Tomotaka Kuwahara, Naomichi Hatano
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062311 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0485
abstract: We investigate the thermal entanglement of interacting two qubits. We maximize it by tuning a local Hamiltonian under a given interaction Hamiltonian. We prove that the optimizing local Hamiltonian takes a simple form which dose not depend on the temperature and that the corresponding optimized thermal entanglement decays as $1/(T log T)$ at high temperatures. We also find that at low temperatures the thermal entanglement is maximum without any local Hamiltonians and that the second derivative of the maximized thermal entanglement changes discontinuously at the boundary between the high- and low-temperature phases.

id: 1104.0497
title: QuECT: A New Quantum Programming Paradigm
authors: Arnab Chakraborty
comments: 18 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Programming Languages (cs.PL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0497
abstract: Quantum computation constitutes a rapidly expanding subfield of computer science. Development quantum algorithms is facilitated by the availability of efficient quantum programming languages, and a plethora of approaches has been already suggested in the literature, ranging from GUI-based simple tools to elaborate standalone programming languages. In this paper we propose a novel paradigm called Quantum Embeddable Circuit Technique (QuECT) that allows a programmer to embed a circuit diagram in a classical "host" language. The paradigm can be implemented in any modern classical language. A prototype has been developed by the author using Java.

id: 1104.0545
title: Generation of motional nonlinear coherent states and their superpositions via intensity-dependent coupling of a cavity field to a micromechanical membrane
authors: Sh. Barzanjeh, M. H. Naderi, M. Soltanolkotabi
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 105504 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0545
abstract: We propose a theoretical scheme to show the possibility of generating motional nonlinear coherent states and their superposition for an undamped vibrating micromechanical membrane inside an optical cavity. The scheme is based on an intensity-dependent coupling of the membrane to the radiation pressure field. We show that if the cavity field is initially prepared in a Fock state, the motional state of the membrane may evolve from vacuum state to a special type of nonlinear coherent states. By examining the nonclassical properties of the generated state of the membrane, including the quadrature squeezing and the sub-Poissonian statistics, we find that by varying the Lamb-Dicke parameter and the membrane's reflectivity one can effectively control those properties. In addition, the scheme offers the possibility of generating various types of the so-called nonlinear multicomponent Schrodinger cat sates of the membrane. We also examine the effect of the damping of the cavity field on the motional state of the membrane.

id: 1104.0583
title: Quantum System Identification
authors: Daniel Burgarth, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 080502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0583
abstract: The aim of quantum system identification is to estimate the ingredients inside a black box, in which some quantum-mechanical unitary process takes place, by just looking at its input-output behavior. Here we establish a basic and general framework for quantum system identification, that allows us to classify how much knowledge about the quantum system is attainable, in principle, from a given experimental setup. Prior knowledge on some elements of the black box helps the system identification. We present an example in which a Bell measurement is more efficient to identify the system. When the topology of the system is known, the framework enables us to establish a general criterion for the estimability of the coupling constants in its Hamiltonian.

id: 1104.0596
title: Symmetry and Quantum Transport on Networks
authors: S. Salimi, R. Radgohar, M. M. Soltanzadeh
comments: 18 pages, 20 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information Vol. 8, No. 8 (2010) 1323-1335
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0596
abstract: We study the classical and quantum transport processes on some finite networks and model them by continuous-time random walks (CTRW) and continuous-time quantum walks (CTQW), respectively. We calculate the classical and quantum transition probabilities between two nodes of the network. We numerically show that there is a high probability to find the walker at the initial node for CTQWs on the underlying networks due to the interference phenomenon, even for long times. To get global information (independent of the starting node) about the transport efficiency, we average the return probability over all nodes of the network. We apply the decay rate and the asymptotic value of the average of the return probability to evaluate the transport efficiency. Our numerical results prove that the existence of the symmetry in the underlying networks makes quantum transport less efficient than the classical one. In addition, we find that the increasing of the symmetry of these networks decreases the efficiency of quantum transport on them.

id: 1104.0604
title: Reply to Comment on Spin-selective reactions of radical pairs act as quantum measurements
authors: J. A. Jones, Kiminori Maeda, U. E. Steiner, P. J. Hore
comments: 4 pages pdf from word; Chem Phys Lett in press
journal: Chem. Phys. Lett. 508, 184-185 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0604
abstract: In his Comment on a recent paper by two of us Kominis claims that the recently proposed quantum measurement model for spin-selective reactions of radical pairs leads to ambiguous predictions in a simple case. Here we show that this claim is based on a confusion between the unreacted and unrecombined portions of the radical pairs, and to an incorrect interpretation of the improper density matrices used in both our model and the conventional Haberkorn model of such reactions. We further show that if this error is corrected then the supposed ambiguity is resolved.

id: 1104.0608
title: On the Munn-Silbey approach to polaron transport with off-diagonal coupling
authors: Dongmeng Chen, Jun Ye, Haijun Zhang, Yang Zhao
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, accpeted in Journal of Physical Chemistry B: Shaul Mukamel Festschrift (2011)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0608
abstract: Improved results using a method similar to the Munn-Silbey approach have been obtained on the temperature dependence of transport properties of an extended Holstein model incorporating simultaneous diagonal and off-diagonal exciton-phonon coupling. The Hamiltonian is partially diagonalized by a canonical transformation, and optimal transformation coefficients are determined in a self-consistent manner. Calculated transport properties exhibit substantial corrections on those obtained previously by Munn and Silbey for a wide range of temperatures thanks to a numerically exact evaluation and an added momentum-dependence of the transformation matrix. Results on the diffusion coefficient in the moderate and weak coupling regime show distinct band-like and hopping-like transport features as a function of temperature.

id: 1104.0648
title: No singularities at the phase transition in the Dicke model
authors: O. Casta~nos, E. Nahmad-Achar, R. Lopez-Pe?a, J. G. Hirsch
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, to appear as a Rapid Communication in Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0648
abstract: The Dicke Hamiltonian describes the simplest quantum system with atoms interacting with photons: N two level atoms inside a perfectly reflecting cavity which allows only one electromagnetic mode. It has also been successfully employed to describe superconducting circuits which behave as artificial atoms coupled to a resonator. The system exhibits a transition to a superradiant phase at zero temperature. When the interaction strength reaches its critical value, both the number of photons and of atoms in excited states in the cavity, together with their fluctuations, exhibit a sudden increase from zero. Employing symmetry-adapted coherent states it is shown that these properties scale with the number of atoms, that their reported divergences at the critical point represent the limit when this number goes to infinity, and that in this limit they remain divergent in the superradiant phase. Analytical expressions are presented for all observables of interest, for any number of atoms. Comparisons with exact numerical solutions strongly support the results.

id: 1104.0656
title: Equivalence between Redfield and master equation approaches for a time-dependent quantum system and coherence control
authors: D. O. Soares-Pinto, M. H. Y. Moussa, J. Maziero, E. R. deAzevedo, T. J. Bonagamba, R. M. Serra, L. C. C¨¦leri
comments: Comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062336 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0656
abstract: We present a derivation of the Redfield formalism for treating the dissipative dynamics of a time-dependent quantum system coupled to a classical environment. We compare such a formalism with the master equation approach where the environments are treated quantum mechanically. Focusing on a time-dependent spin-1/2 system we demonstrate the equivalence between both approaches by showing that they lead to the same Bloch equations and, as a consequence, to the same characteristic times $T_{1}$ and $T_{2}$ (associated with the longitudinal and transverse relaxations, respectively). These characteristic times are shown to be related to the operator-sum representation and the equivalent phenomenological-operator approach. Finally, we present a protocol to circumvent the decoherence processes due to the loss of energy (and thus, associated with $T_{1}$). To this end, we simply associate the time-dependence of the quantum system to an easily achieved modulated frequency. A possible implementation of the protocol is also proposed in the context of nuclear magnetic resonance.

id: 1104.0716
title: Quantum Gates Between Two Spins in a Triple Dot System with an Empty Dot
authors: Jose Garcia Coello, Sougato Bose
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0716
abstract: We propose a scheme for implementing quantum gates and entanglement between spin qubits in the outer dots of a triple-dot system with an empty central dot. The voltage applied to the central dot can be tuned to realize the gate. Our scheme exemplifies the possibility of quantum gates outside the regime where each dot has an electron, so that spin-spin exchange interaction is not the only relevant mechanism. Analytic treatment is possible by mapping the problem to a t-J model. The fidelity of the entangling quantum gate between the spins is analyzed in the presence of decoherence stemming from a bath of nuclear spins, as well as from charge fluctuations. Our scheme provides an avenue for extending the scope of two qubit gate experiments to triple-dots, while requiring minimal control, namely that of the potential of a single dot, and may enhance the qubit separation to ease differential addressability.

id: 1104.0718
title: Initializing an unmodulated spin chain to operate as a high quality quantum data-bus
authors: Abolfazl Bayat, Leonardo Banchi, Sougato Bose, Paola Verrucchi
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062328 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0718
abstract: We study the quality of state and entanglement transmission through quantum channels described by spin chains varying both the system parameters and the initial state of the channel. We consider a vast class of one-dimensional many-body models which contains some of the most relevant experimental realizations of quantum data-buses. In particular, we consider spin-1/2 XY and XXZ model with open boundary conditions. Our results show a significant difference between free-fermionic (non-interacting) systems (XY) and interacting ones (XXZ), where in the former case initialization can be exploited for improving the entanglement distribution, while in the latter case it also determines the quality of state transmission. In fact, we find that in non interacting systems the exchange with fermions in the initial state of the chain always has a destructive effect, and we prove that it can be completely removed in the isotropic XX model by initializing the chain in a ferromagnetic state. On the other hand, in interacting systems constructive effects can arise by scattering between hopping fermions and a proper initialization procedure. Remarkably our results are the first example in which state and entanglement transmission show maxima at different points as the interactions and initializations of spin chain channels are varied.

id: 1104.0772
title: Instantaneous spatially local projective measurements are consistent in a relativistic quantum field
authors: Shih-Yuin Lin
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures; Appendix B on nonlinear theories added, typos fixed
journal: Annals of Physics 327 (2012) 3102-3115
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0772
abstract: Suppose the postulate of measurement in quantum mechanics can be extended to quantum field theory, then a local projective measurement at some moment on an object locally coupled with a relativistic quantum field will result in a projection or collapse of the wavefunctional of the combined system defined on the whole time-slice associated with the very moment of the measurement, if the relevant degrees of freedom have nonzero correlations. This implies that the wavefunctionals in the same Hamiltonian system but defined in different reference frames would collapse on different time-slices passing through the same local event where the measurement was done. Are these post-measurement states consistent with each other? We illustrate that the quantum states of the Raine-Sciama-Grove detector-field system started with the same initial Gaussian state defined on the same initial time-slice, then collapsed by the measurements on the pointlike detectors on different time-slices in different frames, will evolve to the same state of the combined system up to a coordinate transformation when compared on the same final time-slice. Such consistency is guaranteed by the spatial locality of interactions and the general covariance in a relativistic system, together with the spatial locality of measurements and the linearity of quantum dynamics in its quantum theory.

id: 1104.0815
title: Crossover from adiabatic to antiadiabatic quantum pumping with dissipation
authors: Franco Pellegrini, Carlotta Negri, Fabio Pistolesi, Nicola Manini, Giuseppe E. Santoro, Erio Tosatti
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 060401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0815
abstract: Quantum pumping, in its different forms, is attracting attention from different fields, from fundamental quantum mechanics, to nanotechnology, to superconductivity. We investigate the crossover of quantum pumping from the adiabatic to the anti-adiabatic regime in the presence of dissipation, and find general and explicit analytical expressions for the pumped current in a minimal model describing a system with the topology of a ring forced by a periodic modulation of frequency omega. The solution allows following in a transparent way the evolution of pumped DC current from much smaller to much larger omega values than the other relevant energy scale, the energy splitting introduced by the modulation. We find and characterize a temperature-dependent optimal value of the frequency for which the pumped current is maximal.

id: 1104.0821
title: Easy implementable algorithm for the geometric measure of entanglement
authors: Alexander Streltsov, Hermann Kampermann, Dagmar Bru?
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022323 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0821
abstract: We present an easy implementable algorithm for approximating the geometric measure of entanglement from above. The algorithm can be applied to any multipartite mixed state. It involves only the solution of an eigenproblem and finding a singular value decomposition, no further numerical techniques are needed. To provide examples, the algorithm was applied to the isotropic states of 3 qubits and the 3-qubit XX model with external magnetic field.

id: 1104.0886
title: Exact Bogoliubov-de Gennes Solutions for Grey Soliton Backgrounds
authors: Philip B. Walczak, James R. Anglin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0886
abstract: We derive and discuss the complete set of exact solutions to the one-dimensional Bogoliubov-de Gennes equations for small amplitude excitations around general grey soliton solutions to the cubic nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation. Our results extend the previously known case of the motionless dark soliton background. We derive our non-zero frequency solutions using a variant of the factorization method for Schr\"odinger equations with reflectionless potentials. We also discuss the zero mode solutions at length.

id: 1104.0897
title: Distributing fully optomechanical quantum correlations
authors: L. Mazzola, M. Paternostro
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 83 062335 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0897
abstract: We present a scheme to prepare quantum correlated states of two mechanical systems based on the pouring of pre-available all-optical entanglement into the state of two micro-mirrors belonging to remote and non-interacting optomechanical cavities. We show that, under realistic experimental conditions, the protocol allows for the preparation of a genuine quantum state of a composite mesoscopic system whose non-classical features extend far beyond the occurrence of entanglement. We finally discuss a way to access such mechanical correlations.

id: 1104.0898
title: Bichromatic Driving of a Solid State Cavity QED System
authors: Alexander Papageorge, Arka Majumdar, Erik D. Kim, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 8 pages 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0898
abstract: The bichromatic driving of a solid state cavity quantum electrodynamics system is used to probe cavity dressed state transitions and observe coherent interaction between the system and the light field. We theoretically demonstrate the higher order cavity-dressed states, supersplitting, and AC stark shift in a solid state system comprised of a quantum dot strongly coupled to a photonic crystal cavity for on- and far off-resonant cases. For the off-resonant case, phonons mediate off-resonant coupling between the quantum dot and the photonic resonator, a phenomenon unique to solid state cavity quantum electrodynamics.

id: 1104.0941
title: Entanglement quantification by local unitaries
authors: A. Monras, G. Adesso, S. M. Giampaolo, G. Gualdi, G. B. Davies, F. Illuminati
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures. Improved and generalized proof of monotonicity of the mirror and stellar entanglement
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0941
abstract: Invariance under local unitary operations is a fundamental property that must be obeyed by every proper measure of quantum entanglement. However, this is not the only aspect of entanglement theory where local unitaries play a relevant role. In the present work we show that the application of suitable local unitary operations defines a family of bipartite entanglement monotones, collectively referred to as "mirror entanglement". They are constructed by first considering the (squared) Hilbert-Schmidt distance of the state from the set of states obtained by applying to it a given local unitary. To the action of each different local unitary there corresponds a different distance. We then minimize these distances over the sets of local unitaries with different spectra, obtaining an entire family of different entanglement monotones. We show that these mirror entanglement monotones are organized in a hierarchical structure, and we establish the conditions that need to be imposed on the spectrum of a local unitary for the associated mirror entanglement to be faithful, i.e. to vanish on and only on separable pure states. We analyze in detail the properties of one particularly relevant member of the family, the "stellar mirror entanglement" associated to traceless local unitaries with nondegenerate spectrum and equispaced eigenvalues in the complex plane. This particular measure generalizes the original analysis of [Giampaolo and Illuminati, Phys. Rev. A 76, 042301 (2007)], valid for qubits and qutrits. We prove that the stellar entanglement is a faithful bipartite entanglement monotone in any dimension, and that it is bounded from below by a function proportional to the linear entropy and from above by the linear entropy itself, coinciding with it in two- and three-dimensional spaces.

id: 1104.0945
title: Bipartite entangled stabilizer mutually unbiased bases as maximum cliques of Cayley graphs
authors: Wim van Dam, Mark Howard
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012117 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0945
abstract: We examine the existence and structure of particular sets of mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) in bipartite qudit systems. In contrast to well-known power-of-prime MUB constructions, we restrict ourselves to using maximally entangled stabilizer states as MUB vectors. Consequently, these bipartite entangled stabilizer MUBs (BES MUBs) provide no local information, but are sufficient and minimal for decomposing a wide variety of interesting operators including (mixtures of) Jamiolkowski states, entanglement witnesses and more. The problem of finding such BES MUBs can be mapped, in a natural way, to that of finding maximum cliques in a family of Cayley graphs. Some relationships with known power-of-prime MUB constructions are discussed, and observables for BES MUBs are given explicitly in terms of Pauli operators.

id: 1104.1000
title: Lower Bound of Concurrence Based on Positive Maps
authors: Xiao-Sheng Li, Xiu-Hong Gao, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83 (2011) 034303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1000
abstract: We study the concurrence of arbitrary dimensional bipartite quantum systems. An explicit analytical lower bound of concurrence is obtained, which detects entanglement for some quantum states better than some well-known separability criteria, and improves the lower bounds such as from the PPT, realignment criteria and the Breuer's entanglement witness.

id: 1104.1004
title: Entanglement Entropy for Disjoint Subsystems in XX Spin Chain
authors: B.-Q. Jin, V.E. Korepin
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1004
abstract: Fisher-Hartwig formula has been successful applied to describe the von Neumann and R\'enyi entropies of a block of spins in the ground state of XX spin chain. It was based on a determinant representation. In this paper, we generalize the free fermion method to obtain an exact formulation for the entropy of any finite subsystem in XX spin chain. Based on this, we derive a determinant representation of the entropy of multiple disjoint intervals in the ground state of $XX$ model.

id: 1104.1006
title: Detecting the concurrence of an unknown state with a single observable
authors: Zhi-Hao Ma, Zhi-Hua Chen, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1006
abstract: While the detection of entanglement has been proved already to be quite a difficult task, experimental quantification of entanglement is even more challenging. In this work, we derive an analytical lower bound for the concurrence of a bipartite mix quantum state in arbitrary dimension. The lower bound is experimentally implementable in a feasible way, which enabling quantification of entanglement in a broad variety of cases

id: 1104.1017
title: Simple proof of the quantum benchmark fidelity for continuous-variable quantum devices
authors: Ryo Namiki
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042323 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1017
abstract: An experimental success criterion for continuous-variable quantum teleportation and memories is to surpass a limit of the average fidelity achieved by the classical measure-and-prepare schemes with respect to a Gaussian distributed set of coherent states. We present a simple proof of the classical limit based on the familiar notions of the state-channel duality and the partial transposition. The present method enables us to produce a quantum-domain criterion associated with a given set of measured fidelities.

id: 1104.1048
title: Inverse scattering problem for quantum graph vertices
authors: Taksu Cheon, Pavel Exner, Ondrej Turek
comments: ReVTeX, 4 pages, four figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A83:062715,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1048
abstract: We demonstrate how the inverse scattering problem of a quantum star graph can be solved by means of diagonalization of Hermitian unitary matrix when the vertex coupling is of the scale invariant (or F\"ul\H{o}p-Tsutsui) form. This enables the construction of quantum graphs with desired properties in a tailor-made fashion. The procedure is illustrated on the example of quantum vertices with equal transmission probabilities.

id: 1104.1105
title: Spotlighting quantum critical points via quantum correlations at finite temperatures
authors: T. Werlang, G. A. P. Ribeiro, Gustavo Rigolin
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures, RevTex4-1; v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062334 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1105
abstract: We extend the program initiated in [T. Werlang et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 095702 (2010)] in several directions. Firstly, we investigate how useful quantum correlations, such as entanglement and quantum discord, are in the detection of critical points of quantum phase transitions when the system is at finite temperatures. For that purpose we study several thermalized spin models in the thermodynamic limit, namely, the XXZ model, the XY model, and the Ising model, all of which with an external magnetic field. We compare the ability of quantum discord, entanglement, and some thermodynamic quantities to spotlight the quantum critical points for several different temperatures. Secondly, for some models we go beyond nearest-neighbors and also study the behavior of entanglement and quantum discord for second nearest-neighbors around the critical point at finite temperature. Finally, we furnish a more quantitative description of how good all these quantities are in spotlighting critical points of quantum phase transitions at finite T, bridging the gap between experimental data and those theoretical descriptions solely based on the unattainable absolute zero assumption.

id: 1104.1116
title: Heat Capacity and Entanglement Measure in a simple two-qubit model
authors: B.Leggio, A. Napoli, H. Nakazato, A. Messina
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1116
abstract: A simple two-qubit model showing Quantum Phase Transitions as a consequence of ground state level crossings is studied in detail. Using the Concurrence of the system as an entanglement measure and heat capacity as a marker of thermodynamical properties, an analytical expression giving the latter in terms of the former is obtained. A protocol allowing an experimental measure of entanglement is then presented and compared with a related proposal recently reported by Wie\'sniak, Vedral and Brukner

id: 1104.1140
title: Hedging bets with correlated quantum strategies
authors: Abel Molina, John Watrous
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures; v2: corrected a phase-flip error in Section 4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1140
abstract: This paper studies correlations among independently administered hypothetical tests of a simple interactive type, and demonstrates that correlations arising in quantum information theoretic variants of these tests can exhibit a striking non-classical behavior. When viewed in a game-theoretic setting, these correlations are suggestive of a perfect form of hedging, where the risk of a loss in one game of chance is perfectly offset by one's actions in a second game. This type of perfect hedging is quantum in nature: it is not possible in classical variants of the tests we consider.

id: 1104.1144
title: Constructing monotones for quantum phase references in totally dephasing channels
authors: Borzu Toloui, Gilad Gour, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 10 pages
journal: Physical Review A 84, 022322 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1144
abstract: Restrictions on quantum operations give rise to resource theories. Total lack of a shared reference frame for transformations associated with a group G between two parties is equivalent to having, in effect, an invariant channel between the parties and a corresponding superselection rule. The resource associated with the absence of the reference frame is known as "frameness" or "asymmetry." We show that any entanglement monotone for pure bipartite states can be adapted as a pure-state frameness monotone for phase-invariant channels [equivalently U(1) superselection rules] and extended to the case of mixed states via the convex-roof extension. As an application, we construct a family of concurrence monotones for U(1) frameness for general finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces. Furthermore, we study "frameness of formation" for mixed states analogous to entanglement of formation. In the case of a qubit, we show that it can be expressed as an analytical function of the concurrence analogously to the Wootters formula for entanglement of formation. Our results highlight deep links between entanglement and frameness resource theories.

id: 1104.1146
title: An Open-System Quantum Simulator with Trapped Ions
authors: Julio T. Barreiro, Markus M¨¹ller, Philipp Schindler, Daniel Nigg, Thomas Monz, Michael Chwalla, Markus Hennrich, Christian F. Roos, Peter Zoller, Rainer Blatt
comments: Pre-review submission to Nature. For an updated and final version see publication. Manuscript + Supplementary Information
journal: Nature 470, 486-491 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1146
abstract: The control of quantum systems is of fundamental scientific interest and promises powerful applications and technologies. Impressive progress has been achieved in isolating the systems from the environment and coherently controlling their dynamics, as demonstrated by the creation and manipulation of entanglement in various physical systems. However, for open quantum systems, engineering the dynamics of many particles by a controlled coupling to an environment remains largely unexplored. Here we report the first realization of a toolbox for simulating an open quantum system with up to five qubits. Using a quantum computing architecture with trapped ions, we combine multi-qubit gates with optical pumping to implement coherent operations and dissipative processes. We illustrate this engineering by the dissipative preparation of entangled states, the simulation of coherent many-body spin interactions and the quantum non-demolition measurement of multi-qubit observables. By adding controlled dissipation to coherent operations, this work offers novel prospects for open-system quantum simulation and computation.

id: 1104.1148
title: A method for exponential operator decomposition
authors: Seckin Sefi, Peter van Loock
comments: This work has been merged with arXiv:1010.0326 (Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 170501 (2011)) with some changes and therefore has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1148
abstract: Exponential operator decompositions are an important tool in many fields of physics, for example, in quantum control, quantum computation, or condensed matter physics. In this work, we present a method for obtaining such decompositions, which is efficient in terms of the required number of operators. Compared to existing schemes, our more direct approach is general, in the sense that it can be applied to various kinds of operators including nested commutation operators, and it is systematic.

id: 1104.1164
title: Interference spectroscopy with coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering of noisy broadband pulses
authors: Evgeny A. Shapiro, Stanislav O. Konorov, Valery Milner
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1164
abstract: We propose a new technique for comparing two Raman active samples. The method employs optical interference of the signals generated via coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering (CARS) of broadband laser pulses with noisy spectra. It does not require spectrally resolved detection, and no prior knowledge about either the Raman spectrum of the samples, or the spectrum of the incident light is needed. We study the proposed method theoretically, and demonstrate it in a proof-of-principle experiment on Toluene and ortho-Xylene samples.

id: 1104.1171
title: Quantum Codes and Symplectic Matroids
authors: Pradeep Sarvepalli
comments: LateX, 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1171
abstract: The correspondence between linear codes and representable matroids is well known. But a similar correspondence between quantum codes and matroids is not known. We show that representable symplectic matroids over a finite field $\mathbb{F}_q$ correspond to $\mathbb{F}_q$-linear quantum codes. Although this connection is straightforward, it does not appear to have been made earlier in literature. The correspondence is made through isotropic subspaces. We also show that the popular Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS) codes are essentially the homogenous symplectic matroids while the graph states, which figure so prominently in measurement based quantum computation, correspond to a special class of symplectic matroids, namely Lagrangian matroids. This association is useful in that it enables the study of symplectic matroids in terms of quantum codes and vice versa. Furthermore, it has application in the study of quantum secret sharing schemes.

id: 1104.1222
title: Kinematic Effect of Indistinguishability and Its Application to Open Quantum Systems
authors: P. W. Bryant
comments: 18 pages; version 2 includes a new section on the inefficient scattering of photons from a beam-splitter
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1222
abstract: In quantum mechanics, useful experiments require multiple measurements performed on the identically prepared physical objects composing experimental ensembles. Experimental systems also suffer from environmental interference, and one should not assume that all objects in the experimental ensemble suffer interference identically from a single, uncontrolled environment. Here we present a framework for treating multiple quantum environments and fluctuations affecting only subsets of the experimental ensemble. We also discuss a kinematic effect of indistinguishability not applicable to closed systems. As an application, we treat inefficient photon scattering as an open system. We also create a toy model for the environmental interference suffered by systems undergoing Rabi oscillations, and we find that this kinematic effect may explain the puzzling Excitation Induced Dephasing generally measured in experiments.

id: 1104.1251
title: Macroscopic Simulation of Violation of Bell's Inequality
authors: D.A. Slavnov
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1251
abstract: A macroscopic quantum model of a two-level system (the analogue of a half-spin particle) is described. The model is employed for simulating not only the system under study, but the measurement process as well. Single- and two-particle state models of a quantum system are constructed. The Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox and Bell's inequality are discussed within the framework of the model.

id: 1104.1253
title: Efficient Energy Transport in Photosynthesis: Roles of Coherence and Entanglement
authors: Apoorva D. Patel
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, to appear in the proceedings of the Symposium "75 Years of Quantum Entanglement: Foundations and Information Theoretic Applications", January 2011, Kolkata, India
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Molecular Networks (q-bio.MN)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1253
abstract: Recently it has been discovered---contrary to expectations of physicists as well as biologists---that the energy transport during photosynthesis, from the chlorophyll pigment that captures the photon to the reaction centre where glucose is synthesised from carbon dioxide and water, is highly coherent even at ambient temperature and in the cellular environment. This process and the key molecular ingredients that it depends on are described. By looking at the process from the computer science view-point, we can study what has been optimised and how. A spatial search algorithmic model based on robust features of wave dynamics is presented.

id: 1104.1267
title: Semiquantum key distribution using entangled states
authors: Jian Wang, Sheng Zhang, Quan Zhang, Chao-Jing Tang
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1267
abstract: Recently, Boyer et al. presented a novel semiquantum key distribution protocol [M. Boyer, D. Kenigsberg, and T. Mor, Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 140501 (2007)], by using four quantum states, each of which is randomly prepared by Z basis or X basis. Here we present a semiquantum key distribution protocol by using entangled states in which quantum Alice shares a secret key with classical Bob. We also show the protocol is secure against eavesdropping.

id: 1104.1270
title: Semiquantum secret sharing using two-particle entangled state
authors: Jian Wang, Sheng Zhang, Quan Zhang, Chao-Jing Tang
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1270
abstract: Recently, Boyer et al. presented a novel semiquantum key distribution protocol [M. Boyer, D. Kenigsberg, and T. Mor, Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 140501 (2007)], in which quantum Alice shares a secret key with classical Bob. Li et al. proposed two semiquantum secret sharing protocols [Q. Li, W. H. Chan, and D. Y. Long, Phys. Rev. A 82, 022303 (2010)] by using maximally entangled Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states. In this paper, we present a semiquantum secret sharing protocol by using two-particle entangled states in which quantum Alice shares a secret key with two classical parties, Bob and Charlie. Classical Bob and Charlie are restricted to performing measurement in the computational basis, preparing a particle in the computational basis, or reflecting the particles. None of them can acquire the secret unless they collaborate. We also show the protocol is secure against eavesdropping.

id: 1104.1276
title: Quantum discord in spin-cluster materials
authors: M.A.Yurischev
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 024418 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1276
abstract: The total quantum correlation (discord) in Heisenberg dimers is expressed via the spin-spin correlation function, internal energy, specific heat or magnetic susceptibility. This allows one to indirectly measure the discord through neutron scattering, as well as calorimetric or magnetometric experiments. Using the available experimental data, we found the discord for a number of binuclear Heisenberg substances with both antiferro- and ferromagnetic interactions. For the dimerized antiferromagnet copper nitrate Cu(NO_3)_2*2.5H_2O, the three independent experimental methods named above lead to a discord of approximately 0.2-0.3 bit/dimer at a temperature of 4 K. We also determined the temperature behavior of discord for hydrated and anhydrous copper acetates, as well as for the ferromagnetic binuclear copper acetate complex [Cu_2L(OAc)]*6H_2O, where L is a ligand.

id: 1104.1296
title: Quantum phase analysis with quantum trajectories: A step towards the creation of a Bohmian thinking
authors: A. S. Sanz, S. Miret-Artes
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Am. J. Phys. 80, 525 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1296
abstract: We introduce a pedagogical discussion on Bohmian mechanics and its physical implications in connection with the important role played by the quantum phase in the dynamics of quantum processes. In particular, we focus on phenomena such as quantum coherence, diffraction, and interference, due to their historical relevance in the development of the quantum theory and their key role in a myriad of fundamental and applied problems of current interest.

id: 1104.1298
title: Setting up tunneling conditions by means of Bohmian mechanics
authors: A. S. Sanz, S. Miret-Artes
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 485301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1298
abstract: Usually tunneling is established after imposing some matching conditions on the (time-independent) wave function and its first derivative at the boundaries of a barrier. Here an alternative scheme is proposed to determine tunneling and estimate transmission probabilities in time-dependent problems, which takes advantage of the trajectory picture provided by Bohmian mechanics. From this theory a general functional expression for the transmission probability in terms of the system initial state can be reached. This expression is used here to analyze tunneling properties and estimate transmissions in the case of initial Gaussian wave packets colliding with ramp-like barriers.

id: 1104.1301
title: Frequency Stability of Atomic Frequency Standards beyond Quantum Projection Noise
authors: G.M. Saxena
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1301
abstract: In this paper we describe that the optically pumped frequency standards can have frequency stability beyond the quantum noise limit by detecting the Ramsey resonance through the squeezed light. In this paper we report that instead of considering the interaction of entangled atoms in the microwave region, it will be more practical to create the entanglement of the atoms in the detection region using the squeezed light, which is also used for the detection of the Ramsey resonance. The advantage of squeezing can be derived when the technical noises have been removed.

id: 1104.1313
title: On the operator-sum formalism
authors: Colin Wilmott
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1313
abstract: Of crucial importance to the development of quantum computing and information has been the construction of a quantum operations formalism that admits a description of quantum noise while simultaneously revealing the behavior of an open quantum system. The operator-sum representation is such a formalism and has provided a succinct description for set of bounded operators that act on a finite dimensional quantum system. In this paper we derive a basis for the set of bounded operators that act on a $d$-dimensional Hilbert space and we illustrate how this basis set may be extended and identified with a set of elements upon which the operator-sum representation rests.

id: 1104.1318
title: Unextendible product bases and extremal density matrices with positive partial transpose
authors: Per ?yvind Sollid, Jon Magne Leinaas, Jan Myrheim
comments: 23 pages, 2 figures, 1 table. V2: Fixed fig.1 not showing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1318
abstract: In bipartite quantum systems of dimension 3x3 entangled states that are positive under partial transposition (PPT) can be constructed with the use of unextendible product bases (UPB). As discussed in a previous publication all the lowest rank entangled PPT states of this system seem to be equivalent, under special linear product transformations, to states that are constructed in this way. Here we consider a possible generalization of the UPB constuction to low-rank entangled PPT states in higher dimensions. The idea is to give up the condition of orthogonality of the product vectors, while keeping the relation between the density matrix and the projection on the subspace defined by the UPB. We examine first this generalization for the 3x3 system where numerical studies indicate that one-parameter families of such generalized states can be found. Similar numerical searches in higher dimensional systems show the presence of extremal PPT states of similar form. Based on these results we suggest that the UPB construction of the lowest rank entangled states in the 3x3 system can be generalized to higher dimensions, with the use of non-orthogonal UPBs.

id: 1104.1347
title: Coherent Error Suppression in Multi-Qubit Entangling Gates
authors: D. Hayes, S. M. Clark, S. Debnath, D. Hucul, I. V. Inlek, K. W. Lee, Q. Quraishi, C. Monroe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1347
abstract: We demonstrate a simple pulse shaping technique designed to improve the fidelity of spin-dependent force operations commonly used to implement entangling gates in trapped-ion systems. This extension of the M{\o}lmer-S{\o}rensen gate can theoretically suppress the effects of certain frequency and timing errors to any desired order and is demonstrated through Walsh modulation of a two-qubit entangling gate on trapped atomic ions. The technique is applicable to any system of qubits coupled through collective harmonic oscillator modes.

id: 1104.1353
title: Radial power-law position-dependent mass; Cylindrical coordinates, separability, and spectral signatures
authors: Omar Mustafa
comments: 17 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 355303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1353
abstract: We discuss the separability of the position-dependent mass Hamiltonian in cylindrical coordinates in the framework of a radial power-law position-dependent mass. We consider two particular radial mass settings; a harmonic oscillator type, and a Coulombic type. We subject the radial harmonic oscillator type mass to a radial harmonic oscillator potential and the radial Coulombic mass to a radial Coulombic potential. Azimuthal symmetry is assumed and spectral signatures of various z-dependent interaction potentials are reported.

id: 1104.1361
title: Solution to the Hidden Subgroup Problem for a Class of Noncommutative Groups
authors: D. N. Goncalves, R. Portugal
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Group Theory (math.GR); Representation Theory (math.RT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1361
abstract: The hidden subgroup problem (HSP) plays an important role in quantum computation, because many quantum algorithms that are exponentially faster than classical algorithms can be casted in the HSP structure. In this paper, we present a new polynomial-time quantum algorithm that solves the HSP over the group $\Z_{p^r} \rtimes \Z_{q^s}$, when $p^r/q= \up{poly}(\log p^r)$, where $p$, $q$ are any odd prime numbers and $r, s$ are any positive integers. To find the hidden subgroup, our algorithm uses the abelian quantum Fourier transform and a reduction procedure that simplifies the problem to find cyclic subgroups.

id: 1104.1365
title: Further evidence of antibunching of two coherent beams of fermions
authors: M. Iannuzzi, R. Messi, D. Moricciani, A. Orecchini, F. Sacchetti, P. Facchi, S. Pascazio
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 84 (2011) 015601
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1365
abstract: We describe an experiment confirming the evidence of the antibunching effect on a beam of non interacting thermal neutrons. The comparison between the results recorded with a high energy-resolution source of neutrons and those recorded with a broad energy-resolution source enables us to clarify the role played by the beam coherence in the occurrence of the antibunching effect.

id: 1104.1410
title: Preparing projected entangled pair states on a quantum computer
authors: Martin Schwarz, Kristan Temme, Frank Verstraete
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure. To be published in Physical Review Letters. Removed heuristics, refined run-time bound
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 110502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1410
abstract: We present a quantum algorithm to prepare injective PEPS on a quantum computer, a class of open tensor networks representing quantum states. The run-time of our algorithm scales polynomially with the inverse of the minimum condition number of the PEPS projectors and, essentially, with the inverse of the spectral gap of the PEPS' parent Hamiltonian.

id: 1104.1449
title: Derivation of the Aharanov Bohm phase shift using classical forces
authors: Heidi Fearn, Khai Nguyen
comments: 6 pages including 2 figures, conference APS April meeting Anaheim
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1449
abstract: In 1959 Aharonov and Bohm suggested that an electron passing around a long solenoid would pick up a phase shift dependent on the magnetic field of the solenoid, even though the electrons themselves pass through a region of space which has a zero magnetic field. It has long been held that this result is purely quantum and is derived in many well known quantum mechanics text books using the Schrodinger equation and vector potential. Here the same phase shift is derived from a purely classical force, but relativistic transformations are taken into account. The force is in the direction of motion of the electron (or opposite) leading to a phase advance (or lag) and we obtain precisely the phase shift thought previously to be purely quantum. The only quantum result used here is the de Broglie wavelength of the particle, in order to get two slit like interference and the phase shift. We employ a stack of dipoles as the solenoid and note the same force on the electron in two different frames of reference. We shall consider the solenoid stationary and the electron moving, and then consider the electron rest frame and consider the solenoid moving in the opposite direction.

id: 1104.1488
title: Entanglement and quantum discord dynamics of two atoms under practical feedback control
authors: Yang Li, Bin Luo, Hong Guo
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1488
abstract: We study the dynamics of two identical atoms resonantly coupled to a single-mode cavity under practical feedback control, and focus on the detection inefficiency. The entanglement is induced to vanish in finite time by the inefficiency of detection. Counterintuitively, the asymptotic entanglement and quantum discord can be increased by the inefficiency of detection. The noise of detection triggers control field to create entanglement and discord when no photon are emitted from the atoms. Furthermore, sudden change happens to the dynamics of entanglement.

id: 1104.1500
title: Casimir forces in multilayer magnetodielectrics with both gain and loss
authors: Ehsan Amooghorban, Martijn Wubs, N. Asger Mortensen, Fardin Kheirandish
comments: 16 pages, and 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 013806 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1500
abstract: A path-integral approach to the quantization of the electromagnetic field in a linearly amplifying magnetodielectric medium is presented. Two continua of inverted harmonic oscillators are used to describe the polarizability and magnetizability of the amplifying medium. The causal susceptibilities of the amplifying medium, with negative imaginary parts in finite frequency intervals, are identified and their relation to microscopic coupling functions are determined. By carefully relating the two-point functions of the field theory to the optical Green functions, we calculate the Casimir energy and Casimir forces for a multilayer magnetodielectric medium with both gain and loss. We point out the essential differences with a purely passive layered medium. For a single layer, we find different bounds on the Casimir force for fully amplifying and for lossy media. The force is attractive in both cases, also if the medium exhibits negative refraction. From our Lagrangian we also derive by canonical quantization the postulates of the phenomenological theory of amplifying magnetodielectrics.

id: 1104.1519
title: Low rank positive partial transpose states and their relation to product vectors
authors: Leif Ove Hansen, Andreas Hauge, Jan Myrheim, Per ?yvind Sollid
comments: 29 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1519
abstract: It is known that entangled mixed states that are positive under partial transposition (PPT states) must have rank at least four. In a previous paper we presented a classification of rank four entangled PPT states which we believe to be complete. In the present paper we continue our investigations of the low rank entangled PPT states. We use perturbation theory in order to construct rank five entangled PPT states close to the known rank four states, and in order to compute dimensions and study the geometry of surfaces of low rank PPT states. We exploit the close connection between low rank PPT states and product vectors. In particular, we show how to reconstruct a PPT state from a sufficient number of product vectors in its kernel. It may seem surprising that the number of product vectors needed may be smaller than the dimension of the kernel.

id: 1104.1520
title: Unification of quantum and classical correlations and quantumness measures
authors: Kavan Modi, Vlatko Vedral
comments: Proceedings of '75 years of quantum entanglement' conference in Kolkata, India in January 2011. Submitted to AIP proceedings. 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1384, 69-75 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1520
abstract: We give a pedagogical introduction to quantum discord. We the discuss the problem of separation of total correlations in a given quantum state into entanglement, dissonance, and classical correlations using the concept of relative entropy as a distance measure of correlations. This allows us to put all correlations on an equal footing. Entanglement and dissonance, whose definition is introduced here, jointly belong to what is known as quantum discord. Our methods are completely applicable for multipartite systems of arbitrary dimensions. We finally show, using relative entropy, how different notions of quantum correlations are related to each other. This gives a single theory that incorporates all correlations, quantum, classical, etc.

id: 1104.1525
title: Quantum correlation in three-qubit Heisenberg model with Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction
authors: Li jun Tian, Yi ying Yan, Li guo Qin
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1525
abstract: We investigate the pairwise thermal quantum discord in a three-qubit XXZ model with Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (DM) interaction. We find that the DM interaction can increase quantum discord to a fixed value in the anti- ferromagnetic system, but decreases quantum discord to a minimum first, then increases it to a fixed value in the ferromagnetic system. Abrupt change of quantum discord is observed, which indicates the abrupt change of groundstate. Dynamics of pairwise thermal quantum discord is also considered. We show that thermal discord vanishes in asymptotic limit regardless of its initial values, while thermal entanglement suddenly disappears at finite time.

id: 1104.1527
title: Photoelectron spectra in an autoionization system interacting with a neighboring atom
authors: Jan Perina Jr, Antonin Luks, Wieslaw Leonski, Vlasta Perinova
comments: 10 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 053430 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1527
abstract: Photoelectron ionization spectra of an autoionization system with one discrete level interacting with a neighbor two-level atom are discussed. The formula for long-time ionization spectra is derived. According to this formula, the spectra can be composed of up to eight peaks. Moreover, the Fano-like zeros for weak optical pumping have been identified in these spectra. The conditional ionization spectra depending on the state of the neighbor atom exhibit oscillations at the Rabi frequency. Dynamical spectral zeros occurring once per the Rabi period have been revealed in these spectra.

id: 1104.1529
title: Rotational Doppler shift of the phase-conjugated photon
authors: A.Yu.Okulov
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, submitted to referred journal
journal: Journ.Opt.Soc.Am. v.29, (2012) 714 - 718
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1529
abstract: The rotational Doppler shift of a photon with orbital angular momentum $\pm \ell \hbar$ is shown to be an even multiple of the angular frequency $\Omega$ of the reference frame rotation when photon is reflected from the phase-conjugating mirror. We consider the one-arm phase-conjugating interferometer which contains $N$ Dove prisms or other angular momentum altering elements rotating in opposite directions. When such interferometer is placed in the rotating vehicle the $\delta \omega=4 (N+1/2) \ell \cdot \Omega$ rotational Doppler shift appears and rotation of the helical interference pattern with angular frequency $\delta \omega /{2 \ell}$ occurs. The accumulation of angular Doppler shift via successive passage through the $N$ image-inverting prisms is due to the phase conjugation, for conventional parabolic retroreflector the accumulation is absent. The features of such a vortex phase conjugating interferometry at the single photon level are discussed.

id: 1104.1589
title: A New Two-Parameter Family of Potentials with a Tunable Ground State
authors: Jonathan M Fellows, Robert A Smith
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1589
abstract: In a previous paper we solved a countably infinite family of one-dimensional Schr\"odinger equations by showing that they were supersymmetric partner potentials of the standard quantum harmonic oscillator. In this work we extend these results to find the complete set of real partner potentials of the harmonic oscillator, showing that these depend upon two continuous parameters. Their spectra are identical to that of the harmonic oscillator, except that the ground state energy becomes a tunable parameter. We finally use these potentials to analyse the physical problem of Bose-Einstein condensation in an atomic gas trapped in a dimple potential.

id: 1104.1596
title: Experimentally Witnessing the Quantumness of Correlations
authors: R. Auccaise, J. Maziero, L. C. Celeri, D. O. Soares-Pinto, E. R. deAzevedo, T. J. Bonagamba, R. S. Sarthour, I. S. Oliveira, R. M. Serra
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 070501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1596
abstract: The quantification of quantum correlations (other than entanglement) usually entails laboured numerical optimization procedures also demanding quantum state tomographic methods. Thus it is interesting to have a laboratory friendly witness for the nature of correlations. In this Letter we report a direct experimental implementation of such a witness in a room temperature nuclear magnetic resonance system. In our experiment the nature of correlations is revealed by performing only few local magnetization measurements. We also compare the witness results with those for the symmetric quantum discord and we obtained a fairly good agreement.

id: 1104.1611
title: Particle number conservation in quantum many-body simulations with matrix product operators
authors: Dominik Muth
comments: minor changes, 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2011) P11020
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1611
abstract: Incorporating conservation laws explicitly into matrix product states (MPS) has proven to make numerical simulations of quantum many-body systems much less resources consuming. We will discuss here, to what extent this concept can be used in simulation where the dynamically evolving entities are matrix product operators (MPO). Quite counter-intuitively the expectation of gaining in speed by sacrificing information about all but a single symmetry sector is not in all cases fulfilled. It turns out that in this case often the entanglement imposed by the global constraint of fixed particle number is the limiting factor.

id: 1104.1630
title: The Power of Discrete Quantum Theories
authors: Andrew J. Hanson, Gerardo Ortiz, Amr Sabry, Jeremiah Willcock
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1630
abstract: We explore the implications of restricting the framework of quantum theory and quantum computation to finite fields. The simplest proposed theory is defined over arbitrary finite fields and loses the notion of unitaries. This makes such theories unnaturally strong, permitting the search of unstructured databases faster than asymptotically possible in conventional quantum computing. The next most general approach chooses finite fields with no solution to x^2+1=0, and thus permits an elegant complex-like representation of the extended field by adjoining i=sqrt(-1). Quantum theories over these fields retain the notion of unitaries and --- for particular problem sizes --- allow the same algorithms as conventional quantum theory. These theories, however, still support unnaturally strong computations for certain problem sizes, but the possibility of such phenomena decreases as the size of the field increases.

id: 1104.1648
title: Quantum correlated pulses from a synchronously pumped optical parametric oscillator operating above threshold
authors: Valentin A. Averchenko, Yuri M. Golubev, Claude Fabre, Nicolas Treps
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1648
abstract: We perform the quantum analysis of the light emitted by a synchronously pumped optical parametric oscillator operating in the above threshold regime, i.e. when the peak power of pulsed pumping exceeds the threshold of continuous generation. We show that both regimes (below and above threshold) are realized at different times within each pulse of the signal field. We show that the quantum fluctuations of signal and pump pulses are correlated between nearby pulses at times that are placed in the same position relative to the center of the pulses, whereas fluctuations are totally not correlated at different times within the same pulse. The model also predicts the existence of cross-correlations between pump and signal pulses. It is shown theoretically that there is suppression of quantum noise at the frequencies multiple of the pulse repetition frequency in the spectra of phase quadratures of pump and signal fields measured by a balanced homodyne detection with a pulsed local oscillator.

id: 1104.1652
title: Entanglement requirements for implementing bipartite unitary operations
authors: Dan Stahlke, Robert B. Griffiths
comments: 7 pages Revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1652
abstract: We prove, using a new method based on map-state duality, lower bounds on entanglement resources needed to deterministically implement a bipartite unitary using separable (SEP) operations, which include LOCC (local operations and classical communication) as a particular case. It is known that the Schmidt rank of an entangled pure state resource cannot be less than the Schmidt rank of the unitary. We prove that if these ranks are equal the resource must be uniformly (maximally) entangled: equal nonzero Schmidt coefficients. Higher rank resources can have less entanglement: we have found numerical examples of Schmidt rank 2 unitaries which can be deterministically implemented, by either SEP or LOCC, using an entangled resource of two qutrits with less than one ebit of entanglement.

id: 1104.1660
title: Parametric correlations versus fidelity decay: the symmetry breaking case
authors: H. Kohler, T. Nagao, H.-J. St?ckmann
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev E 84, 061133 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1660
abstract: We derive fidelity decay and parametric energy correlations for random matrix ensembles where time--reversal invariance of the original Hamiltonian is broken by the perturbation. Like in the case of a symmetry conserving perturbation a simple relation between both quantities can be established.

id: 1104.1666
title: Degrees and signatures of broken PT-symmetry in (non-uniform) lattices
authors: Derek D. Scott, Yogesh N. Joglekar
comments: 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A83:050102,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1666
abstract: We investigate the robustness of parity- and time-reversal ($\mP\mT$) symmetric phase in an $N$-site lattice with position-dependent, parity-symmetric hopping function and a pair of imaginary, $\mP\mT$-symmetric impurities. We find that the "fragile" $\mP\mT$-symmetric phase in these lattices is stronger than its counterpart in a lattice with constant hopping. With an open system in mind, we explore the degrees of broken $\mP\mT$-symmetry and their signatures in single-particle wavepacket evolution. We predict that when the $\mP\mT$-symmetric impurities are closest to each other, the time evolution of a wavepacket in an even-$N$ lattice is remarkably different from that in an odd-$N$ lattice. Our results suggest that $\mP\mT$-symmetry breaking in such lattices is accompanied by rich, hitherto unanticipated, phenomena.

id: 1104.1675
title: Unified entropy, entanglement measures and monogamy of multi-party entanglement
authors: Jeong San Kim, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 295303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1675
abstract: We show that restricted shareability of multi-qubit entanglement can be fully characterized by unified-$(q,s)$ entropy. We provide a two-parameter class of bipartite entanglement measures, namely unified-$(q,s)$ entanglement with its analytic formula in two-qubit systems for $q\geq 1$, $0\leq s \leq1$ and $qs\leq3$. Using unified-$(q,s)$ entanglement, we establish a broad class of the monogamy inequalities of multi-qubit entanglement for $q\geq2$, $0\leq s \leq1$ and $qs\leq3$.

id: 1104.1695
title: Reassessment of Leggett inequality
authors: A. Di Lorenzo
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1695
abstract: Leggett formulated an inequality which seems to generalize the Bell theorem to non-local hidden variable theories. Leggett inequality is violated by quantum mechanics, as was confirmed by experiment. However, a careful analysis reveals that the theory applies to a class of local theory. Contrary to what happens in the derivation of Bell inequality, it is not necessary to make the hypothesis of outcome independence to derive the Leggett inequality.

id: 1104.1751
title: Does temperature favor quantum coherence of a dissipative two-level system?
authors: Zhiguo L¨¹, H. Zheng
comments: 21 pages 4 figures
journal: The Journal of Chemical Physics 131, 134503 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1751
abstract: The quantum dynamics of a two-level system coupled to an Ohmic spin- bath is studied by means of the perturbation approach based on a unitary transformation. A scattering function $\xi_k$ is introduced in the transformation to take into account quantum fluctuations. By the master equation within the Born approximation, nonequilibrium dynamics quantities are calculated. The method works well for the coupling constant $0 < \alpha < \alpha_c$ and a finite bare tunneling $\Delta$. It is found that (i) only at zero temperature with small coupling or moderate one does the spin-spin-bath model display identical behavior as the well known spin-boson-bath model; (ii) in comparison with the known results of spin-boson-bath model, the coherence-incoherence transition point, which occurs at $\alpha_c={1/2}[1+\eta\Delta/\omega_c]$, is temperature independent; (iii) the nonequilibrium correlation function $P(t)=<\tau_z(t)>$, evolves without temperature dependence while $<\tau_x(t)>$ depends on temperature. Both $P(t)$ and $<\tau_x(t)>$ not only satisfy their initial conditions, respectively, and also have correct long time limits. Besides, the Shiba's relation and sum rule are exactly satisfied in the coherent regime for this method. Our results show that increasing temperature does not help the system suppress decoherence in the coherent regime, i.e., finite temperature does not favor the coherent dynamics in this regime. Thus, the finite-temperature dynamics induced by two kinds of baths spin-bath and boson-bath exhibit distinctly different physics.

id: 1104.1752
title: Non-Markovian dynamical effects and time evolution of entanglement entropy of a dissipative two-state system
authors: Zhiguo L¨¹, H. Zheng
comments: 11 pages and 3 figures
journal: EPL, 86 (2009) 60009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1752
abstract: We investigate the dynamical information exchange between a two-state system and its environment which is measured by von Neumann entropy. It is found that in the underdamping regime, the entropy dynamics exhibits an extremely non-Markovian oscillation-hump feature, in which oscillations manifest quantum coherence and a hump of envelop demonstrates temporal memory of bath. It indicates that the process of entropy exchange is bidirectional. When the coupling strength increases a certain threshold, the hump along with ripple disappears, which is indicative of the coherent-incoherent dynamical crossover. The long-time limit of entropy evolution reaches the ground state value which agrees with that of numerical renormalization group.

id: 1104.1783
title: Dephasing in an atom
authors: B. Ivlev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1783
abstract: When an atom in vacuum is near a surface of a dielectric the energy of a fluctuating electromagnetic field depends on a distance between them resulting, as known, in the force called van der Waals one. Besides this fluctuation phenomenon there is one associated with formation of a mean electric field which is equivalent to an order parameter. In this case atomic electrons are localized within atomic distances close to the atom and the total ground state energy is larger, compared to the bare atom, due to a polarization of the dielectric and a creation of a mean electric field locally distributed in the dielectric. The phenomenon strongly differs from the usual ferroelectricity and has a pure quantum origin connected with a violation of the interference due to dephasing of fluctuating electron states in the atom.

id: 1104.1797
title: A simple model for the spin-singlet: mathematical equivalence of non-locality, slave will, and conspiracy
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo
comments: 10 pages, 1 fig
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 265302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1797
abstract: A hidden variable model reproducing the quantum mechanical probabilities for a spin singlet is presented. The model violates only the hypothesis of independence of the distribution for the hidden variables from the detectors settings and vice versa (Measurement Independence). It otherwise satisfies the hypotheses of Setting Independence, Outcome Independence -- made in the derivation of Bell inequality -- and that of compliance with Malus's Law -- made in the derivation of Leggett inequality. It is shown that the violation of the Measurement Independence hypothesis may be explained alternatively by assuming a non-local influence of the detectors settings on the hidden variables, or by taking the hidden variable to influence the choice of settings (limitation of free will), or finally by purporting a conspiracy. It is demonstrated that the last two cases admit a realization through existing local classical resources.

id: 1104.1802
title: Entanglement and Superdense Coding with Linear Optics
authors: Mladen Pavicic
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 9, Nos. 7 & 8 (2011) 1737-1744
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1802
abstract: We discuss a scheme for a full superdense coding of entangled photon states employing only linear-optics elements. By using the mixed basis consisting of four states that are unambiguously distinguishable by a standard and polarizing beam splitters we can deterministically transfer four messages by manipulating just one of the two entangled photons. The sender achieves the determinism of the transfer either by giving up the control over 50% of sent messages (although known to her) or by discarding 33% of incoming photons.

id: 1104.1804
title: Circulant states with vanishing quantum discord
authors: Bogna Bylicka, Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski
comments: 8 pages
journal: Open Sys. Information Dyn. 19, 1250006 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1804
abstract: We analyze a class of 2-qudit circulant states. They define generalization of well known 2-qubit X-states. We formula the necessary and sufficient criteria for vanishing quantum discord. We illustrate our analysis by an important subclass of circulant states -- so called Bell diagonal states.

id: 1104.1815
title: On the Quantum Deviations from Einstein Dilation of Unstable Quanton Decay Evolution and Lifetimes
authors: Gordon N. Fleming
comments: 40 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1815
abstract: For over a decade several workers have argued for the existence of quantum deviations from the classical, Einstein dilation of the decay evolution of moving or Lorentz boosted unstable particles. While the general claim is correct, the discussions have been incomplete and, sometimes, misleading. The discussions have been of three kinds. Type 1 examines the time dependence of the survival probability for 3-momentum eigenstates of the unstable quanton (Khalfin). Type 2 does the same for velocity eigenstates, obtaining an outrageous result which then discredits velocity eigenstates (Shirokov / Hegerfeldt). Type 3 examines arbitrary boosts of 3-momentum eigenstates (Stefanovich). Type 1 is incomplete since the momentum eigenstates are not the boosts of one another. Type 2 is misleading since the outrageous result is due to misinterpreting the initial conditions of the velocity eigenstates (as I have previously argued). Type 3 is the most satisfactory, but has failed to recognize and implement the unification of all three types of discussion that can be achieved. In this paper I will provide that unified treatment, beginning with a recapitulation of Type 1 and offering further clarification of Type 2 in the process. The unified treatment fully reinstates velocity eigenstates as essential contributors to unstable quanton states. Besides discussing the time evolution of survival probabilities I also focus on the concept of lifetime defined as the average time of decay. This quantity is helpful in order to display the inequivalent dependence of dilation on momentum and boosts most sharply and the deviation from Einstein dilation most cleanly.

id: 1104.1843
title: Quantum discord and geometry for a class of two-qubit states
authors: Bo Li, Zhi-Xi Wang, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 83, 022321(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1843
abstract: We study the level surfaces of quantum discord for a class of two-qubit states with parallel nonzero Bloch vectors. The dynamic behavior of quantum discord under decoherence is investigated. It is shown that a class of X states has sudden transition between classical and quantum correlations under decoherence. Our results include the ones in M. D. Lang and C. M. Caves [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 150501 (2010)] as a special case and show new pictures and structures of quantum discord.

id: 1104.1846
title: Determining the validity of solutions of the meanfield Bogoliubov-de Gennes equation
authors: Brendan C. Mulkerin, Andrew M. Martin
comments: 5 pages, including 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1846
abstract: We provide a general methodology to directly determine the validity of the meanfield Bogoliubov-de Gennes equation. In particular we apply this methodology to the case of two component interacting ultracold Fermi gases. As an example, we consider the case of population imbalance, between the two components, in the strongly attractive interacting regime, where meanfield results predict Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov (FFLO) states. For these states we find at finite temperatures that the assumptions used to derive the Bogoliubov-de Gennes equation are invalid.

id: 1104.1863
title: Integrated Photonic Sensing
authors: Nicholas Thomas-Peter, Nathan K Langford, Animesh Datta, Lijian Zhang, Brian J Smith, Justin B Spring, Benjamin J Metcalf, Hendrik B Coldenstrodt-Ronge, Michael Hu, Joshua Nunn, Ian A Walmsley
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 055024 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1863
abstract: Loss is a critical roadblock to achieving photonic quantum-enhanced technologies. We explore a modular platform for implementing integrated photonics experiments and consider the effects of loss at different stages of these experiments, including state preparation, manipulation and measurement. We frame our discussion mainly in the context of quantum sensing and focus particularly on the use of loss-tolerant Holland-Burnett states for optical phase estimation. In particular, we discuss spontaneous four-wave mixing in standard birefringent fibre as a source of pure, heralded single photons and present methods of optimising such sources. We also outline a route to programmable circuits which allow the control of photonic interactions even in the presence of fabrication imperfections and describe a ratiometric characterisation method for beam splitters which allows the characterisation of complex circuits without the need for full process tomography. Finally, we present a framework for performing state tomography on heralded states using lossy measurement devices. This is motivated by a calculation of the effects of fabrication imperfections on precision measurement using Holland-Burnett states.

id: 1104.1873
title: Weak Values as Context Dependent Values of Observables and Born's Rule
authors: Akio Hosoya, Minoru Koga
comments: 6 pages
journal: J.Phys.A44:415303,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1873
abstract: We characterize a value of an observable by a `sum rule' for generally non-commuting observables and a `product rule' when restricted to a maximal commuting subalgebra of observables together with the requirement that the value is unity for the projection operator of the prepared state and the values are zero for the projection operators of the states which are orthogonal to the prepared state. The crucial requirement is that the expectation value and the variance of an observable should be independent of the way of measurement, i.e., the choice of the maximal commuting subalgebra of observables. We shall call the value a {\it `contextual value'}. We show that the contextual value of an observable coincides with the weak value advocated by Aharonov and his colleagues by demanding the consistency of quantum mechanics with Kolmogorov's measure theory of probability. This also gives a derivation of Born's rule, which is one of the axioms of conventional quantum mechanics.

id: 1104.1920
title: Security bounds for the eavesdropping collective attacks on general CV-QKD protocols
authors: ahmed becir, Mohamed Ridza Wahiddin
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a crucial sign error in equation 45
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1920
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn.

id: 1104.1938
title: Hidden variable interpretation of spontaneous localization theory
authors: Daniel J. Bedingham
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1938
abstract: The spontaneous localization theory of Ghirardi, Rimini, and Weber (GRW) is a theory in which wavepacket reduction is treated as a genuine physical process. Here it is shown that the mathematical formalism of GRW can be given an interpretation in terms of an evolving distribution of particles on configuration space similar to Bohmian mechanics (BM). The GRW wavefunction acts as a pilot wave for the set of particles. In addition, a continuous stream of noisy information concerning the precise whereabouts of the particles must be specified. Nonlinear filtering techniques are used to determine the dynamics of the distribution of particles conditional on this noisy information and consistency with the GRW wavefunction dynamics is demonstrated. Viewing this development as a hybrid BM-GRW theory, it is argued that, besides helping to clarify the relationship between the GRW theory and BM, its merits make it worth considering in its own right.

id: 1104.1953
title: Writing electronic ferromagnetic states in a high-temperature paramagnetic nuclear spin system
authors: D. O. Soares-Pinto, J. Teles, A. M. Souza, E. R. deAzevedo, R. S. Sarthour, T. J. Bonagamba, M. S. Reis, I. S. Oliveira
comments: 
journal: Int. J. Quant. Info. 9, 1047 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1953
abstract: In this paper we use the Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) to write eletronic states of a ferromagnetic system into a high-temperature paramagnetic nuclear spins. Through the control of phase and duration of radiofrequency pulses we set the NMR density matrix populations, and apply the technique of quantum state tomography to experimentally obtain the matrix elements of the system, from which we calculate the temperature dependence of magnetization for different magnetic fields. The effects of the variation of temperature and magnetic field over the populations can be mapped in the angles of spins rotations, carried out by the RF pulses. The experimental results are compared to the Brillouin functions of ferromagnetic ordered systems in the mean field approximation for two cases: the mean field is given by (i) $B=B_0+\lambda M$ and (ii) $B=B_0+\lambda M + \lambda^\prime M^3$, where $B_0$ is the external magnetic field, and $\lambda, \lambda^\prime$ are mean field parameters. The first case exhibits second order transition, whereas the second case has first order transition with temperature hysteresis. The NMR simulations are in good agreement with the magnetic predictions.

id: 1104.1963
title: Reality or Locality? - Proposed test to decide \textit{how} Nature breaks Bell's inequality
authors: Johan Hansson
comments: 
journal: Physics Research International, vol. 2012, Article ID 352543, 5 pages, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1963
abstract: Bell's theorem, and its experimental tests, has shown that the two premises for Bell's inequality - locality and objective reality - cannot both hold in nature, as Bell's inequality is broken. A simple test is proposed, which for the first time may decide which alternative nature actually prefers on the fundamental, quantum level. If each microscopic event is truly random (e.g. as assumed in orthodox quantum mechanics) objective reality is not valid, whereas if each event is described by an unknown but deterministic mechanism ("hidden variables") locality is not valid. This may be analyzed and decided by the well-known reconstruction method of Ruelle and Takens; in the former case no structure should be discerned, in the latter a reconstructed structure should be visible. This could in principle be tested by comparing individual "hits" in a double slit experiment, but in practice a single fluorescent atom, and its (seemingly random) temporal switching between active/inactive states would possibly be better/more practical, easier to set up, observe and analyze. However, only imagination limits the list of possible experimental setups.

id: 1104.1968
title: Equivalence between classical and quantum dynamics. Neutral kaons and electric circuits
authors: M. Caruso, H. Fanchiotti, C.A. Garcia Canal
comments: 
journal: Annals Phys.326:2717-2736,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1968
abstract: An equivalence between the $\mathrm{Schr\ddot{o}dinger}$ dynamics of a quantum system with a finite number of basis states and a classical dynamics is presented. The equivalence is an isomorphism that connects in univocal way both dynamical systems. We treat the particular case of neutral kaons and found a class of electric networks uniquely related to the kaon system finding the complete map between the matrix elements of the effective Hamiltonian of kaons and those elements of the classical dynamics of the networks. As a consequence, the relevant $\epsilon$ parameter that measures CP violation in the kaon system is completely determined in terms of network parameters.

id: 1104.2010
title: Notes on Inhomogeneous Quantum Walks
authors: Yutaka Shikano, Hosho Katsura
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, as the proceedings of QCMC 2010
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1363, 151 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2010
abstract: We study a class of discrete-time quantum walks with inhomogeneous coins defined in [Y. Shikano and H. Katsura, Phys. Rev. E {\bf 82}, 031122 (2010)]. We establish symmetry properties of the spectrum of the evolution operator, which resembles the Hofstadter butterfly.

id: 1104.2061
title: Brun-Type Formalism for Decoherence in Two Dimensional Quantum Walks
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: Presented as Poster Talk in "The International Meeting on Quantum Foundations and Quantum Information" at Seoul National University
journal: Communications in Theoretical Physics (2012),Volume 57, Number 1, pp 41-55
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2061
abstract: We study decoherence in the quantum walk on the xy-plane. We generalize the method of decoherent coin quantum walk, introduced by [T.A. Brun, et.al, Phys.Rev.A 67 (2003) 032304],which could be applicable to all sorts of decoherence in two dimensional quantum walks, irrespective of the unitary transformation governing the walk. As an application we study decoherence in the presence of broken line noise in which the quantum walk is governed by the two-dimensional Hadamard operator.

id: 1104.2066
title: Reformulating and Reconstructing Quantum Theory
authors: Lucien Hardy
comments: 176 pages. Many pictures. In v3: Postulate 5 assumes less (non-mixing shown to follow from non-flattening), many small changes. In v2: correction to condition on operators, significant change to notation (circuit trace is now implicit for repeated labels), revised discussion of probability, many typos fixed, many minor changes, and an index has been added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2066
abstract: We provide a reformulation of finite dimensional quantum theory in the circuit framework in terms of mathematical axioms, and a reconstruction of quantum theory from operational postulates. The mathematical axioms for quantum theory are the following: [Axiom 1] Operations correspond to operators. [Axiom 2] Every complete set of physical operators corresponds to a complete set of operations. The following operational postulates are shown to be equivalent to these mathematical axioms: [P1] Sharpness. Associated with any given pure state is a unique maximal effect giving probability equal to one. This maximal effect does not give probability equal to one for any other pure state. [P2] Information locality. A maximal measurement on a composite system is effected if we perform maximal measurements on each of the components. [P3] Tomographic locality. The state of a composite system can be determined from the statistics collected by making measurements on the components. [P4] Compound permutability. There exists a compound reversible transformation on any system effecting any given permutation of any given maximal set of distinguishable states for that system. [P5] Sturdiness. Filters are non-flattening. Hence, from these postulates we can reconstruct all the usual features of quantum theory: States are represented by positive operators, transformations by completely positive trace non-increasing maps, and effects by positive operators. The Born rule (i.e. the trace rule) for calculating probabilitieso follows. A more detailed abstract is provided in the paper.

id: 1104.2096
title: Uncertainty Relations for Joint Localizability and Joint Measurability in Finite-Dimensional Systems
authors: Takayuki Miyadera
comments: 10 pages. To appear in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 072105 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2096
abstract: Two quantities quantifying uncertainty relations are examined. In J.Math.Phys. 48, 082103 (2007), Busch and Pearson investigated the limitation on joint localizability and joint measurement of position and momentum by introducing overall width and error bar width. In this paper, we show a simple relationship between these quantities for finite-dimensional systems. Our result indicates that if there is a bound on joint localizability, it is possible to obtain a similar bound on joint measurability. For finite-dimensional systems, uncertainty relations for a pair of general projection-valued measures are obtained as by-products.

id: 1104.2106
title: Controlling Statistical Properties of a Cooper Pair Box Interacting with a Nanomechanical Resonator
authors: C. Valverde, A.T. Avelar anda B. Baseia
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2106
abstract: We investigate the quantum entropy, its power spectrum, and the excitation inversion of a Cooper pair box interacting with a nanomechanical resonator, the first initially prepared in its excited state, the second prepared in a "cat"-state. The method uses the Jaynes-Cummings model with damping, with different decay rates of the Cooper pair box and distinct detuning conditions, including time dependent detunings. Concerning the entropy, it is found that the time dependent detuning turns the entanglement more stable in comparison with previous results in literature. With respect to the Cooper pair box excitation inversion, while the presence of detuning destroys the its collapses and revivals, it is shown that with a convenient time dependent detuning one recovers such events in a nice way.

id: 1104.2127
title: Contradictory uncertainty relations
authors: Alfredo Luis
comments: 4 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 034101 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2127
abstract: We show within a very simple framework that different measures of fluctuations lead to uncertainty relations resulting in contradictory conclusions. More specifically we focus on Tsallis and Renyi entropic uncertainty relations and we get that the minimum uncertainty states of some uncertainty relations are the maximum uncertainty states of closely related uncertainty relations, and vice versa.

id: 1104.2133
title: Classical and Quantum Mechanical (QM) Effects in the One-Soliton solution of the EM Nonlinear Schrodinger (NLS) Equation
authors: Y. Ben-Aryeh
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2133
abstract: Propagation effects are analyzed for electromagnetic (EM) waves which satisfy the one-soliton non-linear Schrodinger (NLS) equation in a dispersive wave guide. The coupling between momentum and frequencies due to dispersion relation is treated by a coupled Hamiltonian-Momentum operator with equal-space commutation relations(CR). Kerr interactions in the soliton are treated. The classical solution of the one-soliton with possible quantum effects are analyzed. The integrability of nonlinear equations is related to compatibility-condition for scattering matrices and such relation is applied to the NLS equation.

id: 1104.2191
title: On the Equivalence of Quantum and Classical Coherence in Electronic Energy Transfer
authors: J.S. Briggs, A. Eisfeld
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 83, 051911 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2191
abstract: To investigate the effect of quantum coherence on electronic energy transfer, which is the subject of current interest in photosynthesis, we solve the problem of transport for the simplest model of an aggregate of monomers interacting through dipole-dipole forces using both quantum and classical dynamics. We conclude that for realistic coupling strengths quantum and classical coherent transport are identical. This is demonstrated by numerical calculations for a linear chain and for the photosynthetic Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) complex

id: 1104.2193
title: The Dynamical Additivity And The Strong Dynamical Additivity Of Quantum Operations
authors: Lin Zhang, Junde Wu
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX, change the order of names
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 325306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2193
abstract: In the paper, the dynamical additivity of bi-stochastic quantum operations is characterized and the strong dynamical additivity is obtained under some restrictions.

id: 1104.2201
title: Quantum like representation of aSpiral Phase Plate
authors: Fabio A.Bovino
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2201
abstract: We introduce a quantum like representation of a Spiral Phase Plate, acting on an electromagnetic field, as a two mode phase operator. The representation is based on the Newton binomial expansion and on properties of rational power of lowering and raising operators of quantum field. The correctness of this representation is proved by obtaining the same results of the Paul's operator in the single mode limit and comparing the results of two particular problems solved both in the classical and quantum picture: the action of a Spiral Phase Plate on a Gaussian Beam (corresponding to the vacuum state of the two-dimensional harmonic oscillator) and on a off-axis Gaussian Beam (corresponding to the displaced vacuum state in quantum picture).

id: 1104.2212
title: Experimental amplification of an entangled photon: what if the detection loophole is ignored?
authors: Enrico Pomarico, Bruno Sanguinetti, Pavel Sekatski, Hugo Zbinden, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 13, 063031 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2212
abstract: The experimental verification of quantum features, such as entanglement, at large scales is extremely challenging because of environment-induced decoherence. Indeed, measurement techniques for demonstrating the quantumness of multiparticle systems in the presence of losses are difficult to define and, if not sufficiently accurate, they provide wrong conclusions. We present a Bell test where one photon of an entangled pair is amplified and then detected by threshold detectors, whose signals undergo postselection. The amplification is performed by a classical machine, which produces a fully separable micro-macro state. However, by adopting such a technique, one can surprisingly observe a violation of the CHSH inequality. This is due to the fact that ignoring the detection loophole, opened by the postselection and the system losses, can lead to misinterpretations, such as claiming the micro-macro entanglement in a setup where evidently there is not. By using threshold detectors and postselection, one can only infer the entanglement of the initial pair of photons, so micro-micro entanglement, as it is further confirmed by the violation of a non-separability criterion for bipartite systems. How to detect photonic micro-macro entanglement in the presence of losses with currently available technology remains an open question.

id: 1104.2271
title: Matrices of fidelities for ensembles of quantum states and the Holevo quantity
authors: Mark Fannes, Fernando de Melo, Wojciech Roga, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 24 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2271
abstract: The entropy of the Gram matrix of a joint purification of an ensemble of K mixed states yields an upper bound for the Holevo information Chi of the ensemble. In this work we combine geometrical and probabilistic aspects of the ensemble in order to obtain useful bounds for Chi. This is done by constructing various correlation matrices involving fidelities between every pair of states from the ensemble. For K=3 quantum states we design a matrix of root fidelities that is positive and the entropy of which is conjectured to upper bound Chi. Slightly weaker bounds are established for arbitrary ensembles. Finally, we investigate correlation matrices involving multi-state fidelities in relation to the Holevo quantity.

id: 1104.2289
title: Local quasi hidden variable modelling and violations of Bell-type inequalities by a multipartite quantum state
authors: Elena R. Loubenets
comments: Improved, edited version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 022201 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2289
abstract: We introduce for a general correlation scenario a new simulation model, a local quasi hidden variable (LqHV) model, where locality and the measure-theoretic structure inherent to an LHV model are preserved but positivity of a simulation measure is dropped. We specify a necessary and sufficient condition for LqHV modelling and, based on this, prove that every quantum correlation scenario admits an LqHV simulation. Via the LqHV approach, we construct analogs of Bell-type inequalities for an N-partite quantum state and find a new analytical upper bound on the maximal violation by an N-partite quantum state of S_{1}x...xS_{N}-setting Bell-type inequalities - either on correlation functions or on joint probabilities and for outcomes of an arbitrary spectral type, discrete or continuous. This general analytical upper bound is expressed in terms of the new state dilation characteristics introduced in the present paper and not only traces quantum states admitting an S_{1}x...xS_{N}-setting LHV description but also leads to the new exact numerical upper estimates on the maximal Bell violations for concrete N-partite quantum states used in quantum information processing and for an arbitrary N-partite quantum state. We, in particular, prove that violation by an N-partite quantum state of an arbitrary Bell-type inequality (either on correlation functions or on joint probabilities) for S settings per site cannot exceed (2S-1)^{N-1} even in case of an infinite dimensional quantum state and infinitely many outcomes.

id: 1104.2297
title: In a tight spot, spin and charge separate
authors: Gregory A. Fiete
comments: 5 pages
journal: Physics 4, 30 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2297
abstract: Photons (bosons) confined in a hollow waveguide containing an atomic gas could show spin-charge separation, which is more commonly associated with one-dimensional fermions.

id: 1104.2307
title: Fermionic entanglement ambiguity in non-inertial frames
authors: M. Montero, E. Martin-Martinez
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. Revtex 4.1, added Journal reference
journal: Phys.Rev.A83:062323,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2307
abstract: We analyse an ambiguity in previous works on entanglement of fermionic fields in non-inertial frames. This ambiguity, related to the anticommutation properties of field operators, leads to non-unique results when computing entanglement measures for the same state. We show that the ambiguity disappears when we introduce detectors, which are in any case necessary as a means to probe the field entanglement.

id: 1104.2337
title: Optimizing entangling quantum gates for physical systems
authors: M. M. M¨¹ller, D. M. Reich, M. Murphy, H. Yuan, J. Vala, K. B. Whaley, T. Calarco, C. P. Koch
comments: extended version; Phys. Rev. A (2011)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042315 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2337
abstract: Optimal control theory is a versatile tool that presents a route to significantly improving figures of merit for quantum information tasks. We combine it here with the geometric theory for local equivalence classes of two-qubit operations to derive an optimization algorithm that determines the best entangling two-qubit gate for a given physical setting. We demonstrate the power of this approach for trapped polar molecules and neutral atoms.

id: 1104.2349
title: Elimination of Perturbative Crossings in Adiabatic Quantum Optimization
authors: Neil G. Dickson
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 2011 New J. Phys. 13 073011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2349
abstract: It was recently shown that, for solving NP-complete problems, adiabatic paths always exist without finite-order perturbative crossings between local and global minima, which could lead to anticrossings with exponentially small energy gaps if present. However, it was not shown whether such a path could be found easily. Here, we give a simple construction that deterministically eliminates all such anticrossings in polynomial time, space, and energy, for any Ising models with polynomial final gap. Thus, in order for adiabatic quantum optimization to require exponential time to solve any NP-complete problem, some quality other than this type of anticrossing must be unavoidable and necessitate exponentially long runtimes.

id: 1104.2363
title: Quantum refrigerator driven by current noise
authors: Yi-Xin Chen, Sheng-Wen Li
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2363
abstract: We proposed a scheme to implement a self-contained quantum refrigerator system composed of three rf-SQUID qubits, or rather, flux-biased phase qubits. The three qubits play the roles of the target, the refrigerator and the heat engine respectively. We provide different effective temperatures for the three qubits, by imposing external current noises of different strengths. The differences of effective temperatures give rise to the flow of free energy and that drives the refrigerator system to cool down the target. We also show that the efficiency of the system approaches the Carnot efficiency.

id: 1104.2453
title: Electromagnetic Field Quantization in Time-Dependent Dielectric Media
authors: Xiao-Min Bei, Zhong-Zhu Liu
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2453
abstract: We present a Gupta-Bleuler quantization scheme for the electromagnetic field in time-dependent dielectric media. Starting from the Maxwell equations, a generalization of the Lorentz gauge condition adapted to time varying dielectrics is derived. Using this gauge, a Gupta-Bleuler approach to quantize all polarizations of the radiation field and the corresponding constraint condition are introduced. This new approach is different from the quantized electromagnetic field in vacuum in the sense that here the contributions of unphysical photons cannot be thoroughly eliminated, which further lead to a surface charge density. Finally, a discussion of potential experimental tests and possible implication is also made.

id: 1104.2456
title: Two-qubit controlled phase gate based on two nonresonant quantum dots trapped in a coupled-cavity array
authors: Jian-Qi Zhang, Ya-Fei Yu, Zhi-Ming Zhang
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2456
abstract: We propose a scheme for realizing quantum controlled phase gates with two nonidentical quantum dots trapped in two coupled photonic crystal cavities and driven by classical laser fields under the condition of non-small hopping limit. During the gate operation, neither the quantum dots are excited, while the system can acquire different phases conditional upon the different states of the quantum dots. Along with single-qubit operations, a two-qubit controlled phase gate can be achieved.

id: 1104.2475
title: Practical Quantum Cryptography: the Q-KeyMaker
authors: Fabio A. Bovino, Maurizio Giardina
comments: Proceedings of the Third International Symposium on Applied Sciences in Biomedical and Communication Technologies (ISABEL 2010), Rome, Italy, November 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2475
abstract: In the next years the data transmission connections will constitute one of the principal tools of communication among cities, enterprises and public administration. With their enhanced connectivity, the systems and nets of information are now exposed to an increased vulnerability and new safety problems are emerging. Insofar Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) has matured to real world applications and can enhance the safety of the communication nets. In this paper we present the QKD network designed and implemented by Selex-SI and we give an overview of the obtained results.

id: 1104.2491
title: Simulation of a Partially Entangled Two Qubit State Correlation with one PR-Box and one M-box
authors: Ali Ahanj, Pramod S. Joag
comments: 9 pages no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2491
abstract: We present a protocol to simulate the quantum correlation implied by non maximally entangled two qubit states, in the worst case scenario. This protocol makes a single use of PR-box and a single use of Millionaire box (M-box). To the best of our knowledge, the resources used in this protocol are weaker than those used in previous protocols and are minimal in the worst case scenario.

id: 1104.2507
title: Simulating open quantum systems: from many-body interactions to stabilizer pumping
authors: M. Mueller, K. Hammerer, Y. L. Zhou, C. F. Roos, P. Zoller
comments: 27 pages, 9 figures, submitted to NJP Focus on Topological Quantum Computation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2507
abstract: In a recent experiment, Barreiro et al. demonstrated the fundamental building blocks of an open-system quantum simulator with trapped ions [Nature 470, 486 (2011)]. Using up to five ions, single- and multi-qubit entangling gate operations were combined with optical pumping in stroboscopic sequences. This enabled the implementation of both coherent many-body dynamics as well as dissipative processes by controlling the coupling of the system to an artificial, suitably tailored environment. This engineering was illustrated by the dissipative preparation of entangled two- and four-qubit states, the simulation of coherent four-body spin interactions and the quantum non-demolition measurement of a multi-qubit stabilizer operator. In the present paper, we present the theoretical framework of this gate-based ("digital") simulation approach for open-system dynamics with trapped ions. In addition, we discuss how within this simulation approach minimal instances of spin models of interest in the context of topological quantum computing and condensed matter physics can be realized in state-of-the-art linear ion-trap quantum computing architectures. We outline concrete simulation schemes for Kitaev's toric code Hamiltonian and a recently suggested color code model. The presented simulation protocols can be adapted to scalable and two-dimensional ion-trap architectures, which are currently under development.

id: 1104.2517
title: Quantum algorithms for classical lattice models
authors: G. De las Cuevas, W. D¨¹r, M. Van den Nest, M. A. Martin-Delgado
comments: 21 pages, 12 figures
journal: New J.Phys.13:093021,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2517
abstract: We give efficient quantum algorithms to estimate the partition function of (i) the six vertex model on a two-dimensional (2D) square lattice, (ii) the Ising model with magnetic fields on a planar graph, (iii) the Potts model on a quasi 2D square lattice, and (iv) the Z_2 lattice gauge theory on a three-dimensional square lattice. Moreover, we prove that these problems are BQP-complete, that is, that estimating these partition functions is as hard as simulating arbitrary quantum computation. The results are proven for a complex parameter regime of the models. The proofs are based on a mapping relating partition functions to quantum circuits introduced in [Van den Nest et al., Phys. Rev. A 80, 052334 (2009)] and extended here.

id: 1104.2552
title: Single-qubit-gate error below 10^-4 in a trapped ion
authors: K. R. Brown, A. C. Wilson, Y. Colombe, C. Ospelkaus, A. M. Meier, E. Knill, D. Leibfried, D. J. Wineland
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, 1 table; changed to match published version
journal: Physical Review A 84, 030303(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2552
abstract: With a 9Be+ trapped-ion hyperfine-states qubit, we demonstrate an error probability per randomized single-qubit gate of 2.0(2) x 10^-5, below the threshold estimate of 10^-4 commonly considered sufficient for fault-tolerant quantum computing. The 9Be+ ion is trapped above a microfabricated surface-electrode ion trap and is manipulated with microwaves applied to a trap electrode. The achievement of low single-qubit-gate errors is an essential step toward the construction of a scalable quantum computer.

id: 1104.2577
title: Orthogonality catastrophe as a consequence of qubit embedding in an ultra-cold Fermi gas
authors: J. Goold, T. Fogarty, N. Lo Gullo, M. Paternostro, Th. Busch
comments: 4 and a bit pages, 3 figures. Updated version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 063632 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2577
abstract: We investigate the behaviour of a single qubit coupled to a low-dimensional, ultra-cold Fermi gas. The scattering between the system and the fermions leads to the loss of any coherence in the initial state of the qubit and we show that the exact dynamics of this process is strongly influenced by the effect of the orthogonality catastrophe within the gas. We highlight the relationship between the Loschmidt echo and the retarded Green's function - typically used to formulate the dynamical theory of the catastrophe - and demonstrate that the effect can be triggered and characterized via local operations on the qubit. We demonstrate how the expected broadening of the spectral function can be observed using Ramsey interferometry on the qubit.

id: 1104.2643
title: On Approaching the Ultimate Limits of Photon-Efficient and Bandwidth-Efficient Optical Communication
authors: Sam Dolinar, Kevin M. Birnbaum, Baris I. Erkmen, Bruce Moision
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures; corrected a typo in equation 36
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2643
abstract: It is well known that ideal free-space optical communication at the quantum limit can have unbounded photon information efficiency (PIE), measured in bits per photon. High PIE comes at a price of low dimensional information efficiency (DIE), measured in bits per spatio-temporal-polarization mode. If only temporal modes are used, then DIE translates directly to bandwidth efficiency. In this paper, the DIE vs. PIE tradeoffs for known modulations and receiver structures are compared to the ultimate quantum limit, and analytic approximations are found in the limit of high PIE. This analysis shows that known structures fall short of the maximum attainable DIE by a factor that increases linearly with PIE for high PIE. The capacity of the Dolinar receiver is derived for binary coherent-state modulations and computed for the case of on-off keying (OOK). The DIE vs. PIE tradeoff for this case is improved only slightly compared to OOK with photon counting. An adaptive rule is derived for an additive local oscillator that maximizes the mutual information between a receiver and a transmitter that selects from a set of coherent states. For binary phase-shift keying (BPSK), this is shown to be equivalent to the operation of the Dolinar receiver. The Dolinar receiver is extended to make adaptive measurements on a coded sequence of coherent state symbols. Information from previous measurements is used to adjust the a priori probabilities of the next symbols. The adaptive Dolinar receiver does not improve the DIE vs. PIE tradeoff compared to independent transmission and Dolinar reception of each symbol.

id: 1104.2653
title: Asymptotic evolution of quantum walks on the $N$-cycle subject to decoherence on both the coin and position degrees of freedom
authors: Chaobin Liu, Nelson Petulante
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012317 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2653
abstract: Consider a discrete-time quantum walk on the $N$-cycle subject to decoherence both on the coin and the position degrees of freedom. By examining the evolution of the density matrix of the system, we derive some new conclusions about the asymptotic behavior of the system. When $N$ is odd, the density matrix of the system tends, in the long run, to the maximally mixed state, independent of the initial state. When $N$ is even, although the behavior of the system is not necessarily asymptotically stationary, in this case too an explicit formulation is obtained of the asymptotic dynamics of the system. Moreover, this approach enables us to specify the limiting behavior of the mutual information, viewed as a measure of quantum entanglement between subsystems (coin and walker). In particular, our results provide efficient theoretical confirmation of the findings of previous authors, who arrived at their results through extensive numerical simulations. Our results can be attributed to an important theorem which, for a generalized random unitary operation, explicitly identifies the structure of all of its eigenspaces corresponding to eigenvalues of unit modulus.

id: 1104.2704
title: Fidelity of the near resonant quantum kicked rotor
authors: Benedikt Probst, Remy Dubertrand, Sandro Wimberger
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures; Revised version
journal: B Probst et al 2011 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 335101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2704
abstract: We present a perturbative result for the temporal evolution of the fidelity of the quantum kicked rotor, i.e. the overlap of the same initial state evolved with two slightly different kicking strengths, for kicking periods close to a principal quantum resonance. Based on a pendulum approximation we describe the fidelity for rotational orbits in the pseudo-classical phase space of a corresponding classical map. Our results are compared to numerical simulations indicating the range of applicability of our analytical approximation.

id: 1104.2739
title: Prospects for fast Rydberg gates on an atom chip
authors: Matthias M. M¨¹ller, Harald R. Haakh, Tommaso Calarco, Christiane P. Koch, Carsten Henkel
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures, submitted to special issue "Quantum Information with Neutral Particles" of "Quantum Information Processing"
journal: Quant. Inf. Proc. 10 (2011) 771-92
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2739
abstract: Atom chips are a promising candidate for a scalable architecture for quantum information processing provided a universal set of gates can be implemented with high fidelity. The difficult part in achieving universality is the entangling two-qubit gate. We consider a Rydberg phase gate for two atoms trapped on a chip and employ optimal control theory to find the shortest gate that still yields a reasonable gate error. Our parameters correspond to a situation where the Rydberg blockade regime is not yet reached. We discuss the role of spontaneous emission and the effect of noise from the chip surface on the atoms in the Rydberg state.

id: 1104.2759
title: An Energy Puzzle in Quantum Collapse
authors: Thiago Guerreiro, Fernando Monteiro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2759
abstract: Since its discovery, quantum theory has proven to be one of the most precise theories ever made. Measurement processes, however, do not seem to be governed by the unitary law of quantum mechanics, and one can ask if the theory is complete. To answer this question, new experiments must be done regarding the nature of quantum measurements. Here, we propose a direct consequence of projective measurements, leading to three possibilities. An arbitrarily high amount of energy can be either extracted or absorbed, or else energy conservation cannot be accounted by usual arguments based upon standard quantum mechanics.

id: 1104.2760
title: Numerical shadow and geometry of quantum states
authors: Charles F. Dunkl, Piotr Gawron, John A. Holbrook, Jaros?aw A. Miszczak, Zbigniew Pucha?a, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 335301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2760
abstract: The totality of normalised density matrices of order N forms a convex set Q_N in R^(N^2-1). Working with the flat geometry induced by the Hilbert-Schmidt distance we consider images of orthogonal projections of Q_N onto a two-plane and show that they are similar to the numerical ranges of matrices of order N. For a matrix A of a order N one defines its numerical shadow as a probability distribution supported on its numerical range W(A), induced by the unitarily invariant Fubini-Study measure on the complex projective manifold CP^(N-1). We define generalized, mixed-states shadows of A and demonstrate their usefulness to analyse the structure of the set of quantum states and unitary dynamics therein.

id: 1104.2822
title: A real ensemble interpretation of quantum mechanics
authors: Lee Smolin
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2822
abstract: A new ensemble interpretation of quantum mechanics is proposed according to which the ensemble associated to a quantum state really exists: it is the ensemble of all the systems in the same quantum state in the universe. Individual systems within the ensemble have microscopic states, described by beables. The probabilities of quantum theory turn out to be just ordinary relative frequencies probabilities in these ensembles. Laws for the evolution of the beables of individual systems are given such that their ensemble relative frequencies evolve in a way that reproduces the predictions of quantum mechanics. These laws are highly non-local and involve a new kind of interaction between the members of an ensemble that define a quantum state. These include a stochastic process by which individual systems copy the beables of other systems in the ensembles of which they are a member. The probabilities for these copy processes do not depend on where the systems are in space, but do depend on the distribution of beables in the ensemble. Macroscopic systems then are distinguished by being large and complex enough that they have no copies in the universe. They then cannot evolve by the copy law, and hence do not evolve stochastically according to quantum dynamics. This implies novel departures from quantum mechanics for systems in quantum states that can be expected to have few copies in the universe. At the same time, we are able to argue that the centre of masses of large macroscopic systems do satisfy Newton's laws.

id: 1104.2841
title: Quantum game interpretation of Dirac spinor field
authors: Haizhao Zhi
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to its premature
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2841
abstract: This paper introduced the classical prisoner dilemma with the character and structure of quantum prisoner dilemma's strategy space. Associate with the Dirac spinor field, apply the basic quantum game strategy to the translation of the dynamics of Dirac equation. Decompose the real space and time to lattice we found that the basic interaction of spinor could be translated into quantum game theory. At the same time, we gained the new dynamics of quantized spacial evolutionary game.

id: 1104.2866
title: Stable single-photon interference in a 1 km fiber-optical Mach-Zehnder interferometer with continuous phase adjustment
authors: G. B. Xavier, J. P. von der Weid
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Opt. Lett. 36, 1764 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2866
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate stable and user-adjustable single-photon interference in a 1 km long fiber- optical Mach-Zehnder interferometer, using an active phase control system with the feedback provided by a classical laser. We are able to continuously tune the single-photon phase difference between the interferometer arms using a phase modulator, which is synchronized with the gate window of the single-photon detectors. The phase control system employs a piezoelectric fiber stretcher to stabilize the phase drift in the interferometer. A single-photon net visibility of 0.97 is obtained, yielding future possibilities for experimental realizations of quantum repeaters in optical fibers, and violation of Bell's inequalities using genuine energy-time entanglement

id: 1104.2868
title: A dynamical point of view of Quantum Information: entropy and pressure
authors: A. Baraviera, C. F. Lardizabal, A. O. Lopes, M. Terra Cunha
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2868
abstract: Quantum Information is a new area of research which has been growing rapidly since last decade. This topic is very close to potential applications to the so called Quantum Computer. In our point of view it makes sense to develop a more "dynamical point of view" of this theory. We want to consider the concepts of entropy and pressure for "stationary systems" acting on density matrices which generalize the usual ones in Ergodic Theory (in the sense of the Thermodynamic Formalism of R. Bowen, Y. Sinai and D. Ruelle). We consider the operator $\mathcal{L}$ acting on density matrices $\rho\in \mathcal{M}_N$ over a finite $N$-dimensional complex Hilbert space $\mathcal{L}(\rho):=\sum_{i=1}^k tr(W_i\rho W_i^*)V_i\rho V_i^*,$ where $W_i$ and $V_i$, $i=1,2,...k$ are operators in this Hilbert space. $\mathcal{L}$ is not a linear operator. In some sense this operator is a version of an Iterated Function System (IFS). Namely, the $V_i\,(.)\,V_i^*=:F_i(.)$, $i=1,2,...,k$, play the role of the inverse branches (acting on the configuration space of density matrices $\rho$) and the $W_i$ play the role of the weights one can consider on the IFS. We suppose that for all $\rho$ we have that $\sum_{i=1}^k tr(W_i\rho W_i^*)=1$. A family $W:=\{W_i\}_{i=1,..., k}$ determines a Quantum Iterated Function System (QIFS) $\mathcal{F}_{W}$, $\mathcal{F}_W=\{\mathcal{M}_N,F_i,W_i\}_{i=1,..., k}.$

id: 1104.2870
title: A dynamical point of view of Quantum Information: Wigner measures
authors: A. Baraviera, C. F. Lardizabal, A. O. Lopes, M. Terra Cunha
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2870
abstract: We analyze a known version of the discrete Wigner function and some connections with Quantum Iterated Funcion Systems. This paper is a follow up of "A dynamical point of view of Quantum Information: entropy and pressure" by the same authors.

id: 1104.2888
title: Quantum process reconstruction based on mutually unbiased basis
authors: A. Fern¨¢ndez-P¨¦rez, A. B. Klimov, C. Saavedra
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052332 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2888
abstract: We study a quantum process reconstruction based on the use of mutually unbiased projectors (MUB-projectors) as input states for a D-dimensional quantum system, with D being a power of a prime number. This approach connects the results of quantum-state tomography using mutually unbiased bases (MUB) with the coefficients of a quantum process, expanded in terms of MUB-projectors. We also study the performance of the reconstruction scheme against random errors when measuring probabilities at the MUB-projectors.

id: 1104.2943
title: Atomistic study of the long-lived quantum coherences in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson complex
authors: Sangwoo Shim, Patrick Rebentrost, St¨¦phanie Valleau, Alan Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 24 pages, 6 figures
journal: Biophysical Journal, Volume 102, Issue 3, 649-660 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2943
abstract: A remarkable amount of theoretical research has been carried out to elucidate the physical origins of the recently observed long-lived quantum coherence in the electronic energy transfer process in biological photosynthetic systems. Although successful in many respects, several widely used descriptions only include an effective treatment of the protein-chromophore interactions. In this work, by combining an all-atom molecular dynamics simulation, time-dependent density functional theory, and open quantum system approaches, we successfully simulate the dynamics of the electronic energy transfer of the Fenna-Matthews-Olson pigment-protein complex. The resulting characteristic beating of populations and quantum coherences is in good agreement with the experimental results and the hierarchy equation of motion approach. The experimental absorption, linear and circular dichroism spectra and dephasing rates are recovered at two different temperatures. In addition, we provide an extension of our method to include zero-point fluctuations of the vibrational environment. This work thus presents one of the first steps to explain the role of excitonic quantum coherence in photosynthetic light-harvesting complexes based on their atomistic and molecular description.

id: 1104.2989
title: Quantum interference initiated super- and subradiant emission from entangled atoms
authors: R. Wiegner, J. von Zanthier, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures, 2 Tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2989
abstract: We calculate the radiative characteristics of emission from a system of entangled atoms which can have a relative distance larger than the emission wavelength. We develop a quantum multipath interference approach which explains both super- and subradiance though the entangled states have zero dipole moment. We derive a formula for the radiated intensity in terms of different interfering pathways. We further show how the interferences lead to directional emission from atoms prepared in symmetric W-states. As a byproduct of our work we show how Dicke's classic result can be understood in terms of interfering pathways. In contrast to the previous works on ensembles of atoms, we focus on finite numbers of atoms prepared in well characterized states.

id: 1104.2992
title: Von Neumann Entropy-Preserving Quantum Operations
authors: Lin Zhang, Junde Wu
comments: 7 pages, LaTeX, to appear Phys. Lett. A
journal: Physics Letters A 375(47) : 4163-4165(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2992
abstract: For a given quantum state $\rho$ and two quantum operations $\Phi$ and $\Psi$, the information encoded in the quantum state $\rho$ is quantified by its von Neumann entropy $\S(\rho)$. By the famous Choi-Jamio{\l}kowski isomorphism, the quantum operation $\Phi$ can be transformed into a bipartite state, the von Neumann entropy $\S^{\mathrm{map}}(\Phi)$ of the bipartite state describes the decoherence induced by $\Phi$. In this Letter, we characterize not only the pairs $(\Phi, \rho)$ which satisfy $\S(\Phi(\rho))=\S(\rho)$, but also the pairs $(\Phi, \Psi)$ which satisfy $\S^{\mathrm{map}}(\Phi\circ\Psi) = \S^{\mathrm{map}}(\Psi)$.

id: 1104.3039
title: Realizing Physical Approximation of the Partial Transpose
authors: Hyang-Tag Lim, Yong-Su Kim, Young-Sik Ra, Joonwoo Bae, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 5 pages with appendix, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 160401(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3039
abstract: The partial transpose by which a subsystem's quantum state is solely transposed is of unique importance in quantum information processing from both fundamental and practical point of view. In this work, we present a practical scheme to realize a physical approximation to the partial transpose using local measurements on individual quantum systems and classical communication. We then report its linear optical realization and show that the scheme works with no dependence on local basis of given quantum states. A proof-of-principle demonstration of entanglement detection using the physical approximation of the partial transpose is also reported.

id: 1104.3067
title: Microtrap arrays on magnetic film atom chips for quantum information science
authors: V.Y.F. Leung, A. Tauschinsky, N.J. van Druten, R.J.C. Spreeuw
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, submitted to special issue "Quantum Information with Neutral Particles" of "Quantum Information Processing"
journal: Quantum Inf. Process. 10, 955-974 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3067
abstract: We present two different strategies for developing a quantum information science platform, based on our experimental results with magnetic microtrap arrays on a magnetic-film atom chip. The first strategy aims for mesoscopic ensemble qubits in a lattice of ~5 {\mu}m period, so that qubits can be individually addressed and interactions can be mediated by Rydberg excitations. The second strategy aims for direct quantum simulators using sub-optical lattices of ~100 nm period. These would allow the realization of condensed matter inspired quantum many-body systems, such as Hubbard models in new parameter regimes. The two approaches raise quite different issues, some of which are identified and discussed.

id: 1104.3081
title: Digital Quantum Simulation with Rydberg Atoms
authors: H. Weimer, M. M¨¹ller, H. P. B¨¹chler, I. Lesanovsky
comments: submitted to special issue "Quantum Information with Neutral Particles" of "Quantum Information Processing"
journal: Quantum Information Processing 10, 885 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3081
abstract: We discuss in detail the implementation of an open-system quantum simulator with Rydberg states of neutral atoms held in an optical lattice. Our scheme allows one to realize both coherent as well as dissipative dynamics of complex spin models involving many-body interactions and constraints. The central building block of the simulation scheme is constituted by a mesoscopic Rydberg gate that permits the entanglement of several atoms in an efficient, robust and quick protocol. In addition, optical pumping on ancillary atoms provides the dissipative ingredient for engineering the coupling between the system and a tailored environment. As an illustration, we discuss how the simulator enables the simulation of coherent evolution of quantum spin models such as the two-dimensional Heisenberg model and Kitaev's toric code, which involves four-body spin interactions. We moreover show that in principle also the simulation of lattice fermions can be achieved. As an example for controlled dissipative dynamics, we discuss ground state cooling of frustration-free spin Hamiltonians.

id: 1104.3105
title: Entanglement Sudden Death and Sudden Birth in Semiconductor Microcavities
authors: S. Abdel-Khalek, Sh. Barzanjeh, H. Eleuch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3105
abstract: We explore the dynamics of the entanglement in a semiconductor cavity QED containing a quantum well. We show the presence of sudden birth and sudden death for some particular sets of the system parameters.

id: 1104.3107
title: Measurement induced chaos with entangled states
authors: T. Kiss, S. Vym¨§tal, L. D. T¨®th, A. G¨¢bris, I. Jex, G. Alber
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 100501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3107
abstract: The dynamics of an ensemble of identically prepared two-qubit systems is investigated which is subjected to the iteratively applied measurements and conditional selection of a typical entanglement purification protocol. It is shown that the resulting measurement-induced non-linear dynamics of the two-qubit state exhibits strong sensitivity to initial conditions and also true chaos. For a special class of initially prepared two-qubit states two types of islands characterize the asymptotic limit. They correspond to a separable and a maximally entangled two-qubit state, respectively, and their boundaries form fractal-like structures. In the presence of incoherent noise an additional stable asymptotic cycle appears.

id: 1104.3147
title: Spin squeezing inequalities for arbitrary spin
authors: Giuseppe Vitagliano, Philipp Hyllus, Inigo L. Egusquiza, Geza Toth
comments: 4 pages + 2 page supplement, no figures, revtex4; v2: more detailed explanation, some proofs were moved to the Appendix, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 240502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3147
abstract: We determine the complete set of generalized spin squeezing inequalities, given in terms of the collective angular momentum components, for particles with an arbitrary spin. They can be used for the experimental detection of entanglement in an ensemble in which the particles cannot be individually addressed. We also present a large set of criteria involving collective observables different from the angular momentum coordinates. We show that some of the inequalities can be used to detect k-particle entanglement and bound entanglement.

id: 1104.3159
title: Geometrical entanglement of highly symmetric multipartite states and the Schmidt decomposition
authors: D. Buhr, M.E. Carrington, T. Fugleberg, R. Kobes, G. Kunstatter, D. McGillis, C. Pugh, D. Ryckman
comments: 16 pages, references added and discussion expanded
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3159
abstract: In a previous paper we examined a geometric measure of entanglement based on the minimum distance between the entangled target state of interest and the space of unnormalized product states. Here we present a detailed study of this entanglement measure for target states with a large degree of symmetry. We obtain analytic solutions for the extrema of the distance function and solve for the Hessian to show that, up to the action of trivial symmetries, the solutions correspond to local minima of the distance function. In addition, we show that the conditions that determine the extremal solutions for general target states can be obtained directly by parametrizing the product states via their Schmidt decomposition.

id: 1104.3197
title: Coherent States and Modified de Broglie-Bohm Complex Quantum Trajectories
authors: Moncy V. John, Kiran Mathew
comments: More examples
journal: Foundations of Physics (2013) 43: 859-871
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3197
abstract: This paper examines the nature of classical correspondence in the case of coherent states at the level of quantum trajectories. We first show that for a harmonic oscillator, the coherent state complex quantum trajectories and the complex classical trajectories are identical to each other. This congruence in the complex plane, not restricted to high quantum numbers alone, illustrates that the harmonic oscillator in a coherent state executes classical motion. The quantum trajectories are those conceived in a modified de Broglie-Bohm scheme and we note that identical classical and quantum trajectories for coherent states are obtained only in the present approach. The study is extended to Gazeau-Klauder and SUSY quantum mechanics-based coherent states of a particle in an infinite potential well and that in a symmetric Poschl-Teller (PT) potential by solving for the trajectories numerically. For the coherent state of the infinite potential well, almost identical classical and quantum trajectories are obtained whereas for the PT potential, though classical trajectories are not regained, a periodic motion results as t --> \infty.

id: 1104.3232
title: Exact infinite-time statistics of the Loschmidt echo for a quantum quench
authors: Lorenzo Campos Venuti, N. Tobias Jacobson, Siddhartha Santra, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 010403 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3232
abstract: The equilibration dynamics of a closed quantum system is encoded in the long-time distribution function of generic observables. In this paper we consider the Loschmidt echo generalized to finite temperature, and show that we can obtain an exact expression for its long-time distribution for a closed system described by a quantum XY chain following a sudden quench. In the thermodynamic limit the logarithm of the Loschmidt echo becomes normally distributed, whereas for small quenches in the opposite, quasi-critical regime, the distribution function acquires a universal double-peaked form indicating poor equilibration. These findings, obtained by a central limit theorem-type result, extend to completely general models in the small-quench regime.

id: 1104.3254
title: A quantum motor: directed wavepacket motion in an optical lattice
authors: Quentin Thommen, Jean Claude Garreau, V¨¦ronique Zehnl¨¦
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 84, 4 (2011) 043403
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3254
abstract: We propose a method for arbitrary manipulations of a quantum wavepacket in an optical lattice by a suitable modulation of the lattice amplitude. A theoretical model allows to determine the modulation corresponding to a given wavepacket motion, so that arbitrary atomic trajectories can be generated. The method is immediately usable in state of the art experiments.

id: 1104.3266
title: HIgh-Noon States with High Flux of Photons Using coherent Beam Stimulated Non-Collinear Parametric Down Conversion
authors: Aziz Kolkiran
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3266
abstract: We show how to reach high fidelity NOON states with a high count rate inside optical interferometers. Recently it has been shown that by mixing squeezed and coherent light at a beamsplitter it is possible to generate NOON states of arbitrary N with a fidelity as high as 94%. (Afek I. et al. Science 328, 879 (2010)). The scheme is based on higher order interference between "quantum" down-converted light and "classical" coherent light. However, this requires optimizing the amplitude ratio of classical to quantum light thereby limiting the overall count rate for the interferometric super-resolution signal. We propose using coherent-beam-stimulated non-collinear down converted light as input to the interferometer. Our scheme is based on stimulation of non-collinear parametric down conversion by two-mode coherent light. We have somehow a better flexibility of choosing the amplitude ratio in generating NOON states. This enables super-resolution intensity exceeding the previous scheme by many orders of magnitude. Therefore we hope to improve the magnitude of N-fold super-resolution in quantum interferometry for arbitrary N by using bright light sources. We give some results for N=4 and 5.

id: 1104.3280
title: Entanglement bound for multipartite pure states based on local measurements
authors: Li-zhen Jiang, Xiao-yu Chen, Tian-yu Ye
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, accepted by Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 84, 042308 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3280
abstract: An entanglement bound based on local measurements is introduced for multipartite pure states. It is the upper bound of the geometric measure and the relative entropy of entanglement. It is the lower bound of minimal measurement entropy. For pure bipartite states, the bound is equal to the entanglement entropy. The bound is applied to pure tripartite qubit states and the exact tripartite relative entropy of entanglement is obtained for a wide class of states.

id: 1104.3295
title: Photon Induced Entanglement in Atom-Cavity Systems
authors: Li-Li Lan, Xiang-Bin Wang, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 12 pages
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inform. 8 (2010) 1239-1250
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3295
abstract: We study the evolution of quantum entanglement in double cavity systems. The entanglement of cavity atoms induced by entangled pair of photons is investigated. Both entanglement sudden death and entanglement sudden birth phenomena are shown to be existed and analyzed in detail. We also propose a strategy to enhance the entanglement between the atom in one cavity and the photon in another cavity by using quantum Zeno effect.

id: 1104.3296
title: Quantum versus classical phase-locking transition in a driven-chirped oscillator
authors: I. Barth, L. Friedland, O. Gat, A.G. Shagalov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3296
abstract: Classical and quantum-mechanical phase locking transition in a nonlinear oscillator driven by a chirped frequency perturbation is discussed. Different limits are analyzed in terms of the dimensionless parameters $% P_{1}=\epsilon /\sqrt{2m\hbar \omega_{0}\alpha}$ and $P_{2}=(3\hbar \beta)/(4m\sqrt{\alpha})$ ($\epsilon,$ $\alpha,$ $\beta$ and $\omega_{0}$ being the driving amplitude, the frequency chirp rate, the nonlinearity parameter and the linear frequency of the oscillator). It is shown that for $P_{2}\ll P_{1}+1$, the passage through the linear resonance for $P_{1}$ above a threshold yields classical autoresonance (AR) in the system, even when starting in a quantum ground state. In contrast, for $% P_{2}\gg P_{1}+1$, the transition involves quantum-mechanical energy ladder climbing (LC). The threshold for the phase-locking transition and its width in $P_{1}$ in both AR and LC limits are calculated. The theoretical results are tested by solving the Schrodinger equation in the energy basis and illustrated via the Wigner function in phase space.

id: 1104.3304
title: Non-Markovian Open Quantum Systems: Lorentzian from Markovian
authors: Lajos Di¨®si
comments: Originally in Hungarian, in "New Results in Quantum Optics and Electronics" eds. Zsuzsanna Heiner and K. Osvay (University of Szeged, Szeged, 2006) p147. This version strikes through the mistaken references to the Ohmic spectrum
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3304
abstract: As a general mission, reduced dynamics and master equations are advocated as alternative method and philosophy instead of Green functions, Kubo theory and the like. A smart reduction of the Lorentzian open system to the Markovian one (Imamoglu, 1994) is presented in simple terms.

id: 1104.3329
title: Steady-state quantum correlations of two driven qubits collectively interacting with a vacuum reservoir
authors: L. O. Casta?os
comments: Submitted to: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3329
abstract: We consider two two-level atoms fixed at different positions, driven by a monochromatic laser field, and interacting collectively with the vacuum electromagnetic field. A Born-Markov-secular master equation is used to describe the dynamics of the two atoms and their steady-state is obtained analytically for two configurations, one in which the atoms are in equivalent positions and another in which they are not. The steady-state populations of the energy levels of the free atoms, entanglement, quantum discord and degree of mixed-ness are calculated analytically as a function of the laser field intensity and the distance between the two atoms. It is found that driving both atoms with the laser field is inefficient for the generation of steady-state correlations when they are in equivalent positions. On the contrary, inequivalent positions lead to the possibility of considerable steady-state entanglement and left/right quantum discord. It is shown that an X-state can be obtained for high laser field intensities for both configurations. This allows the comparison of two measures of quantum discord. The behaviour and relationships between correlations are studied and several limiting cases are investigated.

id: 1104.3359
title: Bell's Inequalities, Superquantum Correlations, and String Theory
authors: Lay Nam Chang, Zachary Lewis, Djordje Minic, Tatsu Takeuchi, Chia-Hsiung Tze
comments: 7 pages, revtex4
journal: Advances in High Energy Physics 2011, 593423 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3359
abstract: We offer an interpretation of super-quantum correlations in terms of a "doubly" quantum theory. We argue that string theory, viewed as a quantum theory with two deformation parameters, the string tension \alpha' and the string coupling constant g_s, is such a super-quantum theory, one that transgresses the usual quantum violations of Bell's inequalities. We also discuss the \hbar\to\infty limit of quantum mechanics in this context. As a super-quantum theory, string theory should display distinct experimentally observable super-correlations of entangled stringy states.

id: 1104.3369
title: Hole burning in a nanomechanical resonator coupled to a Cooper pair box
authors: C. Valverde, A.T. Avelar, B. Baseia
comments: 7 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3369
abstract: We propose a scheme to create holes in the statistical distribution of excitations of a nanomechanical resonator. It employs a controllable coupling between this system and a Cooper pair box. The success probability and the fidelity are calculated and compared with those obtained in the atom-field system via distinct schemes. As an application we show how to use the hole-burning scheme to prepare (low excited) Fock states.

id: 1104.3377
title: Conjugate Spinor Solution of the Dirac Equation for the Hydrogen Atom
authors: Robert J. Ducharme
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3377
abstract: It is shown the central field Dirac equation can be simplified through the use of real conjugate spinors to substitute for the upper and lower components of the bi-spinor eigensolutions. This substitution reduces the Dirac equation for the hydrogen atom to the problem of solving a single second order differential equation similar to a Klein-Gordon equation but containing additional terms to take account of the spin on the electron. The bi-spinor wave functions are readily constructed once the solution is known in terms of the conjugate spinors.

id: 1104.3381
title: Formulation of Complex Action Theory
authors: Keiichi Nagao, Holger Bech Nielsen
comments: 29 pages, 2 figures, references added, presentation improved, typos corrected. (v5)The definition of $\hat{q}_{new}$ and $\hat{p}_{new}$ are corrected by replacing them with their hermitian conjugates. The errors and typos mentioned in the errata of PTP are corrected. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1009.0441
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 126 (2011), 1021-1049
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3381
abstract: We formulate a complex action theory which includes operators of coordinate and momentum $\hat{q}$ and $\hat{p}$ being replaced with non-hermitian operators $\hat{q}_{new}$ and $\hat{p}_{new}$, and their eigenstates ${}_m <_{new} q |$ and ${}_m <_{new} p |$ with complex eigenvalues $q$ and $p$. Introducing a philosophy of keeping the analyticity in path integration variables, we define a modified set of complex conjugate, real and imaginary parts, hermitian conjugates and bras, and explicitly construct $\hat{q}_{new}$, $\hat{p}_{new}$, ${}_m <_{new} q |$ and ${}_m <_{new} p |$ by formally squeezing coherent states. We also pose a theorem on the relation between functions on the phase space and the corresponding operators. Only in our formalism can we describe a complex action theory or a real action theory with complex saddle points in the tunneling effect etc. in terms of bras and kets in the functional integral. Furthermore, in a system with a non-hermitian diagonalizable bounded Hamiltonian, we show that the mechanism to obtain a hermitian Hamiltonian after a long time development proposed in our letter works also in the complex coordinate formalism. If the hermitian Hamiltonian is given in a local form, a conserved probability current density can be constructed with two kinds of wave functions.

id: 1104.3422
title: Correlations and thermalization in driven cavity arrays
authors: Li Dai, Dimitris G. Angelakis, Leong Chuan Kwek, S. Mancini
comments: Proceedings of International Symposium on 75 Years of Quantum Entanglement
journal: AIP Conference Proceedings 1384, 168-176 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3422
abstract: We show that long-distance steady-state quantum correlations (entanglement) between pairs of cavity-atom systems in an array of lossy and driven coupled resonators can be established and controlled. The maximal of entanglement for any pair is achieved when their corresponding direct coupling is much smaller than their individual couplings to the third party. This effect is reminiscent of the coherent trapping of the $\Lambda-$type three-level atoms using two classical coherent fields. Different geometries for coherent control are considered. For finite temperature, the steady state of the coupled lossy atom-cavity arrays with driving fields is in general not a thermal state. Using an appropriate distance measure for quantum states, we find that the change rate of the degree of thermalization with respect to the driving strength is consistent with the entanglement of the system.

id: 1104.3427
title: Interacting double dark resonances in a hot atomic vapor of helium
authors: S. Kumar, T. Laupr¨ºtre, R. Ghosh, F. Bretenaker, F. Goldfarb
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3427
abstract: We experimentally and theoretically study two different tripod configurations using metastable helium ($^4$He*), with the probe field polarization perpendicular and parallel to the quantization axis, defined by an applied weak magnetic field. In the first case, the two dark resonances interact incoherently and merge together into a single EIT peak with increasing coupling power. In the second case, we observe destructive interference between the two dark resonances inducing an extra absorption peak at the line center.

id: 1104.3521
title: Entanglement dynamics of one-dimensional driven spin systems in time-varying magnetic fields
authors: Bedoor Alkurtass, Gehad Sadiek, Sabre Kais
comments: 22 pages and 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022314 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3521
abstract: We study the dynamics of entanglement for a one-dimensional spin chain with a nearest neighbor time dependent Heisenberg coupling J(t) between the spins in presence of a time dependent external magnetic field h(t) at zero and finite temperatures. We consider different forms of time dependence for the coupling and magnetic field; exponential, hyperbolic and periodic. We examined the system size effect on the entanglement asymptotic value. It was found that for a small system size the entanglement starts to fluctuate within a short period of time after applying the time dependent coupling. The period of time increases as the system size increases and disappears completely as the size goes to infinity. We also found that when J(t) is periodic the entanglement shows a periodic behavior with the same period, which disappears upon applying periodic magnetic field with the same frequency. Solving the particular case where J(t) and h(t) are proportional exactly, we showed that the asymptotic value of entanglement depends only on the initial conditions regardless of the form of J(t) and h(t) applied at t > 0.

id: 1104.3573
title: Microwave quantum logic gates for trapped ions
authors: C. Ospelkaus, U. Warring, Y. Colombe, K. R. Brown, J. M. Amini, D. Leibfried, D. J. Wineland
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures, accepted as a letter to Nature
journal: Nature 476, 181 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3573
abstract: Control over physical systems at the quantum level is a goal shared by scientists in fields as diverse as metrology, information processing, simulation and chemistry. For trapped atomic ions, the quantized motional and internal degrees of freedom can be coherently manipulated with laser light. Similar control is difficult to achieve with radio frequency or microwave radiation because the essential coupling between internal degrees of freedom and motion requires significant field changes over the extent of the atoms' motion. The field gradients are negligible at these frequencies for freely propagating fields; however, stronger gradients can be generated in the near-field of microwave currents in structures smaller than the free-space wavelength. In the experiments reported here, we coherently manipulate the internal quantum states of the ions on time scales of 20 ns. We also generate entanglement between the internal degrees of freedom of two atoms with a gate operation suitable for general quantum computation. We implement both operations through the magnetic fields from microwave currents in electrodes that are integrated into the micro-fabricated trap structure and create an entangled state with fidelity 76(3) %. This approach, where the quantum control mechanism is integrated into the trapping device in a scalable manner, can potentially benefit quantum information processing, simulation and spectroscopy.

id: 1104.3594
title: Interaction between Atomic Ensembles and Optical Resonators: Classical Description
authors: Haruka Tanji-Suzuki, Ian D. Leroux, Monika H. Schleier-Smith, Marko Cetina, Andrew T. Grier, Jonathan Simon, Vladan Vuletic
comments: 39 pages, 8 figures. Published in Adv. At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 60, 201 (2011)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3594
abstract: Many effects in the interaction between atoms and a cavity that are usually de-scribed in quantum mechanical terms (cavity quantum electrodynamics, cavity QED) can be understood and quantitatively analyzed within a classical framework. We adopt such a classical picture of a radiating dipole oscillator to derive explicit ex- pressions for the coupling of single atoms and atomic ensembles to Gaussian modes in free space and in an optical resonator. The cooperativity parameter of cavity QED is shown to play a central role, and is given a geometrical interpretation. The classical analysis yields transparent, intuitive results that are useful for analyzing applications of cavity QED such as atom detection and counting, cavity cooling, cavity spin squeezing, cavity spin optomechanics, or phase transitions associated with the self-organization of the ensemble-light system.

id: 1104.3634
title: Two-tape finite automata with quantum and classical states
authors: Shenggen Zheng, Lvzhou Li, Daowen Qiu
comments: 25 pages
journal: Int J Theor Phys (2011) 50: 1262-1281
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3634
abstract: {\it Two-way finite automata with quantum and classical states} (2QCFA) were introduced by Ambainis and Watrous, and {\it two-way two-tape deterministic finite automata} (2TFA) were introduced by Rabin and Scott. In this paper we study 2TFA and propose a new computing model called {\it two-way two-tape finite automata with quantum and classical states} (2TQCFA). First, we give efficient 2TFA algorithms for recognizing languages which can be recognized by 2QCFA. Second, we give efficient 2TQCFA algorithms to recognize several languages whose status vis-a-vis 2QCFA have been posed as open questions, such as $L_{square}=\{a^{n}b^{n^{2}}\mid n\in \mathbf{N}\}$. Third, we show that $\{a^{n}b^{n^{k}}\mid n\in \mathbf{N}\}$ can be recognized by {\it $(k+1)$-tape deterministic finite automata} ($(k+1)$TFA). Finally, we introduce {\it $k$-tape automata with quantum and classical states} ($k$TQCFA) and prove that $\{a^{n}b^{n^{k}}\mid n\in \mathbf{N}\}$ can be recognized by $k$TQCFA.

id: 1104.3639
title: Variance Control in Weak Value Measurement Pointers
authors: A. D. Parks, J. E. Gray
comments: submitted to Phys Rev A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012116 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3639
abstract: The variance of an arbitrary pointer observable is considered for the general case that a complex weak value is measured using a complex valued pointer state. For the typical cases where the pointer observable is either its position or momentum, the associated expressions for the pointer's variance after the measurement contain a term proportional to the product of the weak value's imaginary part with the rate of change of the third central moment of position relative to the initial pointer state just prior to the time of the measurement interaction when position is the observable - or with the initial pointer state's third central moment of momentum when momentum is the observable. These terms provide a means for controlling pointer position and momentum variance and identify control conditions which - when satisfied - can yield variances that are smaller after the measurement than they were before the measurement. Measurement sensitivities which are useful for estimating weak value measurement accuracies are also briefly discussed.

id: 1104.3643
title: NMR Experimental Demonstration of Probabilistic Quantum Cloning
authors: Hongwei Chen, Dawei Lu, Bo Chong, Gan Qin, Xianyi Zhou, Xinhua Peng, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures; to be published in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 180404 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3643
abstract: The method of quantum cloning is divided into two main categories: approximate and probabilistic quantum cloning. The former method is used to approximate an unknown quantum state deterministically, and the latter can be used to faithfully copy the state probabilistically. So far, many approximate cloning machines have been experimentally demonstrated, but probabilistic cloning remains an experimental challenge, as it requires more complicated networks and a higher level of precision control. In this work, we designed an efficient quantum network with a limited amount of resources, and performed the first experimental demonstration of probabilistic quantum cloning in an NMR quantum computer. In our experiment, the optimal cloning efficiency proposed by Duan and Guo [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{80}, 4999 (1998)] is achieved.

id: 1104.3655
title: Generalised purity as an entanglement measure for two- and three-well Bose-Hubbard models
authors: C.V. Chianca, M.K. Olsen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3655
abstract: The SU(2) and SU(3) Lie algebras lend themselves naturally to studies of two- and three-well Bose-Einstein condensates, with the group operators being expressed in terms of bosonic annihilation and creation operators at each site. The success of these representations has led to the purities associated with these algebras to be promoted as a measure of entanglement between the atomic modes in each well. In this report, we show that these purities do not provide an unambiguous measure, but instead give results which depend on the quantum statistical states of each atomic mode. Using the example of totally uncoupled modes which have never interacted, we quantify these purities for different states and show that completely separable states can give values which have been claimed to indicate the presence of entanglement.

id: 1104.3671
title: Complex Time Evolution of Open Quantum Systems
authors: C.N. Gagatsos, A.I. Karanikas, G.I. Kordas
comments: To appear in "Open Systems and Information Dynamics"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3671
abstract: We combine, in a single set-up,the complex time parametrization in path integration, and the closed time formalism of non-equilibrium field theories to produce a compact representation of the time evolution of the reduced density matrix. In this framework we introduce a cluster-type expansion that facilitates perturbative and non-perturbative calculations in the realm of open quantum systems. The technical details of some very simple examples are discussed.

id: 1104.3680
title: Transition states and the critical parameters of central potentials
authors: Evgeny Z. Liverts, Nir Barnea
comments: 35 pages, 2 figures, 7 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3680
abstract: Transition states or quantum states of zero energy appear at the boundary between the discrete part of the spectrum of negative energies and the continuum part of positive energy states. As such, transition states can be regarded as a limiting case of a bound state with vanishing binding energy, emerging for a particular set of critical potential parameters. In this work we study the properties of these critical parameters for short range central potentials. To this end we develop two exact methods and also utilize the first and second order WKB approximations. Using these methods we have calculated the critical parameters for several widely used central potentials. The general analytic expressions for the asymptotic representations of the critical parameters were derived for cases where either the orbital quantum number $l$ or the number $n$ of bound states approaches infinity. The above mathematical models enable us to answer the following physical (quantum mechanical) questions: i) what is the number of bound states for a given central potential and given orbital quantum number $l$; ii) what is the maximum value of $l$ which can provide a bound state for the given central potential; iii) what is the order of energy levels for the given form of the central potential. It is revealed that the ordering of energy levels depends on the potential singularity at the origin.

id: 1104.3684
title: Prospects for giant optical nonlinearity on a chip
authors: Jaesuk Hwang, E. A. Hinds
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3684
abstract: We point out that individual organic dye molecules, deposited close to optical waveguides on a photonic chip, can act as single photon sources and can also provide localised, giant optical nonlinearities. This new atom-photon interface may be used as a resource for processing quantum information.

id: 1104.3743
title: Gauge theory and two level systems
authors: A. Bruno, A. Capolupo, S. Kak, G. Raimondo, G. Vitiello
comments: 7 pages
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.B25:1661-1670,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3743
abstract: We consider the time evolution of a two level system (a two level atom or a qubit) and show that it is characterized by a local (in time) gauge invariant evolution equation. The covariant derivative operator is constructed and related to the free energy. We show that the gauge invariant characterization of the time evolution of the two level system is analogous to the birefringence phenomenon in optics. The relation with Berry-like and Anandan--Aharonov phase is pointed out. Finally, we discuss entropy, environment effects and the distance in projective Hilbert space between two level states in their evolution.

id: 1104.3764
title: Causal signal transmission by quantum fields. IV: The causal Wick theorem
authors: L.I.Plimak, S.Stenholm
comments: Final version, to appear in Phys Rev D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3764
abstract: Wick's theorem in the Schwinger-Perel-Keldysh closed-time-loop formalism is written in a form where the place of contractions is taken by the linear response function of the field. This result demonstrates that the physical information supplied by Wick's theorem for operators is propagation of the free field in space and time.

id: 1104.3771
title: Geometric phase and gauge theory structure in quantum computing
authors: A. Bruno, A. Capolupo, S. Kak, G. Raimondo, G. Vitiello
comments: 5 pages, presented at Fifth International Workshop DICE2010: Space-Time-Matter - current issues in quantum mechanics and beyond, Castiglioncello (Tuscany), September 13-17, 2010
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser.306:012065,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3771
abstract: We discuss the presence of a geometrical phase in the evolution of a qubit state and its gauge structure. The time evolution operator is found to be the free energy operator, rather than the Hamiltonian operator.

id: 1104.3798
title: Attosecond two-photon interferometry for doubly excited states of helium
authors: J. Feist, S. Nagele, C. Ticknor, B. I. Schneider, L. A. Collins, J. Burgd?rfer
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 093005 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3798
abstract: We show that the correlation dynamics in coherently excited doubly excited resonances of helium can be followed in real time by two-photon interferometry. This approach promises to map the evolution of the two-electron wave packet onto experimentally easily accessible non-coincident single electron spectra. We analyze the interferometric signal in terms of a semi-analytical model which is validated by a numerical solution of the time-dependent two-electron Schr\"odinger equation in its full dimensionality.

id: 1104.3809
title: Causal signal transmission by quantum fields. V: Quantum electrodynamics in response representation
authors: L.I.Plimak, S.T.Stenholm
comments: References updated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3809
abstract: Using electromagnetic interaction as an example, response transformations [L.P. and S.S., Ann.Phys. 323, 1963, 1989 (2008), 324, 600 (2009)] are applied to the standard perturbative approach of quantum field theory. This approach is rewritten in the form where the place of field propagators is taken by the retarded Green function of the field. Unlike in conventional quantum-field-theoretical techniques, the concept of space-time propagation of quantized field is built into our techniques.

id: 1104.3818
title: Operator ordering and causality
authors: L.I.Plimak, S.T.Stenholm
comments: References updated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3818
abstract: It is shown that causality violations [M. de Haan, Physica 132A, 375, 397 (1985)], emerging when the conventional definition of the time-normal operator ordering [P.L.Kelley and W.H.Kleiner, Phys.Rev. 136, A316 (1964)] is taken outside the rotating wave approximation, disappear when the amended definition [L.P. and S.S., Annals of Physics, 323, 1989 (2008)] of this ordering is used.

id: 1104.3825
title: Causal signal transmission by quantum fields. VI: Phase-space approach to quantum electrodynamics
authors: L.I.Plimak, S.T.Stenholm
comments: References updated
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3825
abstract: Phase-space techniques are generalized to nonlinear quantum electrodynamics beyond the rotating wave approximation, resulting in an essentially classical picture of radiation dynamics.

id: 1104.3835
title: Practical characterization of quantum devices without tomography
authors: Marcus P. da Silva, Olivier Landon-Cardinal, David Poulin
comments: (v1) 11 pages, 1 table, 4 figures. (v2) See also the closely related work: arXiv:1104.4695 (v3) method extended to continuous variable systems (v4) updated to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 210404 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3835
abstract: Quantum tomography is the main method used to assess the quality of quantum information processing devices, but its complexity presents a major obstacle for the characterization of even moderately large systems. The number of experimental settings required to extract complete information about a device grows exponentially with its size, and so does the running time for processing the data generated by these experiments. Part of the problem is that tomography generates much more information than is usually sought. Taking a more targeted approach, we develop schemes that enable (i) estimating the fidelity of an experiment to a theoretical ideal description, (ii) learning which description within a reduced subset best matches the experimental data. Both these approaches yield a significant reduction in resources compared to tomography. In particular, we demonstrate that fidelity can be estimated from a number of simple experimental settings that is independent of the system size, removing an important roadblock for the experimental study of larger quantum information processing units.

id: 1104.3844
title: An Efficient Algorithm for Optimizing Adaptive Quantum Metrology Processes
authors: Alexander Hentschel, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 
journal: A. Hentschel and B. C. Sanders, An efficient algorithm for optimizing adaptive quantum metrology processes, Physical Review Letters 107(23): 233601 (4 pp.), 30 November 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3844
abstract: Quantum-enhanced metrology infers an unknown quantity with accuracy beyond the standard quantum limit (SQL). Feedback-based metrological techniques are promising for beating the SQL but devising the feedback procedures is difficult and inefficient. Here we introduce an efficient self-learning swarm-intelligence algorithm for devising feedback-based quantum metrological procedures. Our algorithm can be trained with simulated or real-world trials and accommodates experimental imperfections, losses, and decoherence.

id: 1104.3853
title: Evaluation of pairwise entanglement in translationally invariant systems with the random phase approximation
authors: Juan Mauricio Matera, Raul Rossignoli, Norma Canosa
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 042319 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3853
abstract: We discuss a general mean field plus random phase approximation (RPA) for describing composite systems at zero and finite temperature. We analyze in particular its implementation in finite systems invariant under translations, where for uniform mean fields it requires just the solution of simple local-type RPA equations. As test and application, we use the method for evaluating the entanglement between two spins in cyclic spin 1/2 chains with both long and short range anisotropic XY-type couplings in a uniform transverse magnetic field. The approach is shown to provide an accurate analytic description of the concurrence for strong fields, for any coupling range, pair separation or chain size, where it predicts an entanglement range which can be at most twice that of interaction. It also correctly predicts the existence of a separability field together with full entanglement range in its vicinity. The general accuracy of the approach improves as the range of the interaction increases.

id: 1104.3857
title: Measuring microwave quantum states: tomogram and moments
authors: Sergey N. Filippov, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 033827 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3857
abstract: Two measurable characteristics of microwave one-mode photon states are discussed: a rotated quadrature distribution (tomogram) and normally/antinormally ordered moments of photon creation and annihilation operators. Extraction of these characteristics from amplified microwave signal is presented. Relations between the tomogram and the moments are found and can be used as a cross check of experiments. Formalism of the ordered moments is developed. The state purity and generalized uncertainty relations are considered in terms of moments. Unitary and non-unitary time evolution of moments is obtained in the form of linear differential equations in contrast to partial differential equations for quasidistributions. Time evolution is specified for the cases of a harmonic oscillator and a damped harmonic oscillator, which describe noiseless and decoherence processes, respectively.

id: 1104.3866
title: On the accuracy of the state space restriction approximation for spin dynamics simulations
authors: Alexander Karabanov, Ilya Kuprov, Gareth Charnock, Anniek van der Drift, Luke Edwards, Walter K?ckenberger
comments: Submitted for publication
journal: Journal of Chemical Physics, 135 (2011) 084106
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3866
abstract: We present an algebraic foundation for the state space restriction approximation in spin dynamics simulations and derive applicability criteria as well as minimal basis set requirements for practically encountered simulation tasks. The results are illustrated with NMR, ESR, DNP and Spin Chemistry simulations. It is demonstrated that state space restriction yields accurate results in systems where the time scale of spin relaxation processes approximately matches the time scale of the experiment. Rigorous error bounds and basis set requirements are derived.

id: 1104.3883
title: A critical view on transport and entanglement in models of photosynthesis
authors: Markus Tiersch, Sandu Popescu, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure, published version; typos corrected
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 370, 3771 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3883
abstract: We revisit critically the recent claims, inspired by quantum optics and quantum information, that there is entanglement in the biological pigment protein complexes, and that it is responsible for the high transport efficiency. While unexpectedly long coherence times were experimentally demonstrated, the existence of entanglement is, at the moment, a purely theoretical conjecture; it is this conjecture that we analyze. As demonstrated by a toy model, a similar transport phenomenology can be obtained without generating entanglement. Furthermore, we also argue that even if entanglement does exist, it is purely incidental and seems to plays no essential role for the transport efficiency. We emphasize that our paper is not a proof that entanglement does not exist in light-harvesting complexes - this would require a knowledge of the system and its parameters well beyond the state of the art. Rather, we present a counter-example to the recent claims of entanglement, showing that the arguments, as they stand at the moment, are not sufficiently justified and hence cannot be taken as proof for the existence of entanglement, let alone of its essential role, in the excitation transport.

id: 1104.3885
title: Environment-induced sudden transition in quantum discord dynamics
authors: R. Auccaise, L. C. Celeri, D. O. Soares-Pinto, E. R. deAzevedo, J. Maziero, A. M. Souza, T. J. Bonagamba, R. S. Sarthour, I. S. Oliveira, R. M. Serra
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 140403 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3885
abstract: Non-classical correlations play a crucial role in the development of quantum information science. The recent discovery that non-classical correlations can be present even in separable (unentangled) states has broadened this scenario. This generalized quantum correlation has been increasing relevance in several fields, among them quantum communication, quantum computation, quantum phase transitions, and biological systems. We demonstrate here the occurrence of the sudden-change phenomenon and immunity against some sources of noise for the quantum discord and its classical counterpart, in a room temperature nuclear magnetic resonance setup. The experiment is performed in a decohering environment causing loss of phase relations among the energy eigenstates and exchange of energy between system and environment, resulting in relaxation to a Gibbs ensemble.

id: 1104.3916
title: Multibit C$_k$NOT quantum gates via Rydberg blockade
authors: L. Isenhower, M. Saffman, K. Molmer
comments: submitted to "Quantum Information Processing" special issue on "Quantum Information with Neutral Particles". v2, discussion of estimated errors expanded
journal: Quant. Inf. Proc. 10, 755 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3916
abstract: Long range Rydberg blockade interactions have the potential for efficient implementation of quantum gates between multiple atoms. Here we present and analyze a protocol for implementation of a $k$-atom controlled NOT (C$_k$NOT) neutral atom gate. This gate can be implemented using sequential or simultaneous addressing of the control atoms which requires only $2k+3$ or 5 Rydberg $\pi$ pulses respectively. A detailed error analysis relevant for implementations based on alkali atom Rydberg states is provided which shows that gate errors less than 10% are possible for $k=35$.

id: 1104.3926
title: No-cloning theorem in thermofield dynamics
authors: Thiago Prudencio
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, 10 (2012) 1230001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3926
abstract: We discuss the relation between the no-cloning theorem from quantum information and the doubling procedure used in the formalism of thermofield dynamics (TFD). We also discuss how to apply the no-cloning theorem in the context of thermofield states defined in TFD. Consequences associated to mixed states, von Neumann entropy and thermofield vacuum are also addressed.

id: 1104.3949
title: Time-dependent pointer states of the quantized atom-field model in a nonresonance regime and consequences regarding the decoherence of the central system
authors: Hoofar Daneshvar, G W F Drake
comments: 14 Pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3949
abstract: We consider the quantized atom-field model and for the regime that $\hat{H}_{\cal E}\ll\hat{H}_{\cal S}\ll\hat{H'}$ (but $\hat{H}_{\cal E}\neq0$ and $\hat{H}_{\cal S}\neq0$); where $\hat{H}_{\cal E}$, $\hat{H}_{\cal S}$ and $\hat{H'}$ respectively represent the self Hamiltonians of the environment and the system, and the interaction between the system and the environment. Considering a single-mode quantized field we obtain the time-evolution operator for the model. Using our time-evolution operator we calculate the time-dependent pointer states of the system and the environment (which are characterized by their ability not to entangle with states of another subsystem) by assuming an initial state of the environment in the form of a Gaussian package in position space. We obtain a closed form for the offdiagonal element of the reduced density matrix of the system and study the decoherence of the central system in our model. We will show that for the case that the system initially is not prepared in one of its pointer states, the offdiagonal element of the reduced density matrix of the system will decay with a decoherence time which is inversely proportional to the square root of the mass of the bosonic field particles.

id: 1104.3953
title: Classical vs Quantum Games: Continuous-time Evolutionary Strategy Dynamics
authors: Ming Lam Leung
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3953
abstract: This paper unifies the concepts of evolutionary games and quantum strategies. First, we state the formulation and properties of classical evolutionary strategies, with focus on the destinations of evolution in 2-player 2-strategy games. We then introduce a new formalism of quantum evolutionary dynamics, and give an example where an evolving quantum strategy gives reward if played against its classical counterpart.

id: 1104.3979
title: Gates controlled parallel-coupled double quantum dot on both single layer and bilayer graphene
authors: Lin-Jun Wang, Guo-Ping Guo, Da Wei, Gang Cao, Tao Tu, Ming Xiao, Guang-Can Guo, A. M. Chang
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3979
abstract: Here we report the fabrication and quantum transport measurements of gates controlled parallel-coupled double quantum dot on both bilayer and single layer graphene. It is shown that the interdot coupling strength of the parallel double dots can be effectively tuned from weak to strong regime by both the in-plane plunger gates and back gate. All the relevant energy scales and parameters of the graphene parallel-coupled double dot can be extracted from the honeycomb charge stability diagrams revealed through the transport measurements.

id: 1104.4005
title: Even-odd entanglement in boson and spin systems
authors: Raul Rossignoli, Norma Canosa, Juan Mauricio Matera
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042328 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4005
abstract: We examine the entanglement entropy of the even half of a translationally invariant finite chain or lattice in its ground state. This entropy measures the entanglement between the even and odd halves (each forming a "comb" of $n/2$ sites) and can be expected to be extensive for short range couplings away from criticality. We first consider bosonic systems with quadratic couplings, where analytic expressions for arbitrary dimensions can be provided. The bosonic treatment is then applied to finite spin chains and arrays by means of the random phase approximation. Results for first neighbor anisotropic XY couplings indicate that while at strong magnetic fields this entropy is strictly extensive, at weak fields important deviations arise, stemming from parity-breaking effects and the presence of a factorizing field (in which vicinity it becomes size-independent and identical to the entropy of a contiguous half). Exact numerical results for small spin s chains are shown to be in agreement with the bosonic RPA prediction.

id: 1104.4014
title: Unified Universal Quantum Cloning Machine and Fidelities
authors: Yi-Nan Wang, Han-Duo Shi, Zhao-Xi Xiong, Li Jing, Xi-Jun Ren, Liang-Zhu Mu, Heng Fan
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A 84, 034302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4014
abstract: We present a unified universal quantum cloning machine, which combines several different existing universal cloning machines together including the asymmetric case. In this unified framework, the identical pure states are projected equally into each copy initially constituted by input and one half of the maximally entangled states. We show explicitly that the output states of those universal cloning machines are the same. One importance of this unified cloning machine is that the cloning procession is always the symmetric projection which reduces dramatically the difficulties for implementation. Also it is found that this unified cloning machine can be directly modified to the general asymmetric case. Besides the global fidelity and the single-copy fidelity, we also present all possible arbitrary-copy fidelities.

id: 1104.4043
title: Dynamics of geometric and entropic quantifiers of correlations in open quantum systems
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Rosario Lo Franco, Giuseppe Compagno
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. Final modified version accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 86, 012312 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4043
abstract: We extend the Hilbert-Schmidt (square norm) distance, previously used to define the geometric quantum discord, to define also geometric quantifiers of total and classical correlations. We then compare the dynamics of geometric and entropic quantifiers of the different kinds of correlations in a non-Markovian open two-qubit system under local dephasing. We find that qualitative differences occur only for quantum discords. This is taken to imply that geometric and entropic discords are not, in general, equivalent in describing the dynamics of quantum correlations. We then show that also geometric and entropic quantifiers of total correlations present qualitative disagreements in the state space. This aspect indicates that the differences found for quantum discord are not attributable to a different separation, introduced by each measure, between the quantum and classical parts of correlations. Finally, we find that the Hilbert-Schmidt distance formally coincides with a symmetrized form of linear relative entropy.

id: 1104.4104
title: Scaling of ground state fidelity in the thermodynamic limit: XY model and beyond
authors: Marek M. Rams, Bogdan Damski
comments: 20 pages, 23 figures, updated references, corrected typos, version accepted in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032324 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4104
abstract: We study ground state fidelity defined as the overlap between two ground states of the same quantum system obtained for slightly different values of the parameters of its Hamiltonian. We focus on the thermodynamic regime of the XY model and the neighborhood of its critical points. We describe in detail cases when fidelity is dominated by the universal contribution reflecting quantum criticality of the phase transition. We show that proximity to the multicritical point leads to anomalous scaling of fidelity. We also discuss fidelity in a regime characterized by pronounced oscillations resulting from the change of either the system size or the parameters of the Hamiltonian. Moreover, we show when fidelity is dominated by non-universal contributions, study fidelity in the extended Ising model, and illustrate how our results provide additional insight into dynamics of quantum phase transitions. Special attention is put to studies of fidelity from the momentum space perspective. All our main results are obtained analytically. They are in excellent agreement with numerics.

id: 1104.4126
title: Nonclassical time correlation functions in continuous quantum measurement
authors: Adam Bednorz, Wolfgang Belzig, Abraham Nitzan
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure, published version (open access)
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 013009 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4126
abstract: A continuous projective measurement of a quantum system often leads to a suppression of the dynamics, known as the Zeno effect. Alternatively, generalized nonprojective, so-called "weak" measurements can be carried out. Such a measurement is parameterized by its strength parameter that can interpolate continuously between the ideal strong measurement with no dynamics-the strict Zeno effect, and a weak measurement characterized by almost free dynamics but blurry observations. Here we analyze the stochastic properties of this uncertainty component in the resulting observation trajectory. The observation uncertainty results from intrinsic quantum uncertainty, the effect of measurement on the system (backaction) and detector noise. It is convenient to separate the latter, system-independent contribution from the system-dependent uncertainty, and this paper shows how to accomplish this separation. The system-dependent uncertainty is found in terms of a quasi-probability, which, despite its weaker properties, is shown to satisfy a weak positivity condition. We discuss the basic properties of this quasi-probability with special emphasis on its time correlation functions as well as their relationship to the full correlation functions along the observation trajectory, and illustrate our general results with simple examples.We demonstrate a violation of classical macrorealism using the fourth-order time correlation functions with respect to the quasi-probability in the twolevel system.

id: 1104.4134
title: Photon echo quantum memories in inhomogeneously broadened two level atoms
authors: D. L. McAuslan, P. M. Ledingham, W. R. Naylor, S. E. Beavan, M. P. Hedges, M. J. Sellars, J. J. Longdell
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4134
abstract: Here we propose a solid-state quantum memory that does not require spectral holeburning, instead using strong rephasing pulses like traditional photon echo techniques. The memory uses external broadening fields to reduce the optical depth and so switch off the collective atom-light interaction when desired. The proposed memory should allow operation with reasonable efficiency in a much broader range of material systems, for instance Er3+ doped crystals which have a transition at 1.5 um. We present analytic theory supported by numerical calculations and initial experiments.

id: 1104.4142
title: Microchip-Based Trapped-Atom Clocks
authors: Vladan Vuletic, Ian D. Leroux, Monika H. Schleier-Smith
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures. Published in Atom Chips, ed. J. Reichel and V. Vuletic, pp. 265-282 (Weinheim, Germany: Wiley-VCH, 2011)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4142
abstract: This is a chapter of a recently published book entitled Atom Chips, edited by Jakob Reichel and Vladan Vuletic. The contents of this chapter include: Basic Principles; Atomic-Fountain versus Trapped-Atom Clocks; Optical-Transition Clocks versus Microwave Clocks; Clocks with Magnetically Trapped Atoms--Fundamental Limits and Experimental Demonstrations; Readout in Trapped-Atom Clocks; and Spin Squeezing.

id: 1104.4145
title: Quantum Optomechanics in the Bistable Regime
authors: R. Ghobadi, A. R. Bahrampour, C. Simon
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 033846 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4145
abstract: We study the simplest optomechanical system with a focus on the bistable regime. The covariance matrix formalism allows us to study both cooling and entanglement in a unified framework. We identify two key factors governing entanglement, namely the bistability parameter, i.e. the distance from the end of a stable branch in the bistable regime, and the effective detuning, and we describe the optimum regime where entanglement is greatest. We also show that in general entanglement is a non-monotonic function of optomechanical coupling. This is especially important in understanding the optomechanical entanglement of the second stable branch.

id: 1104.4150
title: Coherent spectroscopy of rare-earth-ion doped whispering-gallery mode resonators
authors: D. L. McAuslan, D. Korystov, J. J. Longdell
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4150
abstract: We perform an investigation into the properties of Pr3+:Y2SiO5 whispering gallery mode resonators as a first step towards achieving the strong coupling regime of cavity QED with rare-earth-ion doped crystals. Direct measurement of cavity QED parameters are made using photon echoes, giving good agreement with theoretical predictions. By comparing the ions at the surface of the resonator to those in the center it is determined that the physical process of making the resonator does not negatively affect the properties of the ions. Coupling between the ions and resonator is analyzed through the observation of optical bistability and normal-mode splitting.

id: 1104.4151
title: Demonstration of quantum Zeno effect in a superconducting phase qubit
authors: Zhen-Tao Zhang, Zheng-Yuan Xue
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: JETP Letters 93, 349 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4151
abstract: Quantum Zeno effect is a significant tool in quantum manipulating and computing. We propose its observation in superconducting phase qubit with two experimentally feasible measurement schemes. The conventional measurement method is used to achieve the proposed pulse and continuous readout of the qubit state, which are analyzed by projection assumption and Monte Carlo wave-function simulation, respectively. Our scheme gives a direct implementation of quantum Zeno effect in a superconducting phase qubit.

id: 1104.4157
title: Numerical Study on Quantum Walks Implemented on the Cascade Rotational Transitions in a Diatomic Molecule
authors: Leo Matsuoka, Tatsuya Kasajima, Masashi Hashimoto, Keiichi Yokoyama
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures, submitted to J. Kor. Phys. Soc., Proceedings of AISAMP9
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4157
abstract: We propose an implementation scheme for the continuous-time quantum walk using a diatomic molecule and an optical frequency comb. We show an analogy between the quantum walk and the cascade rotational transitions induced by the optical frequency comb whose frequency peaks are tuned to the pure rotational transitions in the molecule. The strategy to compensate for the centrifugal distortion of the real molecule is also demonstrated.

id: 1104.4158
title: Entangled Wavefunctions from Classical Oscillator Amplitudes
authors: J. S. Briggs, A. Eisfeld
comments: extended version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052111 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4158
abstract: In the first days of quantum mechanics Dirac pointed out an analogy between the time-dependent coefficients of an expansion of the Schr\"odinger equation and the classical position and momentum variables solving Hamilton's equations. Here it is shown that the analogy can be made an equivalence in that, in principle, systems of classical oscillators can be constructed whose position and momenta variables form time-dependent amplitudes which are identical to the complex quantum amplitudes of the coupled wavefunction of an N-level quantum system with real coupling matrix elements. Hence classical motion can reproduce quantum coherence.

id: 1104.4173
title: Testing Leggett's Inequality Using Aharonov-Casher Effect
authors: Hong-Yi Su, Jing-Ling Chen, Chunfeng Wu, Dong-Ling Deng, C. H. Oh
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures. Accepted by Scientific Reports
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 2492 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4173
abstract: Bell's inequality is established based on local realism. The violation of Bell's inequality by quantum mechanics implies either locality or realism or both are untenable. Leggett's inequality is derived based on nonlocal realism. The violation of Leggett's inequality implies that quantum mechanics is neither local realistic nor nonlocal realistic. The incompatibility of nonlocal realism and quantum mechanics has been urrently confirmed by photon experiments. In our work, we propose to test Leggett's inequality using the Aharonov-Casher effect. In our scheme, four entangled particles emitted from two sources manifest a two-qubit-typed correlation that may result in the violation of the Leggett inequality, while satisfying the no-signaling condition for spacelike separation. Our scheme is tolerant to some local inaccuracies due to the topological nature of the Aharonov-Casher phase. The experimental implementation of our scheme can be possibly realized by a calcium atomic polarization interferometer experiment.

id: 1104.4189
title: Photon subtraction from traveling fields - recent experimental demonstrations
authors: Jonas S. Neergaard-Nielsen, Makoto Takeuchi, Kentaro Wakui, Hiroki Takahashi, Kazuhiro Hayasaka, Masahiro Takeoka, Masahide Sasaki
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures. Based on talk at 2nd Int. Conf. on Quantum Information and Technology (ICQIT) 2010, Tokyo
journal: Progress in Informatics 8, 5-18 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4189
abstract: We review our most recent results on application of the photon subtraction technique for optical quantum information processing primitives, in particular entanglement distillation and generation of squeezed qubit states. As an introduction we provide a brief summary of other experimental accomplishments in the field.

id: 1104.4228
title: Tradeoff between energy and error in the discrimination of quantum-optical devices
authors: Alessandro Bisio, Michele Dall'Arno, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, added references, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012310 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4228
abstract: We address the problem of energy-error tradeoff in the discrimination between two linear passive quantum optical devices with a single use. We provide an analytical derivation of the optimal strategy for beamsplitters and an iterative algorithm converging to the optimum in the general case. We then compare the optimal strategy with a simpler strategy using coherent input states and homodyne detection. It turns out that the former requires much less energy in order to achieve the same performances.

id: 1104.4318
title: Long-time behavior of many-particle quantum decay
authors: A. del Campo
comments: 6 pages, added references and discussion
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012113 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4318
abstract: While exponential decay is ubiquitous in Nature, deviations at both short and long times are dictated by quantum mechanics. Non-exponential decay is known to arise due to the possibility of reconstructing the initial state from the decaying products. We discuss the quantum decay dynamics by tunneling of a many-particle system, characterizing the long-time non-exponential behavior of the non-escape and survival probabilities. The effects of contact interactions and quantum statistics are described. It is found that whereas for non-interacting bosons the long-time decay follows a power-law with an exponent linear in the number of particles $\N$, the exponent becomes quadratic in $\N$ in the fermionic case. The same results apply to strongly interacting many-body systems related by the generalized Bose-Fermi duality. The faster fermionic decay can be traced back to the effective hard-core interactions between particles, which are as well the decaying products, and exhibit spatial anti-bunching which hinders the reconstruction of the initial unstable state. The results are illustrated with a paradigmatic model of quantum decay from a trap allowing leaks by tunneling, whose dynamics is described exactly by means of an expansion in resonant states.

id: 1104.4327
title: Examining a Hidden Assumption of Bell's Theorem and Counterexamples to Bell's Theorem in the Space of All Paths for a Quantum System
authors: Warren Leffler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4327
abstract: This paper implements in a simple but rigorous fashion a model of particle interaction involving all paths within a quantum system, both for configuration space and for spin. The model, which we call the space of all paths, leads to a locally explicable conceptual framework for quantum mechanics. Using it we present two counterexamples to Bell's theorem. Moreover, we show that the result places severe constraints on possible viable interpretations of quantum mechanics: Either an interpretation must in some form represent a quantum system in terms of all paths within the system or, alternatively, the interpretation must harbor "action at a distance." We take action-at-a-distance as a reductio ad absurdum argument for our framework for quantum foundations, since any mechanism in which causal effects can operate instantaneously across vast distances would be completely unknown and magical, a near absurdity.

id: 1104.4371
title: Quantum teleportation of non-classical wave-packets, an effective multimode theory
authors: Hugo Benichi, Shuntaro Takeda, Noriyuki Lee, Akira Furusawa
comments: Many typos corrected, some mistakes in the reference section corrected
journal: Phys Rev A 84, 012308 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4371
abstract: We develop a simple and efficient theoretical model to understand the quantum properties of broadband continuous variable quantum teleportation. We show that, if stated properly, the problem of multimode teleportation can be simplified to teleportation of a single effective mode that describes the input state temporal characteristic. Using that model, we show how the finite bandwidth of squeezing and external noise in the classical channel affect the output teleported quantum field. We choose an approach that is especially relevant for the case of non-Gaussian non-classical quantum states and we finally back-test our model with recent experimental results.

id: 1104.4382
title: Faithful teleportation with arbitrary pure or mixed resource states
authors: Ming-Jing Zhao, Zong-Guo Li, Shao-Ming Fei, Zhi-Xi Wang, Xianqing Li-Jost
comments: 9 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 215302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4382
abstract: We study faithful teleportation systematically with arbitrary entangled states as resources. The necessary conditions of mixed states to complete perfect teleportation are proved. Based on these results, the necessary and sufficient conditions of faithful teleportation of an unknown state |\phi> in C^d with an entangled resource {\rho} in C^m \otimes C^d and C^d \otimes C^n are derived. It is shown that for {\rho} in C^m\otimesC^d, {\rho} must be a maximally entangled state, while for {\rho} in C^d \otimes C^n, {\rho} must be a puremaximally entangled state. Moreover, we show that the sender's measurements must be all projectors of maximally entangled pure states. The relations between the entanglement of the formation of the resource states and faithful teleportation are also discussed.

id: 1104.4405
title: Time-dependent pointer states and determination of the preferred basis of measurement
authors: Hoofar Daneshvar, G.W.F. Drake
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4405
abstract: We present a general analytic method for evaluating the generally time-dependent pointer states of a subsystem, which are defined by their capability not to entangle with the states of another subsystem. In this way, we show how in practice the global state of the system and the environment may evolve into a diagonal state as a result of the natural evolution of the total composite system. We explore the conditions under which the pointer states of the system become independent of time; so that a preferred basis of measurement can be realized. As we show, these conditions include the so-called quantum limit of decoherence and the so-called quantum measurement limit; as well as some other specific conditions which are discussed in the paper. We relate the mathematical conditions for having time-independent pointer states to some classes of possible symmetries in the Hamiltonian of the total composite system. Indeed, our theory would serve as a generalization of the existing theory for determination of the preferred basis of measurement. By exploiting this new theory we can obtain those regimes of the parameter space for a given total Hamiltonian defining our system-environment model for which a preferred basis of measurement can be realized. Moreover, we can predict the corresponding preferred basis of measurement for each regime. We can also obtain the time-dependent pointer states of the system and the environment in most of the other regimes where the pointer states of the system are time-dependent and a preferred basis of measurement cannot be realized at all. This ability to obtain time-dependent pointer states is specifically important in decoherence studies; as pointer states correspond to those initial conditions for the state of the system and the environment for which we can have longer decoherence times.

id: 1104.4434
title: Knitting distributed cluster state ladders with spin chains
authors: R. Ronke, I. D'Amico, T.P. Spiller
comments: To be published in PRA. v2 includes minor corrections as well as an added discussion on refocussing
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032308 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4434
abstract: There has been much recent study on the application of spin chains to quantum state transfer and communication. Here we discuss the utilisation of spin chains (set up for perfect quantum state transfer) for the knitting of distributed cluster state structures, between spin qubits repeatedly injected and extracted at the ends of the chain. The cluster states emerge from the natural evolution of the system across different excitation number sectors. We discuss the decohering effects of errors in the injection and extraction process as well as the effects of fabrication and random errors.

id: 1104.4452
title: Phase operators, phase states and vector phase states for SU(3) and SU(2,1)
authors: Mohammed Daoud, Maurice Robert Kibler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4452
abstract: This paper focuses on phase operators, phase states and vector phase states for the sl(3) Lie algebra. We introduce a one-parameter generalized oscillator algebra A(k,2) which provides a unified scheme for dealing with su(3) (for k < 0), su(2,1) (for k > 0) and h(4) x h(4) (for k = 0) symmetries. Finite- and infinite-dimensional representations of A(k,2) are constructed for k < 0 and k > 0 or = 0, respectively. Phase operators associated with A(k,2) are defined and temporally stable phase states (as well as vector phase states) are constructed as eigenstates of these operators. Finally, we discuss a relation between quantized phase states and a quadratic discrete Fourier transform and show how to use these states for constructing mutually unbiased bases.

id: 1104.4468
title: A strong direct product theorem for quantum query complexity
authors: Troy Lee, J¨¦r¨¦mie Roland
comments: V2: 19 pages (various additions and improvements, in particular: improved parameters in the main theorems due to a finer analysis of the output condition, and addition of an XOR lemma and a threshold direct product theorem in the boolean case). V3: 19 pages (added grant information)
journal: 27th IEEE Conference on Computational Complexity (CCC'12), pages 236-246, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4468
abstract: We show that quantum query complexity satisfies a strong direct product theorem. This means that computing $k$ copies of a function with less than $k$ times the quantum queries needed to compute one copy of the function implies that the overall success probability will be exponentially small in $k$. For a boolean function $f$ we also show an XOR lemma---computing the parity of $k$ copies of $f$ with less than $k$ times the queries needed for one copy implies that the advantage over random guessing will be exponentially small. We do this by showing that the multiplicative adversary method, which inherently satisfies a strong direct product theorem, is always at least as large as the additive adversary method, which is known to characterize quantum query complexity.

id: 1104.4488
title: Hidden-variable models for the spin singlet. II. Local theories violating Bell and Leggett inequalities
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo
comments: 10 pages, no figures, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4488
abstract: Three classes of local hidden-variable models that violate both Bell and Leggett inequalities are presented. The models, however, do not reproduce the quantum mechanical predictions, hence they are experimentally testable. It is concluded that on one hand neither Bell or Leggett inequality fully captures the essential counterintuitiveness of quantum mechanics, while on the other hand the hypothesis of outcome independence and that of locality are uncorrelated.

id: 1104.4566
title: Quantum dynamical maps and Markovianity
authors: A. R. Usha Devi, A. K. Rajagopal, Sudha
comments: 4 pages, 1 eps figure, RevTex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4566
abstract: It is known that the time evolution of a subsystem from an initial state to two later times, t1, t2 (t2 > t1), are both completely positive (CP) but it is shown here that in the intermediate times between t1 and t2, in general, it need not be CP. This reveals the key to the Markov (if CP) and nonMarkov (if NCP) avataras of the intermediate dynamics. This is brought out based on A and B dynamical maps - without resorting to Master equation approach. The choice of tensor product form for the global initial state points towards the system-environment interaction dynamics as the sole cause for Markovianity/non-Markovianity. A succinct summary of the results is given in the form of a table.

id: 1104.4579
title: Efficient tracking of the state of a qubit
authors: Raisa I. Karasik, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 
journal: Proceedings of the 19th Australian Institute of Physics Congress, December 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4579
abstract: We study resource requirements for tracking the state of an open qubit subject to continuous observation. This problem is of great importance for quantum control.

id: 1104.4614
title: Average and instantaneous velocities of energy of evanescent modes
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Wen-Chao Wang, Qi Qiu, Cai-Dong Xiong, Liu Yong
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure, to be published in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 053827 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4614
abstract: Many theoretical and experimental investigations have presented a conclusion that evanescent electromagnetic modes can superluminally propagate. However, in this paper, we show that the average energy velocity of evanescent modes inside a cut-off waveguide is always less than or equal to the velocity of light in vacuum, while the instantaneous energy velocity can be superluminal, which does not violate causality according to quantum field theory: the fact that a particle can propagate over a space-like interval does preserve causality provided that here a measurement performed at one point cannot affect another measurement at a point separated from the first with a space-like interval.

id: 1104.4623
title: Optomechanical Cavity Cooling of an Atomic Ensemble
authors: Monika H. Schleier-Smith, Ian D. Leroux, Hao Zhang, Mackenzie A. Van Camp, Vladan Vuletic
comments: Paper with supplemental material: 4+6 pages, 4 figures. Minor revisions of text. Supplemental material shortened by removal of supplementary figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 143005 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4623
abstract: We demonstrate cavity sideband cooling of a single collective motional mode of an atomic ensemble down to a mean phonon occupation number of 2.0(-0.3/+0.9). Both this minimum occupation number and the observed cooling rate are in good agreement with an optomechanical model. The cooling rate constant is proportional to the total photon scattering rate by the ensemble, demonstrating the cooperative character of the light-emission-induced cooling process. We deduce fundamental limits to cavity-cooling either the collective mode or, sympathetically, the single-atom degrees of freedom.

id: 1104.4639
title: Optimal control of population and coherence in three-level $¦«$ systems
authors: Praveen Kumar, Svetlana A. Malinovskaya, Vladimir S. Malinovsky
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4639
abstract: Optimal control theory implementations for an efficient population transfer and creation of a maximum coherence in three-level system are considered. We demonstrate that the half-STIRAP (stimulated Raman adiabatic passage) scheme for creation of the maximum Raman coherence is the optimal solution according to the optimal control theory. We also present a comparative study of several implementations of optimal control theory applied to the complete population transfer and creation of the maximum coherence. Performance of the conjugate gradient method, the Zhu-Rabitz method and the Krotov method has been analyzed.

id: 1104.4640
title: Dynamics of Quantum Zeno and Anti-Zeno Effects in Open System
authors: Peng Zhang, Qing Ai, Yong Li, D. Z. Xu, C. P. Sun
comments: 14pages, 7figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4640
abstract: We provide a general dynamical approach for the quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno effects in an open quantum system under repeated non-demolition measurements. In our approach the repeated measurements are described by a general dynamical model without the wave function collapse postulation. Based on that model, we further study both the short-time and long-time evolutions of the open quantum system under repeated non-demolition measurements, and derive the measurement-modified decay rates of the excited state. In the cases with frequent ideal measurements at zero-temperature, we re-obtain the same decay rate as that from the wave function collapse postulation (Nature {\bf 405}, 546 (2000)). The correction to the ideal decay rate is also obtained under the non-ideal measurements. Especially, we find that the quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno effects are possibly {\it enhanced} by the non-ideal natures of measurements. For the open system under measurements with arbitrary period, we generally derive the rate equation for the long-time evolution for the cases with {\it arbitrary} temperature and noise spectrum, and show that in the long-time evolution the noise spectrum is effectively tuned by the repeated measurements. Our approach is also able to describe the quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno effects given by the phase modulation pulses, as well as the relevant quantum control schemes.

id: 1104.4644
title: Electron beams of cylindrically symmetric spin polarization
authors: Yan Wang, Chun-Fang Li
comments: 10 pages and 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4644
abstract: Cylindrically symmetric electron beams in spin polarization are reported for the first time. They are shown to be the eigen states of total angular momentum in the $z$ direction. But they are neither the eigen states of spin nor the eigen states of orbital angular momentum in that direction.

id: 1104.4648
title: Controlling the quantum dynamics of a mesoscopic spin bath in diamond
authors: G. de Lange, T. van der Sar, M. S. Blok, Z. H. Wang, V. V. Dobrovitski, R. Hanson
comments: 
journal: Scientific Reports 2, 382 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4648
abstract: Understanding and mitigating decoherence is a key challenge for quantum science and technology. The main source of decoherence for solid-state spin systems is the uncontrolled spin bath environment. Here, we demonstrate quantum control of a mesoscopic spin bath in diamond at room temperature that is composed of electron spins of substitutional nitrogen impurities. The resulting spin bath dynamics are probed using a single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centre electron spin as a magnetic field sensor. We exploit the spin bath control to dynamically suppress dephasing of the NV spin by the spin bath. Furthermore, by combining spin bath control with dynamical decoupling, we directly measure the coherence and temporal correlations of different groups of bath spins. These results uncover a new arena for fundamental studies on decoherence and enable novel avenues for spin-based magnetometry and quantum information processing.

id: 1104.4688
title: Time evolution of decay of two identical quantum particles
authors: Gast¨®n Garc¨ªa-Calder¨®n, Luis Guillermo Mendoza-Luna
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures, added references and discussion
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032106 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4688
abstract: An analytical solution for the time evolution of decay of two identical non interacting quantum particles seated initially within a potential of finite range is derived using the formalism of resonant states. It is shown that the wave function, and hence also the survival and nonescape probabilities, for factorized symmetric and entangled symmetric/antisymmetric initial states evolve in a distinctive form along the exponentially decaying and nonexponential regimes. Our findings show the influence of the Pauli exclusion principle on decay. We exemplify our results by solving exactly the s-wave delta shell potential model.

id: 1104.4695
title: Direct Fidelity Estimation from Few Pauli Measurements
authors: Steven T. Flammia, Yi-Kai Liu
comments: 4+3 pages, 1 figure. See also the closely related work: arXiv:1104.3835. v3, refs added, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 230501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4695
abstract: We describe a simple method for certifying that an experimental device prepares a desired quantum state rho. Our method is applicable to any pure state rho, and it provides an estimate of the fidelity between rho and the actual (arbitrary) state in the lab, up to a constant additive error. The method requires measuring only a constant number of Pauli expectation values, selected at random according to an importance-weighting rule. Our method is faster than full tomography by a factor of d, the dimension of the state space, and extends easily and naturally to quantum channels.

id: 1104.4734
title: Synthetic Gauge Fields for Vibrational Excitations of Trapped ions
authors: A. Bermudez, T. Schaetz, D. Porras
comments: replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 150501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4734
abstract: The vibrations of a collection of ions in a microtrap array can be described in terms of hopping phonons. We show theoretically that the vibrational couplings may be tailored by using a gradient of the microtrap frequencies, together with a periodic driving of the trapping potential. These ingredients allow us to induce effective gauge fields on the vibrational excitations, such that phonons mimic the behavior of charged particles in a magnetic field. In particular, microtrap arrays are ideally suited to realize the famous Aharonov-Bohm effect, and observe the paradigmatic edge states typical from quantum-Hall samples and topological insulators.

id: 1104.4737
title: Dynamical features of interference phenomena in the presence of entanglement
authors: T. Kaufherr, Y. Aharonov, S. Nussinov, S. Popescu, J. Tollaksen
comments: Accepted for publication in The Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4737
abstract: A "strongly" interacting, and entangling, heavy, non recoiling, external particle effects a significant change of the environment. Described locally, the corresponding entanglement event is a generalized electric Aharonov Bohm effect, that differs from the original one in a crucial way. We propose a gedanken interference experiment. The predicted shift of the interference pattern is due to a self induced or "private" potential difference experienced while the particle is in vacuum. We show that all non trivial Born Oppenheimer potentials are "private" potentials. We apply the Born Oppenheimer approximation to interference states. Using our approach we calculate the relative phase of the external heavy particle as well as its uncertainty throughout an interference experiment /entanglement event. We thus complement the Born Oppenheimer approximation for interference states.

id: 1104.4738
title: The delta-quantum machine, the k-model, and the non-ordinary spatiality of quantum entities
authors: Massimiliano Sassoli de Bianchi
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures. To appear in: Foundations of Science
journal: Foundations of Science: Volume 18, Issue 1 (2013), Page 11-41
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4738
abstract: The purpose of this article is threefold. Firstly, it aims to present, in an educational and non-technical fashion, the main ideas at the basis of Aerts' creation-discovery view and hidden measurement approach: a fundamental explanatory framework whose importance, in this author's view, has been seriously underappreciated by the physics community, despite its success in clarifying many conceptual challenges of quantum physics. Secondly, it aims to introduce a new quantum-machine - that we call the delta-quantum-machine - which is able to reproduce the transmission and reflection probabilities of a one-dimensional quantum scattering process by a Dirac delta-function potential. The machine is used not only to demonstrate the pertinence of the above mentioned explanatory framework, in the general description of physical systems, but also to illustrate (in the spirit of Aerts' epsilon-model) the origin of classical and quantum structures, by revealing the existence of processes which are neither classical nor quantum, but irreducibly intermediate. We do this by explicitly introducing what we call the k-model and by proving that its processes cannot be modelized by a classical or quantum scattering system. The third purpose of this work is to exploit the powerful metaphor provided by our quantum-machine, to investigate the intimate relation between the concept of potentiality and the notion of non-spatiality, that we characterize in precise terms, introducing for this the new concept of process-actuality.

id: 1104.4745
title: Comment on "The quantum mechanics of electric conduction in crystals," by R. J. Olsen and G. Vignale [Am. J. Phys. 78 (9), 954-960 (2010)]
authors: Massimiliano Sassoli de Bianchi
comments: To be published in the Am. J. Phys., together with a reply from the authors
journal: American Journal of Physics (2011) Volume 79, Issue 5, pp. 546-549
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4745
abstract: In this note we use the notion of time-delay to explain the physical content of the transformation properties of transmission and reflection amplitudes, as a result of a displacement of the potential. Then, we reconsider the recent analysis of the scattering problem by a finite-periodic potential, by Olsen and Vignale, to obtain the total reflection condition in the limit of an infinite number of cells. In doing this, we obtain an expression of Hartman's effect, showing that the group velocity of the transmitted particle inside the potential chain can become arbitrary large, as the number of cells tends to infinity.

id: 1104.4750
title: Efficient Quantum Error Correction for Fully Correlated Noise
authors: Chi-Kwong Li, Mikio Nakahara, Yiu-Tung Poon, Nung-Sing Sze, Hiroyuki Tomita
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A, 375:3255-3258 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4750
abstract: We investigate an efficient quantum error correction of a fully correlated noise. Suppose the noise is characterized by a quantum channel whose error operators take fully correlated forms given by $\sigma_x^{\otimes n}$, $\sigma_y^{\otimes n}$ and $\sigma_z^{\otimes n}$, where $n>2$ is the number of qubits encoding the codeword. It is proved that (i) $n$ qubits codeword encodes $(n-1)$ data qubits when $n$ is odd and (ii) $n$ qubits codeword implements a noiseless subsystem encoding $(n-2)$ data qubits when $n$ is even. Quantum circuits implementing these schemes are constructed.

id: 1104.4781
title: On the experimental violation of Mermin's inequality with imperfect measurements
authors: Ruffin Evans, Olivier Pfister
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures, submitted for publication
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 11, 820 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4781
abstract: We investigate theoretically the feasibility of an experimental test of the Bell-type inequality derived by Mermin for correlated spins larger than 1/2. Using the Schwinger representation, we link the output fields of two two-mode squeezers in order to create correlated effective spins between two observers. Spin measurements will be performed by photon-number-resolved photodetection, which has recently come of age. We examine the effect of nonideal detection quantum efficiency---and any other optical loss---on the violation margin of Mermin's inequality. We find that experimental violation is well accessible for spins larger than 1 for quantum efficiencies compatible with the current state of the art.

id: 1104.4812
title: Energy-scales convergence for optimal and robust quantum transport in photosynthetic complexes
authors: Masoud Mohseni, Alireza Shabani, Seth Lloyd, Herschel Rabitz
comments: minor revisions, removing some figures, 19 pages, 19 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 140, 035102 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4812
abstract: Underlying physical principles for the high efficiency of excitation energy transfer in light-harvesting complexes are not fully understood. Notably, the degree of robustness of these systems for transporting energy is not known considering their realistic interactions with vibrational and radiative environments within the surrounding solvent and scaffold proteins. In this work, we employ an efficient technique to estimate energy transfer efficiency of such complex excitonic systems. We observe that the dynamics of the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) complex leads to optimal and robust energy transport due to a convergence of energy scales among all important internal and external parameters. In particular, we show that the FMO energy transfer efficiency is optimum and stable with respect to the relevant parameters of environmental interactions and Frenkel-exciton Hamiltonian including reorganization energy $\lambda$, bath frequency cutoff $\gamma$, temperature $T$, bath spatial correlations, initial excitations, dissipation rate, trapping rate, disorders, and dipole moments orientations. We identify the ratio of $\lambda T/\gamma\*g$ as a single key parameter governing quantum transport efficiency, where g is the average excitonic energy gap.

id: 1104.4875
title: Revival of Silenced Echo and Quantum Memory for Light
authors: V. Damon, M. Bonarota, A. Louchet-Chauvet, T. Chaneli¨¨re, J.-L. Le Gou?t
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics, Volume 13, 093031, September 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4875
abstract: We propose an original quantum memory protocol. It belongs to the class of rephasing processes and is closely related to two-pulse photon echo. It is known that the strong population inversion produced by the rephasing pulse prevents the plain two-pulse photon echo from serving as a quantum memory scheme. Indeed gain and spontaneous emission generate prohibitive noise. A second $\pi$-pulse can be used to simultaneously reverse the atomic phase and bring the atoms back into the ground state. Then a secondary echo is radiated from a non-inverted medium, avoiding contamination by gain and spontaneous emission noise. However, one must kill the primary echo, in order to preserve all the information for the secondary signal. In the present work, spatial phase mismatching is used to silence the standard two-pulse echo. An experimental demonstration is presented.

id: 1104.4886
title: Quantum measurements on finite dimensional systems: relabeling and mixing
authors: Erkka Haapasalo, Teiko Heinosaari, Juha-Pekka Pellonp??
comments: one new section in v2
journal: Quantum Inf. Process. (2012) 11:1751--1763
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4886
abstract: Concentrating on finite dimensional systems, we show that one can limit to extremal rank-1 POVMs if two simple procedures of mixing and relabeling are permitted. We demonstrate that any finite outcome POVM can be obtained from extremal rank-1 POVMs with these two procedures. In particular, extremal POVMs with higher rank are just relabelings of extremal rank-1 POVMs and their structure is therefore clarified.

id: 1104.4889
title: Photon-number entangled states generated in Kerr media with optical parametric pumping
authors: Anna Kowalewska-Kud?aszyk, Wies?aw Leo¨½ski, Jan Pe?ina Jr
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052326 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4889
abstract: Two nonlinear Kerr oscillators mutually coupled by parametric pumping are studied as a source of states entangled in photon numbers. Temporal evolution of entanglement quantified by negativity shows the effects of sudden death and birth of entanglement. Entanglement is preserved even in asymptotic states under certain conditions. The role of reservoirs at finite temperature in entanglement evolution is elucidated. Relation between generation of entangled states and violation of Cauchy-Schwartz inequality for oscillator intensities is found.

id: 1104.5004
title: Adaptively correcting quantum errors with entanglement
authors: Yuichiro Fujiwara, Min-Hsiu Hsieh
comments: 5 pages, final submission to ISIT 2011, Saint-Petersburg, Russia
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5004
abstract: Contrary to the assumption that most quantum error-correcting codes (QECC) make, it is expected that phase errors are much more likely than bit errors in physical devices. By employing the entanglement-assisted stabilizer formalism, we develop a new kind of error-correcting protocol which can flexibly trade error correction abilities between the two types of errors, such that high error correction performance is achieved both in symmetric and in asymmetric situations. The characteristics of the QECCs can be optimized in an adaptive manner during information transmission. The proposed entanglement-assisted QECCs require only one ebit regardless of the degree of asymmetry at a given moment and can be decoded in polynomial time.

id: 1104.5021
title: Universal dynamical decoupling of multiqubit states from environment
authors: Liang Jiang, Adilet Imambekov
comments: 4+ pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 060302(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5021
abstract: We study the dynamical decoupling of multiqubit states from environment. For a system of m qubits, the nested Uhrig dynamical decoupling (NUDD) sequence can efficiently suppress generic decoherence induced by system-environment interaction to order N using (N+1)^2m pulses. We prove that the NUDD sequence is universal, i.e., it can restore the coherence of m-qubit quantum system independent of the details of system-environment interaction. We also construct a general mapping between dynamical decoupling problems and discrete quantum walks in certain functional spaces.

id: 1104.5057
title: Speed of disentanglement in multi-qubit systems under depolarizing channel
authors: Fu-Lin Zhang, Yue Jiang, Mai-Lin Liang
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures. to appear in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals of Physics, 333, 136 (2013 )
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5057
abstract: We investigate the speed of disentanglement in the multiqubit systems under the local depolarizing channel, in which each qubit is independently coupled to the environment. We focus on the bipartition entanglement between one qubit and the remaining qubits constituting the system, which is measured by the negativity. For the two-qubit system, the speed for the pure state completely depends on its entanglement. The upper and lower bounds of the speed for arbitrary two-qubit states, and the necessary conditions for a state achieving them, are obtained. For the three-qubit system, we study the speed for pure states, whose entanglement properties can be completely described by five local-unitary-transformation invariants. An analytical expression of the relation between the speed and the invariants is derived. The speed is enhanced by the the three-tangle which is the entanglement among the three qubits, but reduced by the the two-qubit correlations outside of the concurrence. The decay of the negativity can be restrained by the other two negativity with the coequal sense. The unbalance between two qubits can reduce speed of disentanglement of the remaining qubit in the system, even can retrieve the entanglement partially. For the k-qubit systems in an arbitrary superposition of GHZ state and W state, the speed depends almost entirely on the amount of the negativity when k increases to five or six. An alternative quantitative definition for the robustness of entanglement is presented based on the speed of disentanglement, with comparison to the widely studied robustness measured by the critical amount of noise parameter where the entanglement vanishes. In the limit of large number of particles, the alternative robustness of the GHZ-type states is inversely proportional to k, and the one of the W states approaches 1/\sqrt{k}.

id: 1104.5087
title: Experimental high-dimensional two-photon entanglement and violations of generalised Bell inequalities
authors: Adetunmise C. Dada, Jonathan Leach, Gerald S. Buller, Miles J. Padgett, Erika Andersson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5087
abstract: Quantum entanglement plays a vital role in many quantum information and communication tasks. Entangled states of higher dimensional systems are of great interest due to the extended possibilities they provide. For example, they allow the realisation of new types of quantum information schemes that can offer higher information-density coding and greater resilience to errors than can be achieved with entangled two-dimensional systems. Closing the detection loophole in Bell test experiments is also more experimentally feasible when higher dimensional entangled systems are used. We have measured previously untested correlations between two photons to experimentally demonstrate high-dimensional entangled states. We obtain violations of Bell-type inequalities generalised to d-dimensional systems with up to d = 12. Furthermore, the violations are strong enough to indicate genuine 11-dimensional entanglement. Our experiments use photons entangled in orbital angular momentum (OAM), generated through spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC), and manipulated using computer controlled holograms.

id: 1104.5104
title: Energy-time uncertainty relation for driven quantum systems
authors: Sebastian Deffner, Eric Lutz
comments: 9 pages, published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 335302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5104
abstract: We derive generalizations of the energy-time uncertainty relation for driven quantum systems. Using a geometric approach based on the Bures length between mixed quantum states, we obtain explicit expressions for the quantum speed limit time, valid for arbitrary initial and final quantum states and arbitrary driving protocols. Our results establish the fundamental limit on the rate of evolution of generic quantum systems.

id: 1104.5140
title: Stimulated light emission and inelastic scattering by a classical linear system of rotating particles
authors: Ana Asenjo-Garcia, Alejandro Manjavacas, F. Javier Garc¨ªa de Abajo
comments: 6 figures, 8 pages
journal: Physical Review Letters 106, 213601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5140
abstract: The rotational dynamics of particles subject to external illumination is found to produce light amplification and inelastic scattering at high rotation velocities. Light emission at frequencies shifted with respect to the incident light by twice the rotation frequency dominates over elastic scattering within a wide range of light and rotation frequencies. Remarkably, net amplification of the incident light is produced in this classical linear system via stimulated emission. Large optically-induced acceleration rates are predicted in vacuum accompanied by moderate heating of the particle, thus supporting the possibility of observing these effects under extreme rotation conditions.

id: 1104.5144
title: Links and Quantum Entanglement
authors: A.I. Solomon, C.-L. Ho
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures. Appeared in the Proceedings of the Conference in honour of Murray Gell-Mann's 80th birthday (24-26 Feb 2010, NTU, Singapore),pg.646-660
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5144
abstract: We discuss the analogy between topological entanglement and quantum entanglement, particularly for tripartite quantum systems. We illustrate our approach by first discussing two clearly (topologically) inequivalent systems of three-ring links: The Borromean rings, in which the removal of any one link leaves the remaining two non-linked (or, by analogy, non-entangled); and an inequivalent system (which we call the NUS link) for which the removal of any one link leaves the remaining two linked (or, entangled in our analogy). We introduce unitary representations for the appropriate Braid Group ($B_3$) which produce the related quantum entangled systems. We finally remark that these two quantum systems, which clearly possess inequivalent entanglement properties, are locally unitarily equivalent.

id: 1104.5189
title: Generation of Superposition States and Charge-Qubit Relaxation Probing in a Circuit
authors: O. P. de Sa Neto, M. C. de Oliveira, A. O. Caldeira
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5189
abstract: We demonstrate how a superposition of coherent states can be generated for a microwave field inside a coplanar transmission line coupled to a single superconducting charge qubit, with the addition of a single classical magnetic pulse for chirping of the qubit transition frequency. We show how the qubit dephasing induces decoherence on the field superposition state, and how it can be probed by the qubit charge detection. The character of the charge qubit relaxation process itself is imprinted in the field state decoherence profile.

id: 1104.5242
title: Open Quantum Systems. An Introduction
authors: ?ngel Rivas, Susana F. Huelga
comments: 100 pages, 3 figures. Updated version with typos corrected. Preprint version of the published book
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5242
abstract: We revise fundamental concepts in the dynamics of open quantum systems in the light of modern developments in the field. Our aim is to present a unified approach to the quantum evolution of open systems that incorporates the concepts and methods traditionally employed by different communities. We present in some detail the mathematical structure and the general properties of the dynamical maps underlying open system dynamics. We also discuss the microscopic derivation of dynamical equations, including both Markovian and non-Markovian evolutions.

id: 1104.5263
title: Non-Markovian behavior of small and large complex quantum systems
authors: Marko Znidaric, Carlos Pineda, Ignacio Garcia-Mata
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. Version 2 is closer to what was published. In particular, a typo in Eq. (8) and in Wg([2^2]) at ref 11 were fixed. Other very minor corrections were done as well
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 080404 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5263
abstract: The channel induced by a complex system interacting strongly with a qubit is calculated exactly under the assumption of randomness of its eigenvectors. The resulting channel is represented as an isotropic time dependent oscillation of the Bloch ball, leading to non-Markovian behavior, even in the limit of infinite environments. Two contributions are identified: one due to the density of states and the other due to correlations in the spectrum. Prototype examples, one for chaotic and the other for regular dynamics are explored.

id: 1104.5275
title: A Quantum Analogue of Parrondo's Game
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5275
abstract: We consider the discrete-time quantum walk in the plane, and present a quantum implementation of Parrondo's game for four players. Physical significance of the game strategies are also discussed.

id: 1104.5299
title: Berry Phase for Systems with Angular Momenta in Electric and Magnetic Fields
authors: K.J.B. Ghosh, D. De Munshi, B. Dutta-Roy
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5299
abstract: The Berry phase for a variety of systems comprising of two angular momenta is discussed. These include the electron and proton in the ground state of the hydrogen atom (taking into account the hyperfine interaction), the positronium atom, the spin and orbital angular momenta of a single electron, muon capture by the deuteron in an external magnetic field, etc. Though the time scales involved, the underlying intrinsic Hamiltonians are quite different, as also the possible experimental probes, the geometric nature of the results for the Berry phase due to a time varying externally imposed magnetic field is found to be quite robust. Some indications are also put forward as to the possible interesting studies with time varying electric fields. The objective of this work is an attempt to broaden the scope of such studies in both the experimental and theoretical directions.

id: 1104.5301
title: Measurement back-action on the quantum spin-mixing dynamics of a spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Keye Zhang, Lu Zhou, Hong Y. Ling, Han Pu, Weiping Zhang
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.A 83,063624(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5301
abstract: We consider a small F=1 spinor condensate inside an optical cavity driven by an optical probe field, and subject the output of the probe to a homodyne detection, with the goal of investigating the effect of measurement back-action on the spin dynamics of the condensate. Using the stochastic master equation approach, we show that the effect of back-action is sensitive to not only the measurement strength but also the quantum fluctuation of the spinor condensate. The same method is also used to estimate the atom numbers below which the effect of back-action becomes so prominent that extracting spin dynamics from this cavity-based detection scheme is no longer practical.

id: 1104.5411
title: Anisotropy in the Interaction of Ultracold Dysprosium
authors: Svetlana Kotochigova, Alexander Petrov
comments: the manuscript has 6 figures in pdf format
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5411
abstract: The nature of the interaction between ultracold atoms with a large orbital and spin angular momentum has attracted considerable attention. It was suggested that such interactions can lead to the realization of exotic states of highly correlated matter. Here, we report on a theoretical study of the competing anisotropic dispersion, magnetic dipole-dipole, and electric quadrupole-quadrupole forces between two dysprosium atoms. Each dysprosium atom has an orbital angular momentum L=6 and magnetic moment $\mu=10\mu_B$. We show that the dispersion coefficients of the ground state adiabatic potentials lie between 1865 a.u. and 1890 a.u., creating a non-negligible anisotropy with a spread of 25 a.u. and that the electric quadrupole-quadrupole interaction is weak compared to the other interactions. We also find that for interatomic separations $R< 50\,a_0$ both the anisotropic dispersion and magnetic dipole-dipole potential are larger than the atomic Zeeman splittings for external magnetic fields of order 10 G to 100 G. At these separations spin exchange can occur. We finish by describing two scattering models for inelastic spin exchange. A universal scattering theory is used to model loss due to the anisotropy in the dispersion and a distorted-wave-Born theory is used to model losses from the magnetic dipole-dipole interaction for the $^{164}$Dy isotope. These models find loss rates that are the same order of magnitude as the experimental value.

id: 1104.5421
title: Non-Entangling Channels for Multiple Collisions of Quantum Wave Packets
authors: Walter Hahn, Boris V. Fine
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032713 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5421
abstract: We consider multiple collisions of quantum wave packets in one dimension. The system under investigation consists of an impenetrable wall and of two hard-core particles with very different masses. The lighter particle bounces between the heavier one and the wall. Both particles are initially represented by narrow Gaussian wave packets. A complete analytical solution of this problem is presented on the basis of a new method. The idea of the method is to decompose the two-particle wave function into a continuous superposition of terms (channels), such that the multiple collisions within each channel do not lead to subsequent entanglement between the two particles. For each channel, the time evolution of the two-particle wave function is completely determined by the motion of the corresponding classical point-like particles; therefore the whole quantum problem is reduced to a classical calculation. The calculation based on the above method reveals the following unexpected result: The entanglement between the two particles first increases with time due to the collisions, but then it begins to decrease, disappearing completely when the light particle becomes too slow to catch up with the heavy one.

id: 1104.5434
title: Anderson localization in the quintic nonlinear Schr?dinger equation
authors: A. T. Avelar, W. B. Cardoso
comments: 4 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5434
abstract: In the present paper we consider the quintic defocusing nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation in presence of a disordered random potential and we analyze the effects of the quintic nonlinearity on the Anderson localization of the solution. The main result shows that Anderson localization requires a cutoff on the value of the parameter which controls the quintic nonlinearity, with the cutoff depending on the amplitude of the random potential.

id: 1104.5442
title: Asymptotic entanglement of two atoms in squeezed light field
authors: L. Jakobczyk, R. Olkiewicz, M. Zaba
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062322(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5442
abstract: The dynamics of entanglement between two - level atoms interacting with a common squeezed reservoir is investigated. It is shown that for spatially separated atoms there is a unique asymptotic state depending on the distance between the atoms and the atom - photons detuning. In the regime of strong correlations there is a one - parameter family of asymptotic steady - states depending on initial conditions. In contrast to the thermal reservoir both types of asymptotic states can be entangled. We calculate the amount of entanglement in the system in terms of concurrence.

id: 1104.5448
title: Pulsed Laser Cooling for Cavity-Optomechanical Resonators
authors: Shai Machnes, Javier Cerrillo, Markus Aspelmeyer, Witlef Wieczorek, Martin B. Plenio, Alex Retzker
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 153601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5448
abstract: A pulsed cooling scheme for optomechanical systems is presented that is capable of cooling at much faster rates, shorter overall cooling times, and for a wider set of experimental scenarios than is possible by conventional methods. The proposed scheme can be implemented for both strongly and weakly coupled optomechanical systems in both weakly and highly dissipative cavities. We study analytically its underlying working mechanism, which is based on interferometric control of optomechanical interactions, and we demonstrate its efficiency with pulse sequences that are obtained by using methods from optimal control. The short time in which our scheme approaches the optomechanical ground state allows for a significant relaxation of current experimental constraints. Finally, the framework presented here can be used to create a rich variety of optomechanical interactions and hence offers a novel, readily available toolbox for fast optomechanical quantum control.

id: 1104.5462
title: Super-Radiant Dynamics, Doorways, and Resonances in Nuclei and Other Open Mesoscopic Systems
authors: Naftali Auerbach, Vladimir Zelevinsky
comments: 85 pages, 10 figures
journal: Rept.Prog.Phys.74:106301,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5462
abstract: The phenomenon of super-radiance (Dicke effect, coherent spontaneous radiation by a gas of atoms coupled through the common radiation field) is well known in quantum optics. The review discusses similar physics that emerges in open and marginally stable quantum many-body systems. In the presence of open decay channels, the intrinsic states are coupled through the continuum. At sufficiently strong continuum coupling, the spectrum of resonances undergoes the restructuring with segregation of very broad super-radiant states and trapping of remaining long-lived compound states. The appropriate formalism describing this phenomenon is based on the Feshbach projection method and effective non-Hermitian Hamiltonian. A broader generalization is related to the idea of doorway states connecting quantum states of different structure. The method is explained in detail and the examples of applications are given to nuclear, atomic and particle physics. The interrelation of the collective dynamics through continuum and possible intrinsic many-body chaos is studied, including universal mesoscopic conductance fluctuations. The theory serves as a natural framework for general description of a quantum signal transmission through an open mesoscopic system.

id: 1104.5492
title: Beyond the Dirac phase factor: Dynamical Quantum Phase-Nonlocalities in the Schroedinger Picture
authors: Konstantinos Moulopoulos
comments: 72 pages, 4 figures, v2 minor rephrasing of a sentence on p.41
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5492
abstract: Generalized solutions of the standard gauge transformation equations are presented and discussed in physical terms. They go beyond the usual Dirac phase factors and they exhibit nonlocal quantal behavior, with the well-known Relativistic Causality of classical fields affecting directly the phases of wavefunctions in the Schroedinger Picture. These nonlocal phase behaviors, apparently overlooked in path-integral approaches, give a natural account of the dynamical nonlocality character of the various (even static) Aharonov-Bohm phenomena, while at the same time they seem to respect Causality. Indeed, for particles passing through nonvanishing magnetic or electric fields they lead to cancellations of Aharonov-Bohm phases at the observation point, generalizing earlier semiclassical experimental observations (of Werner & Brill) to delocalized (spread-out) quantum states. This leads to a correction of previously unnoticed sign-errors in the literature, and to a natural explanation of the deeper reason why certain time-dependent semiclassical arguments are consistent with static results in purely quantal Aharonov-Bohm configurations. These nonlocalities also provide a remedy for misleading results propagating in the literature (concerning an uncritical use of Dirac phase factors, that persists since the time of Feynman's work on path integrals). They are shown to conspire in such a way as to exactly cancel the instantaneous Aharonov-Bohm phase and recover Relativistic Causality in earlier "paradoxes" (such as the van Kampen thought-experiment), and to also complete Peshkin's discussion of the electric Aharonov-Bohm effect in a causal manner. The present formulation offers a direct way to address time-dependent single- vs double-slit experiments and the associated causal issues -- issues that have recently attracted attention, with respect to the inability of current theories to address them.

id: 1104.5507
title: Zeno effect for quantum computation and control
authors: G. A. Paz-Silva, A. T. Rezakhani, J. M. Dominy, D. A. Lidar
comments: Significant modifications, including a new author. To appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 080501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5507
abstract: It is well known that the quantum Zeno effect can protect specific quantum states from decoherence by using projective measurements. Here we combine the theory of weak measurements with stabilizer quantum error correction and detection codes. We derive rigorous performance bounds which demonstrate that the Zeno effect can be used to protect appropriately encoded arbitrary states to arbitrary accuracy, while at the same time allowing for universal quantum computation or quantum control.

id: 1104.5536
title: Optical vortices of slow light using tripod scheme
authors: J. Ruseckas, A. Mekys, G. Juzeliunas
comments: 2 figures
journal: J. Opt. 13, 064013 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5536
abstract: We consider propagation, storing and retrieval of slow light (probe beam) in a resonant atomic medium illuminated by two control laser beams of larger intensity. The probe and two control beams act on atoms in a tripod configuration of the light-matter coupling. The first control beam is allowed to have an orbital angular momentum (OAM). Application of the second vortex-free control laser ensures the adiabatic (lossles) propagation of the probe beam at the vortex core where the intensity of the first control laser goes to zero. Storing and release of the probe beam is accomplished by switching off and on the control laser beams leading to the transfer of the optical vortex from the first control beam to the regenerated probe field. A part of the stored probe beam remains frozen in the medium in the form of atomic spin excitations, the number of which increases with increasing the intensity of the second control laser. We analyse such losses in the regenerated probe beam and provide conditions for the optical vortex of the control beam to be transferred efficiently to the restored probe beam.

id: 1104.5550
title: Coherence Frame, Entanglement Conservation, and Einselection
authors: Dong-Sheng Wang
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5550
abstract: In this paper, the theory of coherence frame is developed. Two kinds of coherence frame are classified. Under coherence frame, the entanglement is conserved in the entanglement swapping process, without entanglement sudden death and birth. The einselection method for the preferred basis problem in the entangle process is shown as incomplete.

id: 1104.5606
title: Operators and their symbols in the optical probabilistic representation of quantum mechanics
authors: Grigori G. Amosov, Yakov A. Korennoy, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5606
abstract: Explicit expressions for most interesting quantum operators in optical tomography representation are found. General formalism of symbols of operators is presented in optical tomographic representation. The symbols of the operators are found explicitly for physical quantities.

id: 1104.5610
title: On calculating the mean values of quantum observables in the optical tomography representation
authors: Grigori G. Amosov, Yakov A. Korennoy, Vladimir I. Man'ko
comments: 8 pages
journal: Theor. Math. Phys. 171:3 832-838 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5610
abstract: Given a density operator $\hat \rho$ the optical tomography map defines a one-parameter set of probability distributions $w_{\hat \rho}(X,\phi),\ \phi \in [0,2\pi),$ on the real line allowing to reconstruct $\hat \rho $. We introduce a dual map from the special class $\mathcal A$ of quantum observables $\hat a$ to a special class of generalized functions $a(X,\phi)$ such that the mean value $<\hat a>_{\hat \rho} =Tr(\hat \rho\hat a)$ is given by the formula $<\hat a>_{\hat \rho}= \int \limits_{0}^{2\pi}\int \limits_{-\infty}^{+\infty}w_{\hat \rho}(X,\phi)a(X,\phi)dXd\phi$. The class $\mathcal A$ includes all the symmetrized polynomials of canonical variables $\hat q$ and $\hat p$.

id: 1104.5649
title: Geometric phases under the presence of a composite environment
authors: Paula I. Villar, Fernando C. Lombardo
comments: 10 pages, 12 figures. Version to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5649
abstract: We compute the geometric phase for a spin-1/2 particle under the presence of a composite environment, composed of an external bath (modeled by an infinite set of harmonic oscillators) and another spin-1/2 particle. We consider both cases: an initial entanglement between the spin-1/2 particles and an initial product state in order to see if the initial entanglement has an enhancement effect on the geometric phase of one of the spins. We follow the nonunitary evolution of the reduced density matrix and evaluate the geometric phase for a single two-level system. We also show that the initial entanglement enhances the sturdiness of the geometric phase under the presence of an external composite environment.

id: 1104.5665
title: Steady-state negative Wigner functions of nonlinear nanomechanical oscillators
authors: Simon Rips, Martin Kiffner, Ignacio Wilson-Rae, Michael J. Hartmann
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 023042 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5665
abstract: We propose a scheme to prepare nanomechanical oscillators in nonclassical steady states, characterized by a pronounced negative Wigner function. In our optomechanical approach, the mechanical oscillator couples to multiple laser driven resonances of an optical cavity. By lowering the resonance frequency of the oscillator via an inhomogeneous electrostatic field, we significantly enhance its intrinsic geometric nonlinearity per phonon. This causes the motional sidebands to split into separate spectral lines for each phonon number and transitions between individual phonon Fock states can be selectively addressed. We show that this enables the preparation of the nanomechanical oscillator in a single phonon Fock state. Our scheme can for example be implemented with a carbon nanotube dispersively coupled to the evanescent field of a state of the art whispering gallery mode microcavity.

id: 1104.5678
title: Generalized entropic measures of quantum correlations
authors: R. Rossignoli, N. Canosa, L. Ciliberti
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 82, 052342 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5678
abstract: We propose a general measure of non-classical correlations for bipartite systems based on generalized entropic functions and majorization properties. Defined as the minimum information loss due to a local measurement, in the case of pure states it reduces to the generalized entanglement entropy, i.e., the generalized entropy of the reduced state. However, in the case of mixed states it can be non-zero in separable states, vanishing just for states diagonal in a general product basis, like the Quantum Discord. Simple quadratic measures of quantum correlations arise as a particular case of the present formalism. The minimum information loss due to a joint local measurement is also discussed. The evaluation of these measures in a few simple relevant cases is as well provided, together with comparison with the corresponding entanglement monotones.

id: 1104.5680
title: Characterization of qutrit channels in terms of their covariance and symmetry properties
authors: Vahid Karimipour, Azam Mani, Laleh Memarzadeh
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012321 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5680
abstract: We characterize the completely positive trace-preserving maps on qutrits (qutrit channels) according to their covariance and symmetry properties. Both discrete and continuous groups are considered. It is shown how each symmetry group restricts arbitrariness in the parameters of the channel to a very small set. Although the explicit examples are related to qutrit channels, the formalism is sufficiently general to be applied to qudit channels.

id: 1104.5694
title: Thermal entanglement in fully connected spin systems and its RPA description
authors: Juan Mauricio Matera, Raul Rossignoli, Norma Canosa
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 78, 012316 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5694
abstract: We examine the thermal pairwise entanglement in a symmetric system of $n$ spins fully connected through anisotropic $XYZ$-type couplings embedded in a transverse magnetic field. We consider both the exact evaluation together with that obtained with the static path + random phase approximation (RPA) and the ensuing mean field + RPA. The latter is shown to provide an accurate analytic description of both the parallel and antiparallel thermal concurrence in large systems. We also analyze the limit temperature for pairwise entanglement, which is shown to increase for large fields and to decrease logarithmically with increasing $n$. Special finite size effects are as well discussed.

id: 1104.0024
title: Developing a robust approach to implementing non-Abelian anyons and topological quantum computing in a modified Kitaev honeycomb lattice model
authors: Haitan Xu, J. M. Taylor
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0024
abstract: Quantum computation provides a unique opportunity to explore new regimes of physical systems through the creation of non-trivial quantum states far outside of the classical limit. However, such computation is remarkably sensitive to noise and undergoes rapid dephasing in most cases. One potential solution to these prosaic concerns is to encode and process the information using topological manipulations of so-called anyons, particles in two dimensions with non-Abelian statistics. Unfortunately, practical implementation of such a topological system remains far from complete, both in terms of physical methods but also in terms of connecting the underlying topological field theory with a specific physical model, including the imperfections expected in any realistic device. Here we develop a complete picture of such topological quantum computation using a variation of the Kitaev honeycomb Hamiltonian as the basis for our approach. We show the robustness of this system against noise, confirm the non-Abelian statistics of the quasi-particles to be Ising anyons, and develop new techniques for turning topological information into measurable spin quantities.

id: 1104.0032
title: Notes on affine and convex spaces
authors: PierGianLuca Porta Mana
comments: 26 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); History and Overview (math.HO); General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0032
abstract: These notes are a short introduction to affine and convex spaces, written especially for physics students. They try to connect and summarize the different elementary presentations available in the mathematical literature. References are also provided, as well as an example showing the relevance and usefulness of affine spaces in classical physics.

id: 1104.0109
title: Effects of Long-Range Correlations on Nonmagnetic Mott Transitions in Hubbard model on Square Lattice
authors: Tomoaki Miyagawa, Hisatoshi Yokoyama
comments: 13 pages, 18 figures, submitted to J. Phys. Soc. Jpn
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0109
abstract: The mechanism of Mott transition in the Hubbard model on the square lattice is studied without explicit introduction of magnetic and superconducting correlations, using a variational Monte Carlo method. In the trial wave functions, we consider various types of binding factors between a doubly-occupied site (doublon, D) and an empty site (holon, H), like a long-range type as well as a conventional nearest-neighbor type, and add independent long-range D-D (H-H) factors. It is found that a wide choice of D-H binding factor leads to Mott transitions at critical values near the band width. We renew the D-H binding picture of Mott transitions by introducing two characteristic length scales, the D-H binding length l_{DH} and the minimum D-D distance l_{DD}, which we appropriately estimate. A Mott transition takes place at l_{DH}=l_{DD}. In the metallic regime (l_{DH}>l_{DD}), the domains of D-H pairs overlap with one another, thereby doublons and holons can move independently by exchanging the partners one after another. In contrast, the D-D factors give only a minor contribution to the Mott transition.

id: 1104.0138
title: Derivation of Nonlinear Schr?dinger Equation
authors: Xiang-Yao Wu, Bai-Jun Zhang, Xiao-Jing Liu, Li-Xiao, Yi-Heng Wu, Yan-Wang, Qing-Cai Wang, Shuang Cheng
comments: 
journal: Int J Theor Phys (2010) 49: 2437-2445
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0138
abstract: We propose some nonlinear Schr\"{o}dinger equations by adding some higher order terms to the Lagrangian density of Schr\"{o}dinger field, and obtain the Gross-Pitaevskii (GP) equation and the logarithmic form equation naturally. In addition, we prove the coefficient of nonlinear term is very small, i.e., the nonlinearity of Schr\"{o}dinger equation is weak.

id: 1104.0144
title: Two-Center Black Holes, Qubits and Elliptic Curves
authors: P¨¦ter L¨¦vay
comments: 51 pages LaTex
journal: Phys.Rev.D84:025023,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0144
abstract: We relate the U-duality invariants characterizing two-center extremal black hole solutions in the stu, st^2 and t^3 models of N=2, d=4 supergravity to the basic invariants used to characterize entanglement classes of four-qubit systems. For the elementary example of a D0D4-D2D6 composite in the t^3 model we illustrate how these entanglement invariants are related to some of the physical properties of the two-center solution. Next we show that it is possible to associate elliptic curves to charge configurations of two-center composites. The hyperdeterminant of the hypercube, a four-qubit polynomial invariant of order 24 with 2894276 terms, is featuring the j invariant of the elliptic curve. We present some evidence that this quantity and its straightforward generalization should play an important role in the physics of two-center solutions.

id: 1104.0154
title: Quantum Quench in the Transverse Field Ising Chain
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, Fabian H. L. Essler, Maurizio Fagotti
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 227203 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0154
abstract: We consider the time evolution of observables in the transverse field Ising chain (TFIC) after a sudden quench of the magnetic field. We provide exact analytical results for the asymptotic time and distance dependence of one- and two-point correlation functions of the order parameter. We employ two complementary approaches based on asymptotic evaluations of determinants and form-factor sums. We prove that the stationary value of the two-point correlation function is not thermal, but can be described by a generalized Gibbs ensemble (GGE). The approach to the stationary state can also be understood in terms of a GGE. We present a conjecture on how these results generalize to particular quenches in other integrable models.

id: 1104.0158
title: Photon lifetime in a cavity containing a slow-light medium
authors: Thomas Laupr¨ºtre, C¨¦dric Proux, Rupamanjari Ghosh, Sylvain Schwartz, Fabienne Goldfarb, Fabien Bretenaker
comments: Accepted for publication in Optics Letters
journal: Optics Letters 36, 1551 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0158
abstract: We investigate experimentally the lifetime of the photons in a cavity containing a medium exhibiting strong positive dispersion. This intracavity positive dispersion is provided by a metastable helium gas at room temperature in the electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) regime, in which light propagates at a group velocity of the order of 10000 m/s. The results definitely prove that the lifetime of the cavity photons is governed by the group velocity of light in the cavity, and not its phase velocity.

id: 1104.0169
title: Temperature can enhance coherent oscillations at a Landau-Zener transition
authors: Robert S. Whitney, Maxime Clusel, Timothy Ziman
comments: 4 Pages & 4 Figs - New version: introduction extended & citations added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 210402 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0169
abstract: We consider sweeping a system through a Landau-Zener avoided-crossing, when that system is also coupled to an environment or noise. Unsurprisingly, we find that decoherence suppresses the coherent oscillations of quantum superpositions of system states, as superpositions decohere into mixed states. However, we also find an effect we call "Lamb-assisted coherent oscillations", in which a Lamb shift exponentially enhances the coherent oscillation amplitude. This dominates for high-frequency environments such as super-Ohmic environments, where the coherent oscillations can grow exponentially as either the environment coupling or temperature are increased. The effect could be used as an experimental probe for high-frequency environments in such systems as molecular magnets, solid-state qubits, spin-polarized gases (neutrons or He3) or Bose-condensates.

id: 1104.0212
title: Physical properties of highly uniform InGaAs pyramidal quantum dots with GaAs barriers: Fine structure splitting in pre-patterned substrates
authors: L.O. Mereni, V. Dimastrodonatoa, G. Juskaa, E. Pelucchia L.O. Mereni, V. Dimastrodonatoa, G. Juskaa, E. Pelucchi
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Superlattices and Microstructures, Volume 49, Issue 3, March 2011, Pages 279-282
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0212
abstract: InGaAs Quantum Dots embedded in GaAs barriers, grown in inverted tetrahedral recesses of 7 {\mu}m edge, have showed interesting characteristics in terms of uniformity and spectral narrowness of the emission. In this paper we present a study on the fine structure splitting (FSS). The investigation of about 40 single quantum dots revealed two main points: (1) the values of this parameter are very similar from dot to dot, proving again the uniformity of Pyramidal QD properties, (2) there is a little chance, in the sample investigated, to find a dot with natural zero splitting, but the values found (the mean being 13 {\mu}eV) should always guarantee the capability of restoring the degeneracy with some corrective technique (e.g. application of a small magnetic field).

id: 1104.0214
title: Spin Amplification for Magnetic Sensors Employing Crystal Defects
authors: Marcus Schaffry, Erik M. Gauger, John J. L. Morton, Simon C. Benjamin
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters, 107(20):207210, 2011
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0214
abstract: Recently there have been several theoretical and experimental studies of the prospects for magnetic field sensors based on crystal defects, especially nitrogen vacancy (NV) centres in diamond. Such systems could potentially be incorporated into an AFM-like apparatus in order to map the magnetic properties of a surface at the single spin level. In this Letter we propose an augmented sensor consisting of an NV centre for readout and an `amplifier' spin system that directly senses the local magnetic field. Our calculations show that this hybrid structure has the potential to detect magnetic moments with a sensitivity and spatial resolution far beyond that of a simple NV centre, and indeed this may be the physical limit for sensors of this class.

id: 1104.0271
title: A circular dielectric grating for vertical extraction of single quantum dot emission
authors: M. Davanco, M. T. Rakher, D. Schuh, A. Badolato, K. Srinivasan
comments: (3 pages)
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 99, 041102 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0271
abstract: We demonstrate a nanostructure composed of partially etched annular trenches in a suspended GaAs membrane, designed for efficient and moderately broadband (approx. 5 nm) emission extraction from single InAs quantum dots. Simulations indicate that a dipole embedded in the nanostructure center radiates upwards into free space with a nearly Gaussian far-field, allowing a collection efficiency > 80 % with a high numerical aperture (NA=0.7) optic, and with 12X Purcell radiative rate enhancement. Fabricated devices exhibit an approx. 10 % photon collection efficiency with a NA=0.42 objective, a 20X improvement over quantum dots in unpatterned GaAs. A fourfold exciton lifetime reduction indicates moderate Purcell enhancement.

id: 1104.0294
title: Revisiting the Symmetries of the Quantum Smorodinsky-Winternitz System in D Dimensions
authors: Christiane Quesne
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 7:035,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0294
abstract: The $D$-dimensional Smorodinsky-Winternitz system, proposed some years ago by Evans, is re-examined from an algebraic viewpoint. It is shown to possess a potential algebra, as well as a dynamical potential one, in addition to its known symmetry and dynamical algebras. The first two are obtained in hyperspherical coordinates by introducing $D$ auxiliary continuous variables and by reducing a 2D-dimensional harmonic oscillator Hamiltonian. The su(2D) symmetry and ${\rm w}(2D) \oplus_s {\rm sp}(4D,{\mathbb R})$ dynamical algebras of this Hamiltonian are then transformed into the searched for potential and dynamical potential algebras of the Smorodinsky-Winternitz system. The action of generators on wavefunctions is given in explicit form for D=2.

id: 1104.0295
title: Interference of an Array of Independent Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Satoshi Ando, Kazuya Yuasa, Mauro Iazzi
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Int. J. Quant. Info. 9, 431-443 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0295
abstract: Interference of an array of independent Bose-Einstein condensates, whose experiment has been performed recently, is theoretically studied in detail. Even if the number of the atoms in each gas is kept finite and the phases of the gases are not well defined, interference fringes are observed on each snapshot. The statistics of the snapshot interference patterns, i.e., the average fringe amplitudes and their fluctuations (covariance), are computed analytically, and concise formulas for their asymptotic values for long time of flight are derived. Processes contributing to these quantities are clarified and the relationship with the description on the basis of the symmetry-breaking scenario is revealed.

id: 1104.0369
title: Aharonov-Bohm-Coulomb Problem in Graphene Ring
authors: Eylee Jung, Mi-Ra Hwang, ChangSoo Park, DaeKil Park
comments: 20 pages, 12 figures (V2) 18 pages, accepted in JPHYSA
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 055301
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0369
abstract: We study the Aharonov-Bohm-Coulomb problem in a graphene ring. We investigate, in particular, the effects of a Coulomb type potential of the form $\xi/r$ on the energy spectrum of Dirac electrons in the graphene ring in two different ways: one for the scalar coupling and the other for the vector coupling. It is found that, since the potential in the scalar coupling breaks the time-reversal symmetry between the two valleys as well as the effective time-reversal symmetry in a single valley, the energy spectrum of one valley is separated from that of the other valley, demonstrating a valley polarization. In the vector coupling, however, the potential does not break either of the two symmetries and its effect appears only as an additive constant to the spectrum of Aharonov-Bohm potential. The corresponding persistent currents, the observable quantities of the symmetry-breaking energy spectra, are shown to be asymmetric about zero magnetic flux in the scalar coupling, while symmetric in the vector coupling.

id: 1104.0408
title: Hermitian unitary matrices with modular permutation symmetry
authors: Ondrej Turek, Taksu Cheon
comments: 19 pages
journal: Linear Algebra Appl. 469 (2015) 569-593
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0408
abstract: We study Hermitian unitary matrices $\S\in\C^{n,n}$ with the following property: There exist $r\geq0$ and $t>0$ such that the entries of $\S$ satisfy $|\S_{jj}|=r$ and $|\S_{jk}|=t$ for all $j,k=1,...,n$, $j\neq k$. We derive necessary conditions on the ratio $d:=r/t$ and show that they are very restrictive except for the case when $n$ is even and the sum of the diagonal elements of $\S$ is zero. Examples of families of matrices $\S$ are constructed for $d$ belonging to certain intervals. The case of real matrices $\S$ is examined in more detail. It is demonstrated that a real $\S$ can exist only for $d=n/2-1$, or for even $n$'s and $d$ satisfying $n/2+d\equiv1\, (\mod2)$. We provide a detailed description of the structure of real $\S$ with $d\geq n/4-3/2$, and derive a sufficient and necessary condition of their existence in terms of the existence of certain symmetric $(v,k,\lambda)$-designs. We prove that there exist no real $\S$ with $d\in(n/6-1,n/4-3/2})$. A parametrization of Hermitian unitary matrices is also proposed, and its generalization to general unitary matrices is given. At the end of the paper, the role of the studied matrices in quantum mechanics on graphs is briefly explained.

id: 1104.0416
title: Lattice generalization of the Dirac equation to general spin and the role of the flat band
authors: Bal¨¢zs D¨®ra, Janik Kailasvuori, Roderich Moessner
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures, 1 table, revised version with a new section on experimental possibilities
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 195422 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0416
abstract: We provide a novel setup for generalizing the two-dimensional pseudospin S=1/2 Dirac equation, arising in graphene's honeycomb lattice, to general pseudospin-S. We engineer these band structures as a nearest-neighbor hopping Hamiltonian involving stacked triangular lattices. We obtain multi-layered low energy excitations around half-filling described by a two-dimensional Dirac equation of the form H=v_F S\cdot p, where S represents an arbitrary spin-S (integer or half-integer). For integer-S, a flat band appears, whose presence modifies qualitatively the response of the system. Among physical observables, the density of states, the optical conductivity and the peculiarities of Klein tunneling are investigated. We also study Chern numbers as well as the zero-energy Landau level degeneracy. By changing the stacking pattern, the topological properties are altered significantly, with no obvious analogue in multilayer graphene stacks.

id: 1104.0443
title: Graphene quantum dots for valley-based quantum computing: A feasibility study
authors: G. Y. Wu, N.-Y. Lue, L. Chang
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0443
abstract: At the center of quantum computing1 realization is the physical implementation of qubits - two-state quantum information units. The rise of graphene2 has opened a new door to the implementation. Because graphene electrons simulate two-dimensional relativistic particles with two degenerate and independent energy valleys,3 a novel degree of freedom (d.o.f.), namely, the valley state of an electron, emerges as a new information carrier.4 Here, we expand the Loss-DiVincenzo quantum dot (QD) approach in electron spin qubits,5,6 and investigate the feasibility of double QD (DQD) structures in gapful graphene as "valley qubits", with the logic 0 / 1 states represented by the "valley" singlet / triplet pair. This generalization is characterized by 1) valley relaxation time ~ O(ms), and 2) electric qubit manipulation on the time scale ~ ns, based on the 1st-order "relativistic effect" unique in graphene. A potential for valley-based quantum computing is present.

id: 1104.0444
title: Macroscopic Klein Tunneling in spin-orbit coupled Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Dan-Wei Zhang, Zheng-Yuan Xue, Hui Yan, Z. D. Wang, Shi-Liang Zhu
comments: 6 pages; 3 figures; Added detailed calculations; Published Version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013628 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0444
abstract: We propose an experimental scheme to detect macroscopic Klein tunneling with spin-orbit coupled Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs). We show that a nonlinear Dirac equation with tunable parameters can be realized with such BECs. %in a simple configuration to generate the artificial spin-orbit coupling. Through numerical calculations, we demonstrate that macroscopic Klein tunneling can be clearly detected under realistic conditions. Macroscopic quantum coherence in such relativistic tunneling is clarified and a BEC with a negative energy is shown to be able to transmit transparently through a wide Gaussian potential barrier.

id: 1104.0473
title: Discrete Quantum Mechanics
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 61 pages, 1 figure. Comments and references added
journal: J.Phys.A44:353001,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0473
abstract: A comprehensive review of the discrete quantum mechanics with the pure imaginary shifts and the real shifts is presented in parallel with the corresponding results in the ordinary quantum mechanics. The main subjects to be covered are the factorised Hamiltonians, the general structure of the solution spaces of the Schroedinger equation (Crum's theorem and its modification), the shape invariance, the exact solvability in the Schroedinger picture as well as in the Heisenberg picture, the creation/annihilation operators and the dynamical symmetry algebras, the unified theory of exact and quasi-exact solvability based on the sinusoidal coordinates, the infinite families of new orthogonal (the exceptional) polynomials. Two new infinite families of orthogonal polynomials, the X_\ell Meixner-Pollaczek and the X_\ell Meixner polynomials are reported.

id: 1104.0484
title: Nonequilibrium work on spin glasses in longitudinal and transverse fields
authors: Masayuki Ohzeki, Hitoshi Katsuda, Hidetoshi Nishimori
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures, submitted to JPSJ
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0484
abstract: We derive a number of exact relations between equilibrium and nonequilibrium quantities for spin glasses in external fields using the Jarzynski equality and gauge symmetry. For randomly-distributed longitudinal fields, a lower bound is established for the work done on the system in nonequilibrium processes, and identities are proven to relate equilibrium and nonequilibrium quantities. In the case of uniform transverse fields, identities are proven between physical quantities and exponentiated work done to the system at different parts of the phase diagram with the context of quantum annealing in mind. Additional relations are given, which relate the exponentiated work in quantum and simulated (classical) annealing. It is also suggested that the Jarzynski equality may serve as a guide to develop a method to perform quantum annealing under non-adiabatic conditions.

id: 1104.0494
title: Effective field theory for the SO(n) bilinear-biquadratic spin chain
authors: Hong-Hao Tu, Roman Orus
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 077204 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0494
abstract: We present a low-energy effective field theory to describe the SO(n) bilinear-biquadratic spin chain. We start with n=6 and construct the effective theory by using six Majorana fermions. After determining various correlation functions we characterize the phases and establish the relation between the effective theories for SO(6) and SO(5). Together with the known results for n=3 and 4, a reduction mechanism is proposed to understand the ground state for arbitrary SO(n). Also, we provide a generalization of the Lieb-Schultz-Mattis theorem for SO(n). The implications of our results for entanglement and correlation functions are discussed.

id: 1104.0573
title: Gravity versus Quantum theory: Is electron really pointlike?
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, essay for GRF 2011 competition
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1424, 26 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0573
abstract: Quantum theory claims that electron is pointlike and structureless. Contrary, the consistent with Gravity Kerr-Newman (KN) electron model displays an extended structure of the Compton size $r_c=\hbar /m .$ We obtain that there is no real conflict between the extended Gravitating electron and a Quantum electron "dressed" by virtual particles. In the same time the KN model indicates new important details of the electron structure and sheds new light on some old puzzles of quantum theory. In particular, the KN Gravity predicts that electron forms a disklike vacuum bubble bounded by a closed string, which could probably be detected by the novel experiments. If it will be confirmed, it would be of primary importance for foundations of Quantum theory and unification of Quantum theory with Gravity.

id: 1104.0614
title: Unconventional Fulde-Ferrel-Larkin-Ovchinnikov states in spin-orbit coupled condensates: exact results
authors: Qiang Han, Jia Liu, Dan-Bo Zhang, Z. D. Wang
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; submitted version
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0614
abstract: We find that a model Hamiltonian of s-wave superconductors in the presence of spin-orbit interactions and a Zeeman field is exactly solvable. Most intriguingly, based on the exact solutions, an unconventional type of Fulde-Ferrel-Larkin-Ovchinnikov (FFLO) ground state is rigorously revealed, in which the center-of-mass momentum of the fermion pair is proportional to the Zeeman field. We also elaborate on the drifting effect of the Zeeman field on the spin-orbit-coupled Bose-Einstein condensate.

id: 1104.0643
title: Topological phase transitions between chiral and helical spin textures in a lattice with spin-orbit coupling and a magnetic field
authors: N. Goldman, W. Beugeling, C. Morais Smith
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, Accepted in Europhys. Lett. (Dec 2011)
journal: EPL 97 (2012) 23003
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0643
abstract: We consider the combined effects of large spin-orbit couplings and a perpendicular magnetic field in a 2D honeycomb fermionic lattice. This system provides an elegant setup to generate versatile spin textures propagating along the edge of a sample. The spin-orbit coupling is shown to induce topological phase transitions between a helical quantum spin Hall phase and a chiral spin-imbalanced quantum Hall state. Besides, we find that the spin orientation of a single topological edge state can be tuned by a Rashba spin-orbit coupling, opening an interesting route towards quantum spin manipulation. We discuss the possible realization of our results using cold atoms trapped in optical lattices, where large synthetic magnetic fields and spin-orbit couplings can be engineered and finely tuned. In particular, this system would lead to the observation of a time-reversal-symmetry-broken quantum spin Hall phase.

id: 1104.0708
title: Kondo Resonance of a Microwave Photon
authors: Karyn Le Hur
comments: Final Version: Main text and Supplementary Material
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 140506(R) (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0708
abstract: We emulate renormalization group models, such as the Spin-Boson Hamiltonian or the anisotropic Kondo model, from a quantum optics perspective by considering a superconducting device. The infra-red confinement involves photon excitations of two tunable transmission lines entangled to an artificial spin-1/2 particle or double-island charge qubit. Focusing on the propagation of microwave light, in the underdamped regime of the Spin-Boson model, we identify a many-body resonance where a photon is absorbed at the renormalized qubit frequency and reemitted forward in an elastic manner. We also show that asymptotic freedom of microwave light is reached by increasing the input signal amplitude at low temperatures which allows the disappearance of the transmission peak.

id: 1104.0820
title: Emergent classicality in continuous quantum measurements
authors: Juha Javanainen, Janne Ruostekoski
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 013005
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0820
abstract: We develop a classical theoretical description for nonlinear many-body dynamics that incorporates the back-action of a continuous measurement process. The classical approach is compared with the exact quantum solution in an example with an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate in a double-well potential where the atom numbers in both potential wells are monitored by light scattering. In the classical description the back-action of the measurements appears as diffusion of the relative phase of the condensates on each side of the trap. When the measurements are frequent enough to resolve the system dynamics, the system behaves classically. This happens even deep in the quantum regime, and demonstrates how classical physics emerges from quantum mechanics as a result of measurement back-action.

id: 1104.0890
title: Effects of Interactions on the Critical Temperature of a Trapped Bose Gas
authors: Robert P. Smith, Robert L. D. Campbell, Naaman Tammuz, Zoran Hadzibabic
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 250403 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0890
abstract: We perform high-precision measurements of the condensation temperature of a harmonically-trapped atomic Bose gas with widely-tuneable interactions. For weak interactions we observe a negative shift of the critical temperature in excellent agreement with mean-field theory. However for sufficiently strong interactions we clearly observe an additional positive shift, characteristic of beyond-mean-field critical correlations. We also discuss non-equilibrium effects on the apparent critical temperature for both very weak and very strong interactions.

id: 1104.0908
title: Antiferromagnetic phase transition in a nonequilibrium lattice of Rydberg atoms
authors: Tony E. Lee, H. H?ffner, M. C. Cross
comments: 4 pages + appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 031402(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0908
abstract: We study a driven-dissipative system of atoms in the presence of laser excitation to a Rydberg state and spontaneous emission. The atoms interact via the blockade effect, whereby an atom in the Rydberg state shifts the Rydberg level of neighboring atoms. We use mean-field theory to study how the Rydberg population varies in space. As the laser frequency changes, there is a continuous transition between the uniform and antiferromagnetic phases. The nonequilibrium nature also leads to a novel oscillatory phase and bistability between the uniform and antiferromagnetic phases.

id: 1104.0970
title: Phase shifts vs time delays: Sagnac and Hong-Ou-Mandel
authors: S.J. van Enk
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0970
abstract: We point out that the Sagnac effect can be measured by means of the Hong-Ou-Mandel effect. The latter is not sensitive to phase shifts, and thus the Hong-Ou-Mandel Sagnac effect hinges on the fact that the Sagnac effect is, fundamentally, a time delay, not a phase shift.

id: 1104.0994
title: Probing vacuum birefringence by phase-contrast Fourier imaging under fields of high-intensity lasers
authors: Kensuke Homma, Dieter Habs, Toshiki Tajima
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures. Accepted by Applied Physics B
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0994
abstract: In vacuum high-intensity lasers can cause photon-photon interaction via the process of virtual vacuum polarization which may be measured by the phase velocity shift of photons across intense fields. In the optical frequency domain, the photon-photon interaction is polarization-mediated described by the Euler-Heisenberg effective action. This theory predicts the vacuum birefringence or polarization dependence of the phase velocity shift arising from nonlinear properties in quantum electrodynamics (QED). We suggest a method to measure the vacuum birefringence under intense optical laser fields based on the absolute phase velocity shift by phase-contrast Fourier imaging. The method may serve for observing effects even beyond the QED vacuum polarization.

id: 1104.0997
title: Toward a "fundamental theorem of quantal measure theory"
authors: Rafael D. Sorkin
comments: CHANGES: Hacked the .eps figure files to eliminate corruption by the arxiv software. (I hope this works. If not, please see the uncorrupted copy at this http URL) plainTeX, 46 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.0997
abstract: We address the extension problem for quantal measures of path-integral type, concentrating on two cases: sequential growth of causal sets, and a particle moving on the finite lattice Z_n. In both cases the dynamics can be coded into a vector-valued measure mu on Omega, the space of all histories. Initially mu is defined only on special subsets of Omega called cylinder-events, and one would like to extend it to a larger family of subsets (events) in analogy to the way this is done in the classical theory of stochastic processes. Since quantally mu is generally not of bounded variation, a new method is required. We propose a method that defines the measure of an event by means of a sequence of simpler events which in a suitable sense converges to the event whose measure one is seeking to define. To this end, we introduce canonical sequences approximating certain events, and we propose a measure-based criterion for the convergence of such sequences. Applying the method, we encounter a simple event whose measure is zero classically but non-zero quantally.

id: 1104.1009
title: Production of Sodium Bose--Einstein condensates in an optical dimple trap
authors: David Jacob, Emmanuel Mimoun, Luigi De Sarlo, Martin Weitz, J. Dalibard, F. Gerbier
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1009
abstract: We report on the realization of a sodium Bose--Einstein condensate (BEC) in a combined red-detuned optical dipole trap, formed by two beams crossing in a horizontal plane and a third, tightly focused dimple trap propagating vertically. We produce a BEC in three main steps: loading of the crossed dipole trap from laser-cooled atoms, an intermediate evaporative cooling stage which results in efficient loading of the auxiliary dimple trap, and a final evaporative cooling stage in the dimple trap. Our protocol is implemented in a compact setup and allows us to reach quantum degeneracy even with relatively modest initial atom numbers and available laser power.

id: 1104.1022
title: Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger generation protocol for N superconducting transmon qubits capacitively coupled to a quantum bus
authors: Samuel Aldana, Ying-Dan Wang, Christoph Bruder
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 134519 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1022
abstract: We propose a circuit quantum electrodynamics (QED) realization of a protocol to generate a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state for $N$ superconducting transmon qubits homogeneously coupled to a superconducting transmission line resonator in the dispersive limit. We derive an effective Hamiltonian with pairwise qubit exchange interactions of the XY type, $\tilde{g}(XX+YY)$, that can be globally controlled. Starting from a separable initial state, these interactions allow to generate a multi-qubit GHZ state within a time $t_{\text{GHZ}}\sim \tilde{g}^{-1}$. We discuss how to probe the non-local nature and the genuine $N$-partite entanglement of the generated state. Finally, we investigate the stability of the proposed scheme to inhomogeneities in the physical parameters.

id: 1104.1059
title: Time dependent transitions with time-space noncommutativity & its implications in Quantum Optics
authors: Nitin Chandra
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 015307
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1059
abstract: We study the time dependent transitions of quantum forced harmonic oscillator (QFHO) in noncommutative $\mathds{R}^{1,1}$ perturbatively to linear order in the noncommutativity $\theta$. We show that the Poisson distribution gets modified, and that the vacuum state evolves into a "squeezed" state rather than a coherent state. The time evolutions of uncertainties in position and momentum in vacuum are also studied and imply interesting consequences for modeling nonlinear phenomena in quantum optics.

id: 1104.1113
title: Laser scattering by density fluctuations of ultra-cold atoms in a magneto-optical trap
authors: J. T. Mendon?a, H. Ter?as
comments: J. Phys. B (in press)
journal: J. Phys. B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics 44, 95301 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1113
abstract: We study the spectrum of density fluctuations in the ultra-cold gas of neutral atoms, confined in a magneto-optical trap. We determine the corresponding amplitude and spectra of laser light scattered by this medium. We derive an expression for the dynamical structure function, by using a test particle method. We propose to use the collective laser scattering as a diagnostic method for the microscopic properties of the ultra-cold matter. This will also allow us to check on the atomic correlations which are mediated by the collective mean field inside the gas.

id: 1104.1139
title: Topological Order and Degenerate Singular Value Spectrum in Two-Dimensional Dimerized Quantum Heisenberg Model
authors: Ching-Yu Huang, Feng-Li Lin
comments: 28 pages, 15 figures; v2 add references and two data points of topological entanglement entropy for 4 by 4 block; v3 text polishing, final for PRB
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1139
abstract: We study the connection between topological order and degeneracy of the singular value spectrum by explicitly solving the two-dimensional dimerized quantum Heisenberg model in the form of tensor product state ansatz. Based on the ground state solution, we find non-zero topological entanglement entropy at the frustrated regime. It indicates a possible topological phase. Furthermore, we find that the singular value spectrum associated with each link in tensor product state is doubly degenerate only in this phase. Degeneracy of the singular value spectrum is robust against various types of perturbations, in accordance with our expectation for topological order. Our results support the connection among topological order, long range entanglement and the dominant degenerate singular values. In the context of tensor product state ansatz, the numerical evaluation of singular value spectrum costs far less computation power than the one for topological entanglement entropy. Our results provide a more viable way to numerically identify the topological order for the generic frustrated systems.

id: 1104.1250
title: Information Geometry of Quantum Entangled Gaussian Wave-Packets
authors: D.-H. Kim, S. A. Ali, C. Cafaro, S. Mancini
comments: 37 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physica A 391 (2012) 4517-4556
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1250
abstract: Describing and understanding the essence of quantum entanglement and its connection to dynamical chaos is of great scientific interest. In this work, using information geometric (IG) techniques, we investigate the effects of micro-correlations on the evolution of maximal probability paths on statistical manifolds induced by systems whose microscopic degrees of freedom are Gaussian distributed. We use the statistical manifolds associated with correlated and non-correlated Gaussians to model the scattering induced quantum entanglement of two spinless, structureless, non-relativistic particles, the latter represented by minimum uncertainty Gaussian wave-packets. Knowing that the degree of entanglement is quantified by the purity P of the system, we express the purity for s-wave scattering in terms of the micro-correlation coefficient r - a quantity that parameterizes the correlated microscopic degrees of freedom of the system; thus establishing a connection between entanglement and micro-correlations. Moreover, the correlation coefficient r is readily expressed in terms of physical quantities involved in the scattering, the precise form of which is obtained via our IG approach. It is found that the entanglement duration can be controlled by the initial momentum p_{o}, momentum spread {\sigma}_{o} and r. Furthermore, we obtain exact expressions for the IG analogue of standard indicators of chaos such as the sectional curvatures, Jacobi field intensities and the Lyapunov exponents. We then present an analytical estimate of the information geometric entropy (IGE); a suitable measure that quantifies the complexity of geodesic paths on curved manifolds. Finally, we present concluding remarks addressing the usefulness of an IG characterization of both entanglement and complexity in quantum physics.

id: 1104.1290
title: Quantum Spin Hall Effect in Silicene
authors: Cheng-Cheng Liu, Wanxiang Feng, Yugui Yao
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 076802 (2011)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1290
abstract: Recent years have witnessed great interest in the quantum spin Hall effect (QSHE) which is a new quantum state of matter with nontrivial topological property due to the scientific importance as a novel quantum state and the technological applications in spintronics. Taking account of Si, Ge significant importance as semiconductor material and intense interest in the realization of QSHE for spintronics, here we investigate the spin-orbit opened energy gap and the band topology in recently synthesized silicene using first-principles calculations. We demonstrate that silicene with topologically nontrivial electronic structures can realize QSHE by exploiting adiabatic continuity and direct calculation of the Z2 topological invariant. We predict that QSHE in silicene can be observed in an experimentally accessible low temperature regime with the spin-orbit band gap of 1.55 meV, much higher than that of graphene due to large spin-orbit coupling and the low-buckled structure. Furthermore, we find that the gap will increase to 2.90 meV under certain pressure strain. Finally, we also study germanium with similar low buckled stable structure, and predict that SOC opens a band gap of 23.9 meV, much higher than the liquid nitrogen temperature.

id: 1104.1322
title: Quantum Structure in Cognition: Why and How Concepts are Entangled
authors: Diederik Aerts, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 10 pages
journal: Quantum Interaction. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 7052, pp. 116-127, 2011
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1322
abstract: One of us has recently elaborated a theory for modelling concepts that uses the state context property (SCoP) formalism, i.e. a generalization of the quantum formalism. This formalism incorporates context into the mathematical structure used to represent a concept, and thereby models how context influences the typicality of a single exemplar and the applicability of a single property of a concept, which provides a solution of the 'Pet-Fish problem' and other difficulties occurring in concept theory. Then, a quantum model has been worked out which reproduces the membership weights of several exemplars of concepts and their combinations. We show in this paper that a further relevant effect appears in a natural way whenever two or more concepts combine, namely, 'entanglement'. The presence of entanglement is explicitly revealed by considering a specific example with two concepts, constructing some Bell's inequalities for this example, testing them in a real experiment with test subjects, and finally proving that Bell's inequalities are violated in this case. We show that the intrinsic and unavoidable character of entanglement can be explained in terms of the weights of the exemplars of the combined concept with respect to the weights of the exemplars of the component concepts.

id: 1104.1331
title: Entanglement Spectrum, Critical Exponents and Order Parameters in Quantum Spin Chains
authors: G. De Chiara, L. Lepori, M. Lewenstein, A. Sanpera
comments: New title and modified conclusions; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 237208 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1331
abstract: We investigate the entanglement spectrum near criticality in finite quantum spin chains. Using finite size scaling we show that when approaching a quantum phase transition, the Schmidt gap, i.e., the difference between the two largest eigenvalues of the reduced density matrix, signals the critical point and scales with universal critical exponents related to the relevant operators of the corresponding perturbed conformal field theory describing the critical point. Such scaling behavior allows us to identify explicitly the Schmidt gap as a local order parameter.

id: 1104.1459
title: A Quantum Cognition Analysis of the Ellsberg Paradox
authors: Diederik Aerts, Bart D'Hooghe, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 11 pages
journal: Quantum Interaction. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 7052, pp. 95-104, 2011
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1459
abstract: The 'expected utility hypothesis' is one of the foundations of classical approaches to economics and decision theory and Savage's 'Sure-Thing Principle' is a fundamental element of it. It has been put forward that real-life situations exist, illustrated by the 'Allais' and 'Ellsberg paradoxes', in which the Sure-Thing Principle is violated, and where also the expected utility hypothesis does not hold. We have recently presented strong arguments for the presence of a double layer structure, a 'classical logical' and a 'quantum conceptual', in human thought and that the quantum conceptual mode is responsible of the above violation. We consider in this paper the Ellsberg paradox, perform an experiment with real test subjects on the situation considered by Ellsberg, and use the collected data to elaborate a model for the conceptual landscape surrounding the decision situation of the paradox. We show that it is the conceptual landscape which gives rise to a violation of the Sure-Thing Principle and leads to the paradoxical situation discovered by Ellsberg.

id: 1104.1480
title: Pulsed Adiabatic Photoassociation via Scattering Resonances
authors: Alex C. Han, Evgeny A. Shapiro, Moshe Shapiro
comments: 20 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 154018
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1480
abstract: We develop the theory for the Adiabatic Raman Photoassociation (ARPA) of ultracold atoms to form ultracold molecules in the presence of scattering resonances. Based on a computational method in which we replace the continuum with a discrete set of "effective modes", we show that the existence of resonances greatly aids in the formation of deeply bound molecular states. We illustrate our general theory by computationally studying the formation of $^{85}$Rb$_2$ molecules from pairs of colliding ultracold $^{85}$Rb atoms. The single-event transfer yield is shown to have a near-unity value for wide resonances, while the ensemble-averaged transfer yield is shown to be higher for narrow resonances. The ARPA yields are compared with that of (the experimentally measured) "Feshbach molecule" magneto-association. Our findings suggest that an experimental investigation of ARPA at sub-$\mu$K temperatures is warranted.

id: 1104.1629
title: Lehmann-Symanzik-Zimmermann S-Matrix elements on the Moyal Plane
authors: A.P.Balachandran, Pramod Padmanabhan, Amilcar R. de Queiroz
comments: 18 pages, minor corrections, To appear in Phys. Rev. D, 2011
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1629
abstract: Field theories on the Groenewold-Moyal(GM) plane are studied using the Lehmann-Symanzik-Zimmermann(LSZ) formalism. The example of real scalar fields is treated in detail. The S-matrix elements in this non-perturbative approach are shown to be equal to the interaction representation S-matrix elements. This is a new non-trivial result: in both cases, the S-operator is independent of the noncommutative deformation parameter $\theta_{\mu\nu}$ and the change in scattering amplitudes due to noncommutativity is just a time delay. This result is verified in two different ways. But the off-shell Green's functions do depend on $\theta_{\mu\nu}$. In the course of this analysis, unitarity of the non-perturbative S-matrix is proved as well.

id: 1104.1643
title: Lightcone renormalization and quantum quenches in one-dimensional Hubbard models
authors: Tilman Enss, Jesko Sirker
comments: published version
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 023008 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1643
abstract: The Lieb-Robinson bound implies that the unitary time evolution of an operator can be restricted to an effective light cone for any Hamiltonian with short-range interactions. Here we present a very efficient renormalization group algorithm based on this light cone structure to study the time evolution of prepared initial states in the thermodynamic limit in one-dimensional quantum systems. The algorithm does not require translational invariance and allows for an easy implementation of local conservation laws. We use the algorithm to investigate the relaxation dynamics of double occupancies in fermionic Hubbard models as well as a possible thermalization. For the integrable Hubbard model we find a pure power-law decay of the number of doubly occupied sites towards the value in the long-time limit while the decay becomes exponential when adding a nearest neighbor interaction. In accordance with the eigenstate thermalization hypothesis, the long-time limit is reasonably well described by a thermal average. We point out though that such a description naturally requires the use of negative temperatures. Finally, we study a doublon impurity in a N\'eel background and find that the excess charge and spin spread at different velocities, providing an example of spin-charge separation in a highly excited state.

id: 1104.1705
title: Control of the Casimir Force Using Semiconductor Test Bodies
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, U. Mohideen, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: Review: 61 pages, 23 figures
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.B25:171-230,2011
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1705
abstract: We describe experimental and related theoretical work on the measurement of the Casimir force using semiconductor test bodies. This field of research started in 2005 and several important and interesting results have already been obtained. Specifically, the Casimir force or its gradient were measured in the configuration of an Au-coated sphere and different semiconductor surfaces. It was found that the force magnitude depends significantly on the replacement of the metal with a semiconductor and on the concentration of charge carriers in the semiconductor material. Special attention is paid to the experiment on the optical modulation of the Casimir force. In this experiment the difference Casimir force between an Au-coated sphere and Si plate in the presence and in the absence of laser light was measured. Possible applications of this experiment are discussed, specifically, for the realization of the pulsating Casimir force in three-layer systems. Theoretical problems arising from the comparison of the experimental data for the difference Casimir force with the Lifshitz theory are analyzed. We consider the possibility to control the magnitude of the Casimir force in phase transitions of semiconductor materials. Experiments on measuring the Casimir force gradient between an Au-coated sphere and Si plate covered with rectangular corrugations of different character are also described. Here, we discuss the interplay between the material properties and nontrivial geometry and the applicability of the proximity force approximation. The review contains comparison between different experiments and analysis of their advantages and disadvantages.

id: 1104.1721
title: Exact ground state of the sine-square deformed XY spin chain
authors: Hosho Katsura
comments: 10 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 252001
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1721
abstract: We study the sine-square deformed quantum XY chain with open boundary conditions, in which the interaction strength at the position $x$ in the chain of length $L$ is proportional to the function $f_x = \sin^2 [\pi/L (x-1/2)]$. The model can be mapped onto a free spinless fermion model with site-dependent hopping amplitudes and on-site potentials via the Jordan-Wigner transformation. Although the single-particle eigenstates of this system cannot be obtained in closed form, it is shown that the many-body ground state is identical to that of the uniform XY chain with periodic boundary conditions. This proves a conjecture of Hikihara and Nishino [Hikihara T and Nishino T 2011 {\it Phys. Rev. B} \textbf{83} 060414(R)] based on numerical evidence.

id: 1104.1722
title: Spatial separation in a thermal mixture of ultracold $^{174}$Yb and $^{87}$Rb atoms
authors: Florian Baumer, Frank M¨¹nchow, Axel G?rlitz, Stephen E. Maxwell, Paul S. Julienne, Eite Tiesinga
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1722
abstract: We report on the observation of unusually strong interactions in a thermal mixture of ultracold atoms which cause a significant modification of the spatial distribution. A mixture of $^{87}$Rb and $^{174}$Yb with a temperature of a few $\mu$K is prepared in a hybrid trap consisting of a bichromatic optical potential superimposed on a magnetic trap. For suitable trap parameters and temperatures, a spatial separation of the two species is observed. We infer that the separation is driven by a large interaction strength between $^{174}$Yb and $^{87}$Rb accompanied by a large three-body recombination rate. Based on this assumption we have developed a diffusion model which reproduces our observations.

id: 1104.1743
title: Intersubband Edge Singularity in Metallic Nanotubes
authors: E. G. Mishchenko, O. A. Starykh
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure (final version, discussion of Sommerfeld factor and Ref. 11 added)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 116804 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1743
abstract: Tunneling density of states of both the massless and massive (gapped) particles in metallic carbon nanotubes is known to have anomalous energy dependence. This is the result of coupling to multiple low-energy bosonic excitation (plasmons). For both kinds of particles the ensuing effect is the suppression of the density of states by electron-electron interactions. We demonstrate that the optical absorption between gapless and gapped states is affected by the many-body effects in the opposite way. The absorption probability is enhanced compared with the non-interacting value and develops a power-law frequency dependence with the exponent -0.2 for typical nanotubes.

id: 1104.1770
title: A quantum protocol for sampling correlated equilibria unconditionally and without a mediator
authors: Iordanis Kerenidis, Shengyu Zhang
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1770
abstract: A correlated equilibrium is a fundamental solution concept in game theory that enjoys many desirable properties. However, it requires a trusted mediator, which is a major drawback in many practical applications. A computational solution to this problem was proposed by Dodis, Halevi and Rabin. They extended the original game by adding an initial communication stage and showed that any correlated strategy for 2-player games can be achieved, provided that the players are computationally bounded. In this paper, we show that if the players can communicate via a quantum channel before the game, then any correlated equilibrium for 2-player games can be achieved, without a trusted mediator and unconditionally. This provides another example of a major advantage of quantum information processing. More precisely, we prove that for any correlated equilibrium p of a strategic game G, there exists an extended game (with a quantum communication initial stage) Q with an efficiently computable approximate Nash equilibrium q, such that the expected payoff for both players in q is at least as high as in p. The main cryptographic tool used in the construction is the quantum weak coin flipping protocol of Mochon.

id: 1104.1823
title: Which weighted circulant networks have perfect state transfer?
authors: Milan Ba?i?
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1823
abstract: The question of perfect state transfer existence in quantum spin networks based on weighted graphs has been recently presented by many authors. We give a simple condition for characterizing weighted circulant graphs allowing perfect state transfer in terms of their eigenvalues. This is done by extending the results about quantum periodicity existence in the networks obtained by Saxena, Severini and Shparlinski and characterizing integral graphs among weighted circulant graphs. Finally, classes of weighted circulant graphs supporting perfect state transfer are found. These classes completely cover the class of circulant graphs having perfect state transfer in the unweighted case. In fact, we show that there exists an weighted integral circulant graph with $n$ vertices having perfect state transfer if and only if $n$ is even. Moreover we prove the non-existence of perfect state transfer for several other classes of weighted integral circulant graphs of even order.

id: 1104.1825
title: Characterization of circulant graphs having perfect state transfer
authors: Milan Ba?i?
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1825
abstract: In this paper we answer the question of when circulant quantum spin networks with nearest-neighbor couplings can give perfect state transfer. The network is described by a circulant graph $G$, which is characterized by its circulant adjacency matrix $A$. Formally, we say that there exists a {\it perfect state transfer} (PST) between vertices $a,b\in V(G)$ if $|F(\tau)_{ab}|=1$, for some positive real number $\tau$, where $F(t)=\exp(\i At)$. Saxena, Severini and Shparlinski ({\it International Journal of Quantum Information} 5 (2007), 417--430) proved that $|F(\tau)_{aa}|=1$ for some $a\in V(G)$ and $\tau\in \R^+$ if and only if all eigenvalues of $G$ are integer (that is, the graph is integral). The integral circulant graph $\ICG_n (D)$ has the vertex set $Z_n = \{0, 1, 2, ..., n - 1\}$ and vertices $a$ and $b$ are adjacent if $\gcd(a-b,n)\in D$, where $D \subseteq \{d : d \mid n,\ 1\leq d<n\}$. These graphs are highly symmetric and have important applications in chemical graph theory. We show that $\ICG_n (D)$ has PST if and only if $n\in 4\N$ and $D=\widetilde{D_3}\cup D_2\cup 2D_2\cup 4D_2\cup \{n/2^a\}$, where $\widetilde{D_3}=\{d\in D\ |\ n/d\in 8\N\}$, $D_2= \{d\in D\ |\ n/d\in 8\N+4\}\setminus \{n/4\}$ and $a\in\{1,2\}$. We have thus answered the question of complete characterization of perfect state transfer in integral circulant graphs raised in {\it Quantum Information and Computation}, Vol. 10, No. 3&4 (2010) 0325--0342 by Angeles-Canul {\it et al.} Furthermore, we also calculate perfect quantum communication distance (distance between vertices where PST occurs) and describe the spectra of integral circulant graphs having PST. We conclude by giving a closed form expression calculating the number of integral circulant graphs of a given order having PST.

id: 1104.2017
title: Estimating the conditions for polariton condensation in organic thin-film microcavities
authors: Eric R. Bittner, Carlos Silva
comments: 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2017
abstract: We examine the possibility of observing Bose condensation of a confined two-dimensional polariton gas in an organic quantum well. We deduce a suitable parameterization of a model Hamiltonian based upon the cavity geometry, the biexciton binding energy, and similar spectroscopic and structural data. By converting the sum-over-states to a semiclassical integration over $d$-dimensional phase space, we show that while an ideal 2-D Bose gas will not undergo condensation, an interacting gas with the Bogoliubov dispersion $H(p)\approx s p$ close to $p=0$ will undergo Bose condensation at a given critical density and temperature. We show that $T_c/\sqrt{\rho_c}$ is sensitive to both the cavity geometry and to the biexciton binding energy. In particular, for strongly bound biexcitons, the non-linear interaction term appearing in the Gross-Pitaevskii equation becomes negative and the resulting ground state will be a localized soliton state rather than a delocalized Bose condensate.

id: 1104.2031
title: Exciton dynamics and Quantumness of energy transfer in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson complex
authors: Peter Nalbach, Daniel Braun, Michael Thorwart
comments: enlarged and final version, 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 84, 041926 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2031
abstract: We present numerically exact results for the quantum coherent energy transfer in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson molecular aggregate under realistic physiological conditions, including vibrational fluctuations of the protein and the pigments for an experimentally determined fluctuation spectrum. We find coherence times shorter than observed experimentally. Furthermore we determine the energy transfer current and quantify its "quantumness" as the distance of the density matrix to the classical pointer states for the energy current operator. Most importantly, we find that the energy transfer happens through a "Schr\"odinger-cat" like superposition of energy current pointer states.

id: 1104.2068
title: Graphene plasmonics: A platform for strong light-matter interaction
authors: Frank H.L. Koppens, Darrick E. Chang, F. Javier Garcia de Abajo
comments: 39 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2068
abstract: Graphene plasmons provide a suitable alternative to noble-metal plasmons because they exhibit much larger confinement and relatively long propagation distances, with the advantage of being highly tunable via electrostatic gating. We report strong light- matter interaction assisted by graphene plasmons, and in particular, we predict unprecedented high decay rates of quantum emitters in the proximity of a carbon sheet, large vacuum Rabi splitting and Purcell factors, and extinction cross sections exceeding the geometrical area in graphene ribbons and nanometer-sized disks. Our results provide the basis for the emerging and potentially far-reaching field of graphene plasmonics, offering an ideal platform for cavity quantum electrodynamics and supporting the possibility of single-molecule, single-plasmon devices.

id: 1104.2154
title: Statistics and Nos¨¦ formalism for Ehrenfest dynamics
authors: J. L. Alonso, A. Castro, J. Clemente-Gallardo, J. C. Cuch¨ª, P. Echenique, F. Falceto
comments: 28 pages, 1 figure. Published version. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1010.1494
journal: J. Phys. A: Math Theor. 44 395004, 2011
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2154
abstract: Quantum dynamics (i.e., the Schr\"odinger equation) and classical dynamics (i.e., Hamilton equations) can both be formulated in equal geometric terms: a Poisson bracket defined on a manifold. In this paper we first show that the hybrid quantum-classical dynamics prescribed by the Ehrenfest equations can also be formulated within this general framework, what has been used in the literature to construct propagation schemes for Ehrenfest dynamics. Then, the existence of a well defined Poisson bracket allows to arrive to a Liouville equation for a statistical ensemble of Ehrenfest systems. The study of a generic toy model shows that the evolution produced by Ehrenfest dynamics is ergodic and therefore the only constants of motion are functions of the Hamiltonian. The emergence of the canonical ensemble characterized by the Boltzmann distribution follows after an appropriate application of the principle of equal a priori probabilities to this case. Once we know the canonical distribution of a Ehrenfest system, it is straightforward to extend the formalism of Nos\'e (invented to do constant temperature Molecular Dynamics by a non-stochastic method) to our Ehrenfest formalism. This work also provides the basis for extending stochastic methods to Ehrenfest dynamics.

id: 1104.2314
title: Anderson localization of matter waves in tailored disordered potentials
authors: Marie Piraud, Alain Aspect, Laurent Sanchez-Palencia
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 063611 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2314
abstract: We show that, in contrast to immediate intuition, Anderson localization of noninteracting particles induced by a disordered potential in free space can increase (i.e., the localization length can decrease) when the particle energy increases, for appropriately tailored disorder correlations. We predict the effect in one, two, and three dimensions, and propose a simple method to observe it using ultracold atoms placed in optical disorder. The increase of localization with the particle energy can serve to discriminate quantum versus classical localization.

id: 1104.2343
title: The Effect of Disorder in Superfluid Double Layer Graphene
authors: Brian Dellabetta, Matthew J. Gilbert
comments: 11 pages, 14 figures
journal: Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 23 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2343
abstract: We investigate the superfluid properties of disordered double layer graphene systems using the non-equilibrium Green's function (NEGF) formalism. The complexity of such a structure makes it imperative to study the effects of lattice vacancies which will inevitably arise during fabrication. We present and compare room temperature performance characteristics for both ideal and disordered bilayer graphene systems in an effort to illustrate the behavior of a Bose-Einstein Condensate in the presence of lattice defects under non-equilibrium conditions. We find that lattice vacancies spread throughout the top layer past the coherence length have a reduced effect compared to the ideal case. However, vacancies concentrated near the metal contacts within the coherence length significantly alter the interlayer superfluid transport properties.

id: 1104.2346
title: A quantum mechanical model of the upper bounds of the cascading contribution to the second hyperpolarizability
authors: Nathan J. Dawson, Benjamin R. Anderson, Jennifer L. Schei, Mark G. Kuzyk
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043407 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2346
abstract: Microscopic cascading of second-order nonlinearities between two molecules has been proposed to yield an enhanced third-order molecular nonlinear-optical response. In this contribution, we investigate the two-molecule cascaded second hyperpolarizability and show that it will never exceed the fundamental limit of a single molecule with the same number of electrons as the two-molecule system. We show the apparent divergence behavior of the cascading contribution to the second hyperpolarizability vanishes when properly taking into account the intermolecular interactions. Although cascading can never lead to a larger nonlinear-optical response than a single molecule, it provides alternative molecular design configurations for creating materials with large third-order susceptibilities that may be difficult to design into a single molecule.

id: 1104.2354
title: Manipulating the momentum state of a condensate by sequences of standing wave pulses
authors: Wei Xiong, Xuguang Yue, Zhongkai Wang, Xiaoji Zhou, Xuzong Chen
comments: 6 pages; 5 figures; submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2354
abstract: We analyze the effects of sequences of standing wave pulses on a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC). Experimental observations are in good agreement with a numerical simulation based on the band structure theory in the optical lattice. We also demonstrate that a coherent control method based on such sequences of pulses is very efficient for experimentally designing specific momentum states.

id: 1104.2480
title: Towards Normal Forms for GHZ/W Calculus
authors: Shibdas Roy
comments: 8 pages. AIP format. To appear in AIP proceedings of the International Symposium on "75 Years of Quantum Entanglement: Foundations and Information Theoretic Applications", January 6-10, 2011, Kolkata, India
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1384, 112-119 (2011)
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2480
abstract: Recently, a novel GHZ/W graphical calculus has been established to study and reason more intuitively about interacting quantum systems. The compositional structure of this calculus was shown to be well-equipped to sufficiently express arbitrary mutlipartite quantum states equivalent under stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC). However, it is still not clear how to explicitly identify which graphical properties lead to what states. This can be achieved if we have well-behaved normal forms for arbitrary graphs within this calculus. This article lays down a first attempt at realizing such normal forms for a restricted class of such graphs, namely simple and regular graphs. These results should pave the way for the most general cases as part of future work.

id: 1104.2502
title: A Parallel Approximation Algorithm for Positive Semidefinite Programming
authors: Rahul Jain, Penghui Yao
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2502
abstract: Positive semidefinite programs are an important subclass of semidefinite programs in which all matrices involved in the specification of the problem are positive semidefinite and all scalars involved are non-negative. We present a parallel algorithm, which given an instance of a positive semidefinite program of size N and an approximation factor eps > 0, runs in (parallel) time poly(1/eps) \cdot polylog(N), using poly(N) processors, and outputs a value which is within multiplicative factor of (1 + eps) to the optimal. Our result generalizes analogous result of Luby and Nisan [1993] for positive linear programs and our algorithm is inspired by their algorithm.

id: 1104.2535
title: Tunneling of ultracold atoms in time-independent potentials
authors: Ennio Arimondo, Sandro Wimberger
comments: slightly amended version published as ch. 11 of a book edited by S. Keshavamurthy and P. Schlagheck with the title "Dynamical Tunneling: Theory and Experiment"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2535
abstract: We present theoretical as well as experimental results on resonantly enhanced quantum tunneling of Bose-Einstein condensates in optical lattices both in the linear case of single particle dynamics and in the presence of atom-atom interactions. Our results demonstrate the usefulness of condensates in optical lattices for the dynamical control of tunneling and for simulating Hamiltonians originally used for describing solid state phenomena.

id: 1104.2622
title: Cooling of cryogenic electron bilayers via the Coulomb interaction
authors: John King Gamble, Mark Friesen, Robert Joynt, S. N. Coppersmith
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 125321 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2622
abstract: Heat dissipation in current-carrying cryogenic nanostructures is problematic because the phonon density of states decreases strongly as energy decreases. We show that the Coulomb interaction can prove a valuable resource for carrier cooling via coupling to a nearby, cold electron reservoir. Specifically, we consider the geometry of an electron bilayer in a silicon-based heterostructure, and analyze the power transfer. We show that across a range of temperatures, separations, and sheet densities, the electron-electron interaction dominates the phonon heat-dissipation modes as the main cooling mechanism. Coulomb cooling is most effective at low densities, when phonon cooling is least effective in silicon, making it especially relevant for experiments attempting to perform coherent manipulations of single spins.

id: 1104.2634
title: Qualia are Quantum Leaps
authors: George Svetlichny
comments: 8 pages
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2634
abstract: I contemplate the idea that the subjective world and quantum state reductions are one and the same. If true, this resolves with one stroke both the quantum mechanical measurement problem and the hard problem of consciousness.

id: 1104.2675
title: Loschmidt echo in one-dimensional interacting Bose gases
authors: K. Lelas, T. ?eva, H. Buljan
comments: Comparison between Tonks-Girardeau and mean-field fidelities corrected; see new Figure 4 and the "Note added". New references are included
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 063601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2675
abstract: We explore Loschmidt echo in two regimes of one-dimensional (1D) interacting Bose gases: the strongly interacting Tonks-Girardeau (TG) regime, and the weakly-interacting mean-field regime. We find that the Loschmidt echo of a TG gas decays as a Gaussian when small perturbations are added to the Hamiltonian (the exponent is proportional to the number of particles and the magnitude of a small perturbation squared). In the mean-field regime the Loschmidt echo decays faster for larger interparticle interactions (nonlinearity), and it shows richer behavior than the TG Loschmidt echo dynamics, with oscillations superimposed on the overall decay.

id: 1104.2691
title: Stochastic longevity of a dark soliton in a finite-temperature Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: K. J. Wright, A. S. Bradley
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2691
abstract: We study the decay of a dark soliton in a homogeneous Bose-Einstein condensate. We give an analytical treatment of a decaying soliton, deriving an expression for the soliton velocity and decay time in the absence of thermal noise. We test the result against numerical simulations of a spatially confined system and find good agreement in the regime of low temperature ($k_BT\ll \mu$). Thermal fluctuations are found to slow the escape of the soliton, extending its lifetime beyond the predictions of the noise-free theory; the effect becomes significant at a characteristic temperature $k_BT\sim \mu$. This stabilization by noise allows us to infer an analytical lower bound for the dark soliton decay time.

id: 1104.2709
title: Quantum Amplification on Molecular-Nuclear Transitions
authors: V.B. Belyaev, M.B. Miller
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2709
abstract: Molecular-nuclear transitions induced by external radiation are considered in this report, and new mechanism of quantum amplification based on this process is proposed.

id: 1104.2838
title: PT-Symmetric Sinusoidal Optical Lattices at the Symmetry-Breaking Threshold
authors: Eva-Maria Graefe, H. F. Jones
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures Minor corrections, additional references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 013818 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2838
abstract: The $PT$ symmetric potential $V_0[\cos(2\pi x/a)+i\lambda\sin(2\pi x/a)]$ has a completely real spectrum for $\lambda\le 1$, and begins to develop complex eigenvalues for $\lambda>1$. At the symmetry-breaking threshold $\lambda=1$ some of the eigenvectors become degenerate, giving rise to a Jordan-block structure for each degenerate eigenvector. In general this is expected to result in a secular growth in the amplitude of the wave. However, it has been shown in a recent paper by Longhi, by numerical simulation and by the use of perturbation theory, that for a broad initial wave packet this growth is suppressed, and instead a saturation leading to a constant maximum amplitude is observed. We revisit this problem by explicitly constructing the Bloch wave-functions and the associated Jordan functions and using the method of stationary states to find the dependence on the longitudinal distance $z$ for a variety of different initial wave packets. This allows us to show in detail how the saturation of the linear growth arises from the close connection between the contributions of the Jordan functions and those of the neighbouring Bloch waves.

id: 1104.3102
title: Rydberg excitation of trapped cold ions: A detailed case study
authors: F. Schmidt-Kaler, T. Feldker, D. Kolbe, J. Walz, M. M¨¹ller, P. Zoller, W. Li, I. Lesanovsky
comments: submitted to special issue on "Quantum Simulation" in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 075014 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3102
abstract: We provide a detailed theoretical and conceptual study of a planned experiment to excite Rydberg states of ions trapped in a Paul trap. The ultimate goal is to exploit the strong state dependent interactions between Rydberg ions to implement quantum information processing protocols and to simulate the dynamics of strongly interacting spin systems. We highlight the promises of this approach when combining the high degree of control and readout of quantum states in trapped ion crystals with the novel and fast gate schemes based on interacting giant Rydberg atomic dipole moments. We discuss anticipated theoretical and experimental challenges on the way towards its realization.

id: 1104.3189
title: Electron Transfer between Weakly Coupled Concentric Quantum Rings
authors: I. Filikhin, S. Matinyan, J. Nimmo, B. Vlahovic
comments: 20 pages, 18 figures
journal: Physica E 43 (2011) 1669-1676
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3189
abstract: The electronic structure of the semiconductor double concentric quantum nano-ring (DCQR) is studied under the single sub-band effective mass approach. We show that in the weakly coupled DCQR, that has been placed in transverse magnetic field, the electron spatial transition between the rings can occur due to electron level anti-crossing. The anti-crossing of the levels with different radial quantum numbers provides the conditions when the electron tunneling between rings becomes possible. Results of numerical simulation for the electron transition are presented for DCQRs of different geometry. In particularly, the system of a QR with a QD located at center of this QR is considered.

id: 1104.3246
title: Hybrid Quantum Annealing for Clustering Problems
authors: Shu Tanaka, Ryo Tamura, Issei Sato, Kenichi Kurihara
comments: 24 pages, 6 figures, revised version will appear in proceedings of Kinki University Quantum Computing Series: "Summer School on Diversities in Quantum Computation/Information"
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3246
abstract: We develop a hybrid type of quantum annealing in which we control temperature and quantum field simultaneously. We study the efficiency of proposed quantum annealing and find a good schedule of changing thermal fluctuation and quantum fluctuation. In this paper, we focus on clustering problems which are important topics in information science and engineering. We obtain the better solution of the clustering problem than the standard simulated annealing by proposed quantum annealing.

id: 1104.3324
title: S-Bases in S-Linear Algebra
authors: David Carf¨ª
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3324
abstract: In this paper we define the S-bases for the spaces of tempered distributions. These new bases are the analogous of Hilbert bases of separable Hilbert spaces for the continuous case (they are indexed by m-dimensional Euclidean spaces) and enjoy properties similar to those shown by algebraic bases in the finite dimensional case. The S-bases are one possible rigorous and extremely manageable mathematical model for the "physical" bases used in Quantum Mechanics.

id: 1104.3325
title: Numerical studies of the interaction of an atomic sample with the electromagnetic field in two dimensions
authors: Maxim Sukharev, Abraham Nitzan
comments: re-submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043802 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3325
abstract: We consider the interaction of electromagnetic radiation of arbitrary polarization with multi-level atoms in a self-consistent manner, taking into account both spatial and temporal dependencies of local fields. This is done by numerically solving the corresponding system of coupled Maxwell-Liouville equations for various geometries. In particular, we scrutinize linear optical properties of nanoscale atomic clusters, demonstrating the significant role played by collective effects and dephasing. It is shown that subwavelength atomic clusters exhibit two resonant modes, one of which is localized slightly below the atomic transition frequency of an individual atom, while the other is positioned considerably above it. As an initial exploration of future applications of this approach, the optical response of core-shell nanostructures, with a core consisting of silver and shell composed of resonant atoms, is examined.

id: 1104.3336
title: Theory of the ultrafast mode-locked GaN lasers in a large-signal regime
authors: Igor V. Smetanin, Peter P. Vasil'ev, Dmitri L. Boiko
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 19 (2011), 17114-17120
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3336
abstract: Analytical theory of the high-power passively mode-locked laser with a slow absorber is developed. In distinguishing from previous treatment, our model is valid at pulse energies well exceeding the saturation energy of absorber. This is achieved by solving the mode-locking master equation in the pulse energy-domain representation. The performances of monolithic sub-picosecond blue-violet GaN mode-locked diode laser in the high-power operation regime are analyzed using the developed approach.

id: 1104.3344
title: Quantum Structure in Cognition: Fundamentals and Applications
authors: Diederik Aerts, Liane Gabora, Sandro Sozzo, Tomas Veloz
comments: 9 pages
journal: In V. Privman and V. Ovchinnikov (Eds.), IARIA, Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference on Quantum, Nano and Micro Technologies, pp. 57-62, 2011
subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Information Retrieval (cs.IR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3344
abstract: Experiments in cognitive science and decision theory show that the ways in which people combine concepts and make decisions cannot be described by classical logic and probability theory. This has serious implications for applied disciplines such as information retrieval, artificial intelligence and robotics. Inspired by a mathematical formalism that generalizes quantum mechanics the authors have constructed a contextual framework for both concept representation and decision making, together with quantum models that are in strong alignment with experimental data. The results can be interpreted by assuming the existence in human thought of a double-layered structure, a 'classical logical thought' and a 'quantum conceptual thought', the latter being responsible of the above paradoxes and nonclassical effects. The presence of a quantum structure in cognition is relevant, for it shows that quantum mechanics provides not only a useful modeling tool for experimental data but also supplies a structural model for human and artificial thought processes. This approach has strong connections with theories formalizing meaning, such as semantic analysis, and has also a deep impact on computer science, information retrieval and artificial intelligence. More specifically, the links with information retrieval are discussed in this paper.

id: 1104.3345
title: Quantum Interaction Approach in Cognition, Artificial Intelligence and Robotics
authors: Diederik Aerts, Marek Czachor, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 10 pages
journal: In V. Privman and V. Ovchinnikov (Eds.), IARIA, Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference on Quantum, Nano and Micro Technologies, pp. 35-40, 2011
subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Robotics (cs.RO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3345
abstract: The mathematical formalism of quantum mechanics has been successfully employed in the last years to model situations in which the use of classical structures gives rise to problematical situations, and where typically quantum effects, such as 'contextuality' and 'entanglement', have been recognized. This 'Quantum Interaction Approach' is briefly reviewed in this paper focusing, in particular, on the quantum models that have been elaborated to describe how concepts combine in cognitive science, and on the ensuing identification of a quantum structure in human thought. We point out that these results provide interesting insights toward the development of a unified theory for meaning and knowledge formalization and representation. Then, we analyze the technological aspects and implications of our approach, and a particular attention is devoted to the connections with symbolic artificial intelligence, quantum computation and robotics.

id: 1104.3358
title: The system of three three-dimensional charged quantum particles: asymptotic behavior of the eigenfunctions of the continuous spectrum at infinity
authors: V.S.Buslaev, S.B.Levin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3358
abstract: The asymptotic behavior in the leading order of the continuous spectrum eigenfunctions $\Psi(\bz,\bq)$ as $|\bz|\rightarrow\infty$ for the system of three three-dimensional charged quantum particles has been obtained on the heuristic level. The equality of the masses and the equality of the absolute values of charges of particles are not crucial for the method.

id: 1104.3370
title: MUBs inequivalence and affine planes
authors: W. K. Kantor
comments: This is the version of this paper appearing in J. Mathematical Physics 53, 032204 (2012) except for format changes due to the journal's style policies
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3370
abstract: There are fairly large families of unitarily inequivalent complete sets of N+1 mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) in C^N for various prime powers N. The number of such sets is not bounded above by any polynomial as a function of N. While it is standard that there is a superficial similarity between complete sets of MUBs and finite affine planes, there is an intimate relationship between these large families and affine planes. This note briefly summarizes "old" results that do not appear to be well-known concerning known families of complete sets of MUBs and their associated planes.

id: 1104.3380
title: Schwartz Linear operators in distribution spaces
authors: David Carf¨ª
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3380
abstract: In this paper we define the Schwartz linear operators among spaces of tempered distributions. These operators are the analogous of linear continuous operators among separable Hilbert spaces, but in the case of spaces endowed with Schwartz bases having a continuous index set. The Schwartz linear operators enjoy properties very similar to those enjoyed by linear operators in the finite dimensional case. The Schwartz operators are one possible rigorous mathematical model for the operators and observables used in Quantum Mechanics.

id: 1104.3456
title: Quantum phase transition to unconventional multi-orbital superfluidity in optical lattices
authors: Parvis Soltan-Panahi, Dirk-S?ren L¨¹hmann, Julian Struck, Patrick Windpassinger, Klaus Sengstock
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics (30 October 2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3456
abstract: Orbital physics plays a significant role for a vast number of important phenomena in complex condensed matter systems such as high-T$_c$ superconductivity and unconventional magnetism. In contrast, phenomena in superfluids -- especially in ultracold quantum gases -- are commonly well described by the lowest orbital and a real order parameter. Here, we report on the observation of a novel multi-orbital superfluid phase with a {\it complex} order parameter in binary spin mixtures. In this unconventional superfluid, the local phase angle of the complex order parameter is continuously twisted between neighboring lattice sites. The nature of this twisted superfluid quantum phase is an interaction-induced admixture of the p-orbital favored by the graphene-like band structure of the hexagonal optical lattice used in the experiment. We observe a second-order quantum phase transition between the normal superfluid (NSF) and the twisted superfluid phase (TSF) which is accompanied by a symmetry breaking in momentum space. The experimental results are consistent with calculated phase diagrams and reveal fundamentally new aspects of orbital superfluidity in quantum gas mixtures. Our studies might bridge the gap between conventional superfluidity and complex phenomena of orbital physics.

id: 1104.3564
title: Climbing the Jaynes-Cummings ladder by photon counting
authors: Fabrice P. Laussy, Elena del Valle, Michael Schrapp, Arne Laucht, Jonathan J. Finley
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures (color online). Updated bbl
journal: J. Nanophoton. 6 (1), 061803 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3564
abstract: We present a new method to observe direct experimental evidence of Jaynes--Cummings nonlinearities in a strongly dissipative cavity quantum electrodynamics system, where large losses compete with the strong light-matter interaction. This is a highly topical problem, particularly for quantum dots in microcavities where transitions from higher rungs of the Jaynes--Cummings ladder remain to be evidenced explicitly. We compare coherent and incoherent excitations of the system and find that resonant excitation of the detuned emitter make it possible to unambiguously evidence few photon quantum nonlinearities in currently available experimental systems.

id: 1104.3599
title: Non-hermitian Hamiltonians and Painlev¨¦ IV equation with real parameters
authors: David Bermudez, David J. Fernandez C
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys.Lett.A375:2974-2978,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3599
abstract: In this letter we will use higher-order supersymmetric quantum mechanics to obtain several families of complex solutions of the Painleve IV equation with real parameters. We shall also study the algebraic structure, the eigenfunctions and the energy spectra of the corresponding non-hermitian Hamiltonians.

id: 1104.3646
title: Two-Center Integrals for r_{ij}^{n} Polynomial Correlated Wave Functions
authors: E.V. Rothstein
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 3 (1971), 1581
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3646
abstract: All integrals needed to evaluate the correlated wave functions with polynomial terms of inter-electronic distance are included. For this form of the wave function, the integrals needed can be expressed as a product of integrals involving at most four electrons.

id: 1104.3647
title: Spectral expansion of Schwartz linear operators
authors: David Carf¨ª
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3647
abstract: In this paper we prove and apply a theorem of spectral expansion for Schwartz linear operators which have an S-linearly independent Schwartz eigenfamily. This type of spectral expansion is the analogous of the spectral expansion for self-adjoint operators of separable Hilbert spaces, but in the case of eigenfamilies of vectors indexed by the real Euclidean spaces. The theorem appears formally identical to the spectral expansion in the finite dimensional case, but for the presence of continuous superpositions instead of finite sums. The Schwartz expansion we present is one possible rigorous and simply manageable mathematical model for the spectral expansions used frequently in Quantum Mechanics, since it appears in a form extremely similar to the current formulations in Physics.

id: 1104.3650
title: Unified Analytic Electron Interaction Integrals Over Slater Orbitals for Diatomic Molecules
authors: E.V. Rothstein
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3650
abstract: A unified formula for analytical evaluation of two-center exchange, hybrid and coulombic type integrals is presented.

id: 1104.3674
title: Hyperfine, rotational and Zeeman structure of the lowest vibrational levels of the $^{87}$Rb$_2$ $\tripletex$ state
authors: T. Takekoshi, C. Strauss, F. Lang, J. Hecker Denschlag, M. Lysebo, L. Veseth
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3674
abstract: We present the results of an experimental and theoretical study of the electronically excited $\tripletex$ state of $^{87}$Rb$_2$ molecules. The vibrational energies are measured for deeply bound states from the bottom up to $v'=15$ using laser spectroscopy of ultracold Rb$_2$ Feshbach molecules. The spectrum of each vibrational state is dominated by a 47\,GHz splitting into a $\cog$ and $\clg$ component caused mainly by a strong second order spin-orbit interaction. Our spectroscopy fully resolves the rotational, hyperfine, and Zeeman structure of the spectrum. We are able to describe to first order this structure using a simplified effective Hamiltonian.

id: 1104.3777
title: Integrable random matrix ensembles
authors: E. Bogomolny, O. Giraud, C. Schmit
comments: 32 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3777
abstract: We propose new classes of random matrix ensembles whose statistical properties are intermediate between statistics of Wigner-Dyson random matrices and Poisson statistics. The construction is based on integrable N-body classical systems with a random distribution of momenta and coordinates of the particles. The Lax matrices of these systems yield random matrix ensembles whose joint distribution of eigenvalues can be calculated analytically thanks to integrability of the underlying system. Formulas for spacing distributions and level compressibility are obtained for various instances of such ensembles.

id: 1104.3787
title: Projective simulation for artificial intelligence
authors: Hans J. Briegel, Gemma De las Cuevas
comments: 22 pages, 18 figures. Close to published version, with footnotes retained
journal: Sci. Rep. 2, 400 (2012)
subjects: Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3787
abstract: We propose a model of a learning agent whose interaction with the environment is governed by a simulation-based projection, which allows the agent to project itself into future situations before it takes real action. Projective simulation is based on a random walk through a network of clips, which are elementary patches of episodic memory. The network of clips changes dynamically, both due to new perceptual input and due to certain compositional principles of the simulation process. During simulation, the clips are screened for specific features which trigger factual action of the agent. The scheme is different from other, computational, notions of simulation, and it provides a new element in an embodied cognitive science approach to intelligent action and learning. Our model provides a natural route for generalization to quantum-mechanical operation and connects the fields of reinforcement learning and quantum computation.

id: 1104.3839
title: Stationary States of NLS on Star Graphs
authors: Riccardo Adami, Claudio Cacciapuoti, Domenico Finco, Diego Noja
comments: Revised version, 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3839
abstract: We consider a generalized nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation (NLS) with a power nonlinearity |\psi|^2\mu\psi, of focusing type, describing propagation on the ramified structure given by N edges connected at a vertex (a star graph). To model the interaction at the junction, it is there imposed a boundary condition analogous to the \delta potential of strength \alpha on the line, including as a special case (\alpha=0) the free propagation. We show that nonlinear stationary states describing solitons sitting at the vertex exist both for attractive (\alpha<0, representing a potential well) and repulsive (\alpha>0, a potential barrier) interaction. In the case of sufficiently strong attractive interaction at the vertex and power nonlinearity \mu<2, including the standard cubic case, we characterize the ground state as minimizer of a constrained action and we discuss its orbital stability. Finally we show that in the free case, for even N only, the stationary states can be used to construct traveling waves on the graph.

id: 1104.3878
title: Electrical Tuning of Single Nitrogen-Vacancy Center Optical Transitions Enhanced by Photoinduced Fields
authors: L. C. Bassett, F. J. Heremans, C. G. Yale, B. B. Buckley, D. D. Awschalom
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 266403 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3878
abstract: We demonstrate precise control over the zero-phonon optical transition energies of individual nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond by applying multiaxis electric fields, via the dc Stark effect. The Stark shifts display surprising asymmetries that we attribute to an enhancement and rectification of the local electric field by photoionized charge traps in the diamond. Using this effect, we tune the excited-state orbitals of strained NV centers to degeneracy and vary the resulting degenerate optical transition frequency by >10 GHz, a scale comparable to the inhomogeneous frequency distribution. This technique will facilitate the integration of NV-center spins within photonic networks.

id: 1104.3908
title: Multiplicative operators in the spaces of Schwartz families
authors: David Carf¨ª
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3908
abstract: In this paper we introduce and study the multiplication among smooth functions and Schwartz families. This multiplication is fundamental in the formulation and development of a spectral theory for Schwartz linear operators in distribution spaces, to introduce efficiently the Schwartz eigenfamilies of such operators and to build up a good functional calculus for them. The definition of eigenfamily is absolutely natural and this new operation allows us to develop a rigorous and manageable spectral theory for Quantum Mechanics, since it appears in a form extremely similar to the current use in Physics.

id: 1104.4036
title: Efficient quantum dot single photon extraction into an optical fiber using a nanophotonic directional coupler
authors: M. Davanco, M.T. Rakher, W. Wegscheider, D. Schuh, A. Badolato, K. Srinivasan
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 99, 121101 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4036
abstract: We demonstrate a spectrally broadband and effcient technique for collecting photoluminescence from a single InAs quantum dot directly into a standard single mode optical fiber. In this approach, an optical fiber taper waveguide is placed in contact with a suspended GaAs nanophotonic waveguide with embedded quantum dots, forming an effcient and broadband directional coupler with standard optical fiber input and output. Effcient photoluminescence collection over a wavelength range of tens of nanometers is demonstrated, and a maximum collection effciency of 6.05 % (corresponding single photon rate of 3.0 MHz) into a single mode optical fiber was estimated for a single quantum dot exciton.

id: 1104.4042
title: Proof of non-extremal nature of excited-state energies in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics with the use of constrained derivatives
authors: Tamas Gal
comments: 15 pages; determination of Morse index added
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4042
abstract: With the use of a second derivative test based on constrained second derivatives, a proof is given that excited states in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics are saddle points of the energy expectation value, and is shown, further, how to determine their Morse index.

id: 1104.4076
title: Narrowband fluorescent nanodiamonds produced from chemical vapor deposition films
authors: Elke Neu, Carsten Arend, Felix Guldner, Elke Gross, Christian Hepp, David Steinmetz, Elisabeth Zscherpel, Slimane Ghodbane, Hadwig Sternschulte, Doris Steinmueller-Nethl, Yuejiang Liang, Anke Krueger, Christoph Becher
comments: The following article has been accepted by Applied Physics Letters. After it is published, it will be found at this http URL 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Applied Physics Letters 98, 243107(2011)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4076
abstract: We report on the production of nanodiamonds (NDs) with 70-80 nm size via bead assisted sonic disintegration (BASD) of a polycrystalline chemical vapor deposition (CVD) film. The NDs display high crystalline quality as well as intense narrowband (7 nm) room temperature luminescence at 738 nm due to in situ incorporated silicon vacancy (SiV) centers. The fluorescence properties at room and cryogenic temperatures indicate that the NDs are, depending on preparation, applicable as single photon sources or as fluorescence labels.

id: 1104.4149
title: First principles calculation of polarization induced interfacial charges in GaN/AlN heterostructures
authors: Rohan Mishra, Oscar D. Restrepo, Siddharth Rajan, Wolfgang Windl
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures; submitted to Applied Physics Letters
journal: Apl. Phys. Lett. 98, 232114 (2011)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4149
abstract: We propose a new method to calculate polarization induced interfacial charges in semiconductor heterostructures using classical electrostatics applied to real-space band diagrams from first principles calculations and apply it to GaN/AlN heterostructures with ultrathin AlN layers (4-6 monolayers). We show that the calculated electric fields and interfacial charges are independent of the exchange-correlation functionals used (local-density approximation and hybrid functionals). We also find the calculated interfacial charge of (6.8 +/- 0.4) x 10^13 cm-2 to be in excellent agreement with experiments and the value of 6.58 x 10^13 cm-2 calculated from bulk polarization constants, validating the use of bulk constants even for very thin films.

id: 1104.4156
title: PT-Symmetric Representations of Fermionic Algebras
authors: Carl M. Bender, S. P. Klevansky
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4156
abstract: A recent paper by Jones-Smith and Mathur extends PT-symmetric quantum mechanics from bosonic systems (systems for which $T^2=1$) to fermionic systems (systems for which $T^2=-1$). The current paper shows how the formalism developed by Jones-Smith and Mathur can be used to construct PT-symmetric matrix representations for operator algebras of the form $\eta^2=0$, $\bar{\eta}^2=0$, $\eta\bar{\eta}+\bar {\eta} =\alpha 1$, where $\bar{eta}=\eta^{PT} =PT \eta T^{-1}P^{-1}$. It is easy to construct matrix representations for the Grassmann algebra ($\alpha=0$). However, one can only construct matrix representations for the fermionic operator algebra ($\alpha\neq0$) if $\alpha= -1$; a matrix representation does not exist for the conventional value $\alpha=1$.

id: 1104.4330
title: Local zeta regularization and the Casimir effect
authors: Davide Fermi, Livio Pizzocchero
comments: It differs from the previous arXiv version v1 only for misprint corrections. An enlarged version has been published in Progress of Theoretical Physics
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 126(3) (2011), 419-434
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4330
abstract: In this paper, whose aims are mainly pedagogical, we illustrate how to use the local zeta regularization to compute the stress-energy tensor of the Casimir effect. Our attention is devoted to the case of a neutral, massless scalar field in flat space-time, on a space domain with suitable (e.g., Dirichlet) boundary conditions. After a simple outline of the local zeta method, we exemplify it in the typical case of a field between two parallel plates, or outside them. The results are shown to agree with the ones obtained by more popular methods, such as point splitting regularization. In comparison with these alternative methods, local zeta regularization has the advantage to give directly finite results via analitic continuation, with no need to remove or subtract divergent quantities.

id: 1104.4352
title: Stable Heteronuclear Few-Atom Bound States in Mixed Dimensions
authors: Tao Yin, Peng Zhang, Wei Zhang
comments: Extended version with 14 pages and 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052727 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4352
abstract: We study few-body problems in mixed dimensions with $N \ge 2$ heavy atoms trapped individually in parallel one-dimensional tubes or two-dimensional disks, and a single light atom travels freely in three dimensions. By using the Born-Oppenheimer approximation, we find three- and four-body bound states for a broad region of heavy-light atom scattering length combinations. Specifically, the existence of trimer and tetramer states persist to negative scattering lengths regime, where no two-body bound state is present. These few-body bound states are analogous to the Efimov states in three dimensions, but are stable against three-body recombination due to geometric separation. In addition, we find that the binding energy of the ground trimer and tetramer state reaches its maximum value when the scattering lengths are comparable to the separation between the low-dimensional traps. This resonant behavior is a unique feature for the few-body bound states in mixed dimensions.

id: 1104.4408
title: Phase Separation of Multi-Component Bose-Einstein Condensates of Trapped Atoms and Molecules with a Homonuclear Feshbach Resonance
authors: Ryosuke Shibato, Takushi Nishimura, Takayuki Watanabe, Toru Suzuki
comments: 11pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84. 043627 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4408
abstract: We investigate phase separation of Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) of two-component atoms and one-component molecules with a homonuclear Feshbach resonance. We develop a full model for dilute atomic and molecular gases including correlation of the Feshbach resonance and all kinds of interparticle interactions, and numerically calculate order parameters of the BECs in spherical harmonic oscillator traps at zero temperature with the Bogoliubov's classical field approximation. As a result, we find out that the Feshbach resonance can induce two types of phase separation. The actual phase structures and density profiles of the trapped gases are predicted in the whole parameter region, from the atom dominant regime to the molecule dominant regime. We focus on the role of the molecules in the phase separation. Especially in the atom dominant regime, the role of the molecules is described through effective interactions derived from our model. Furthermore we show that a perturbative and semi-classical limit of our model reproduces the conventional atomic BEC (single-channel) model.

id: 1104.4493
title: On the origin of the minimal coupling rule, and on the possiblity of observing a classical, "Aharonov-Bohm-like" angular momentum
authors: Raymond Chiao
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4493
abstract: The minimal coupling rule is "derived" starting from Landau's relativistically invariant classical action for a charge in the presence of classical electromagnetic fields. Experiments are then proposed to see the resulting electromagnetic angular momentum of a classical, "lumpy" charged ring enclosing a solenoid. These classical, macroscopic experiments are similar in spirit to those proposed by Aharonov and Bohm at the quantum level.

id: 1104.4553
title: Decoherence and Quantum Interference assisted electron trapping in a quantum dot
authors: Ahmed El Halawany, Michael N. Leuenberger
comments: Revtex 4, 11 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4553
abstract: We present a theoretical model for the dynamics of an electron that gets trapped by means of decoherence and quantum interference in the central quantum dot (QD) of a semiconductor nanoring (NR) made of five QDs, between 100 K and 300 K. The electron's dynamics is described by a master equation with a Hamiltonian based on the tight-binding model, taking into account electron-LO phonon interaction (ELOPI). Based on this configuration, the probability to trap an electron with no decoherence is almost 27%. In contrast, the probability to trap an electron with decoherence is 70% at 100 K, 63% at 200 K and 58% at 300 K. Our model provides a novel method of trapping an electron at room temperature.

id: 1104.4577
title: Atom interferometric techniques for measuring uniform magnetic field gradients and gravitational acceleration
authors: B. Barrett, I. Chan, A. Kumarakrishnan
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures, accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 84, 063623 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4577
abstract: We discuss techniques for probing the effects of a constant force acting on cold atoms using two configurations of a grating echo-type atom interferometer. Laser-cooled samples of $^{85}$Rb with temperatures as low as 2.4 $\mu$K have been achieved in a new experimental apparatus with a well-controlled magnetic environment. We demonstrate interferometer signal lifetimes approaching the transit time limit in this system ($\sim 270$ ms), which is comparable to the timescale achieved by Raman interferometers. Using these long timescales, we experimentally investigate the influence of a homogeneous magnetic field gradient using two- and three-pulse interferometers, which enable us to sense changes in externally applied magnetic field gradients as small as $\sim 4 \times 10^{-5}$ G/cm. We also provide an improved theoretical description of signals generated by both interferometer configurations that accurately models experimental results. With this theory, absolute measurements of $B$-gradients at the level of $3 \times 10^{-4}$ G/cm are achieved. Finally, we contrast the suitability of the two- and three-pulse interferometers for precision measurements of the gravitational acceleration, $g$.

id: 1104.4625
title: Response of quantum pure states
authors: Barbara Fresch, Giorgio J. Moro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4625
abstract: The response of a quantum system in a pure state to an external force is investigated by reconsidering the standard statistical approach to quantum dynamics on the light of the statistical description of equilibrium based on typicality. We prove that the response of the large majority of quantum pure states subjected to the same arbitrary external perturbation tends to be close to the statistical response as the dimension of the Hilbert space increases. This is what we can term dynamical typicality. The theoretical analysis is substantiated by numerical simulations of the response of a spin system to a sudden quench of the external magnetic field. For the considered system we show that not only the system relaxes toward a new equilibrium state after the quench of the Hamiltonian but also that such a new equilibrium is compatible with the description of a thermal equilibrium.

id: 1104.4627
title: Optical counterpart of the Foucault pendulum
authors: A.Yu. Okulov
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, submitted to referred journal
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4627
abstract: The twin vortex beam interferometer with phase-conjugating mirror in rotating reference frame is analyzed. Using the concept of the $ideal$ phase-conjugating mirror it is shown that motion of helical interference pattern may be used for detection of the slow rotations. The pattern motion is due to exchange of angular momenta between photons and interferometer. The conditions of experimental realization of such rotation sensor are discussed.

id: 1104.4651
title: Schwartz families in tempered distribution spaces
authors: David Carf¨ª
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4651
abstract: In this paper we define Schwartz families in tempered distribution spaces and prove many their properties. Schwartz families are the analogous of infinite dimensional matrices of separable Hilbert spaces, but for the Schwartz test function spaces, having elements (functions) realizable as vectors indexed by real Euclidean spaces (ordered families of scalars indexed by real Euclidean spaces). In the paper, indeed, one of the consequences of the principal result (the characterization of summability for Schwartz families) is that the space of linear continuous operators among Schwartz test function spaces is linearly isomorphic with the space of Schwartz families. It should be noticed that this theorem is possible because of the very good properties of Schwartz test function spaces and because of the particular structures of the Schwartz families viewed as generalized matrices; in fact, any family of tempered distribution, regarded as generalized matrix, has one index belonging to a Euclidean space and one belonging to a test function space, so that any Schwartz family is a matrix in the sense of distributions. Another motivation for the introduction and study of these families is that these are the families which are summable with respect to every tempered system of coefficients, in the sense of superpositions. The Schwartz families we present in this paper are one possible rigorous and simply manageable mathematical model for the infinite matrices used frequently in Quantum Mechanics.

id: 1104.4660
title: Summable families in tempered distribution spaces
authors: David Carf¨ª
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4660
abstract: In this note we define summable families in tempered distribution spaces and we state some their properties and characterizations. Summable families are the analogous of summable sequences in separable Hilbert spaces, but in tempered distribution spaces, having elements (functional) realizable as generalized vectors indexed by real Euclidean spaces (not pointwise defined ordered families of scalars indexed by real Euclidean spaces in the sense of distributions). Any family we introduce here is summable with respect to every tempered system of coefficients belonging to a certain normal space of distributions, in the sense of superpositions. The summable families we present in this note are one possible rigorous and simply manageable mathematical model for the infinite families of vector-states appearing in the formulation of the continuous version of the celebrated Principle of Superpositions in Quantum Mechanics.

id: 1104.4727
title: Thermalization of Atom-Molecule Bose Gases in a Double-Well Potential
authors: Atsushi Motohashi
comments: 26 pages, 25 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4727
abstract: We study the non-equiliribium dynamics of atom-molecule Bose gases in a double-well potential. In this system, the internal atom-molecule tunneling has significant influence on the dynamics. We investigate the periodicity of dynamics by studying the level statistics of the quantum system. We find that chaotic energy eigenstates arise from the competition between the interwell and the atom-molecule internal tunnelings. Furthermore, we show that the physical quantities relax to the microcanonical averages in the full-quantum dynamics when the system is chaotic. This thermalization is caused by the verification of eigenstate thermalization hypothesis (ETH). We show numerically that the onset of ETH occurs simultaneously with that of chaos. In addition, we show that the energy eigenstates become to be exponentially localized states simultaneously with the onset of chaos.

id: 1104.4764
title: Helium- and Lithium-like ionic sequences: Critical charges
authors: N.L. Guevara, A.V. Turbiner
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX, typos corrected, Fig.1 added, a Note Added with calculated critical charge for $2^1S$ state for $(Z,e,e)$ system, $Z_{cr,2e}^{(2^1S)}\ =\ 1.02$
journal: Phys Rev A 84 (2011) 064501
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4764
abstract: In non-relativistic quantum mechanics we study the Coulomb systems of infinitely massive center of charge Z and two-three electrons: $(Z,e,e)$ and $(Z,e,e,e)$. It is shown that in both cases the total energy curve in $Z$ is smooth, without any visible irregularities. Thus, for both systems the physical integer charges $Z=1,2,...$ do not play a distinguished role as would be associated with charge quantization. By definition, a critical charge $Z_{cr}$ is a charge which separates a domain of the existence of bound states from a domain of unbound ones (continuum). For both systems the critical charges are found, $Z_{cr,2e}=0.91085$ and $Z_{cr,3e}=2.009$, respectively. Based on numerical analysis, the Puiseux expansion in fractional powers of $(Z-Z_{cr})$ is constructed for both systems. Our results indicate the existence of a square-root branch point singularity at $Z_{cr}$ with exponent 3/2. A connection between the critical charge and the radius of convergence of 1/Z-expansion is briefly discussed.

id: 1104.4839
title: Precession Optomechanics
authors: Xingyu Zhang, Matthew Tomes, Tal Carmon
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 19, Issue 10, pp. 9066-9073 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4839
abstract: We propose a light-structure interaction that utilizes circularly polarized light to deform a slightly bent waveguide. The mechanism allows for flipping the direction of deformation upon changing the binary polarization state of light from -\hbar to +\hbar.

id: 1104.4856
title: What is the azimuthal quantum force in superconductor
authors: A. V. Nikulov
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4856
abstract: J.E. Hirsch notes in the recent paper arXiv: 0908.409 that the azimuthal quantum force, introduced ten years ago, would violate the principle of angular momentum conservation. It is specified in the present work that the essence and the method of logical deduction of the quantum force do not overstep the limits of the universally recognised quantum formalism. The puzzle revealed by J.E. Hirsch concerns rather of quantum mechanics in whole than a certain theory or work. The essence of this and other puzzles generated with quantum mechanics is considered shortly.

id: 1104.4955
title: Spin Hall effect on a noncommutative space
authors: Kai Ma, Sayipjamal Dulat
comments: 5 pages, references added, typos corrected
journal: Phys.Rev.A84:012104,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4955
abstract: We study the spin-orbital interaction and the spin Hall effect(SHE) of an electron moving on a noncommutative space under the influence of a vector potential A. On a noncommutative space we find that the commutator between the vector potential A and the electric potential V_1(r) of lattice induces a new term which can be treated as an effective electric field, and the spin-Hall conductivity obtains some correction. In addition, the spin current as well as spin-Hall conductivity have distinct values in different direction. On a noncommutative space we derive the spin-depended electric current whose expectation value gives the spin Hall effect and spin Hall conductivity. We have defined a new parameter \varsigma=\rho\theta (\rho is electron concentration, \theta is noncommutative parameter) which can be measured experimentally. Our approach is based on the Foldy-Wouthuysen transformation which give a general Hamiltonian of a non-relativistic electron moving on a noncommutative space.

id: 1104.5067
title: Rarita-Schwinger Quantum Free Field Via Deformation Quantization
authors: B. Carballo Perez, H. Garcia-Compean
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5067
abstract: Rarita-Schwinger (RS) quantum free field is reexamined in the context of deformation quantization. It is found out that the subsidiary condition does not introduce any change either in the Wigner function or in other aspects of the deformation quantization formalism, in relation to the Dirac field case. This happens because the vector structure of the RS field imposes constraints on the space of wave function solutions and not on the operator structure. The RS propagator was also calculated within this formalism.

id: 1104.5075
title: Size-reduction of nanodiamonds via air oxidation
authors: T. Gaebel, C. Bradac, J. Chen, P. Hemmer, J.R. Rabeau
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5075
abstract: Here we report the size reduction and effects on nitrogen-vacancy centres in nanodiamonds by air oxidation using a combined atomic force and confocal microscope. The average height reduction of individual crystals as measured by atomic force microscopy was 10.6 nm/h at 600 {\deg}C air oxidation at atmospheric pressure. The oxidation process modified the surface including removal of non-diamond carbon and organic material which also led to a decrease in background fluorescence. During the course of the nanodiamond size reduction, we observed the annihilation of nitrogen-vacancy centres which provided important insight into the formation of colour centres in small crystals. In these unirradiated samples, the smallest nanodiamond still hosting a stable nitrogen-vacancy centre observed was 8 nm.

id: 1104.5157
title: Entanglement spectrum of one-dimensional extended Bose-Hubbard models
authors: Xiaolong Deng, Luis Santos
comments: 4 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 085138 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5157
abstract: The entanglement spectrum provides crucial information about correlated quantum systems. We show that the study of the block-like nature of the reduced density matrix in number sectors and the partition dependence of the spectrum in finite systems leads to interesting unexpected insights, which we illustrate for the case of a 1D extended Hubbard model. We show that block symmetry provides an intuitive understanding of the spectral double degeneracy of the Haldane-insulator, revealing as well partial double degeneracy for the Mott-insulator. Moreover, surprisingly, the partition dependence of the spectral degeneracy in the Haldane- and Mott-insulator is directly linked to the, in principle unrelated, density-density correlations, and presents an intriguing periodic behavior in superfluid and supersolid phases.

id: 1104.5198
title: Symplectic Covariance Properties for Shubin and Born-Jordan Pseudo-Differential Operators
authors: Maurice A. de Gosson
comments: Abridged version of a submitted paper
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5198
abstract: Among all classes of pseudo-differential operators only the Weyl operators enjoy the property of symplectic covariance with respect to conjugation by elements of the metaplectic group. In this paper we show that there is, however, a weaker form of symplectic covariance for Shubin's {\tau}-dependent operators, in which the intertwiners no longer are metaplectic, but still are invertible non-unitary operators. We also study the case of Born--Jordan operators, which are obtained by averaging the {\tau}-operators over the interval [0,1] (such operators have recently been studied by Boggiatto and his collaborators). We show that metaplectic covariance still hold for these operators, with respect top a subgroup of the metaplectic group.

id: 1104.5212
title: Noise correlations in a flux qubit with tunable tunnel coupling
authors: Simon Gustavsson, Jonas Bylander, Fei Yan, William D. Oliver, Fumiki Yoshihara, Yasunobu Nakamura
comments: 7 pages, including supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 014525 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5212
abstract: We have measured flux-noise correlations in a tunable superconducting flux qubit. The device consists of two loops that independently control the qubit's energy splitting and tunnel coupling. Low frequency flux noise in the loops causes fluctuations of the qubit frequency and leads to dephasing. Since the noises in the two loops couple to different terms of the qubit Hamiltonian, a measurement of the dephasing rate at different bias points provides a way to extract both the amplitude and the sign of the noise correlations. We find that the flux fluctuations in the two loops are anti-correlated, consistent with a model where the flux noise is generated by randomly oriented unpaired spins on the metal surface.

id: 1104.5220
title: Laser-cooled atoms inside a hollow-core photonic-crystal fiber
authors: M. Bajcsy, S. Hofferberth, T. Peyronel, V. Balic, Q. Liang, A. S. Zibrov, V. Vuletic, M. D. Lukin
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5220
abstract: We describe the loading of laser-cooled rubidium atoms into a single-mode hollow-core photonic-crystal fiber. Inside the fiber, the atoms are confined by a far-detuned optical trap and probed by a weak resonant beam. We describe different loading methods and compare their trade-offs in terms of implementation complexity and atom-loading efficiency. The most efficient procedure results in loading of ~30,000 rubidium atoms, which creates a medium with optical depth ~180 inside the fiber. Compared to our earlier study this represents a six-fold increase in maximum achieved optical depth in this system.

id: 1104.5234
title: The bilinear-biquadratic spin-1 chain undergoing quadratic Zeeman effect
authors: G. De Chiara, M. Lewenstein, A. Sanpera
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures; published version; extended discussions, Fig. 1 updated
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 054451 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5234
abstract: The Heisenberg model for spin-1 bosons in one dimension presents many different quantum phases including the famous topological Haldane phase. Here we study the robustness of such phases in front of a SU(2) symmetry breaking field as well as the emergence of novel phases. Previous studies have analyzed the effect of such uniaxial anysotropy in some restricted relevant points of the phase diagram. Here we extend those studies and present the complete phase diagram of the spin-1 chain with uniaxial anysotropy. To this aim, we employ the density matrix renormalization group (DMRG) together with analytical approaches. The complete phase diagram can be realized using ultracold spinor gases in the Mott insulator regime under a quadratic Zeeman effect.

id: 1104.5306
title: Model study of dissipation in quantum phase transitions
authors: Subhasis Sinha, Sushanta Dattagupta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5306
abstract: We consider a prototypical system of an infinite range transverse field Ising model coupled to a bosonic bath. By integrating out the bosonic degrees, an effective anisotropic Heisenberg model is obtained for the spin system. The phase diagram of the latter is calculated as a function of coupling to the heat bath and the transverse magnetic field. Collective excitations at low temeratures are assessed within a spin-wave like analysis that exhibits a vanishing energy gap at the quantum critical point. We also consider another limit where the system reduces to a generalized spin-boson model of two interacting spins. By increasing the coupling strength with the heat bath, the two-spin wavefunction changes from an entangled state to a factorized state of two spins which are aligned along the transverse field. We also discuss the possible realization and application of the model to different physical systems.

id: 1104.5461
title: Nonlinear Relativistic and Quantum Equations with a Common Type of Solution
authors: Fernando D. Nobre, Marco Aurelio Rego-Monteiro, Constantino Tsallis
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 106, 140601 (2011)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5461
abstract: Generalizations of the three main equations of quantum physics, namely, the Schr\"odinger, Klein-Gordon, and Dirac equations, are proposed. Nonlinear terms, characterized by exponents depending on an index $q$, are considered in such a way that the standard linear equations are recovered in the limit $q \rightarrow 1$. Interestingly, these equations present a common, soliton-like, travelling solution, which is written in terms of the $q$-exponential function that naturally emerges within nonextensive statistical mechanics. In all cases, the well-known Einstein energy-momentum relation is preserved for arbitrary values of $q$.

id: 1104.5467
title: Entanglement and its evolution after a quench in the presence of an energy current
authors: Anirban Das, Silvano Garnerone, Stephan Haas
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052317 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5467
abstract: We study the Ising spin chain with a Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction focusing on the static and dynamic properties of the entanglement entropy, following a quantum quench. We show that the effects of the additional anisotropic interaction on the phase diagram and on the dynamics of the system are captured by the properties of the entanglement entropy. In particular, the model provides a way to study the quench dynamics in a system with an energy current. We consider quenches starting from an initial excited state of the Ising spin chain, and we analyze the effects of different initial conditions.

id: 1104.5481
title: Path Integral on Star Graph
authors: Satoshi Ohya
comments: 19 pages, 15 figures; typos corrected
journal: Annals Phys.327:1668-1681,2012
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5481
abstract: In this paper we study path integral for a single spinless particle on a star graph with N edges, whose vertex is known to be described by U(N) family of boundary conditions. After carefully studying the free particle case, both at the critical and off-critical levels, we propose a new path integral formulation that correctly captures all the scale-invariant subfamily of boundary conditions realized at fixed points of boundary renormalization group flow. Our proposal is based on the folding trick, which maps a scalar-valued wave function on star graph to an N-component vector-valued wave function on half-line. All the parameters of scale-invariant subfamily of boundary conditions are encoded into the momentum independent weight factors, which appear to be associated with the two distinct path classes on half-line that form the cyclic group Z_2. We show that, when bulk interactions are edge-independent, these weight factors are generally given by an N-dimensional unitary representation of Z_2. Generalization to momentum dependent weight factors and applications to worldline formalism are briefly discussed.

id: 1104.5482
title: Universal Probability Distribution for the Wave Function of a Quantum System Entangled with Its Environment
authors: Sheldon Goldstein, Joel L. Lebowitz, Christian Mastrodonato, Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zanghi
comments: 27 pages LaTeX, no figures; v2 major revision with simpler proofs
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5482
abstract: A quantum system (with Hilbert space $\mathscr{H}_1$) entangled with its environment (with Hilbert space $\mathscr{H}_2$) is usually not attributed a wave function but only a reduced density matrix $\rho_1$. Nevertheless, there is a precise way of attributing to it a random wave function $\psi_1$, called its conditional wave function, whose probability distribution $\mu_1$ depends on the entangled wave function $\psi\in\mathscr{H}_1\otimes\mathscr{H}_2$ in the Hilbert space of system and environment together. It also depends on a choice of orthonormal basis of $\mathscr{H}_2$ but in relevant cases, as we show, not very much. We prove several universality (or typicality) results about $\mu_1$, e.g., that if the environment is sufficiently large then for every orthonormal basis of $\mathscr{H}_2$, most entangled states $\psi$ with given reduced density matrix $\rho_1$ are such that $\mu_1$ is close to one of the so-called GAP (Gaussian adjusted projected) measures, $GAP(\rho_1)$. We also show that, for most entangled states $\psi$ from a microcanonical subspace (spanned by the eigenvectors of the Hamiltonian with energies in a narrow interval $[E,E+\delta E]$) and most orthonormal bases of $\mathscr{H}_2$, $\mu_1$ is close to $GAP(\mathrm{tr}_2 \rho_{mc})$ with $\rho_{mc}$ the normalized projection to the microcanonical subspace. In particular, if the coupling between the system and the environment is weak, then $\mu_1$ is close to $GAP(\rho_\beta)$ with $\rho_\beta$ the canonical density matrix on $\mathscr{H}_1$ at inverse temperature $\beta=\beta(E)$. This provides the mathematical justification of our claim in [J. Statist. Phys. 125:1193 (2006), this http URL] that $GAP$ measures describe the thermal equilibrium distribution of the wave function.

id: 1104.5491
title: Quantum theory of the charge stability diagram of semiconductor double quantum dot systems
authors: Xin Wang, Shuo Yang, S. Das Sarma
comments: 19 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 115301 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5491
abstract: We complete our recently introduced theoretical framework treating the double quantum dot system with a generalized form of Hubbard model. The effects of all quantum parameters involved in our model on the charge stability diagram are discussed in detail. A general formulation of the microscopic theory is presented, and truncating at one orbital per site, we study the implication of different choices of the model confinement potential on the Hubbard parameters as well as the charge stability diagram. We calculate the charge stability diagram keeping three orbitals per site and find that the effect of additional higher-lying orbitals on the subspace with lowest-energy orbitals only can be regarded as a small renormalization of Hubbard parameters, thereby justifying our practice of keeping only the lowest-orbital in all other calculations. The role of the harmonic oscillator frequency in the implementation of the Gaussian model potential is discussed, and the effect of an external magnetic field is identified to be similar to choosing a more localized electron wave function in microscopic calculations. The full matrix form of the Hamiltonian including all possible exchange terms, and several peculiar charge stability diagrams due to unphysical parameters are presented in the appendix, thus emphasizing the critical importance of a reliable microscopic model in obtaining the system parameters defining the Hamiltonian.

id: 1104.5594
title: Particle Physics challenges to the Bohm Picture of Relativistic Quantum Field Theory
authors: Abel Miranda
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5594
abstract: I discuss topics in Particle Physics applying the novel ontological formulation of Relativistic Quantum Field Theory due to David Bohm. I argument that particle physicists might too benefit from this truly novel way of thinking Physics.

id: 1104.5626
title: Magnetic Properties of the Second Mott Lobe in Pairing Hamiltonians
authors: M. J. Bhaseen, S. Ejima, M. Hohenadler, A. O. Silver, F. H. L. Essler, H. Fehske, B. D. Simons
comments: 14 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 023635 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5626
abstract: We explore the Mott insulating state of single-band bosonic pairing Hamiltonians using analytical approaches and large scale density matrix renormalization group calculations. We focus on the second Mott lobe which exhibits a magnetic quantum phase transition in the Ising universality class. We use this feature to discuss the behavior of a range of physical observables within the framework of the 1D quantum Ising model and the strongly anisotropic Heisenberg model. This includes the properties of local expectation values and correlation functions both at and away from criticality. Depending on the microscopic interactions it is possible to achieve either antiferromagnetic or ferromagnetic exchange interactions and we highlight the possibility of observing the E8 mass spectrum for the critical Ising model in a longitudinal magnetic field.

id: 1104.5695
title: Rectangular Potentials in a Semi-Harmonic Background: Spectrum, Resonances and Dwell Time
authors: Nicol¨¢s Fern¨¢ndez-Garc¨ªa, Oscar Rosas-Ortiz
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 7 (2011), 044, 17 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5695
abstract: We study the energy properties of a particle in one dimensional semi-harmonic rectangular wells and barriers. The integration of energies is obtained by solving a simple transcendental equation. Scattering states are shown to include cases in which the impinging particle is 'captured' by the semi-harmonic rectangular potentials. The 'time of capture' is connected with the dwell time of the scattered wave. Using the particle absorption method, it is shown that the dwell time $\tau^a_D$ coincides with the phase time $\tau_W$ of Eisenbud and Wigner, calculated as the energy derivative of the reflected wave phase shift. Analytical expressions are derived for the phase time $\tau_W$ of the semi-harmonic delta well and barrier potentials.

id: 1104.1850
title: The Berry-Keating Hamiltonian and the Local Riemann Hypothesis
authors: Mark Srednicki
comments: 9 pages, no figures; v2 included more mathematical background, v3 has minor edits for clarity
journal: J. Phys. A 44, 305202 (2011) [IOP Select]
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Number Theory (math.NT); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.1850
abstract: The local Riemann hypothesis states that the zeros of the Mellin transform of a harmonic-oscillator eigenfunction (on a real or p-adic configuration space) have real part 1/2. For the real case, we show that the imaginary parts of these zeros are the eigenvalues of the Berry-Keating hamiltonian H=(xp+px)/2 projected onto the subspace of oscillator eigenfunctions of lower level. This gives a spectral proof of the local Riemann hypothesis for the reals, in the spirit of the Hilbert-Polya conjecture. The p-adic case is also discussed.

id: 1104.5269
title: Quantum Mechanics in Phase Space
authors: Thomas L Curtright, Cosmas K Zachos
comments: A brief history of deformation quantization, ca 1930-1960, with some elementary illustrations of the theory
journal: Asia Pacific Physics Newsletter, V1, Iss 1, May 2012, pp 37-46
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5269
abstract: Ever since Werner Heisenberg's 1927 paper on uncertainty, there has been considerable hesitancy in simultaneously considering positions and momenta in quantum contexts, since these are incompatible observables. But this persistent discomfort with addressing positions and momenta jointly in the quantum world is not really warranted, as was first fully appreciated by Hilbrand Groenewold and Jos\'e Moyal in the 1940s. While the formalism for quantum mechanics in phase space was wholly cast at that time, it was not completely understood nor widely known --- much less generally accepted --- until the late 20th century.

id: 1104.5447
title: Casimir Energy and Entropy in the Sphere--Sphere Geometry
authors: Pablo Rodriguez-Lopez
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5447
abstract: We calculate the Casimir energy and entropy for two spheres described by the perfect metal model, plasma model, and Drude model in the large separation limit. We obtain nonmonotonic behavior of the Helmholtz free energy with separation and temperature for the perfect metal and plasma models, leading to parameter ranges with negative entropy, and also nonmonotonic behavior of the entropy with temperature and the separation between the spheres. This nonmonotonic behavior has not been found for Drude model. The appearance of this anomalous behavior of the entropy is discussed as well as its thermodynamic consequences.

id: 1104.2387
title: Liberating Efimov physics from three dimensions
authors: Yusuke Nishida, Shina Tan
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures, contribution to a special issue of Few-Body Systems devoted to Efimov Physics
journal: Few-Body Syst. 51, 191 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2387
abstract: When two particles attract via a resonant short-range interaction, three particles always form an infinite tower of bound states characterized by a discrete scaling symmetry. It has been considered that this Efimov effect exists only in three dimensions. Here we review how the Efimov physics can be liberated from three dimensions by considering two-body and three-body interactions in mixed dimensions and four-body interaction in one dimension. In such new systems, intriguing phenomena appear, such as confinement-induced Efimov effect, Bose-Fermi crossover in Efimov spectrum, and formation of interlayer Efimov trimers. Some of them are observable in ultracold atom experiments and we believe that this study significantly broadens our horizons of universal Efimov physics.

id: 1104.3275
title: Semiclassical Analysis of the Wigner $12j$ Symbol with One Small Angular Momentum
authors: Liang Yu
comments: 15 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A84:022101,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.3275
abstract: We derive an asymptotic formula for the Wigner $12j$ symbol, in the limit of one small and 11 large angular momenta. There are two kinds of asymptotic formulas for the $12j$ symbol with one small angular momentum. We present the first kind of formula in this paper. Our derivation relies on the techniques developed in the semiclassical analysis of the Wigner $9j$ symbol [L. Yu and R. G. Littlejohn, Phys. Rev. A 83, 052114 (2011)], where we used a gauge-invariant form of the multicomponent WKB wave-functions to derive asymptotic formulas for the $9j$ symbol with small and large angular momenta. When applying the same technique to the $12j$ symbol in this paper, we find that the spinor is diagonalized in the direction of an intermediate angular momentum. In addition, we find that the geometry of the derived asymptotic formula for the $12j$ symbol is expressed in terms of the vector diagram for a $9j$ symbol. This illustrates a general geometric connection between asymptotic limits of the various $3nj$ symbols. This work contributes the first known asymptotic formula for the $12j$ symbol to the quantum theory of angular momentum, and serves as a basis for finding asymptotic formulas for the Wigner $15j$ symbol with two small angular momenta.

id: 1104.5632
title: Klein tunneling in graphene: optics with massless electrons
authors: P.E. Allain, J.N. Fuchs
comments: short review article, 18 pages, 14 figures; v3: references added, several figures slightly modified
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 83, 301-317 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.5632
abstract: This article provides a pedagogical review on Klein tunneling in graphene, i.e. the peculiar tunneling properties of two-dimensional massless Dirac electrons. We consider two simple situations in detail: a massless Dirac electron incident either on a potential step or on a potential barrier and use elementary quantum wave mechanics to obtain the transmission probability. We emphasize the connection to related phenomena in optics, such as the Snell-Descartes law of refraction, total internal reflection, Fabry-P\'erot resonances, negative refraction index materials (the so called meta-materials), etc. We also stress that Klein tunneling is not a genuine quantum tunneling effect as it does not necessarily involve passing through a classically forbidden region via evanescent waves. A crucial role in Klein tunneling is played by the conservation of (sublattice) pseudo-spin, which is discussed in detail. A major consequence is the absence of backscattering at normal incidence, of which we give a new shorten proof. The current experimental status is also thoroughly reviewed. The appendix contains the discussion of a one-dimensional toy model that clearly illustrates the difference in Klein tunneling between mono- and bi-layer graphene.

id: 1104.4570
title: Effects of a space modulation on the behavior of a 1D alternating Heisenberg spin-1/2 model
authors: Saeed Mahdavifar, Jahanfar Abouie
comments: 19 pages, 9 figures, Accepted by Journal of Phys.: Condens. Matter
journal: J.Phys.:Condens. Matter 23, 246002 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4570
abstract: The effects of a magnetic field ($h$) and a space modulation ($\delta$) on the magnetic properties of a one dimensional antiferromagnetic-ferromagnetic Heisenberg spin-1/2 model have been studied by means of numerical exact diagonalization of finite size systems, nonlinear sigma model and bosonization approach. The space modulation is considered on the antiferromagnetic couplings. At $\delta=0$, the model is mapped to a gapless L\"{u}ttinger liquid phase by increasing the magnetic field. However, the space modulation induces a new gap in the spectrum of the system and the system experiences different quantum phases which are separated by four critical fields. By opening the new gap a magnetization plateau appears at ${1/2}M_{sat}$. The effects of the space modulation are reflected in the emergence of a plateau in other physical functions such as the F-dimer and the bond dimer order parameters, and the pair-wise entanglement.

id: 1104.2512
title: Two component Bose-Hubbard model with higher angular momentum states
authors: J. Pietraszewicz, T. Sowinski, M. Brewczyk, J. Zakrzewski, M. Lewenstein, M. Gajda
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053638 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.2512
abstract: We study a Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian of ultracold two component gas of spinor Chromium atoms. Dipolar interactions of magnetic moments while tuned resonantly by ultralow magnetic field can lead to spin flipping. Due to approximate axial symmetry of individual lattice site, total angular momentum is conserved. Therefore, all changes of the spin are accompanied by the appearance of the angular orbital momentum. This way excited Wannier states with non vanishing angular orbital momentum can be created. Resonant dipolar coupling of the two component Bose gas introduces additional degree of control of the system, and leads to a variety of different stable phases. The phase diagram for small number of particles is discussed.

id: 1104.4329
title: Partial Dynamical Symmetry in the f7/2 and g9/2 shell
authors: Larry Zamick
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1104.4329
abstract: We discuss partial dynamical symmetries which occur in single j shell calculations mostly for high spin states for systems of three or four particles (holes). The relevant nuclei are 43Ti,43Sc, 44Ti, 52Fe,53Fe, 53Co,96Cd,97Cd, and 97In.

