id: 1105.0027
title: Quantum discord in finite XY chains
authors: L. Ciliberti, R. Rossignoli, N. Canosa
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 82, 042316 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0027
abstract: We examine the quantum discord between two spins in the exact ground state of finite spin 1/2 arrays with anisotropic XY couplings in a transverse field B. It is shown that in the vicinity of the factorizing field B_s, the discord approaches a common finite non-negligible limit which is independent of the pair separation and the coupling range. An analytic expression of this limit is provided. The discord of a mixture of aligned pairs in two different directions, crucial for the previous results, is analyzed in detail, including the evaluation of coherence effects, relevant in small samples and responsible for a parity splitting at B_s. Exact results for finite chains with first neighbor and full range couplings and their interpretation in terms of such mixtures are provided.

id: 1105.0071
title: Robustness of spin-coupling distributions for perfect quantum state transfer
authors: Analia Zwick, Gonzalo A. Alvarez, Joachim Stolze, Omar Osenda
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022311 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0071
abstract: The transmission of quantum information between different parts of a quantum computer is of fundamental importance. Spin chains have been proposed as quantum channels for transferring information. Different configurations for the spin couplings were proposed in order to optimize the transfer. As imperfections in the creation of these specific spin-coupling distributions can never be completely avoided, it is important to find out which systems are optimally suited for information transfer by assessing their robustness against imperfections or disturbances. We analyze different spin coupling distributions of spin chain channels designed for perfect quantum state transfer. In particular, we study the transfer of an initial state from one end of the chain to the other end. We quantify the robustness of different coupling distributions against perturbations and we relate it to the properties of the energy eigenstates and eigenvalues. We find that the localization properties of the systems play an important role for robust quantum state transfer.

id: 1105.0083
title: Particle-wave duality: a dichotomy between symmetry and asymmetry
authors: Joan A. Vaccaro
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures
journal: Proc. R. Soc. A 468, 1065-1084 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0083
abstract: Symmetry plays a central role in many areas of modern physics. Here we show that it also underpins the dual particle and wave nature of quantum systems. We begin by noting that a classical point particle breaks translational symmetry whereas a wave with uniform amplitude does not. This provides a basis for associating particle nature with asymmetry and wave nature with symmetry. We derive expressions for the maximum amount of classical information we can have about the symmetry and asymmetry of a quantum system with respect to an arbitrary group. We find that the sum of the information about the symmetry (wave nature) and the asymmetry (particle nature) is bounded by log(D) where D is the dimension of the Hilbert space. The combination of multiple systems is shown to exhibit greater symmetry and thus more wavelike character. In particular, a class of entangled systems is shown to be capable of exhibiting wave-like symmetry as a whole while exhibiting particle-like asymmetry internally. We also show that superdense coding can be viewed as being essentially an interference phenomenon involving wave-like symmetry with respect to the group of Pauli operators.

id: 1105.0084
title: Creation of Coherent Superposition States in Inhomogeneously Broadened Media with Relaxation
authors: N. Sandor, J.S. Bakos, Zs. S?rlei, G.P. Djotyan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0084
abstract: We propose and analyze a scheme for "on demand" creation of coherent superposition of meta-stable states in a tripod-structured atom using frequency-chirped laser pulses. Negligible excitation of the atoms during the creation of the superposition states is a priority in our consideration. The underlying physics of the scheme is explained using the formalism of adiabatic states. By numerically solving master equation for the density matrix operator, we analyze the influence of the spontaneous decay and transverse relaxation on the efficiency of the creation of superposition states. We show that the proposed scheme is robust against small-to-medium variations of the parameters of the laser pulses. We provide a detailed analysis of the effect of the inhomogeneous (Doppler-) broadening on the efficiency of the coherence creation and show that the proposed scheme may be equally efficient in both homogeneously and Doppler-broadened media.

id: 1105.0088
title: Quantum computing implementations with neutral particles
authors: Antonio Negretti, Philipp Treutlein, Tommaso Calarco
comments: 19 pages, 12 figures; From the issue entitled "Special Issue on Neutral Particles"
journal: Quantum Inf. Process. 10, 721-753 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0088
abstract: We review quantum information processing with cold neutral particles, that is, atoms or polar molecules. First, we analyze the best suited degrees of freedom of these particles for storing quantum information, and then we discuss both single- and two-qubit gate implementations. We focus our discussion mainly on collisional quantum gates, which are best suited for atom-chip-like devices, as well as on gate proposals conceived for optical lattices. Additionally, we analyze schemes both for cold atoms confined in optical cavities and hybrid approaches to entanglement generation, and we show how optimal control theory might be a powerful tool to enhance the speed up of the gate operations as well as to achieve high fidelities required for fault tolerant quantum computation.

id: 1105.0119
title: Quantum trade-off coding for bosonic communication
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Patrick Hayden, Saikat Guha
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures, v2 has a new figure and a proof that the regions are optimal for the lossy bosonic channel if the entropy photon-number inequality is true; v3, submission to Physical Review A (see related work at this http URL); v4, final version accepted into Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 86, 062306 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0119
abstract: The trade-off capacity region of a quantum channel characterizes the optimal net rates at which a sender can communicate classical, quantum, and entangled bits to a receiver by exploiting many independent uses of the channel, along with the help of the same resources. Similarly, one can consider a trade-off capacity region when the noiseless resources are public, private, and secret key bits. In [Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 140501 (2012)], we identified these trade-off rate regions for the pure-loss bosonic channel and proved that they are optimal provided that a longstanding minimum output entropy conjecture is true. Additionally, we showed that the performance gains of a trade-off coding strategy when compared to a time-sharing strategy can be quite significant. In the present paper, we provide detailed derivations of the results announced there, and we extend the application of these ideas to thermalizing and amplifying bosonic channels. We also derive a "rule of thumb" for trade-off coding, which determines how to allocate photons in a coding strategy if a large mean photon number is available at the channel input. Our results on the amplifying bosonic channel also apply to the "Unruh channel" considered in the context of relativistic quantum information theory.

id: 1105.0133
title: An experimental test of all theories with predictive power beyond quantum theory
authors: Terence E. Stuart, Joshua A. Slater, Roger Colbeck, Renato Renner, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 020402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0133
abstract: According to quantum theory, the outcomes of future measurements cannot (in general) be predicted with certainty. In some cases, even with a complete physical description of the system to be measured and the measurement apparatus, the outcomes of certain measurements are completely random. This raises the question, originating in the paper by Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen, of whether quantum mechanics is the optimal way to predict measurement outcomes. Established arguments and experimental tests exclude a few specific alternative models. Here, we provide a complete answer to the above question, refuting any alternative theory with significantly more predictive power than quantum theory. More precisely, we perform various measurements on distant entangled photons, and, under the assumption that these measurements are chosen freely, we give an upper bound on how well any alternative theory could predict their outcomes. In particular, in the case where quantum mechanics predicts two equally likely outcomes, our results are incompatible with any theory in which the probability of a prediction is increased by more than ~0.19. Hence, we can immediately refute any already considered or yet-to-be-proposed alternative model with more predictive power than this.

id: 1105.0144
title: Ultrabright Backward-wave Biphoton Source
authors: Chih-Sung Chuu, S. E. Harris
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 061803(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0144
abstract: We calculate the properties of a biphoton source based on resonant backward-wave spontaneous parametric down-conversion. We show that the biphotons are generated in a single longitudinal mode having a subnatural linewidth and a Glauber correlation time exceeding 65 ns.

id: 1105.0152
title: Quantizing Knots and Beyond
authors: Louis H. Kauffman, Samuel J. Lomonaco
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures, LaTeX document
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Geometric Topology (math.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0152
abstract: This paper formulates a generalization of our work on quantum knots to explain how to make quantum versions of algebraic, combinatorial and topological structures. We include a description of previous work on the construction of Hilbert spaces from the states of the bracket polynomial with applications to algorithms for the Jones polynomial and relations with Khovanov homology. The purpose of this paper is to place such constructions in a general context of the quantization of mathematical structures.

id: 1105.0174
title: Experimental investigation of initial system-environment correlations via trace distance evolution
authors: Andrea Smirne, Davide Brivio, Simone Cialdi, Bassano Vacchini, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; v2: corresponds to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032112 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0174
abstract: The trace distance between two states of an open quantum system quantifies their distinguishability, and for a fixed environmental state can increase above its initial value only in the presence of initial system-environment correlations. We provide for the first time experimental evidence of such a behavior. In our all-optical apparatus we exploit spontaneous parametric down conversion as a source of polarization entangled states, and a spatial light modulator to introduce in a general fashion correlations between the polarization and the momentum degrees of freedom, which act as environment.

id: 1105.0186
title: Optimized Multi-Party Quantum Clock Synchronization
authors: Radel Ben-Av, Iaakov Exman
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 014301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0186
abstract: A multi-party protocol for distributed quantum clock synchronization has been claimed to provide universal limits on the clock accuracy, viz. that accuracy monotonically decreases with the number n of party members. But, this is only true for synchronization when one limits oneself to W-states. This work shows that usage of Zen-states, a generalization of W-states, results in improved accuracy, having a maximum when \lfloor n/2 \rfloor of its members have their qubits with a |1> value.

id: 1105.0220
title: A Brief Introduction to Band Structure in Three Dimensions
authors: Peter Iannucci
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures; undergraduate term paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0220
abstract: Without our ability to model and manipulate the band structure of semiconducting materials, the modern digital computer would be impractically large, hot, and expensive. In the undergraduate QM curriculum, we studied the effect of spatially periodic potentials on the spectrum of a charged particle in one dimension. We would like to understand how to extend these methods to model actual crystalline materials. Along the way, we will explore the construction of periodic potentials in three dimensions, and we use this framework to relate the single-particle Hamiltonian to the potential contribution from each atom. We then construct a crude model system analogous to the semiconductor silicon, and demonstrate the appearance of level splitting and band gaps as the strength of the potential is varied, in accordance with our intuition from the one-dimensional case. We discuss refinements of the model to include many-particle effects, and finally we show how a careful choice of the potential function leads to good agreement with the correct band diagram for silicon.

id: 1105.0224
title: On the relation between transformation dynamics and quantum statistics in weak measurements
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 4 pages including 1 figure, contribution to the proceedings of QIT24 held May 12-13 2011 in Tokyo
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0224
abstract: Experimentally, the imaginary parts of complex weak values are obtained from the response of the system to small unitary phase shifts generated by the target observable. The complex conditional probabilities obtained from weak measurements can therefore be explained in terms of transformation dynamics. Specifically, the complex phase of weak conditional probabilities provides a complete description of the transformation dynamics between the initial and the final state generated by the intermediate states. The result is a measure of quantum state overlap that relates quantum statistical properties directly to the dynamical action of unitary transformations.

id: 1105.0262
title: Reichenbach's Common Cause Principle in Algebraic Quantum Field Theory with Locally Finite Degrees of Freedom
authors: G¨¢bor Hofer-Szab¨®, P¨¦ter Vecserny¨¦s
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0262
abstract: In the paper it will be shown that Reichenbach's Weak Common Cause Principle is not valid in algebraic quantum field theory with locally finite degrees of freedom in general. Namely, for any pair of projections A and B supported in spacelike separated double cones O(a) and O(b), respectively, a correlating state can be given for which there is no nontrivial common cause (system) located in the union of the backward light cones of O(a) and O(b) and commuting with the both A and B. Since noncommuting common cause solutions are presented in these states the abandonment of commutativity can modulate this result: noncommutative Common Cause Principles might survive in these models.

id: 1105.0281
title: Atom-mirror cooling and entanglement using cavity Electromagnetically Induced Transparency
authors: Claudiu Genes, Helmut Ritsch, Michael Drewsen, Aur¨¦lien Dantan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 051801(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0281
abstract: We investigate a hybrid optomechanical system comprised of a mechanical oscillator and an atomic 3-level ensemble within an optical cavity. We show that a suitably tailored cavity field response via Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT) in the atomic medium allows for strong coupling of the mechanical mirror oscillations to the collective atomic ground-state spin. This facilitates ground-state cooling of the mirror motion, quantum state mapping and robust atom-mirror entanglement even for cavity widths larger than the mechanical oscillator frequency.

id: 1105.0295
title: Demonstration of the temporal matter-wave Talbot effect for trapped matter waves
authors: Manfred J. Mark, Elmar Haller, Johann G. Danzl, Katharina Lauber, Mattias Gustavsson, Hanns-Christoph N?gerl
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 085008 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0295
abstract: We demonstrate the temporal Talbot effect for trapped matter waves using ultracold atoms in an optical lattice. We investigate the phase evolution of an array of essentially non-interacting matter waves and observe matter-wave collapse and revival in the form of a Talbot interference pattern. By using long expansion times, we image momentum space with sub-recoil resolution, allowing us to observe fractional Talbot fringes up to 10th order.

id: 1105.0331
title: Relativistic Electron Vortex Beams: Angular Momentum and Spin-Orbit Interaction
authors: Konstantin Y. Bliokh, Mark R. Dennis, Franco Nori
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 174802 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0331
abstract: Motivated by the recent discovery of electron vortex beams carrying orbital angular momentum (AM), we construct exact Bessel-beam solutions of the Dirac equation. They describe relativistic and nonparaxial corrections to the scalar electron beams. We describe the spin and orbital AM of the electron with Berry-phase corrections and predict the intrinsic spin-orbit coupling in free space. This can be observed as a spin-dependent probability distribution of the focused electron vortex beams. Moreover, the magnetic moment is calculated, which shows different $g$-factors for spin and orbital AM and also contains the Berry-phase correction.

id: 1105.0371
title: Quantizing Braids and Other Mathematical Objects: The General Quantization Procedure
authors: Samuel J. Lomonaco, Louis H. Kauffman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0371
abstract: Extending the methods from our previous work on quantum knots and quantum graphs, we describe a general procedure for quantizing a large class of mathematical structures which includes, for example, knots, graphs, groups, algebraic varieties, categories, topological spaces, geometric spaces, and more. This procedure is different from that normally found in quantum topology. We then demonstrate the power of this method by using it to quantize braids. This general method produces a blueprint of a quantum system which is physically implementable in the same sense that Shor's quantum factoring algorithm is physically implementable. Mathematical invariants become objects that are physically observable.

id: 1105.0391
title: From a Particle in a Box to the Uncertainty Relation in a Quantum Dot and to Reflecting Walls for Relativistic Fermions
authors: M. H. Al-Hashimi, U.-J. Wiese
comments: 36 pages, 5 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 327 (2012) 2742-2759
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0391
abstract: We consider a 1-parameter family of self-adjoint extensions of the Hamiltonian for a particle confined to a finite interval with perfectly reflecting boundary conditions. In some cases, one obtains negative energy states which seems to violate the Heisenberg uncertainty relation. We use this as a motivation to derive a generalized uncertainty relation valid for an arbitrarily shaped quantum dot with general perfectly reflecting walls in $d$ dimensions. In addition, a general uncertainty relation for non-Hermitean operators is derived and applied to the non-Hermitean momentum operator in a quantum dot. We also consider minimal uncertainty wave packets in this situation, and we prove that the spectrum depends monotonically on the self-adjoint extension parameter. In addition, we construct the most general boundary conditions for semiconductor heterostructures such as quantum dots, quantum wires, and quantum wells, which are characterized by a 4-parameter family of self-adjoint extensions. Finally, we consider perfectly reflecting boundary conditions for relativistic fermions confined to a finite volume or localized on a domain wall, which are characterized by a 1-parameter family of self-adjoint extensions in the $(1+1)$-d and $(2+1)$-d cases, and by a 4-parameter family in the $(3+1)$-d and $(4+1)$-d cases.

id: 1105.0404
title: Casimir repulsion beyond the dipole regime
authors: Alexander P. McCauley, Alejandro W. Rodriguez, M. T. Homer Reid, Steven G. Johnson
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0404
abstract: We extend a previous result [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 090403 (2010)] on Casimir repulsion between a plate with a hole and a cylinder centered above it to geometries in which the central object can no longer be treated as a point dipole. We show through numerical calculations that as the distance between the plate and central object decreases, there is an intermediate regime in which the repulsive force increases dramatically. Beyond this, the force rapidly switches over to attraction as the separation decreases further to zero, in line with the proximity force approximation. We demonstrate that this effect can be understood as a competition between an increased repulsion due to a larger polarizability of the central object interacting with increased fringing fields near the edge of the plate, and attractive forces due primarily to the nonzero thickness of the plate. In comparison with our previous work, we find that using the same plate geometry but replacing the single cylinder with a ring of cylinders, or more generally an extended uniaxial conductor, the repulsive force can be enhanced by a factor of approximately $10^3$. We conclude that this enhancement, although quite dramatic, is still too small to yield detectable repulsive Casimir forces.

id: 1105.0513
title: Entanglement detection in hybrid optomechanical systems
authors: Gabriele De Chiara, Mauro Paternostro, G. Massimo Palma
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052324 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0513
abstract: We study a device formed by a Bose Einstein condensate (BEC) coupled to the field of a cavity with a moving end-mirror and find a working point such that the mirror-light entanglement is reproduced by the BEC-light quantum correlations. This provides an experimentally viable tool for inferring mirror-light entanglement with only a limited set of assumptions. We prove the existence of tripartite entanglement in the hybrid device, persisting up to temperatures of a few milli-Kelvin, and discuss a scheme to detect it.

id: 1105.0518
title: Comparizon of dynamic diffusion with explicit difference scheme for Shredinger equation
authors: V. Kukushkin, Y.I.Ozhigov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0518
abstract: We represent the method of dynamic diffusion for the approximate solution of Shroedinger equation with decoherence. Decoherence shows as the divergency of exact solution from the dynamics of diffusion swarm, which arises when the total number of real particles grows. The method of dnamic diffusion cannot be reduced to the solution of differential equations, in contrast to Bohm's quantum hydrodynamics, hence the direct computer simulation is the mandatory step of its development. We compare the dynamic diffusion with the explicit finite differences scheme for Shredinger equation for some standard one dimension cases.

id: 1105.0544
title: Monte-Carlo calculation of the lateral Casimir forces between rectangular gratings within the formalism of lattice quantum field theory
authors: Oleg Pavlovsky, Maxim Ulybyshev
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, accepted in Int. J. Mod. Phys. A
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.A26:2743-2756,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0544
abstract: We propose a new Monte-Carlo method for calculation of the Casimir forces. Our method is based on the formalism of noncompact lattice quantum electrodynamics. This approach has been tested in the simplest case of two ideal conducting planes. After this the method has been applied to the calculation of the lateral Casimir forces between two ideal conducting rectangular gratings. We compare our calculations with the results of PFA and "Optimal" PFA methods.

id: 1105.0564
title: Entanglement in a Bipartite Gaussian State
authors: Anne Ghesqui¨¨re
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0564
abstract: To examine the loss of entanglement in a two-particle Gaussian system, we couple it to an environment and use the Non-Rotating Wave master equation to study the system's dynamics. We also present a derivation of this equation. We consider two different types of evolution. Under free evolution we find that entanglement is lost quickly between the particles. When a harmonic potential is added between the particles, two very different behaviours can be observed, namely in the over and under-damped cases respectively, where the strength of the damping is determined by how large the coupling to the bath is with respect to the frequency of the potential. In the over-damped case, we find that the entanglement vanishes at even shorter times than it does in the free evolution. In the (very) under-damped case, we observe that the entanglement does not vanish. Instead it oscillates towards a stable value.

id: 1105.0579
title: Toward an ion-photon quantum interface in an optical cavity
authors: A. Stute, B. Casabone, B. Brandst?tter, D. Habicher, P. O. Schmidt, T. E. Northup, R. Blatt
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0579
abstract: We demonstrate several building blocks for an ion-photon interface based on a trapped Ca ion in an optical cavity. We identify a favorable experimental configuration and measure system parameters, including relative motion of the trapped ion and the resonator mode. A complete spectrum of cavity-assisted Raman transitions between the $4^{2}S_{1/2}$ and $3^{2}D_{5/2}$ manifolds is obtained. On two of these transitions, we generate orthogonally polarized cavity photons, and we demonstrate coherent manipulation of the corresponding pair of atomic states. Possible implementations of atom-photon entanglement and state mapping within the ion-cavity system are discussed.

id: 1105.0587
title: Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states and few-body Hamiltonians
authors: Paolo Facchi, Giuseppe Florio, Saverio Pascazio, Francesco V. Pepe
comments: 4 pages
journal: Physical Review Letters 107 (2011) 260502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0587
abstract: The generation of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states is a crucial problem in quantum information. We derive general conditions for obtaining GHZ states as eigenstates of a Hamiltonian. In general, degeneracy cannot be avoided if the Hamiltonian contains m-body interaction terms with m<=2 and a number of qubits strictly larger than 4. As an application, we explicitly construct a two-body 4-qubit Hamiltonian and a three-body 5-qubit Hamiltonian that exhibit a GHZ as a nondegenerate eigenstate.

id: 1105.0597
title: Polarisation drift compensation in an 8 km long Mach-Zehnder fibre-optical interferometer for quantum communication
authors: G. B. Xavier, T. R. da Silva, G. P. Temporao, J. P. von der Weid
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in Electronics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0597
abstract: We experimentally stabilise the polarisation drift between the arms of an 8 km-long fibre-optical Mach-Zehnder interferometer, while simultaneously compensating the phase fluctuations. The single photons are wavelength-multiplexed with three classical channels, which are used as feedback for the control systems. Two of these channels are used for the active polarisation control systems, while the other is used to phase-lock the interferometer. We demonstrate long-term stabilisation of the single-photon visibility when polarisation control is used.

id: 1105.0598
title: Simulation of Quantum Magnetism in Mixed Spin Systems with Impurity Doped Ion Crystal
authors: Peter A. Ivanov, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0598
abstract: We propose the realization of linear crystals of cold ions which contain different atomic species for investigating quantum phase transitions and frustration effects in spin system beyond the commonly discussed case of $s=1/2$. Mutual spin-spin interactions between ions can be tailored via the Zeeman effect by applying oscillating magnetic fields with strong gradients. Further, collective vibrational modes in the mixed ion crystal can be used to enhance and to vary the strength of spin-spin interactions and even to switch those forces from a ferro- to an antiferromagnetic character. We consider the behavior of the effective spin-spin couplings in an ion crystal of spin-1/2 ions doped with high magnetic moment ions with spin S=3. We analyze the ground state phase diagram and find regions with different spin orders including ferrimagnetic states. In the most simple non-trivial example we deal with a linear $\{$Ca$^+$, Mn$^+$, Ca$^+\}$ crystal with spins of $\{1/2,3,1/2}$. To show the feasibility with current state-of-the-art experiments, we discuss how quantum phases might be detected using a collective Stern-Gerlach effect of the ion crystal and high resolution spectroscopy. Here, the state-dependent laser-induced fluorescence of the indicator spin-1/2 ion, of species $^{40}$Ca$^+$, reveals also the spin state of the simulator spin-3 ions, $^{50}$Mn$^+$ as this does not possess suitable levels for optical excitation and detection.

id: 1105.0604
title: Spatially-resolved potential measurement with ion crystals
authors: Michael Brownnutt, Maximilian Harlander, Wolfgang H?nsel, Rainer Blatt
comments: 7 pages (double spaced), 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. B 107 (2012) 1125
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0604
abstract: We present a method to measure potentials over an extended region using one-dimensional ion crystals in a radio frequency (RF) ion trap. The equilibrium spacings of the ions within the crystal allow the determination of the external forces acting at each point. From this the overall potential, and also potentials due to specific trap features, are calculated. The method can be used to probe potentials near proximal objects in real time, and can be generalized to higher dimensions.

id: 1105.0628
title: Statistical measure of complexity for quantum systems with continuous variables
authors: Daniel Manzano
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures. Published version
journal: Physica A, 391 (2012) 6238
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0628
abstract: The Fisher-Shannon statistical measure of complexity is analyzed for a continuous manifold of quantum observables. It is probed then than calculating it only in the configuration and momentum spaces will not give a complete description for certain systems. Then a more general measure for the complexity of a quantum system by the integration of the usual Fisher-Shannon measure over all the parameter space is proposed. Finally, these measures are applied to the concrete case of a free particle in a box.

id: 1105.0649
title: Minimal-memory, non-catastrophic, polynomial-depth quantum convolutional encoders
authors: Monireh Houshmand, Saied Hosseini-Khayat, Mark M. Wilde
comments: Continuation and expansion of arXiv:1011.5535; 21 pages, 2 figures; v2 includes an elementary proof that the encoders in this paper are non-recursive in addition to being non-catastrophic; v3, accepted into IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory vol. 59, no. 2, pages 1198-1210 (February 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0649
abstract: Quantum convolutional coding is a technique for encoding a stream of quantum information before transmitting it over a noisy quantum channel. Two important goals in the design of quantum convolutional encoders are to minimize the memory required by them and to avoid the catastrophic propagation of errors. In a previous paper, we determined minimal-memory, non-catastrophic, polynomial-depth encoders for a few exemplary quantum convolutional codes. In this paper, we elucidate a general technique for finding an encoder of an arbitrary quantum convolutional code such that the encoder possesses these desirable properties. We also provide an elementary proof that these encoders are non-recursive. Finally, we apply our technique to many quantum convolutional codes from the literature.

id: 1105.0675
title: Schrieffer-Wolff transformation for quantum many-body systems
authors: Sergey Bravyi, David DiVincenzo, Daniel Loss
comments: 47 pages, 3 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. Vol. 326, No. 10, pp. 2793-2826 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0675
abstract: The Schrieffer-Wolff (SW) method is a version of degenerate perturbation theory in which the low-energy effective Hamiltonian H_{eff} is obtained from the exact Hamiltonian by a unitary transformation decoupling the low-energy and high-energy subspaces. We give a self-contained summary of the SW method with a focus on rigorous results. We begin with an exact definition of the SW transformation in terms of the so-called direct rotation between linear subspaces. From this we obtain elementary proofs of several important properties of H_{eff} such as the linked cluster theorem. We then study the perturbative version of the SW transformation obtained from a Taylor series representation of the direct rotation. Our perturbative approach provides a systematic diagram technique for computing high-order corrections to H_{eff}. We then specialize the SW method to quantum spin lattices with short-range interactions. We establish unitary equivalence between effective low-energy Hamiltonians obtained using two different versions of the SW method studied in the literature. Finally, we derive an upper bound on the precision up to which the ground state energy of the n-th order effective Hamiltonian approximates the exact ground state energy.

id: 1105.0682
title: Implications of Electronics Constraints for Solid-State Quantum Error Correction and Quantum Circuit Failure Probability
authors: James E. Levy, Malcolm S. Carroll, Anand Ganti, Cynthia A. Phillips, Andrew J. Landahl, Thomas M. Gurrieri, Robert D. Carr, Harold L. Stalford, Erik Nielsen
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, 3 tables
journal: New Journal of Physics, Vol 13, 083021, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0682
abstract: In this paper we present the impact of classical electronics constraints on a solid-state quantum dot logical qubit architecture. Constraints due to routing density, bandwidth allocation, signal timing, and thermally aware placement of classical supporting electronics significantly affect the quantum error correction circuit's error rate. We analyze one level of a quantum error correction circuit using nine data qubits in a Bacon-Shor code configured as a quantum memory. A hypothetical silicon double quantum dot quantum bit (qubit) is used as the fundamental element. A pessimistic estimate of the error probability of the quantum circuit is calculated using the total number of gates and idle time using a provably optimal schedule for the circuit operations obtained with an integer program methodology. The micro-architecture analysis provides insight about the different ways the electronics impact the circuit performance (e.g., extra idle time in the schedule), which can significantly limit the ultimate performance of any quantum circuit and therefore is a critical foundation for any future larger scale architecture analysis.

id: 1105.0700
title: Storming Majorana's Tower with OAM states of light in a plasma
authors: F. Tamburini, B. Thid¨¦
comments: 4 pages; Corrected, updated version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0700
abstract: We extend the relationship between mass and spin angular momentum, described by the bosonic spectrum of positive definite mass particles of the Majorana solution to the Dirac equation, to photons that acquire an effective Proca mass through the Anderson-Higgs mechanism when they propagate in a plasma. In an earlier paper we showed that if the plasma is structured, it can impart orbital angular momentum (OAM) to the photons that reduces the total Proca photon mass. Here we show, through a generalisation of Majorana's solution, that photons with OAM in a plasma cannot assume negative squared mass states. This means that there exist interesting analogies with Quantum Gravity or General Relativity models involving a modified action of the Lorentz group.

id: 1105.0705
title: Two-Site Quantum Random Walk
authors: Stan Gudder, Rafael D. Sorkin
comments: 28 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0705
abstract: We study the measure theory of a two-site quantum random walk. The truncated decoherence functional defines a quantum measure $\mu_n$ on the space of $n$-paths, and the $\mu_n$ in turn induce a quantum measure $\mu$ on the cylinder sets within the space $\Omega$ of untruncated paths. Although $\mu$ cannot be extended to a continuous quantum measure on the full $\sigma$-algebra generated by the cylinder sets, an important question is whether it can be extended to sufficiently many physically relevant subsets of $\Omega$ in a systematic way. We begin an investigation of this problem by showing that $\mu$ can be extended to a quantum measure on a "quadratic algebra" of subsets of $\Omega$ that properly contains the cylinder sets. We also present a new characterization of the quantum integral on the $n$-path space.

id: 1105.0744
title: Designing Robust Unitary Gates: Application to Concatenated Composite Pulse
authors: Tsubasa Ichikawa, Masamitsu Bando, Yasushi Kondo, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. Major revision: improved presentation in Sec. 3, references and appendix added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84 (2011) 062311
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0744
abstract: We propose a simple formalism to design unitary gates robust against given systematic errors. This formalism generalizes our previous observation [Y. Kondo and M. Bando, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 80, 054002 (2011)] that vanishing dynamical phase in some composite gates is essential to suppress amplitude errors. By employing our formalism, we naturally derive a new composite unitary gate which can be seen as a concatenation of two known composite unitary operations. The obtained unitary gate has high fidelity over a wider range of the error strengths compared to existing composite gates.

id: 1105.0763
title: State detection using coherent Raman repumping and two-color Raman transfers
authors: Boon Leng Chuah, Nick C. Lewty, Murray D. Barrett
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0763
abstract: We demonstrate state detection based on coherent Raman repumping and a two-color Raman state transfer. The Raman coupling during detection selectively eliminates unwanted dark states in the fluorescence cycle without compromising the immunity of the desired dark state to off-resonant scattering. We demonstrate this technique using $^{137}\mathrm{Ba}^+$ where a combination of Raman coupling and optical pumping leaves the $D_{3/2}$ $\ket{F"=3,m_F"=3}$ metastable state optically dark and immune to off-resonant scattering. All other states are strongly coupled to the upper $P_{1/2}$ levels. We achieve a single shot state-detection efficiency of $89.6(3)%$ in a $1\mathrm{ms}$ integration time, limited almost entirely by technical imperfections. Shelving to the $\ket{F"=3,m_F"=3}$ state before detection is performed via a two-color Raman transfer with a fidelity of $1.00(3)$.

id: 1105.0784
title: Resilience of orbital angular momentum qubits and effects on hybrid entanglement
authors: Daniele Giovannini, Eleonora Nagali, Lorenzo Marrucci, Fabio Sciarrino
comments: 6 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042338 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0784
abstract: The orbital angular momentum of light (OAM) provides a promising approach for the implementation of multidimensional states (qudits) for quantum information purposes. In order to characterize the degradation undergone by the information content of qubits encoded in a bidimensional subspace of the orbital angular momentum degree of freedom of photons, we study how the state fidelity is affected by a transverse obstruction placed along the propagation direction of the light beam. Emphasis is placed on the effects of planar and radial hard-edged aperture functions on the state fidelity of Laguerre-Gaussian transverse modes and the entanglement properties of polarization-OAM hybrid-entangled photon pairs.

id: 1105.0787
title: Dynamics of encrypted information in the presence of imperfect operations
authors: Nasser Metwally
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am B 29 389-396 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0787
abstract: The original dense coding protocol is achieved via quantum channel generated between a single Cooper pair and a cavity. The dynamics of the coded and decoded information are investigated for different values of the channel's parameters. The efficiency of this channel for coding and decoding information depends on the initial state settings of the Cooper pair. It is shown that, these information increase as the detuning parameter increases or the number of photons inside the cavity decreases. The coded and decoded information increase as the ratio of the capacities between the box and gate decreases. In the presence of imperfect operation, the sensitivity of the information to the phase error is much larger than the bit flip error.

id: 1105.0831
title: Decoherence and wave function collapse
authors: Roland Omn¨¨s
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0831
abstract: The possibility of consistency between the basic quantum principles of quantum mechanics and wave function collapse is reexamined. A specific interpretation of environment is proposed for this aim and applied to decoherence. When the organization of a measuring apparatus is taken into account, this approach leads also to an interpretation of wave function collapse, which would result in principle from the same interactions with environment as decoherence. This proposal is shown consistent with the non-separable character of quantum mechanics.

id: 1105.0853
title: Statistical mechanics of the Cluster-Ising model
authors: Pietro Smacchia, Luigi Amico, Paolo Facchi, Rosario Fazio, Giuseppe Florio, Saverio Pascazio, Vlatko Vedral
comments: To be published in Physical Review A
journal: Phys.Rev.A84:022304, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0853
abstract: We study a Hamiltonian system describing a three-spin-1/2 cluster-like interaction competing with an Ising-like anti-ferromagnetic interaction. We compute free energy, spin correlation functions and entanglement both in the ground and in thermal states. The model undergoes a quantum phase transition between an Ising phase with a nonvanishing magnetization and a cluster phase characterized by a string order. Any two-spin entanglement is found to vanish in both quantum phases because of a nontrivial correlation pattern. Neverthless, the residual multipartite entanglement is maximal in the cluster phase and dependent on the magnetization in the Ising phase. We study the block entropy at the critical point and calculate the central charge of the system, showing that the criticality of the system is beyond the Ising universality class.

id: 1105.0870
title: Prospects for using integrated atom-photon junctions for quantum information processing
authors: R. A. Nyman, S. Scheel, E. A. Hinds
comments: submitted to special issue "Quantum Information with Neutral Particles" of "Quantum Information Processing"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0870
abstract: We investigate the use of integrated, microfabricated photonic-atomic junctions for quantum information processing applications. The coupling between atoms and light is enhanced by using microscopic optics without the need for cavity enhancement. Qubits that are collectively encoded in hyperfine states of small ensembles of optically trapped atoms, coupled via the Rydberg blockade mechanism, seem a particularly promising implementation. Fast and high-fidelity gate operations, efficient readout, long coherence times and large numbers of qubits are all possible.

id: 1105.0894
title: Entanglement of arbitrary spin fields in non-inertial frames
authors: M. Montero, E. Martin-Martinez
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. Revtex 4.1
journal: Phys.Rev.A84:012337,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0894
abstract: We generalise the study of fermionic and bosonic entanglement in non-inertial frames to fields of arbitrary spin and beyond the single mode approximation. After the general analysis we particularise for two interesting cases: entanglement between an inertial and an accelerated observer for massless fields of spin 1 (electromagnetic) and 3/2 (Rarita-Schwinger). We show that in the limit of infinite acceleration, no significant differences appear between the different spin fields for the states considered.

id: 1105.0911
title: Negativity Fonts, multiqubit invariants and Four qubit Maximally Entangled States
authors: S. Shelly Sharma, N. K. Sharma
comments: 14 pages,02 Tables, Major revision of section on three tangles and Tables, Added References. In this version corrected typos
journal: Quantum Information Processing (Nov. 2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0911
abstract: Recently, we introduced negativity fonts as the basic units of multipartite entanglement in pure states. We show that the relation between global negativity of partial transpose of N- qubit state and linear entropy of reduced single qubit state yields an expression for global negativity in terms of determinants of negativity fonts. Transformation equations for determinants of negativity fonts under local unitaries (LU's) are useful to construct LU invariants such as degree four and degree six invariants for four qubit states. The difference of squared negativity and N-tangle is an N qubit invariant which contains information on entanglement of the state caused by quantum coherences that are not annihilated by removing a single qubit. Four qubit invariants that detect the entanglement of specific parts in a four qubit state are expressed in terms of three qubit subsystem invariants. Numerical values of invariants bring out distinct features of several four qubit states which have been proposed to be the maximally entangled four qubit states.

id: 1105.0945
title: Propagation of Disturbances in Degenerate Quantum Systems
authors: Nicholas Chancellor, Stephan Haas
comments: 27 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 035130 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0945
abstract: Disturbances in gapless quantum many-body models are known to travel an unlimited distance throughout the system. Here, we explore this phenomenon in finite clusters with degenerate ground states. The specific model studied here is the one-dimensional J1-J2 Heisenberg Hamiltonian at and close to the Majumdar-Ghosh point. Both open and periodic boundary conditions are considered. Quenches are performed using a local magnetic field. The degenerate Majumdar-Ghosh ground state allows disturbances which carry quantum entanglement to propagate throughout the system, and thus dephase the entire system within the degenerate subspace. These disturbances can also carry polarization, but not energy, as all energy is stored locally. The local evolution of the part of the system where energy is stored drives the rest of the system through long-range entanglement. We also examine approximations for the ground state of this Hamiltonian in the strong field limit, and study how couplings away from the Majumdar-Ghosh point affect the propagation of disturbances. We find that even in the case of approximate degeneracy, a disturbance can be propagated throughout a finite system.

id: 1105.0958
title: A short note on conflicting definitions of locality
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0958
abstract: There are various non-equivalent definitions of locality. Three of them, impossibility of instantaneous communication, impossibility of action-at-a-distance, and impossibility of faster-than-light travel, while not fully implying each other, have a large overlap. When the term non-locality is used, most physicists think that one of these three conditions is being violated. There is a minority of physicists, however, who uses "locality" with a fourth meaning, the satisfaction of the hypotheses underlying Bell inequality. This definition devoids Bell's theorem of its profoundness, reducing it to a mere tautology. It is demonstrated here, through a classical example using a deck of cards, that this latter definition of "locality" is untenable.

id: 1105.0961
title: Maximum information gain in weak or continuous measurements of qudits: complementarity is not enough
authors: Joshua Combes, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 21 pages, 21 figures. V2 published version
journal: Phys. Rev. X 1, 011012 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0961
abstract: To maximize average information gain for a classical measurement, all outcomes of an observation must be equally likely. The condition of equally likely outcomes may be enforced in quantum theory by ensuring that one's state $\rho$ is maximally different, or complementary, to the measured observable. This requires the ability to perform unitary operations on the state, conditioned on the results of prior measurements. We consider the case of measurement of a component of angular momentum for a qudit (a $D$-dimensional system, with $D=2J+1$). For weak or continuous-in-time (i.e. repeated weak) measurements, we show that the complementarity condition ensures an average improvement, in the rate of purification, of only 2. However, we show that by choosing the optimal control protocol of this type, one can attain the best possible scaling, $O(D^{2})$, for the average improvement. For this protocol the acquisition of information is nearly deterministic. Finally we contrast these results with those for complementarity-based protocols in a register of qbits.

id: 1105.0994
title: Classification of matrix product ground states corresponding to one dimensional chains of two state sites of nearest neighbor interactions
authors: Amir H. Fatollahi, Mohammad Khorrami, Ahmad Shariati, Amir Aghamohammadi
comments: 17 pages, LaTeX2e
journal: Phys Rev. A83 (2011) 042108
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0994
abstract: A complete classification is given for one dimensional chains with nearest neighbor interactions having two states in each site, for which a matrix product ground state exists. The Hamiltonians and their corresponding matrix product ground states are explicitly obtained.

id: 1105.1018
title: Dipole-dipole shift of quantum emitters coupled to surface plasmons of a nano-wire
authors: David Dzsotjan, Juergen Kaestel, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1018
abstract: Placing quantum emitters close to a metallic nano-wire, an effective interaction can be achieved over distances large compared to the resonance wavelength due to the strong coupling between emitters and the surface plasmon modes of the wire. This leads to modified collective decay rates, as well as to Lamb and dipole-dipole shifts. In this paper we present a general method for calculating these level shifts which we subsequently apply to the case of a pair of atoms coupled to the guided modes of a nano-wire.

id: 1105.1019
title: Classification of the phases of 1D spin chains with commuting Hamiltonians
authors: Salman Beigi
comments: 8 pages, improved readability, added example
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 025306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1019
abstract: We consider the class of spin Hamiltonians on a 1D chain with periodic boundary conditions that are (i) translational invariant, (ii) commuting and (iii) scale invariant, where by the latter we mean that the ground state degeneracy is independent of the system size. We correspond a directed graph to a Hamiltonian of this form and show that the structure of its ground space can be read from the cycles of the graph. We show that the ground state degeneracy is the only parameter that distinguishes the phases of these Hamiltonians. Our main tool in this paper is the idea of Bravyi and Vyalyi (2005) in using the representation theory of finite dimensional C^*-algebras to study commuting Hamiltonians.

id: 1105.1040
title: Conditions for equality between entanglement-assisted and unassisted classical capacities of a quantum channel
authors: M. E. Shirokov
comments: 26 pages, published version including the result of the first part of arXiv:1202.3449 and the section devoted to the difference between the quantum mutual information and the $\chi$-function (constrained Holevo capacity) of a quantum channel
journal: Problems of Information Transmission, 48:2 (2012), 85-101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1040
abstract: Several relations between the Holevo capacity and the entanglement-assisted classical capacity of a quantum channel are proved, necessary and sufficient conditions for their coincidence are obtained. In particular, it is shown that these capacities coincide if (correspondingly, only if) the channel (correspondingly, the $\chi$--essential part of the channel) belongs to the class of classical-quantum channels (the $\chi$-essential part is a restriction of a channel obtained by discarding all states useless for transmission of classical information). The obtained conditions and their corollaries are generalized to channels with linear constraints. By using these conditions it is shown that the question of coincidence of the Holevo capacity and the entanglement-assisted classical capacity depends on the constraint (even for classical-quantum channels). Properties of the difference between the quantum mutual information and the $\chi$-function (constrained Holevo capacity) of a quantum channel are explored.

id: 1105.1051
title: Bound Molecules in an Interacting Quantum Walk
authors: Andre Ahlbrecht, Andrea Alberti, Dieter Meschede, Volkher B. Scholz, Albert H. Werner, Reinhard F. Werner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1051
abstract: We investigate a system of two atoms in an optical lattice, performing a quantum walk by state-dependent shift operations and a coin operation acting on the internal states. The atoms interact, e.g., by cold collisions, whenever they are in the same potential well of the lattice. Under such conditions they typically develop a bound state, so that the two atoms effectively perform a quantum walk together, rarely moving further from each other than a few lattice sites. The theoretical analysis is based on a theory of quantum walks with a point defect, applied to the difference variable. We also discuss the feasibility of an experimental realization in existing quantum walk experiments.

id: 1105.1084
title: Extreme Covariant Quantum Observables in the Case of an Abelian Symmetry Group and a Transitive Value Space
authors: Erkka Haapasalo, Juha-Pekka Pellonp??
comments: 23 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 122102 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1084
abstract: We represent quantum observables as POVMs (normalized positive operator valued measures) and consider convex sets of observables which are covariant with respect to a unitary representation of a locally compact Abelian symmetry group $G$. The value space of such observables is a transitive $G$-space. We characterize the extreme points of covariant observables and also determine the covariant extreme points of the larger set of all quantum observables. The results are applied to position, position difference and time observables.

id: 1105.1134
title: Free will and quantum mechanics
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo
comments: 1 figure, 3 tables, comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1134
abstract: A simple example is provided showing that violation of free will allows to reproduce the quantum mechanical predictions, and that the Clauser-Horne parameter can take the maximum value 4 for a proper choice.

id: 1105.1146
title: Quantum Gates and Memory using Microwave Dressed States
authors: N. Timoney, I. Baumgart, M. Johanning, A. F. Varon, Ch. Wunderlich, M. B. Plenio, A. Retzker
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature 476, 185 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1146
abstract: Trapped atomic ions have been successfully used for demonstrating basic elements of universal quantum information processing (QIP). Nevertheless, scaling up of these methods and techniques to achieve large scale universal QIP, or more specialized quantum simulations remains challenging. The use of easily controllable and stable microwave sources instead of complex laser systems on the other hand promises to remove obstacles to scalability. Important remaining drawbacks in this approach are the use of magnetic field sensitive states, which shorten coherence times considerably, and the requirement to create large stable magnetic field gradients. Here, we present theoretically a novel approach based on dressing magnetic field sensitive states with microwave fields which addresses both issues and permits fast quantum logic. We experimentally demonstrate basic building blocks of this scheme to show that these dressed states are long-lived and coherence times are increased by more than two orders of magnitude compared to bare magnetic field sensitive states. This changes decisively the prospect of microwave-driven ion trap QIP and offers a new route to extend coherence times for all systems that suffer from magnetic noise such as neutral atoms, NV-centres, quantum dots, or circuit-QED systems.

id: 1105.1153
title: On the Superradiant Phase in Field-Matter Interactions
authors: O. Casta?os, E. Nahmad-Achar, R. L¨®pez-Pe?a, J. G. Hirsch
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 84, 013819 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1153
abstract: We show that semi-classical states adapted to the symmetry of the Hamiltonian are an excellent approximation to the exact quantum solution of the ground and first excited states of the Dicke model. Their overlap to the exact quantum states is very close to 1 except in a close vicinity of the quantum phase transition. Furthermore, they have analytic forms in terms of the model parameters and allow us to calculate analytically the expectation values of field and matter observables. Some of these differ considerably from results obtained via the standard coherent states, and by means of Holstein-Primakoff series expansion of the Dicke Hamiltonian. Comparison with exact solutions obtained numerically support our results. In particular, it is shown that the expectation values of the number of photons and of the number of excited atoms have no singularities at the phase transition. We comment on why other authors have previously found otherwise.

id: 1105.1161
title: Ontological Determinism non-locality and the system problem in quantum mechanics
authors: Maurice Passman, Philip V. Fellman, Jonathan Vos Post
comments: 14 pages, 8th International Conference on Complex Systems
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1161
abstract: Wave functions live on configuration space. Schrodinger called this entanglement. The linearity of the Schrodinger equation prevents the wave function from representing reality. If the equation were non-linear (e.g., reduction models) the wave function living on configuration space still by itself could not represent reality in physical space. In this paper, we continue the line of reasoning discussed in our previous paper, "The Fundamental Importance of Discourse in Theoretical Physics", [arXiv:1001.4111], to explore the "measurement problem" in quantum mechanics. In particular we present a new interpretation of quantum decoherence, and a novel critique of the double slit experiment. In addition, we review the use of "determinism" in the discourse of quantum mechanics, resolving the confusion created by theories which attempt to restore determinism to quantum mechanics while confusing determinism with ontological necessity. Finally, we review Bell's Theorem in order to demonstrate that nonlocality is an inherent ontological quality of the configuration space of the universe regardless of deterministic or non-deterministic character of quantum mechanics.

id: 1105.1165
title: Impossibility of Growing Quantum Bit Commitments
authors: Severin Winkler, Marco Tomamichel, Stefan Hengl, Renato Renner
comments: 10 pages, minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 090502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1165
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) is often, more correctly, called key growing. Given a short key as a seed, QKD enables two parties, connected by an insecure quantum channel, to generate a secret key of arbitrary length. Conversely, no key agreement is possible without access to an initial key. Here, we consider another fundamental cryptographic task, commitments. While, similar to key agreement, commitments cannot be realized from scratch, we ask whether they may be grown. That is, given the ability to commit to a fixed number of bits, is there a way to augment this to commitments to strings of arbitrary length? Using recently developed information-theoretic techniques, we answer this question to the negative.

id: 1105.1192
title: Probing the spacetime structure of vacuum entanglement
authors: Andrzej Dragan, Ivette Fuentes
comments: I.F. previously published as Fuentes-Guridi and Fuentes-Schuller
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1192
abstract: We introduce a framework for probing the spacetime structure of vacuum entanglement that exhibits infinite range correlations between the future and the past, as well as spatially separated regions. Our results are non-perturbative and analytical.

id: 1105.1206
title: Quantum effects in thermal conduction: Nonequilibrium quantum discord and entanglement
authors: Lian-Ao Wu, Dvira Segal
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012319 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1206
abstract: We study the process of heat transfer through an entangled pair of two-level system, demonstrating the role of quantum correlations in this nonequilibrium process. While quantum correlations generally degrade with increasing the temperature bias, introducing spatial asymmetry leads to an intricate behavior: Connecting the qubits unequally to the reservoirs one finds that quantum correlations persist and increase with the temperature bias when the system is more weakly linked to the hot reservoir. In the reversed case, linking the system more strongly to the hot bath, the opposite, more natural behavior is observed, with quantum correlations being strongly suppressed upon increasing the temperature bias.

id: 1105.1211
title: Entanglement in bipartite pure states of an interacting boson gas obtained by local projective measurements
authors: Francis N. C. Paraan, Javier Molina-Vilaplana, Vladimir E. Korepin, Sougato Bose
comments: 7 pages, 6 PDF figures. Minor revisions, appendix added, references updated, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032330 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1211
abstract: We quantify the extractable entanglement of excited states of a Lieb-Liniger gas that are obtained from coarse-grained measurements on the ground state in which the boson number in one of two complementary contiguous partitions of the gas is determined. Numerically exact results obtained from the coordinate Bethe ansatz show that the von Neumann entropy of the resulting bipartite pure state increases monotonically with the strength of repulsive interactions and saturates to the impenetrable boson limiting value. We also present evidence indicating that the largest amount of entanglement can be extracted from the most probable projected state having half the number of bosons in a given partition. Our study points to a fundamental difference between the nature of the entanglement in free-bosonic and free-fermionic systems, with the entanglement in the former being zero after projection, while that in the latter (corresponding to the impenetrable boson limit) being non-zero.

id: 1105.1216
title: System-environment dynamics of X-type states in noninertial frames
authors: Jieci Wang, Jiliang Jing
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. (NY) 327 (2012) 283
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1216
abstract: The system-environment dynamics of noninertial systems is investigated. It is shown that for the amplitude damping channel: (i) the biggest difference between the decoherence effect and the Unruh radiation on the dynamics of the entanglement is the former only leads to entanglement transfer in the whole system, but the latter damages all types of entanglement; (ii) the system-environment entanglement increases and then declines, while the environment-environment entanglement always increases as the decay parameter $p$ increases; and (iii) the thermal fields generated by the Unruh effect can promote the sudden death of entanglement between the subsystems while postpone the sudden birth of entanglement between the environments. It is also found that there is no system-environment and environment-environment entanglements when the system coupled with the phase damping environment.

id: 1105.1232
title: On the "Security analysis and improvements of arbitrated quantum signature schemes"
authors: Song-Kong Chong, Yi-Ping Luo, Tzonelih Hwang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1232
abstract: Recently, Zou et al. [Phys. Rev. A 82, 042325 (2010)] pointed out that two arbitrated quantum signature (AQS) schemes are not secure, because an arbitrator cannot arbitrate the dispute between two users when a receiver repudiates the integrity of a signature. By using a public board, they try to propose two AQS schemes to solve the problem. This work shows that the same security problem may exist in their schemes and also a malicious party can reveal the other party's secret key without being detected by using the Trojan-horse attacks. Accordingly, two basic properties of a quantum signature, i.e. unforgeability and undeniability, may not be satisfied in their scheme.

id: 1105.1236
title: Collective cavity quantum electrodynamics with multiple atomic levels
authors: K. J. Arnold, M. P. Baden, M. D. Barrett
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 033843 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1236
abstract: We study the transmission spectra of ultracold rubidium atoms coupled to a high-finesse optical cavity. Under weak probing with pi-polarized light, the linear response of the system is that of a collective spin with multiple levels coupled to a single mode of the cavity. By varying the atom number, we change the collective coupling of the system. We observe the change in transmission spectra when going from a regime where the collective coupling is much smaller than the separation of the atomic levels to a regime where both are of comparable size. The observations are in good agreement with a reduced model we developed for our system.

id: 1105.1238
title: Recursive quantum repeater networks
authors: Rodney Van Meter, Joe Touch, Clare Horsman
comments: 14 pages
journal: Progress in Informatics, No. 8, pp.65-79, (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1238
abstract: Internet-scale quantum repeater networks will be heterogeneous in physical technology, repeater functionality, and management. The classical control necessary to use the network will therefore face similar issues as Internet data transmission. Many scalability and management problems that arose during the development of the Internet might have been solved in a more uniform fashion, improving flexibility and reducing redundant engineering effort. Quantum repeater network development is currently at the stage where we risk similar duplication when separate systems are combined. We propose a unifying framework that can be used with all existing repeater designs. We introduce the notion of a Quantum Recursive Network Architecture, developed from the emerging classical concept of 'recursive networks', extending recursive mechanisms from a focus on data forwarding to a more general distributed computing request framework. Recursion abstracts independent transit networks as single relay nodes, unifies software layering, and virtualizes the addresses of resources to improve information hiding and resource management. Our architecture is useful for building arbitrary distributed states, including fundamental distributed states such as Bell pairs and GHZ, W, and cluster states.

id: 1105.1286
title: Determination of hidden variable models reproducing the spin-singlet
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo
comments: Slightly revised version, 7 pages, no figures, to appear in PRA. Final version, removed extra references no longer cited
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042119 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1286
abstract: The experimental violation of Bell inequality establishes necessary but not sufficient conditions that any theory must obey. Namely, a theory compatible with the experimental observations can satisfy at most two of the three hypotheses at the basis of Bell's theorem: free will, no-signaling, and outcome-Independence. Quantum mechanics satisfies the first two hypotheses but not the latter. Experiments not only violate Bell inequality, but show an excellent agreement with quantum mechanics. This fact restricts further the class of admissible theories. In this work, the author determines the form of the hidden-variable models that reproduce the quantum mechanical predictions for a spin singlet while satisfying both the hypotheses of free will and no-signaling. Two classes of hidden-variable models are given as an example, and a general recipe to build infinitely many possible models is provided.

id: 1105.1294
title: Momentum and Hamiltonian in Complex Action Theory
authors: Keiichi Nagao, Holger Bech Nielsen
comments: Latex 29 pages, 2 figures, references added, typo corrected, the final version to appear in IJMPA
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A 27, 1250076 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1294
abstract: In the complex action theory (CAT) we explicitly examine how the momentum and Hamiltonian are defined from the Feynman path integral (FPI) point of view based on the complex coordinate formalism of our foregoing paper. After reviewing the formalism briefly, we describe in FPI with a Lagrangian the time development of a $\xi$-parametrized wave function, which is a solution to an eigenvalue problem of a momentum operator. Solving this eigenvalue problem, we derive the momentum and Hamiltonian. Oppositely, starting from the Hamiltonian we derive the Lagrangian in FPI, and we are led to the momentum relation again via the saddle point for $p$. This study confirms that the momentum and Hamiltonian in the CAT have the same forms as those in the real action theory. We also show the third derivation of the momentum relation via the saddle point for $q$.

id: 1105.1354
title: Rotational symmetry and degeneracy: a cotangent-perturbed rigid rotator of unperturbed level multiplicity
authors: D. E. Alvarez-Castillo, C. B. Compean, M. Kirchbach
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures; Molecular Physics 2011
journal: Molecular Physics 109, Issue 11 pp. 1477-1483 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1354
abstract: We predict level degeneracy of the rotational type in diatomic molecules described by means of a cotangent-hindered rigid rotator. The problem is shown to be exactly solvable in terms of non-classical Romanovski polynomials. The energies of such a system are linear combinations of t(t+1) and 1/[t(t+1)+1/4] terms with the non-negative integer principal quantum number t=n+|/bar{m}| being the sum of the degree n of the polynomials and the absolute value, |/bar{m}|, of the square root of the separation constant between the polar and azimuthal motions. The latter obeys, with respect to t, the same branching rule, |/bar{m}|=0,1,..., t, as does the magnetic quantum number with respect to the angular momentum, l, and, in this fashion, the t quantum number presents itself indistinguishable from l. In effect, the spectrum of the hindered rotator has the same (2t+1)-fold level multiplicity as the unperturbed one. For small t values, the wave functions and excitation energies of the perturbed rotator differ from the ordinary spherical harmonics, and the l(l+1) law, respectively, while approaching them asymptotically with increasing t. In this fashion the breaking of the rotational symmetry at the level of the representation functions is opaqued by the level degeneracy. The model provides a tool for the description of rotational bands with anomalously large gaps between the ground state and its first excitation.

id: 1105.1357
title: Bounds for Non-Locality Distillation Protocols
authors: Manuel Forster
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures; small changes in introduction and application section due to the exact verification of distillation bounds using a symbolic computation package (Maple 14); added journal ref
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062114 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1357
abstract: Non-locality can be quantified by the violation of a Bell inequality. Since this violation may be amplified by local operations an alternative measure has been proposed - distillable non-locality. The alternative measure is difficult to calculate exactly due to the double exponential growth of the parameter space. In this article we give a way to bound the distillable non-locality of a resource by the solutions to a related optimization problem. Our upper bounds are exponentially easier to compute than the exact value and are shown to be meaningful in general and tight in some cases.

id: 1105.1358
title: Non-Markovian Diffusive Unravellings of Entanglement
authors: Brittany Corn, Jun Jing, Ting Yu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1358
abstract: The fully quantized model of two qubits coupled to a common bath is solved using the quantum state diffusion (QSD) approach in the non-Markovian regime. We have established an explicit time-local non-Markovian QSD equation for the two-qubit dissipative model. Diffusive quantum trajectories are applied to the entanglement estimation of two-qubit systems in a non-Markovian regime. In another interesting example, we have also considered exact entanglement unravellings for a dephasing model. In both cases, non-Markovian features of entanglement evolution are revealed through quantum diffusive unravellings in the qubit state space.

id: 1105.1384
title: Generalized Galilean Transformations and the Measurement Problem in the Entropic Dynamics Approach to Quantum Theory
authors: David T. Johnson
comments: Doctoral Thesis
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1384
abstract: Quantum mechanics is an extremely successful and accurate physical theory, yet since its inception, it has been afflicted with numerous conceptual difficulties. The primary subject of this thesis is the theory of entropic quantum dynamics (EQD), which seeks to avoid these conceptual problems by interpreting quantum theory from an informational perspective. We begin by reviewing probability theory as a means of rationally quantifying uncertainties. We then discuss how probabilities can be updated with the method of maximum entropy (ME). We then review some motivating difficulties in quantum mechanics before discussing Caticha's work in deriving quantum theory from the approach of entropic dynamics. After entropic dynamics is introduced, we develop the concepts of symmetries and transformations from an informational perspective. The primary result is the formulation of a symmetry condition that any transformation must satisfy in order to qualify as a symmetry in EQD. We then proceed to apply this condition to the extended Galilean transformation. This transformation is of interest as it exhibits features of both special and general relativity. The transformation yields a gravitational potential that arises from an equivalence of information. We conclude the thesis with a discussion of the measurement problem in quantum mechanics. We discuss the difficulties that arise in the standard quantum mechanical approach to measurement before developing our theory of entropic measurement. In entropic dynamics, position is the only observable. We show how a theory built on this one observable can account for the multitude of measurements present in quantum theory. Furthermore, we show that the Born rule need not be postulated, but can be derived in EQD. Finally, we show how the wave function can be updated by the ME method as the phase is constructed purely in terms of probabilities.

id: 1105.1438
title: Three-Level Laser Dynamics with the Atoms Pumped by Electron Bombardment
authors: Fesseha Kassahun
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure; a revised version of arXiv: 1105.1438v2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1438
abstract: We analyze the quantum properties of the light generated by a three-level laser with a closed cavity and coupled to a vacuum reservoir. The three-level atoms available in the cavity are pumped from the bottom to the top level by means of electron bombardment and we carry out our analysis by putting the noise operators associated with the vacuum reservoir in normal order. The maximum quadrature squeezing of the light generated by the laser, operating far below threshold, is found to be 50% below the coherent-state level. We have also established that the quadrature squeezing of the output light is equal to that of the cavity light and has the same value in any frequency interval. This implies that the quadrature squeezing of the laser light is an intrinsic property of the individual photons.

id: 1105.1454
title: Integrated photonic quantum gates for polarization qubits
authors: Andrea Crespi, Roberta Ramponi, Roberto Osellame, Linda Sansoni, Irene Bongioanni, Fabio Sciarrino, Giuseppe Vallone, Paolo Mataloni
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Commun. 2, 566 (2011) (Open access)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1454
abstract: Integrated photonic circuits have a strong potential to perform quantum information processing. Indeed, the ability to manipulate quantum states of light by integrated devices may open new perspectives both for fundamental tests of quantum mechanics and for novel technological applications. However, the technology for handling polarization encoded qubits, the most commonly adopted approach, is still missing in quantum optical circuits. Here we demonstrate the first integrated photonic Controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate for polarization encoded qubits. This result has been enabled by the integration, based on femtosecond laser waveguide writing, of partially polarizing beam splitters on a glass chip. We characterize the logical truth table of the quantum gate demonstrating its high fidelity to the expected one. In addition, we show the ability of this gate to transform separable states into entangled ones and vice versa. Finally, the full accessibility of our device is exploited to carry out a complete characterization of the CNOT gate through a quantum process tomography.

id: 1105.1464
title: Quantum hierarchic models for information processing
authors: Mikhail V. Altaisky, Natalia E. Kaputkina
comments: 14 pages, LaTeX, 1 eps figure
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, vol. 10, 2012, p.1250026-1-14
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1464
abstract: Both classical and quantum computations operate with the registers of bits. At nanometer scale the quantum fluctuations at the position of a given bit, say, a quantum dot, not only lead to the decoherence of quantum state of this bit, but also affect the quantum states of the neighboring bits, and therefore affect the state of the whole register. That is why the requirement of reliable separate access to each bit poses the limit on miniaturization, i.e, constrains the memory capacity and the speed of computation. In the present paper we suggest an algorithmic way to tackle the problem of constructing reliable and compact registers of quantum bits. We suggest to access the states of quantum register hierarchically, descending from the state of the whole register to the states of its parts. Our method is similar to quantum wavelet transform, and can be applied to information compression, quantum memory, quantum computations.

id: 1105.1490
title: Effect of chromatic dispersion induced chirp on the temporal coherence property of individual beam from spontaneous four wave mixing
authors: Xiaoxin Ma, Xiaoying Li, Liang Cui, Xueshi Guo, Lei Yang
comments: 17pages, 4figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1490
abstract: Temporal coherence of individual signal or idler beam, determined by the spectral correlation property of photon pairs, is important for realizing quantum interference among independent sources. To understand the effect of chirp on the temporal coherence property, two series of experiments are investigated by introducing different amount of chirp into either the pulsed pump or individual signal (idler) beam. In the first one, based on spontaneous four wave mixing in a piece of optical fiber, the intensity correlation function of the filtered individual signal beam, which characterizes the degree of temporal coherence, is measured as a function of the chirp of pump. The results demonstrate that the chirp of pump pulses decreases the degree of temporal coherence. In the second one, a Hong-Ou-Mandel type two-photon interference experiment with the signal beams generated in two different fibers is carried out. The results illustrate that the chirp of individual beam does not change the temporal coherence degree, but affect the temporal mode matching. To achieve high visibility, apart from improving the coherence degree by minimizing the chirp of pump, mode matching should be optimized by managing the chirps of individual beams.

id: 1105.1494
title: Preparation of n-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger entangled states in cavity QED: An approach with tolerance to nonidentical qubit-cavity coupling constants
authors: Chui-Ping Yang
comments: 3 figures, accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1494
abstract: We propose a way for generating $n$-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) entangled states with a three-level qubit system and (n-1) four-level qubit systems in a cavity. This proposal does not require identical qubit-cavity coupling constants, and thus is tolerant to qubit-system parameter nonuniformity and nonexact placement of qubits in a cavity. The proposal does not require adjustment of the qubit-system level spacings during the entire operation. Moreover, it is shown that entanglement can be deterministically generated using this method and the operation time is independent of the number of qubits. The present proposal is quite general, which can be applied to physical systems such as various types of superconducting devices coupled to a resonator or atoms trapped in a cavity.

id: 1105.1496
title: A proposal for implementing an n-qubit controlled-rotation gate with three-level superconducting qubit systems in cavity QED
authors: Chui-Ping Yang
comments: Six figures, accepted by Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 23, 225702 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1496
abstract: We present a way for implementing an n-qubit controlled-rotation gate with three-level superconducting qubit systems in cavity QED. The two logical states of a qubit are represented by the two lowest levels of each system while a higher-energy level is used for the gate implementation. The method operates essentially by preparing a $W$ state conditioned on the states of the control qubits, creating a single photon in the cavity mode, and then performing an arbitrary rotation on the states of the target qubit with assistance of the cavity photon. It is interesting to note that the basic operational steps for implementing the proposed gate do not increase with the number $n$ of qubits, and the gate operation time decreases as the number of qubits increases. This proposal is quite general, which can be applied to various types of superconducting devices in a cavity or coupled to a resonator.

id: 1105.1511
title: Sensitive Chemical Compass Assisted by Quantum Criticality
authors: C. Y. Cai, Qing Ai, H. T. Quan, C. P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022315 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1511
abstract: The radical-pair-based chemical reaction could be used by birds for the navigation via the geomagnetic direction. An inherent physical mechanism is that the quantum coherent transition from a singlet state to triplet states of the radical pair could response to the weak magnetic field and be sensitive to the direction of such a field and then results in different photopigments in the avian eyes to be sensed. Here, we propose a quantum bionic setup for the ultra-sensitive probe of a weak magnetic field based on the quantum phase transition of the environments of the two electrons in the radical pair. We prove that the yield of the chemical products via the recombination from the singlet state is determined by the Loschmidt echo of the environments with interacting nuclear spins. Thus quantum criticality of environments could enhance the sensitivity of the detection of the weak magnetic field.

id: 1105.1517
title: Local Unitary Classification of Arbitrary Dimensional Multipartite Pure States
authors: Bin Liu, Jun-Li Li, Xikun Li, Cong-Feng Qiao
comments: 10 pages; published in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.108:050501,2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1517
abstract: We propose a practical entanglement classification scheme for general multipartite pure states in arbitrary dimensions under local unitary equivalence by exploiting the high order singular value decomposition technique and local symmetries of the states. By virtue of this scheme, the method of determining the local unitary equivalence of $n$-qubit states proposed by Kraus is extended to the case for arbitrary dimensional multipartite states.

id: 1105.1531
title: Entanglement of N distinguishable particles
authors: Tomasz Bigaj
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1531
abstract: In their 2002 article, Ghirardi, Marinatto and Weber have proposed a formal analysis of the entanglement properties for a system consisting of N distinguishable particles. Their analysis leads to the differentiation of three possible situations that can arise in such systems: complete entanglement, complete non-entanglement, and the remaining cases. I argue that this categorization leaves out one important possibility in which a system is completely entangled, and yet some of its subsystems are mutually non-entangled. As an example I present and discuss a state of a three-particle system which cannot be decomposed into two non-entangled systems, and yet particle number one is not entangled with particle number three. Consequently, I introduce a new notion of utter entanglement, and I argue that some systems may be completely but not utterly entangled.

id: 1105.1556
title: Multipartite-entanglement monotones and polynomial invariants
authors: Christopher Eltschka, Thierry Bastin, Andreas Osterloh, Jens Siewert
comments: this version contains a complete proof of Theorem 1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022301 (2012) and Phys. Rev. A 85, 059903 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1556
abstract: We show that a positive homogeneous function that is invariant under determinant-1 stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC) transformations defines an N-qubit entanglement monotone if and only if the homogeneous degree is not larger than four. In particular this implies that any power larger than one of the well-known N-tangle (N > 2) is not an entanglement monotone anymore. We then describe a common basis and formalism for the N-tangle and other known invariant polynomials of degree four. This allows us to elucidate the relation of the four-qubit invariants defined by Luque and Thibon [Phys. Rev. A67, 042303 (2003)] and the reduced two-qubit density matrices of the states under consideration. Finally we prove that an analogous statement holds for any multi-partite system with even number of qudits.

id: 1105.1574
title: A Dynamic Programming Approach to Finite-horizon Coherent Quantum LQG Control
authors: Igor G. Vladimirov, Ian R. Petersen
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure; a brief version of this paper has been accepted for publication in the Proceedings of the Australian Control Conference, 10-11 November 2011, Melbourne, Australia
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1574
abstract: The paper is concerned with the coherent quantum Linear Quadratic Gaussian (CQLQG) control problem for time-varying quantum plants governed by linear quantum stochastic differential equations over a bounded time interval. A controller is sought among quantum linear systems satisfying physical realizability (PR) conditions. The latter describe the dynamic equivalence of the system to an open quantum harmonic oscillator and relate its state-space matrices to the free Hamiltonian, coupling and scattering operators of the oscillator. Using the Hamiltonian parameterization of PR controllers, the CQLQG problem is recast into an optimal control problem for a deterministic system governed by a differential Lyapunov equation. The state of this subsidiary system is the symmetric part of the quantum covariance matrix of the plant-controller state vector. The resulting covariance control problem is treated using dynamic programming and Pontryagin's minimum principle. The associated Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation for the minimum cost function involves Frechet differentiation with respect to matrix-valued variables. The gain matrices of the CQLQG optimal controller are shown to satisfy a quasi-separation property as a weaker quantum counterpart of the filtering/control decomposition of classical LQG controllers.

id: 1105.1579
title: Schr?dinger-Newton "collapse" of the wave function
authors: J. R. van Meter
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures: figure added, edited for clarity, matches published version
journal: Class.Quant.Grav.28:215013,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1579
abstract: It has been suggested that the nonlinear Schr\"odinger-Newton equation might approximate the coupling of quantum mechanics with gravitation, particularly in the context of the M{\o}ller-Rosenfeld semiclassical theory. Numerical results for the spherically symmetric, time-dependent, single-particle case are presented, clarifying and extending previous work on the subject. It is found that, for a particle mass greater than $\sim 1.14(\hbar^2/(G\sigma))^{1/3}$, a wave packet of width $\sigma$ partially "collapses" to a groundstate solution found by Moroz, Penrose, and Tod, with excess probability dispersing away. However, for a mass less than $\sim 1.14(\hbar^2/(G\sigma))^{1/3}$, the entire wave packet appears to spread like a free particle, albeit more slowly. It is argued that, on some scales (lower than the Planck scale), this theory predicts significant deviation from conventional (linear) quantum mechanics. However, owing to the difficulty of controlling quantum coherence on the one hand, and the weakness of gravity on the other, definitive experimental falsification poses a technologically formidable challenge.

id: 1105.1581
title: Mixture of Quantum States: Thermal and Interaction Inducing Decoherence
authors: Kentaro Urasaki
comments: 12 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1581
abstract: In this study, we show that the interaction energy plays an important role on the quantum decoherence: If we pay attention to the oscillation phase factor, $e^{-iE_{int}t/\hbar},$ we see that the time average of the macro-system's density matrix becomes nearly diagonal, where the states giving extrema of interaction energy are privileged to describe the quantum decoherence. This approach is compatible with the von Neumann's old work, which has been recently studied with renewed interest: The thermal mixture of states can be reached by the time average of a density of matrix due to the oscillation phase factor, $e^{-i(E_i-E_j)t/\hbar}.$ One of the direct results is the localization of macroscopic objects.

id: 1105.1582
title: Quantum Simulation of Phylogenetic Trees
authors: Demosthenes Ellinas, Peter Jarvis
comments: 4 pages, uses revtex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1582
abstract: Quantum simulations constructing probability tensors of biological multi-taxa in phylogenetic trees are proposed, in terms of positive trace preserving maps, describing evolving systems of quantum walks with multiple walkers. Basic phylogenetic models applying on trees of various topologies are simulated following appropriate decoherent quantum circuits. Quantum simulations of statistical inference for aligned sequences of biological characters are provided in terms of a quantum pruning map operating on likelihood operator observables, utilizing state-observable duality and measurement theory.

id: 1105.1590
title: Generation of frequency multiplexed entangled single photons assisted by the entanglement
authors: Chun-Hua Yuan, L. Q. Chen, Z. Y. Ou, Weiping Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 054302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1590
abstract: We present a scheme to generate the frequency multiplexed entangled (FME) single photons based on the entanglement between two species atomic mixture ensemble. The write and reads fields driven according to a certain timing sequence, the generation of FME single photons can be repeated until success is achieved. The source might have significant applications in wavelength division multiplexing quantum key distribution.

id: 1105.1594
title: Measurement of the Noise Spectrum Using a Multiple-Pulse Sequence
authors: Tatsuro Yuge, Susumu Sasaki, Yoshiro Hirayama
comments: 8 pages (4 pages + 4 pages Supplemental material), 1 figure
journal: PRL 107, 170504 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1594
abstract: A method is proposed for obtaining the spectrum for noise that causes the phase decoherence of a qubit directly from experimentally available data. The method is based on a simple relationship between the spectrum and the coherence time of the qubit in the presence of a pi-pulse sequence. The relationship is found to hold for every system of a qubit interacting with the classical-noise, bosonic, and spin baths.

id: 1105.1640
title: On Locality of Schmidt-Correlated States
authors: Ming-Jing Zhao, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 14 pages
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1327, 298(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1640
abstract: We review some results on the equivalence of quantum states under local unitary transformations (LUT). In particular, the classification of two-qubit Schmidt correlated (SC) states under LUT is investigated. By presenting the standard form of quantum states under LUT, the sufficient and necessary conditions of whether two different SC states are local unitary equivalent are provided. The correlations of SC states are also discussed.

id: 1105.1680
title: Universal Quantum Circuit of Near-Trivial Transformations
authors: Min Liang, Li Yang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1680
abstract: Any unitary transformation can be decomposed into a product of a group of near-trivial transformations. We investigate in details the construction of universal quantum circuit of near trivial transformations. We first construct two universal quantum circuits which can implement any single-qubit rotation $R_y(\theta)$ and $R_z(\theta)$ within any given precision, and then we construct universal quantum circuit implementing any single-qubit transformation within any given precision. Finally, a universal quantum circuit implementing any $n$-qubit near-trivial transformation is constructed using the universal quantum circuits of $R_y(\theta)$ and $R_z(\theta)$. In the universal quantum circuit presented, each quantum transformation is encoded to a bit string which is used as ancillary inputs. The output of the circuit consists of the related bit string and the result of near-trivial transformation. Our result may be useful for the design of universal quantum computer in the future.

id: 1105.1699
title: Single-Photon Absorption in Coupled Atom-Cavity Systems
authors: Jerome Dilley, Peter Nisbet-Jones, Bruce W. Shore, Axel Kuhn
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 023834 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1699
abstract: We show how to capture a single photon of arbitrary temporal shape with one atom coupled to an optical cavity. Our model applies to Raman transitions in three-level atoms with one branch of the transition controlled by a (classical) laser pulse, and the other coupled to the cavity. Photons impinging on the cavity normally exhibit partial reflection, transmission, and/or absorption by the atom. Only a control pulse of suitable temporal shape ensures impedance matching throughout the pulse, which is necessary for complete state mapping from photon to atom. For most possible photon shapes, we derive an unambiguous analytic expression for the shape of this control pulse, and we discuss how this relates to a quantum memory.

id: 1105.1707
title: Staying adiabatic with unknown energy gap
authors: J. Nehrkorn, S. Montangero, A. Ekert, A. Smerzi, R. Fazio, T. Calarco
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1707
abstract: We introduce an algorithm to perform an optimal adiabatic evolution that operates without an apriori knowledge of the system spectrum. By probing the system gap locally, the algorithm maximizes the evolution speed, thus minimizing the total evolution time. We test the algorithm on the Landau-Zener transition and then apply it on the quantum adiabatic computation of 3-SAT: The result is compatible with an exponential speed-up for up to twenty qubits with respect to classical algorithms. We finally study a possible algorithm improvement by combining it with the quantum Zeno effect.

id: 1105.1710
title: Precision measurements in ion traps using slowly moving standing waves
authors: A. Walther, U. Poschinger, K. Singer, F. Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1710
abstract: The present paper describes the experimental implementation of a measuring technique employing a slowly moving, near resonant, optical standing wave in the context of trapped ions. It is used to measure several figures of merit that are important for quantum computation in ion traps and which are otherwise not easily obtainable. Our technique is shown to offer high precision, and also in many cases using a much simpler setup than what is normally used. We demonstrate here measurements of i) the distance between two crystalline ions, ii) the Lamb-Dicke parameter, iii) temperature of the ion crystal, and iv) the interferometric stability of a Raman setup. The exact distance between two ions, in units of standing wave periods, is very important for motional entangling gates, and our method offers a practical way of calibrating this distance in the typical lab situation.

id: 1105.1809
title: Long distance entanglement generation through coherent directed transport of Neutral atoms in unmodulated optical lattices
authors: Morteza Rafiee, Abolfazl Bayat
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 14, 0777 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1809
abstract: We introduce a fully coherent way for directed transport of localized atoms in optical lattices by regularly performing phase shifts on the lattice potential during the free evolution of the system. This paves the way for realizing a possible cold atom quantum computer in which entangling gates operate by bringing two individual atoms in the proximity of each other and letting them to interact. The speed of our protocol is determined by the tunneling amplitudes of the atoms and thus is much faster than the speed of the dynamics resulted from superexchange interaction in spin chains. Our scheme is robust against possible imperfections and perhaps its main advantage is its simplicity where all of its requirements have been already achieved in recent experiments.

id: 1105.1816
title: The asymmetry properties of pure quantum states
authors: Iman Marvian, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: Published version (The title is changed), 4 pages, Short version of arXiv:1104.0018
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 014102 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1816
abstract: The asymmetry properties of a state relative to some symmetry group specify how and to what extent the given symmetry is broken by the state. Characterizing these is found to be surprisingly useful for addressing a very common problem: to determine what follows from a system's dynamics (possibly open) having that symmetry. We demonstrate and exploit the fact that the asymmetry properties of a state can be understood in terms of information-theoretic concepts. We show that for a pure state psi and a symmetry group G, they are completely specified by the characteristic function of the state, defined as chi_psi(g)=<psi|U(g)|psi> where g\in G and U is the unitary representation of interest. Based on this observation, we study several important problems about the interconversion of pure states under symmetric dynamics such as determining the conditions for reversible transformations, deterministic irreversible transformations and asymptotic transformations.

id: 1105.1819
title: Hardy's Non-locality Paradox and Possibilistic Conditions for Non-locality
authors: Shane Mansfield, Tobias Fritz
comments: 
journal: Foundations of Physics, Volume 42, Number 5 (2012), 709-719
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1819
abstract: Hardy's non-locality paradox is a proof without inequalities showing that certain non-local correlations violate local realism. It is `possibilistic' in the sense that one only distinguishes between possible outcomes (positive probability) and impossible outcomes (zero probability). Here we show that Hardy's paradox is quite universal: in any (2,2,l) or (2,k,2) Bell scenario, the occurence of Hardy's paradox is a necessary and sufficient condition for possibilistic non-locality. In particular, it subsumes all ladder paradoxes. This universality of Hardy's paradox is not true more generally: we find a new `proof without inequalities' in the (2,3,3) scenario that can witness non-locality even for correlations that do not display the Hardy paradox. We discuss the ramifications of our results for the computational complexity of recognising possibilistic non-locality.

id: 1105.1820
title: Quantum theory of a two-mode open-cavity laser
authors: V. Eremeev, S.E. Skipetrov, M. Orszag
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A 84 023816 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1820
abstract: We develop the quantum theory of an open-cavity laser assuming that only two modes compete for gain. We show that the modes interact to build up a collective mode that becomes the lasing mode when pumping exceeds a threshold. This collective mode exhibits all the features of a typical laser mode, whereas its precise behavior depends explicitly on the openness of the cavity. We approach the problem by using the density-matrix formalism and derive the master equation for the light field. Our results are of particular interest in the context random laser systems.

id: 1105.1826
title: Renormalization: the observable-state model
authors: Juan Sebasti¨¢n Ardenghi, Mario Castagnino
comments: 23 pages
journal: Physical Review D, Vol. 85, 025002 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1826
abstract: The usual mathematical formalism of quantum field theory is non-rigorous because it contains divergences that can only be renormalized by non-rigorous mathematical methods. The purpose of this paper is to present a method of subtraction of this divergences using the formalism of decoherence. This is achieved by replacing the standard renormalization method by a projector on a well defined Hilbert subspace. In this way a list of problems of the standard formalism disappears while the physical results of QFT remains valid. From it own nature, this formalism can be used in non-renormalizable theories.

id: 1105.1834
title: Design, Fabrication, and Experimental Demonstration of Junction Surface Ion Traps
authors: D. L. Moehring, C. Highstrete, D. Stick, K. M. Fortier, R. Haltli, C. Tigges, M. G. Blain
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J.Phys.13:075018,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1834
abstract: We present the design, fabrication, and experimental implementation of surface ion traps with Y-shaped junctions. The traps are designed to minimize the pseudopotential variations in the junction region at the symmetric intersection of three linear segments. We experimentally demonstrate robust linear and junction shuttling with greater than one million round-trip shuttles without ion loss. By minimizing the direct line of sight between trapped ions and dielectric surfaces, negligible day-to-day and trap-to-trap variations are observed. In addition to high-fidelity single-ion shuttling, multiple-ion chains survive splitting, ion-position swapping, and recombining routines. The development of two-dimensional trapping structures is an important milestone for ion-trap quantum computing and quantum simulations.

id: 1105.1840
title: Probabilistic Generation of Quantum Contextual Sets
authors: Norman D. Megill, Kresimir Fresl, Mordecai Waegell, P.K. Aravind, Mladen Pavicic
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physics letters A, 375, 3419-3424 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1840
abstract: We give a method for exhaustive generation of a huge number of Kochen-Specker contextual sets, based on the 600-cell, for possible experiments and quantum gates. The method is complementary to our previous parity proof generation of these sets, and it gives all sets while the parity proof method gives only sets with an odd number of edges in their hypergraph representation. Thus we obtain 35 new kinds of critical KS sets with an even number of edges. Using a random sample of the sets generated with our method, we give a statistical estimate of the number of sets that might be obtained in an eventual exhaustive enumeration.

id: 1105.1855
title: Nonlinear behavior of geometric phases induced by photon pairs
authors: H. Kobayashi, Y. Ikeda, S. Tamate, T. Nakanishi, M. Kitano
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 83, 063808, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1855
abstract: In this study, we observe the nonlinear behavior of the two-photon geometric phase for polarization states using time-correlated photons pairs. This phase manifests as a shift of two-photon interference fringes. Under certain arrangements, the geometric phase can vary nonlinearly and become very sensitive to a change in the polarization state. Moreover, it is known that the geometric phase for $N$ identically polarized photons is $N$ times larger than that for one photon. Thus, the geometric phase for two photons can become two times more sensitive to a state change. This high sensitivity to a change in the polarization can be exploited for precision measurement of small polarization variation. We evaluate the signal-to-noise ratio of the measurement scheme using the nonlinear behavior of the geometric phase under technical noise and highlight the practical advantages of this scheme.

id: 1105.1856
title: Quantum measurement backaction from a BEC coupled to a mechanical oscillator
authors: S. K. Steinke, S. Singh, M. E. Tasgin, P. Meystre, K. C. Schwab, M. Vengalattore
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures. Submitted to PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1856
abstract: We study theoretically the dynamics of a a hybrid optomechanical system consisting of a macroscopic mechanical membrane magnetically coupled to a spinor Bose-Einstein condensate via a nanomagnet attached at the membrane center. We demonstrate that this coupling permits us to monitor indirectly the center-of-mass position of the membrane via measurements of the spin of the condensed atoms. These measurements normally induce a significant backaction on the membrane motion, which we quantify for the cases of thermal and coherent initial states of the membrane. We discuss the possibility of measuring that quantum backaction via repeated measurements. We also investigate the potential to generate non-classical states of the membrane, in particular Schrodinger cat states, via such repeated measurements.

id: 1105.1863
title: Discrete quantum square well of the first kind
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 16 pp., 4 figs
journal: Phys.Lett.A375:2503-2509,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1863
abstract: A toy-model quantum system is proposed. At a given integer $N$ it is defined by the pair of $N$ by $N$ real matrices $(H,\Theta)$ of which the first item $H$ specifies an elementary, diagonalizable non-Hermitian Hamiltonian $H \neq H^\dagger$ with the real and explicit spectrum given by the zeros of the $N-$th Chebyshev polynomial of the first kind. The second item $\Theta\neq I$ must be (and is being) constructed as the related Hilbert-space metric which specifies the (in general, non-unique) physical inner product and which renders our toy-model Hamiltonian selfadjoint, i.e., compatible with the Dieudonne equation $H^\dagger \Theta= \Theta\,H$. The elements of the (in principle, complete) set of the eligible metrics are then constructed in closed band-matrix form. They vary with our choice of the $N-$plet of optional parameters, $\Theta=\Theta(\vec{\kappa})>0$ which must be (and are being) selected as lying in the positivity domain of the metric, $\vec{\kappa} \in {\cal D}^{(physical)}$.

id: 1105.1875
title: Voyage to Alpha Centauri: Entanglement degradation of cavity modes due to motion
authors: David Edward Bruschi, Ivette Fuentes, Jorma Louko
comments: I. Fuentes previously published as I. Fuentes-Guridi and I. Fuentes-Schuller. v3: Transverse dimensions included, making degradation observable at optical wavelengths. v4: Presentational clarifications. Published version. v5: This arXiv posting corrects a typographic error in Eq. (7a) of the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 85, 061701(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1875
abstract: We propose a scheme to investigate whether non-uniform motion degrades entanglement of a relativistic quantum field that is localised both in space and in time. For a Dirichlet scalar field in a cavity in Minkowski space, in small but freely-adjustable acceleration of finite but arbitrarily long duration, degradation of observable magnitude occurs for massless transverse quanta of optical wavelength at Earth gravity acceleration and for kaon mass quanta already at microgravity acceleration. We outline a space-based experiment for observing the effect and its gravitational counterpart.

id: 1105.1890
title: Classification of resonance Regge trajectories and a modified Mulholland formula
authors: D.Sokolovski, E.Akhmatskaya
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1890
abstract: We employ a simple potential model to analyse the effects which a Regge trajectory, correlating with a bound or a metastable state at zero angular momentum, has on an integral cross section. A straightforward modification of the Mulholland formula of Macek et al is proposed for more efficient separation of the resonance contribution.

id: 1105.1899
title: Generalized channels: channels for convex subsets of the state space
authors: Anna Jencova
comments: 37 pages, published version. Theorems 3 and 4 were replaced by Theorem 3, which was proved by using Arveson's extension theorem
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 53, 012201 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1899
abstract: Let $K$ be a convex subset of the state space of a finite dimensional $C^*$-algebra. We study the properties of channels on $K$, which are defined as affine maps from $K$ into the state space of another algebra, extending to completely positive maps on the subspace generated by $K$. We show that each such map is the restriction of a completely positive map on the whole algebra, called a generalized channel. We characterize the set of generalized channels and also the equivalence classes of generalized channels having the same value on $K$. Moreover, if $K$ contains the tracial state, the set of generalized channels forms again a convex subset of a multipartite state space, this leads to a definition of a generalized supermap, which is a generalized channel with respect to this subset. We prove a decomposition theorem for generalized supermaps and describe the equivalence classes. The set of generalized supermaps having the same value on equivalent generalized channels is also characterized. Special cases include quantum combs and process POVMs.

id: 1105.1919
title: A Single Atom as a Mirror of an Optical Cavity
authors: G. H¨¦tet, L. Slodi?ka, M. Hennrich, R. Blatt
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1919
abstract: By tightly focussing a laser field onto a single cold ion trapped in front of a far-distant dielectric mirror, we could observe a quantum electrodynamic effect whereby the ion behaves as the optical mirror of a Fabry-P\'erot cavity. We show that the amplitude of the laser field is significantly altered due to a modification of the electromagnetic mode structure around the atom in a novel regime in which the laser intensity is already changed by the atom alone. e propose a direct application of this system as a quantum memory for single photons.

id: 1105.1994
title: Geometric phases in dressed state quantum computation
authors: Lian-Ao Wu, C. Allen Bishop, Mark S. Byrd
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022341 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1994
abstract: Geometric phases arise naturally in a variety of quantum systems with observable consequences. They also arise in quantum computations when dressed states are used in gating operations. Here we show how they arise in these gating operations and how one may take advantage of the dressed states producing them. Specifically, we show that that for a given, but arbitrary Hamiltonian, and at an arbitrary time {\tau}, there always exists a set of dressed states such that a given gate operation can be performed by the Hamiltonian up to a phase {\phi}. The phase is a sum of a dynamical phase and a geometric phase. We illustrate the new phase for several systems.

id: 1105.2007
title: Observation of squeezed light from one atom excited with two photons
authors: Alexei Ourjoumtsev, Alexander Kubanek, Markus Koch, Christian Sames, Pepijn W.H. Pinkse, Gerhard Rempe, Karim Murr
comments: Main paper (4 pages, 3 figures) + Supplementary information (5 pages, 2 figures). Revised version
journal: Nature 474, 623-626 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2007
abstract: Single quantum emitters like atoms are well-known as non-classical light sources which can produce photons one by one at given times, with reduced intensity noise. However, the light field emitted by a single atom can exhibit much richer dynamics. A prominent example is the predicted ability for a single atom to produce quadrature-squeezed light, with sub-shot-noise amplitude or phase fluctuations. It has long been foreseen, though, that such squeezing would be "at least an order of magnitude more difficult" to observe than the emission of single photons. Squeezed beams have been generated using macroscopic and mesoscopic media down to a few tens of atoms, but despite experimental efforts, single-atom squeezing has so far escaped observation. Here we generate squeezed light with a single atom in a high-finesse optical resonator. The strong coupling of the atom to the cavity field induces a genuine quantum mechanical nonlinearity, several orders of magnitude larger than for usual macroscopic media. This produces observable quadrature squeezing with an excitation beam containing on average only two photons per system lifetime. In sharp contrast to the emission of single photons, the squeezed light stems from the quantum coherence of photon pairs emitted from the system. The ability of a single atom to induce strong coherent interactions between propagating photons opens up new perspectives for photonic quantum logic with single emitters

id: 1105.2010
title: Rydberg atom mediated polar molecule interactions: a tool for molecular-state conditional quantum gates and individual addressability
authors: Elena Kuznetsova, Seth T. Rittenhouse, Hossein R. Sadeghpour, Susanne F. Yelin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2010
abstract: We study the possibility to use interaction between a polar molecule in the ground electronic and vibrational state and a Rydberg atom to construct two-qubit gates between molecular qubits and to coherently control molecular states. A polar molecule within the electron orbit in a Rydberg atom can either shift the Rydberg state, or form Rydberg molecule. Both the atomic shift and the Rydberg molecule states depend on the initial internal state of the polar molecule, resulting in molecular state dependent van der Waals or dipole-dipole interaction between Rydberg atoms. Rydberg atoms mediated interaction between polar molecules can be enhanced up to $10^{3}$ times. We describe how the coupling between a polar molecule and a Rydberg atom can be applied to coherent control of molecular states, specifically, to individual addressing of molecules in an optical lattice and non-destructive readout of molecular qubits.

id: 1105.2021
title: Partial measurements and the realization of quantum-mechanical counterfactuals
authors: G. S. Paraoanu
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures
journal: Found. Phys. 41, 1214 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2021
abstract: We propose partial measurements as a conceptual tool to understand how to operate with counterfactual claims in quantum physics. Indeed, unlike standard von Neumann measurements, partial measurements can be reversed probabilistically. We first analyze the consequences of this rather unusual feature for the principle of superposition, for the complementarity principle, and for the issue of hidden variables. Then we move on to exploring non-local contexts, by reformulating the EPR paradox, the quantum teleportation experiment, and the entanglement-swapping protocol for the situation in which one uses partial measurements followed by their stochastic reversal. This leads to a number of counter-intuitive results, which are shown to be resolved if we give up the the idea of attributing reality to the wavefunction of a single quantum system.

id: 1105.2053
title: Retrocausal Effects as a Consequence of Orthodox Quantum Mechanics Refined to Accommodate The Principle of Sufficient Reason
authors: Henry P. Stapp
comments: v3: Added extra descriptive material and background comments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2053
abstract: The principle of sufficient reason asserts that anything that happens does so for a reason: no definite state of affairs can come into being unless there is a sufficient reason why that particular thing should happen. This principle is usually attributed to Leibniz, although the first recorded Western philosopher to use it was Anaximander of Miletus. The demand that nature be rational, in the sense that it be compatible with the principle of sufficient reason, conflicts with a basic feature of contemporary orthodox physical theory, namely the notion that nature's response to the probing action of an observer is determined by pure chance, and hence on the basis of absolutely no reason at all. This appeal to pure chance can be deemed to have no rational fundamental place in reason-based Western science. It is argued here, on the basis of the other basic principles of quantum physics, that in a world that conforms to the principle of sufficient reason, the usual quantum statistical rules will naturally emerge at the pragmatic level, in cases where the reason behind nature's choice of response is unknown, but that the usual statistics can become biased in an empirically manifest way when the reason for the choice is empirically identifiable. It is shown here that if the statistical laws of quantum mechanics were to be biased in this way then the basically forward-in-time unfolding of empirical reality described by orthodox quantum mechanics would generate the appearances of backward-time-effects of the kind that have been reported in the scientific literature.

id: 1105.2109
title: Extremal Quantum Correlations: Experimental Study with Two-qubit States
authors: Andrea Chiuri, Giuseppe Vallone, Mauro Paternostro, Paolo Mataloni
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 020304(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2109
abstract: We explore experimentally the space of two-qubit quantum correlated mixed states, including frontier ones as defined by the use of quantum discord and von Neumann entropy. Our experimental setup is flexible enough to allow for the high-quality generation of a vast variety of states. We address quantitatively the relation between quantum discord and a recently suggested alternative measure of quantum correlations.

id: 1105.2111
title: Generating topological order from a 2D cluster state using a duality mapping
authors: Benjamin J. Brown, Wonmin Son, Christina V. Kraus, Rosario Fazio, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 5 Figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 065010 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2111
abstract: In this paper we prove, extend and review possible mappings between the two-dimensional Cluster state, Wen's model, the two-dimensional Ising chain and Kitaev's toric code model. We introduce a two-dimensional duality transformation to map the two-dimensional lattice cluster state into the topologically-ordered Wen model. Then, we subsequently investigates how this mapping could be achieved physically, which allows us to discuss the rate at which a topologically ordered system can be achieved. Next, using a lattice fermionization method, Wen's model is mapped into a series of one-dimensional Ising interactions. Considering the boundary terms with this mapping then reveals how the Ising chains interact with one another. The relationships discussed in this paper allow us to consider these models from two different perspectives: From the perspective of condensed matter physics these mappings allow us to learn more about the relation between the ground state properties of the four different models, such as their entanglement or topological structure. On the other hand, we take the duality of these models as a starting point to address questions related to the universality of their ground states for quantum computation.

id: 1105.2140
title: Quantum bit commitment under Gaussian constraints
authors: A. Mandilara, N. J. Cerf
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062310 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2140
abstract: Quantum bit commitment has long been known to be impossible. Nevertheless, just as in the classical case, imposing certain constraints on the power of the parties may enable the construction of asymptotically secure protocols. Here, we introduce a quantum bit commitment protocol and prove that it is asymptotically secure if cheating is restricted to Gaussian operations. This protocol exploits continuous-variable quantum optical carriers, for which such a Gaussian constraint is experimentally relevant as the high optical nonlinearity needed to effect deterministic non-Gaussian cheating is inaccessible.

id: 1105.2146
title: Second Comment on "Spin-selective reactions of radical pairs act as quantum measurements" (Chemical Physics Letters 488 (2010) 90-93)
authors: I. K. Kominis
comments: 1 page
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2146
abstract: It is shown that the Jones-Hore theory is either inconsistent or cannot describe single-molecule experiments.

id: 1105.2159
title: A mathematically rigorous approach raises questions concerning the generalized Hartman effect
authors: Shoju Kudaka, Shuichi Matsumoto
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2159
abstract: With reference to a particle tunneling through two successive barriers, it seems to have been generally accepted that the tunneling time does not depend on the separation distance between the barriers. This phenomenon has been called the {\it generalized Hartman effect}. In this letter, we point out a lack of mathematical rigour in the reasoning by which this effect was deduced about ten years ago. A mathematically rigorous treatment shows us that the tunneling time does indeed depend on the length of the free space between the barriers.

id: 1105.2167
title: Dynamics of a tight-binding ring threaded by time-periodic magnetic flux
authors: W.H. Hu, Z. Song
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052310 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2167
abstract: We analytically study the effects of periodically alternating magnetic fields on the dynamics of a tight-binding ring. It is shown that an arbitrary quantum state can be frozen coherently at will by the very frequent square-wave field as well as the monochromatic-wave field when the corresponding optimal amplitudes are taken. Numerical simulations show that the average fidelity depends on not only the system parameters, but also the features of the quantum state. Moreover, taking the initial zero-momentum Gaussian wave packets as examples, we show the dependence of the threshold frequency on the width of the packet for the given average fidelities. These observations provide a means to perform the quantum state engineering.

id: 1105.2186
title: Non-Destructive Discrimination of arbitrary set of orthogonal quantum states by NMR using Quantum Phase Estimation
authors: V S Manu, Anil Kumar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2186
abstract: An algorithm based on quantum phase estimation, which discriminates quantum states nondestructively within a set of arbitrary orthogonal states, is described and experimentally veri?ed by a NMR quantum information processor. The procedure is scalable and can be applied to any set of orthogonal states. Scalability is demonstrated through Matlab simulation.

id: 1105.2193
title: Magneto-optical trapping of bosonic and fermionic neon isotopes and their mixtures: isotope shift of the ^3P_2 to ^3D_3 transition and hyperfine constants of the ^3D_3 state of Ne-21
authors: Thomas Feldker, Jan Schuetz, Holger John, Gerhard Birkl
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 65, 257-262 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2193
abstract: We have magneto-optically trapped all three stable neon isotopes, including the rare Ne-21, and all two-isotope combinations. The atoms are prepared in the metastable ^3P_2 state and manipulated via laser interaction on the ^3P_2 to ^3D_3} transition at 640.2nm. These cold (T = 1mK) and environmentally decoupled atom samples present ideal objects for precision measurements and the investigation of interactions between cold and ultracold metastable atoms. In this work, we present accurate measurements of the isotope shift of the ^3P_2 to ^3D_3 transition and the hyperfine interaction constants of the ^3D_3 state of Ne-21. The determined isotope shifts are (1625.9\pm0.15)MHz for Ne-20 to Ne-22, (855.7\pm1.0)MHz for Ne-20 to Ne-21, and (770.3\pm1.0)MHz for Ne-21 to Ne-22. The obtained magnetic dipole and electric quadrupole hyperfine interaction constants are A(^3D_3)= (-142.4\pm0.2)MHz and B(^3D_3)=(-107.7\pm1.1)MHz, respectively. All measurements give a reduction of uncertainty by about one order of magnitude over previous measurements.

id: 1105.2222
title: Quantum Correlations Between Identical and Unidentical Atoms in a Dissipative Environment
authors: Ferdi Altintas, Resul Eryigit
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 125501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2222
abstract: We have studied the dynamics of quantum correlations such as entanglement, Bell-nonlocality and quantum discord between identical as well as unidentical atoms interacting with a single-mode cavity field and subject to cavity decay. The effect of single atom detuning, cavity decay rate and initial preparation of the atoms on the corresponding correlation measures have been investigated. It is found that even under strong dissipation, time evolution can create high quantum discord while entanglement and Bell nonlocality stay zero for an initially separable state. Quantum discord increases while entanglement decreases in a certain time period under dissipation for the initial state that both atoms are in the excited state if the qubits are identical. For some type of initial states, cavity decay is shown to drive the system to a stationary state with high entanglement and quantum discord.

id: 1105.2256
title: Quantum entanglement of anharmonic oscillators
authors: Chaitanya Joshi, Mats Jonson, Erika Andersson, Patrik Ohberg
comments: 1 column 18 pages
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44, 245503 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2256
abstract: We investigate the quantum entanglement dynamics of undriven anharmonic (nonlinear) oscillators with quartic potentials. We first consider the indirect interaction between two such nonlinear oscillators mediated by a third, linear oscillator and show that it leads to a time-varying entanglement of the oscillators, the entanglement being strongly influenced by the nonlinear oscillator dynamics. In the presence of dissipation, the role of nonlinearity is strongly manifested in the steady state dynamics of the indirectly coupled anharmonic oscillators. We further illustrate the effect of nonlinearities by studying the coupling between an electromagnetic field in a cavity with one movable mirror which is modeled as a nonlinear oscillator. For this case we present a full analytical treatment, which is valid in a regime where both the nonlinearity and the coupling due to radiation pressure is weak. We show that, without the need of any conditional measurements on the cavity field, the state of the movable mirror is non-classical as a result of the combined effect of the intrinsic nonlinearity and the radiation pressure coupling. This interaction is also shown to be responsible for squeezing the movable mirror's position quadrature beyond the minimum uncertainty state even when the mirror is initially prepared in its ground state.

id: 1105.2262
title: Experimental detection of non-classical correlations in mixed state quantum computation
authors: G. Passante, O. Moussa, D.A. Trottier, R. Laflamme
comments: The second version more closely resembles that of the published manuscript
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 84, 044302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2262
abstract: We report on an experiment to detect non-classical correlations in a highly mixed state. The correlations are characterized by the quantum discord and are observed using four qubits in a liquid state nuclear magnetic resonance quantum information processor. The state analyzed is the output of a DQC1 computation, whose input is a single quantum bit accompanied by n maximally mixed qubits. This model of computation outperforms the best known classical algorithms, and although it contains vanishing entanglement it is known to have quantum correlations characterized by the quantum discord. This experiment detects non-vanishing quantum discord, ensuring the existence of non-classical correlations as measured by the quantum discord.

id: 1105.2268
title: A time-dependent Tsirelson's bound from limits on the rate of information gain in quantum systems
authors: Andrew C. Doherty, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 15 pages, revtex, 1 figure
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 073033 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2268
abstract: We consider the problem of distinguishing between a set of arbitrary quantum states in a setting in which the time available to perform the measurement is limited. We provide simple upper bounds on how well we can perform state discrimination in a given time as a function of either the average energy or the range of energies available during the measurement. We exhibit a specific strategy that nearly attains this bound. Finally, we consider several applications of our result. First, we obtain a time-dependent Tsirelson's bound that limits the extent of the Bell inequality violation that can be in principle be demonstrated in a given time t. Second, we obtain a Margolus-Levitin type bound when considering the special case of distinguishing orthogonal pure states.

id: 1105.2273
title: Quantum Walk of Two Interacting Bosons
authors: Yoav Lahini, Mor Verbin, Sebastian D. Huber, Yaron Bromberg, Rami Pugatch, Yaron Silberberg
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures. Comments wellcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2273
abstract: We study the effect of interactions on the bosonic two-particle quantum walk and its corresponding spatial correlations. The combined effect of interactions and Hanbury-Brown Twiss interference results in unique spatial correlations which depend on the strength of the interaction, but not on its sign. The results are explained in light of the two-particle spectrum and the physics of attractively and repulsively bound pairs. We experimentally measure the weak interaction limit of these effects in nonlinear photonic lattices. Finally, we discuss an experimental approach to observe the strong interaction limit using single atoms in optical lattices.

id: 1105.2282
title: Average output entropy for quantum channels
authors: Christopher King, David K. Moser
comments: 32 pages, several plots and figures; positivity condition added for Theorem on entanglement breaking channels; new result for entrywise positive channels
journal: J. Math. Phys. vol. 52, 112202 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2282
abstract: We study the regularized average Renyi output entropy $\bar{S}_{r}^{\reg}$ of quantum channels. This quantity gives information about the average noisiness of the channel output arising from a typical, highly entangled input state in the limit of infinite dimensions. We find a closed expression for $\beta_{r}^{\reg}$, a quantity which we conjecture to be equal to $\Srreg$. We find an explicit form for $\beta_{r}^{\reg}$ for some entanglement-breaking channels, and also for the qubit depolarizing channel $\Delta_{\lambda}$ as a function of the parameter $\lambda$. We prove equality of the two quantities in some cases, in particular we conclude that for $\Delta_{\lambda}$ both are non-analytic functions of the variable $\lambda$.

id: 1105.2289
title: An Optical Scheme for Quantum Multi-Service Network
authors: F¨¢bio Alencar Mendon?a, Daniel Barbosa de Brito, Rubens Viana Ramos
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2289
abstract: Several quantum protocols for data security having been proposed and, in general, they have different optical implementations. However, for the implementation of quantum protocols in optical networks, it is highly advantageous if the same optical setup can be used for running different quantum communication protocols. In this direction, here we show an optical scheme that can be used for quantum key distribution (QKD), quantum secure direct communication (QSDC) and quantum secret sharing (QSS). Additionally, it is naturally resistant to the attack based on single-photon detector blinding. At last, we show a proof-of-principle experiment in 1 km optical fiber link that shows the feasibility of the proposed scheme.

id: 1105.2312
title: Quantum spatial superresolution by optical centroid measurements
authors: Heedeuk Shin, Kam Wai Clifford Chan, Hye Jeong Chang, Robert W. Boyd
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: PhysRevLett.107.083603 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2312
abstract: Quantum lithography (QL) has been suggested as a means of achieving enhanced spatial resolution for optical imaging, but its realization has been held back by the low multi-photon detection rates of recording materials. Recently, an optical centroid measurement (OCM) procedure was proposed as a way to obtain spatial resolution enhancement identical to that of QL but with higher detection efficiency (M. Tsang, Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 253601, 2009). Here we describe a variation of the OCM method with still higher detection efficiency based on the use of photon-number-resolving detection. We also report laboratory results for two-photon interference. We compare these results with those of the standard QL method based on multi-photon detection and show that the new method leads to superresolution but with higher detection efficiency.

id: 1105.2313
title: On quantum corrections to dislocations mass
authors: Grzegorz Kwiatkowski, Sergey Leble
comments: 14 pages, mini-symposium on integrable systems, Zielona Gora, 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2313
abstract: Quasi-classical quantization of crystal dislocations field is considered in terms of functional integral. The generalized zeta-function is used to evaluate the functional integral and quantum corrections to mass in quasi-classical approximation. The quantum corrections to few classical solutions of one-dimensional Sin-Gordon model are evaluated with account of rest $n-1$ dimensions. The results are applied to appropriate crystal dislocation models.

id: 1105.2333
title: Hyperconfluent third-order supersymmetric quantum mechanics
authors: David J Fernandez C, Encarnacion Salinas-Hernandez
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure. Minor changes. To be published in J. Phys. A
journal: J.Phys.A44:365302,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2333
abstract: The hyperconfluent third-order supersymmetric quantum mechanics, in which all the factorization energies tend to a common value, is analyzed. It will be shown that the final potential as well can be achieved by applying consecutively a confluent second-order and a first-order SUSY transformations, both with the same factorization energy. The technique will be applied to the free particle and the Coulomb potential.

id: 1105.2336
title: Cavity quantum electro-optics. II. Input-output relations between traveling optical and microwave fields
authors: Mankei Tsang
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures, v2: updated and submitted
journal: Physical Review A 84, 043845 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2336
abstract: In the previous paper [M. Tsang, Phys. Rev. A 81, 063837 (2010), e-print arXiv:1003.0116], I proposed a quantum model of a cavity electro-optic modulator, which can coherently couple an optical cavity mode to a microwave resonator mode and enable novel quantum operations on the two modes, including laser cooling of the microwave mode, electro-optic entanglement, and backaction-evading optical measurement of a microwave quadrature. In this sequel, I focus on the quantum input-output relations between traveling optical and microwave fields coupled to a cavity electro-optic modulator. With red-sideband optical pumping, the relations are shown to resemble those of a beam splitter for the traveling fields, so that in the ideal case of zero parasitic loss and critical coupling, microwave photons can be coherently up-converted to "flying" optical photons with unit efficiency, and vice versa. With blue-sideband pumping, the modulator acts as a nondegenerate parametric amplifier, which can generate two-mode squeezing and hybrid entangled photon pairs at optical and microwave frequencies. These fundamental operations provide a potential bridge between circuit quantum electrodynamics and quantum optics.

id: 1105.2358
title: Optimized pulses for the control of uncertain qubits
authors: Matthew D. Grace, Jason Dominy, Wayne M. Witzel, Malcolm S. Carroll
comments: 38 pages, 15 figures, RevTeX 4.1, minor modifications to the previous version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 85, 052313 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2358
abstract: Constructing high-fidelity control fields that are robust to control, system, and/or surrounding environment uncertainties is a crucial objective for quantum information processing. Using the two-state Landau-Zener model for illustrative simulations of a controlled qubit, we generate optimal controls for \pi/2- and \pi-pulses, and investigate their inherent robustness to uncertainty in the magnitude of the drift Hamiltonian. Next, we construct a quantum-control protocol to improve system-drift robustness by combining environment-decoupling pulse criteria and optimal control theory for unitary operations. By perturbatively expanding the unitary time-evolution operator for an open quantum system, previous analysis of environment-decoupling control pulses has calculated explicit control-field criteria to suppress environment-induced errors up to (but not including) third order from \pi/2- and \pi-pulses. We systematically integrate this criteria with optimal control theory, incorporating an estimate of the uncertain parameter, to produce improvements in gate fidelity and robustness, demonstrated via a numerical example based on double quantum dot qubits. For the qubit model used in this work, post facto analysis of the resulting controls suggests that realistic control-field fluctuations and noise may contribute just as significantly to gate errors as system and environment fluctuations.

id: 1105.2367
title: Comment on "Are There Traps in Quantum Control Landscapes?"
authors: Herschel Rabitz, Tak-San Ho, Ruixing Long, Rebing Wu, Constantin Brif
comments: Published version, 1 page
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 198901 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2367
abstract: Many quantum control problems are formulated as a search for an optimal field that maximizes a physical objective. This search is performed over a landscape defined as the objective as a function of the control field. A recent Letter [A. N. Pechen and D. J. Tannor, Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 120402 (2011)] asserts that the existence of special landscape critical points (CPs) with trapping characteristics is "contrary to recent claims in the literature" and "can have profound implications for both theoretical and experimental quantum control studies." We show here that these assertions are inaccurate and misleading.

id: 1105.2373
title: Extreme non-linear response of ultra-narrow optical transitions in cavity QED for laser stabilization
authors: M. J. Martin, D. Meiser, J. W. Thomsen, Jun Ye, M. J. Holland
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2373
abstract: We explore the potential of direct spectroscopy of ultra-narrow optical transitions of atoms localized in an optical cavity. In contrast to stabilization against a reference cavity, which is the approach currently used for the most highly stabilized lasers, stabilization against an atomic transition does not suffer from Brownian thermal noise. Spectroscopy of ultra-narrow optical transitions in a cavity operates in a very highly saturated regime in which non-linear effects such as bistability play an important role. From the universal behavior of the Jaynes-Cummings model with dissipation, we derive the fundamental limits for laser stabilization using direct spectroscopy of ultra-narrow atomic lines. We find that with current lattice clock experiments, laser linewidths of about 1 mHz can be achieved in principle, and the ultimate limitations of this technique are at the 1 $\mu$ Hz level.

id: 1105.2382
title: Simulating Quantum Dynamics with Entanglement Mean Field Theory
authors: Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 297 012018 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2382
abstract: Exactly solvable many-body systems are few and far between, and the utility of approximate methods cannot be overestimated. Entanglement mean field theory is an approximate method to handle such systems. While mean field theories reduce the many-body system to an effective single-body one, entanglement mean field theory reduces it to a two-body system. And in contrast to mean field theories where the self-consistency equations are in terms of single-site physical parameters, those in entanglement mean field theory are in terms of both single- and two-site parameters. Hitherto, the theory has been applied to predict properties of the static states, like ground and thermal states, of many-body systems. Here we give a method to employ it to predict properties of time-evolved states. The predictions are then compared with known results of paradigmatic spin Hamiltonians.

id: 1105.2400
title: Casimir interaction of concentric spheres at finite temperature
authors: L. P. Teo
comments: 19 pages, version accepted by Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D84:025014,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2400
abstract: We consider the finite temperature Casimir effect between two concentric spheres due to the vacuum fluctuations of the electromagnetic field in the $(D+1)$-dimensional Minkowski spacetime. Different combinations of perfectly conducting and infinitely permeable boundary conditions are imposed on the spheres. The asymptotic expansions of the Casimir free energies when the dimensionless parameter $\vep$, the ratio of the distance between the spheres to the radius of the smaller sphere, is small are derived in both the high temperature region and the low temperature region. It is shown that the leading terms agree with those obtained using the proximity force approximation, which are of order $T\vep^{1-D}$ in the high temperature region and of order $\vep^{-D}$ in the low temperature region. Some universal structures are observed in the next two correction terms. The leading terms of the thermal corrections in the low temperature region are also derived. They are found to be finite when $\vep\rightarrow 0^+$, and are of order $T^{D+1}$.

id: 1105.2412
title: Quantum Advantage in Communication Networks
authors: Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, Review article
journal: Physics News, Vol: 40, Number: 4, pp. 17-32 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2412
abstract: Quantum channels are known to provide qualitatively better information transfer capacities over their classical counterparts. Examples include quantum cryptography, quantum dense coding, and quantum teleportation. This is a short review on paradigmatic quantum communication protocols in both bipartite as well as multipartite scenarios.

id: 1105.2446
title: Detection of entanglement in ultracold lattice gases
authors: Gabriele De Chiara, Anna Sanpera
comments: Submitted to the Special Issue: "Strong correlations in Quantum Gases" in The Journal of Low Temperature Physics
journal: J Low Temp Phys 165, 292 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2446
abstract: We propose the use of quantum polarization spectroscopy for detecting multi-particle entanglement of ultracold atoms in optical lattices. This method, based on a light-matter interface employing the quantum Farady effect, allows for the non destructive measurement of spin-spin correlations. We apply it to the specific example of a one dimensional spin chain and reconstruct its phase diagram using the light signal, readily measurable in experiments with ultracold atoms. Interestingly, the same technique can be extended to detect quantum many-body entanglement in such systems.

id: 1105.2465
title: Biphoton Double-Bell States and Ququarts with "Invisible" Variables
authors: M.V. Fedorov, P.A. Volkov, J.M. Mikhailova
comments: 13 pages 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2465
abstract: We analyze features of mixed biphoton polarization states which arise from pure states of polarization-frequency biphoton ququarts after averaging over frequencies of photons. For mixed states we find their concurrence C, Schmidt parameter K and degree of polarization P, as well as the von Neumann mutual information I. In some simple cases we find also the relative entropy S_{rel} and the degree of classical correlations C_{cl}. We show that in mixed states the Schmidt parameter does not characterize anymore the degree of entanglement, as it does in pure states. Nevertheless, the Schmidt parameter remains useful even in the case of mixed states because it remains directly related to the degree of polarization. We compare results occurring in the cases of full pure polarization-frequency states of ququarts, mixed states (averaged over frequencies) and states with separated high- and low-frequency parts. Differences between these results can be seen in experiments with and without a dichroic beam-splitter, as well as with and without frequency filters in front of detector.

id: 1105.2499
title: Relation between information and disturbance in quantum key distribution protocol with classical Alice
authors: Takayuki Miyadera
comments: To appear in International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2499
abstract: The "semiquantum" key distribution protocol introduced by Zou et al. [Phys. Rev. A Vol.79, 052312 (2009)] is examined. The protocol while using two-way quantum communication requires only Bob to be fully quantum. We derive a trade-off inequality between information gained by Eve and the disturbance observed by legitimate users. It guarantees that Eve cannot obtain large information if the disturbance is sufficiently small.

id: 1105.2513
title: Non-Locality Distillation is Impossible for Isotropic Quantum Systems
authors: Dejan D. Dukaric
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to an error in Lemma 2. The author thanks Earl Campbell and Christian Gogolin for pointing out the crucial error
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2513
abstract: Non-locality is a powerful resource for various communication and information theoretic tasks, e.g., to establish a secret key between two parties, or to reduce the communication complexity of distributed computing. Typically, the more non-local a system is, the more useful it is as a resource for such tasks. We address the issue of non-locality distillation, i.e., whether it is possible to create a strongly non-local system by local operations on several weakly non-local ones. More specifically, we consider a setting where non-local systems can be realized via measurements on underlying shared quantum states. The hardest instances for non-locality distillation are the isotropic quantum systems: if a certain isotropic system can be distilled, then all systems of the same non-locality can be distilled as well. The main result of this paper is that non-locality cannot be distilled from such isotropic quantum systems. Our results are based on the theory of cross norms defined over the tensor product of certain Banach spaces. In particular, we introduce a single-parameter family of cross norms, which is used to construct a hierarchy of convex sets that are closed under local operations. This hierarchy interpolates between the set of local systems and an approximation to the set of quantum systems.

id: 1105.2535
title: A scattering quantum circuit for measuring Bell's time inequality: a nuclear magnetic resonance demonstration using maximally mixed states
authors: A M Souza, I S Oliveira, R S Sarthour
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics 13 (2011) 053023
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2535
abstract: In 1985, Leggett and Garg (1985 Phys. Rev. Lett. 54 857) proposed a Bell-like inequality to test (in)compatibility between two fundamental concepts of quantum mechanics. The first concept is 'macroscopic realism', which is the quality of a physical property of a quantum system being independent of observation at the macroscopic level. The second concept is 'noninvasive measurability', which is the possibility of performing a measurement without disturbing the subsequent evolution of a system. One of the key requirement for testing the violation of the Leggett-Garg inequality, or Bell's time inequality, is the ability to perform noninvasive measurements over a qubit state. In this paper, we present a quantum scattering circuit that implements such a measurement for maximally mixed states. The operation of the circuit is demonstrated using liquid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) in chloroform, in which the time correlations of a qubit are measured on a probe (ancillary) qubit state. The results clearly show a violation region and are in excellent agreement with the predictions of quantum mechanics.

id: 1105.2539
title: Nuclear Spin 3=2 Electric Quadrupole Relaxation as a Quantum Computation
authors: A. M. Souza, A. Gavini-Viana, I. S. Oliveira, R. S. Sarthour, R. Auccaise, J. Teles, E. R. deAzevedo, T. J. Bonagamba
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 10, No. 7&8 (2010) 0653-0668
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2539
abstract: In this work we applied a quantum circuit treatment to describe the nuclear spin relax- ation. From the Redfield theory, we were able to describe the quadrupolar relaxation as a computational process in the case of spin 3/2 systems, through a model in which the environment is comprised by seven qubits and three different quantum noise channels. The interaction between the environment and the spin 3/2 nuclei is then described by a quantum circuit fully compatible with the Redfield theory of relaxation. Theoretical predictions are compared to experimental data, a short review of quantum channels and relaxation in NMR qubits is also present.

id: 1105.2548
title: Global Quantum Discord in Multipartite Systems
authors: C. C. Rulli, M. S. Sarandy
comments: v3: 7 pages, 6 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042109 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2548
abstract: We propose a global measure for quantum correlations in multipartite systems, which is obtained by suitably recasting the quantum discord in terms of relative entropy and local von Neumann measurements. The measure is symmetric with respect to subsystem exchange and is shown to be non-negative for an arbitrary state. As an illustration, we consider tripartite correlations in the Werner-GHZ state and multipartite correlations at quantum criticality. In particular, in contrast with the pairwise quantum discord, we show that the global quantum discord is able to characterize the infinite-order quantum phase transition in the Ashkin-Teller spin chain.

id: 1105.2573
title: Heralded qubit amplifiers for practical device-independent quantum key distribution
authors: Marcos Curty, Tobias Moroder
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 010304(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2573
abstract: Device-independent quantum key distribution does not need a precise quantum mechanical model of employed devices to guarantee security. Despite of its beauty, it is still a very challenging experimental task. We compare a recent proposal by Gisin et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 070501 (2010)] to close the detection loophole problem with that of a simpler quantum relay based on entanglement swapping with linear optics. Our full-mode analysis for both schemes confirms that, in contrast to recent beliefs, the second scheme can indeed provide a positive key rate which is even considerably higher than that of the first alternative. The resulting key rates and required detection efficiencies of approx. 95% for both schemes, however, strongly depend on the underlying security proof.

id: 1105.2587
title: Measuring Which-Path Information with Coupled Electronic Mach-Zehnder Interferometers
authors: J. Dressel, Y. Choi, A. N. Jordan
comments: 17 pages, 12 figures, published version including appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 045320 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2587
abstract: We theoretically investigate a generalized "which-path" measurement on an electronic Mach-Zehnder Interferometer (MZI) implemented via Coulomb coupling to a second electronic MZI acting as a detector. The use of contextual values, or generalized eigenvalues, enables the precise construction of which-path operator averages that are valid for any measurement strength from the available drain currents. The form of the contextual values provides direct physical insight about the measurement being performed, providing information about the correlation strength between system and detector, the measurement inefficiency, and the proper background removal. We find that the detector interferometer must display maximal wave-like behavior to optimally measure the particle-like which-path information in the system interferometer, demonstrating wave-particle complementarity between the system and detector. We also find that the degree of quantum erasure that can be achieved by conditioning on a specific detector drain is directly related to the ambiguity of the measurement. Finally, conditioning the which-path averages on a particular system drain using the zero frequency cross-correlations produces conditioned averages that can become anomalously large due to quantum interference; the weak coupling limit of these conditioned averages can produce both weak values and detector-dependent semi-weak values.

id: 1105.2644
title: Ultimate sensitivity of precision measurements with Gaussian quantum light : a multi-modal approach
authors: Olivier Pinel, Julien Fade, Daniel Braun, Pu Jian, Nicolas Treps, Claude Fabre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2644
abstract: Multimode Gaussian quantum light, which includes multimode squeezed and multipartite quadrature entangled light, is a very general and powerful quantum resource with promising applications in quantum information processing and metrology. In this paper, we determine the ultimate sensitivity in the estimation of any parameter when the information about this parameter is encoded in such light, irrespective of the information extraction protocol used in the estimation and of the measured observable. In addition we show that an appropriate homodyne detection scheme allows us to reach this ultimate sensitivity. We show that, for a given set of available quantum resources, the most economical way to maximize the sensitivity is to put the most squeezed state available in a well-de ned light mode. This implies that it is not possible to take advantage of the existence of squeezed fluctuations in other modes, nor of quantum correlations and entanglement between diff erent modes.

id: 1105.2662
title: Three-dimensional theory of quantum memories based on Lambda-type atomic ensembles
authors: Emil Zeuthen, Anna Grodecka-Grad, Anders S. S?rensen
comments: Final version, 19 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043838 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2662
abstract: We develop a three-dimensional theory for quantum memories based on light storage in ensembles of Lambda-type atoms, where two long-lived atomic ground states are employed. We consider light storage in an ensemble of finite spatial extent and we show that within the paraxial approximation the Fresnel number of the atomic ensemble and the optical depth are the only important physical parameters determining the quality of the quantum memory. We analyze the influence of these parameters on the storage of light followed by either forward or backward read-out from the quantum memory. We show that for small Fresnel numbers, the forward memory provides higher efficiencies, whereas for large Fresnel numbers, the backward memory is advantageous. The optimal light modes to store in the memory are presented together with the corresponding spin-waves and outcoming light modes. We show that for high optical depths such Lambda-type atomic ensembles allow for highly efficient backward and forward memories even for small Fresnel numbers $F\gtrsim 0.1$.

id: 1105.2692
title: Entangling and decohering influence of noisy perturbations. Stochastic anti-resonance in the time evolution of interacting qubits
authors: Demetris P.K. Ghikas, Athanasios C. Tzemos
comments: 17 pages, 7 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2692
abstract: We study the entanglement evolution of two coupled qubits in interaction with an external environment and in the presence of an external magnetic field with a stochastic component. The results show the expected degradation of entanglement due to the noise. The new effect is that the time of disentanglement depends in a non-monotonous way on the strength of the noise. We find that it is shortest for an intermediate strength value of the latter. This we call "stochastic anti-resonance". Our results could lead to a better undestanding of noisy perturbations and their role for optimal designing of quantum devices.

id: 1105.2728
title: Linking Classical and Quantum Stochastic Processes
authors: Vahid Karimipour, Laleh Memarzadeh
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2728
abstract: We define a map which relates four dimensional classical stochastic matrices to qubit quantum channels. The map preserves the spectrum and the composition of processes. To do this we introduce the concept of Bloch tetrahedron which plays the same role in the classical context as the Bloch sphere in the quantum context. A similar map is also induced between dynamical generators of classical and quantum stochastic processes. Possibilities for generalization to arbitrary dimensions are also discussed.

id: 1105.2731
title: Diode for Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Jonas Larson
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Euro. Phys. Lett. 96, 50004 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2731
abstract: Given a quantum state at some instant of time t, the underlying system Hamiltonian can not only predict how the state will evolve, but also the history of the state prior to t. Thereby, in order to have a directed motion, like in a diode, some sort of irreversibility must be considered. For the atom diode, this has been achieved by spontaneous decay of excited atomic levels. For an atomic condensate, it is clear, however, that such decay will cause both heating and decoherence of the condensate. To overcome this complication we introduce a different setup where the dissipation does not act directly on the atoms. The excited atoms are stimulatedly driven back to the ground state by exciting a cavity mode, which in return decays to the vacuum via photon losses. The efficiency of the method utilizing experimental parameters is shown to be almost perfect within large parameter regimes.

id: 1105.2750
title: A phase operator for photons
authors: Chandra Prajapati, D. Ranganathan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2750
abstract: We define a unitary phase operator for photons in a single momentum mode. The operator acts on a Hilbert space with basis consisting of all number states in both polarizations. The Susskind Glogower operator, ${\hat{E}} = e^{i \hat{\phi}}$, thus defined is unitary and acts as a true ladder operator over all the states. It satisfies the commutation relation $[{\hat{E}}, {\hat{n}}] = {\hat{E}}$; consequently, the phase $\hat{\phi}$ satisfies the canonical commutation relation $[{\hat{n}}, {\hat{\phi}}] = i$. The eigenstates of the Susskind Glogower operator are found. Our model is able to directly account for phase measurements when polarization changes cannot be neglected and at the same time gives a well defined phase operator.

id: 1105.2768
title: Quantum locking of classical correlations and quantum discord of classical-quantum states
authors: S. Boixo, L. Aolita, D. Cavalcanti, K. Modi, A. Winter
comments: 10 pages, submitted to IJQI special issue
journal: IJQI 9, 1643-1651 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2768
abstract: A locking protocol between two parties is as follows: Alice gives an encrypted classical message to Bob which she does not want Bob to be able to read until she gives him the key. If Alice is using classical resources, and she wants to approach unconditional security, then the key and the message must have comparable sizes. But if Alice prepares a quantum state, the size of the key can be comparatively negligible. This effect is called quantum locking. Entanglement does not play a role in this quantum advantage. We show that, in this scenario, the quantum discord quantifies the advantage of the quantum protocol over the corresponding classical one for any classical-quantum state.

id: 1105.2805
title: Coherent and Squeezed Vacuum Light Interferometry: Parity detection hits the Heisenberg limit
authors: Kaushik P. Seshadreesan, Petr M. Anisimov, Hwang Lee, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: Change in the format from aps to iop since we decided to submit it to NJP; Minor changes in text
journal: New J. Phys. 13 083026, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2805
abstract: The interference between coherent and squeezed vacuum light can produce path entangled states with very high fidelities. We show that the phase sensitivity of the above interferometric scheme with parity detection saturates the quantum Cramer-Rao bound, which reaches the Heisenberg-limit when the coherent and squeezed vacuum light are mixed in roughly equal proportions. For the same interferometric scheme, we draw a detailed comparison between parity detection and a symmetric-logarithmic-derivative-based detection scheme suggested by Ono and Hofmann.

id: 1105.2811
title: Efficient Heralding of Photonic Qubits with Apllications to Device Independent Quantum Key Distribution
authors: David Pitk?nen, Xiongfeng Ma, Ricardo Wickert, Peter van Loock, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022325 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2811
abstract: We present an efficient way of heralding photonic qubit signals using linear optics devices. First we show that one can obtain asymptotically perfect heralding and unit success probability with growing resources. Second, we show that even using finite resources, we can improve qualitatively and quantitatively over earlier heralding results. In the latte r scenario, we can obtain perfect heralded photonic qubits while maintaining a finite success probability. We demonstrate the advantage of our heralding scheme by predicting key rates for device independent quantum key distribution, taking imperfections of sources and detectors into account.

id: 1105.2835
title: Exact Entanglement Dynamics Beyond the Rotating Wave Approximation
authors: S. M. Hashemi Rafsanjani, S. Agarwal, J. H. Eberly
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2835
abstract: The entanglement dynamics of two remote qubits is examined analytically. The qubits interact arbitrarily strongly with separate harmonic oscillators in the idealized degenerate limit of the Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian. In contrast to well known non-degenerate RWA results, it is shown that ideally degenerate qubits cannot induce bipartite entanglement between their partner oscillators.

id: 1105.2843
title: Complexity of commuting Hamiltonians on a square lattice of qubits
authors: Norbert Schuch
comments: 16 pages, 12 figures. v2: Minor corrections. Accepted version, Journal-Ref added
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 11, 901 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2843
abstract: We consider the computational complexity of Hamiltonians which are sums of commuting terms acting on plaquettes in a square lattice of qubits, and we show that deciding whether the ground state minimizes the energy of each local term individually is in the complexity class NP. That is, if the ground states has this property, this can be proven using a classical certificate which can be efficiently verified on a classical computer. Different to previous results on commuting Hamiltonians, our certificate proves the existence of such a state without giving instructions on how to prepare it.

id: 1105.2859
title: Crossovers in the non-Markovian dynamics of two-qubit entanglements
authors: Shin-Tza Wu
comments: 
journal: Chin J Phys, 50, 118 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2859
abstract: We study the entanglement dynamics of two non-interacting, spatially separated qubits subject to local environment noises. Based on exactly solvable models for non-Markovian amplitude damping and phase damping noises, we are able to analyze the entanglement dynamics of the two qubits for different coupling bandwidths and different detunings. We show that entanglement oscillations can occur for both amplitude and phase damping noises. Moreover, we demonstrate that changing the coupling bandwidth can lead to crossover between dissipative and non-dissipative entanglement dynamics, while varying the detuning controls the crossover between strong and weak coupling limits. Our findings can help provide a synthesized picture for the entanglement dynamics of two qubits subject to local environment noises.

id: 1105.2866
title: Quantum correlations in spin models
authors: Guo-Feng Zhang, Heng Fan, Ai-Ling Ji, Zhao-Tan Jiang, Ahmad Abliz, Wu-Ming Liu
comments: 1 text and 5 eps figures, accepted by Annals of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2866
abstract: Bell nonlocality, entanglement and nonclassical correlations are different aspects of quantum correlations for a given state. There are many methods to measure nonclassical correlations. In this paper, nonclassical correlations in two-qubit spin models are measured by use of measurement-induced disturbance (MID) [Phys. Rev. A, 77, 022301 (2008)] and geometric measure of quantum discord (GQD) [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 190502 (2010)]. Their dependencies on external magnetic field, spin-spin coupling, and Dzyaloshinski-Moriya (DM) interaction are presented in detail. We also compare Bell nonlocality, entanglement measured by concurrence, MID and GQD and illustrate their different characteristics.

id: 1105.2876
title: Coherently prepared nondegenerate Y-shaped four-level correlated emission laser: A source of tripartite entangled light
authors: Sintayehu Tesfa
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, to appear on Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2876
abstract: A detailed derivation of the master equation of the cavity radiation of a coherently prepared $Y$-shaped four-level correlated emission laser is presented. The outline of the procedures that can be employed in analytically solving the stochastic differential equations and the rate equations of various correlations are also provided. It is shown that coherently preparing the atoms in the upper two energy levels and the lower, initially, can lead to a genuine continuous variable tripartite entanglement. Moreover, preparing the atoms in the coherent superposition, other than the possible maximum or minimum, of the upper two energy levels, leaving the lower unpopulated, may lead to a similar observation. With the possibility of the atom at the intermediate energy level to take three different transition roots guided by the induced coherence, this system in general is found to encompass versatile options for practical utilization. In particular, coupling at least one of the dipole forbidden transitions by an external radiation is expected to enhance the degree of detectable entanglement.

id: 1105.2884
title: Converting Zitterbewegung Oscillation to Directed Motion
authors: Qi Zhang, Jiangbin Gong, C.H. Oh
comments: 4+ pages, 3 figures
journal: EPL 96 (2011) 10004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2884
abstract: Zitterbewegung oscillation (ZB), namely, the jittering center-of-mass motion predicted by free space Dirac (or Dirac-like) equations, has been studied in several different contexts. It is shown here that ZB can be converted to directed center-of-mass motion by a modulation of the Dirac-like equation, if the modulation is on resonance with the ZB frequency. Tailored modulation may also stop, re-launch or even reverse the directed motion of a wavepacket with negligible distortion. The predictions may be examined by current ZB experiments using trapped-ion systems.

id: 1105.2947
title: Quantum Information at the Interface of Light with Atomic Ensembles and Micromechanical Oscillators
authors: Christine A. Muschik, Hanna Krauter, Klemens Hammerer, Eugene S. Polzik
comments: 
journal: Quantum Information Processing 10, 839 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2947
abstract: This article reviews recent research towards a universal light-matter interface. Such an interface is an important prerequisite for long distance quantum communication, entanglement assisted sensing and measurement, as well as for scalable photonic quantum computation. We review the developments in light-matter interfaces based on room temperature atomic vapors interacting with propagating pulses via the Faraday effect. This interaction has long been used as a tool for quantum nondemolition detections of atomic spins via light. It was discovered recently that this type of light-matter interaction can actually be tuned to realize more general dynamics, enabling better performance of the light-matter interface as well as rendering tasks possible, which were before thought to be impractical. This includes the realization of improved entanglement assisted and backaction evading magnetometry approaching the Quantum Cramer-Rao limit, quantum memory for squeezed states of light and the dissipative generation of entanglement. A separate, but related, experiment on entanglement assisted cold atom clock showing the Heisenberg scaling of precision is described. We also review a possible interface between collective atomic spins with nano- or micromechanical oscillators, providing a link between atomic and solid state physics approaches towards quantum information processing.

id: 1105.2990
title: Unbounded quantum Fisher information in two-path interferometry with finite photon number
authors: Y. R. Zhang, G. R. Jin, J. P. Cao, W. M. Liu, H. Fan
comments: 6 pages and 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46(2013) 035302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2990
abstract: The minimum error of unbiased parameter estimation is quantified by the quantum Fisher information in accordance to the Cram\'{e}r-Rao bound. We indicate that only superposed NOON states by simultaneous measurements can achieve the maximum quantum Fisher information with form $<\hat{N}^{2}>$ for a given photon number distribution by a POVM in linear two-path interferometer phase measurement. We present a series of specified superposed states with infinite quantum Fisher information but with finite average photon numbers. The advantage of this unbounded quantum Fisher information will be beneficial to many applications in quantum technology.

id: 1105.2991
title: Partial standard quantum process tomography
authors: Xiaohua Wu, Ke Xu
comments: 4 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2991
abstract: With the general theorem of SQPT, we shall develop a scheme to detemine an arbitrary matrix element of $chi$, which is expanded with the Choi operators, in a scalbe way.

id: 1105.2993
title: On Conjectures of Classical and Quantum Correlations in Bipartite States
authors: Lin Zhang, Junde Wu
comments: 6 pages, LaTeX, Concluding Remarks is added and some refereces are listed also. To appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 025301(2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2993
abstract: In this paper, two conjectures which were proposed in [Phys. Rev. A \textbf{82}, 052122(2010)] on the correlations in a bipartite state $\rho^{AB}$ are studied. If the mutual information $I\Pa{\rho^{AB}}$ between two quantum systems $A$ and $B$ before any measurement is considered as the total amount of correlations in the state $\rho^{AB}$, then it can be separated into two parts: classical correlations and quantum correlations. The so-called classical correlations $C\Pa{\rho^{AB}}$ in the state $\rho^{AB}$, defined by the maximizing mutual information between two quantum systems $A$ and $B$ after von Neumann measurements on system $B$, we show that it is upper bounded by the von Neumann entropies of both subsystems $A$ and $B$, this answered the conjecture on the classical correlation. If the quantum correlations $Q\Pa{\rho^{AB}}$ in the state $\rho^{AB}$ is defined by $Q\Pa{\rho^{AB}}= I\Pa{\rho^{AB}} - C\Pa{\rho^{AB}}$, we show also that it is upper bounded by the von Neumann entropy of subsystem $B$. It is also obtained that $Q\Pa{\rho^{AB}}$ is upper bounded by the von Neumann entropy of subsystem $A$ for a class of states.

id: 1105.3004
title: Unambiguous discrimination between two unknown qudit states
authors: Tao Zhou
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing 11, 1889 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3004
abstract: We consider the unambiguous discrimination between two unknown qudit states in $n$-dimensional ($n\geqslant2$) Hilbert space. By equivalence of unknown pure states to known mixed states and with the Jordan-basis method, we demonstrate that the optimal success probability of the discrimination between two unknown states is independent of the dimension $n$. We also give a scheme for a physical implementation of the programmable state discriminator that unambiguously discriminate between two unknown states with optimal probability of success.

id: 1105.3086
title: All degree six local unitary invariants of k qudits
authors: Szil¨¢rd Szalay
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures, extended version. Comments are welcome
journal: J. Phys. A 45 065302, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3086
abstract: We give explicit index-free formulae for all the degree six (and also degree four and two) algebraically independent local unitary invariant polynomials for finite dimensional k-partite pure and mixed quantum states. We carry out this by the use of graph-technical methods, which provides illustrations for this abstract topic.

id: 1105.3132
title: Optical amplifier-powered quantum optical amplification
authors: John Jeffers
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 053818 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3132
abstract: I show that an optical amplifier, when combined with photon subtraction, can be used for quantum state amplification, adding noise at a level below the standard minimum. The device could be used to significantly decrease the probability of incorrectly identifying coherent states chosen from a finite set.

id: 1105.3138
title: Device-independent certification of entangled measurements
authors: Rafael Rabelo, Melvyn Ho, Daniel Cavalcanti, Nicolas Brunner, Valerio Scarani
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 050502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3138
abstract: We present a device-independent protocol to test if a given black-box measurement device is entangled, that is, has entangled eigenstates. Our scheme involves three parties and is inspired by entanglement swapping; the test uses the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) Bell inequality, checked between each pair of parties. Also, focusing on the case where all particles are qubits, we characterize quantitatively the deviation of the measurement device from a perfect Bell state measurement.

id: 1105.3142
title: Description of rank four PPT entangled states of two qutrits
authors: Lin Chen, Dragomir Z. Djokovic
comments: 24 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 122203 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3142
abstract: It is known that some two qutrit entangled states of rank 4 with positive partial transpose [PPT] can be built from the unextendible product bases [UPB]. We show that this fact is indeed universal, namely all such states can be constructed from UPB. We also classify the 5-dimensional subspaces of two qutrits which contain only finitely many product states (up to scalar multiple), and in particular those spanned by a UPB.

id: 1105.3195
title: Free randomness can be amplified
authors: Roger Colbeck, Renato Renner
comments: 5+7 pages, 2 figures. Updated to match published version
journal: Nature Physics 8, 450-454 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3195
abstract: Are there fundamentally random processes in nature? Theoretical predictions, confirmed experimentally, such as the violation of Bell inequalities, point to an affirmative answer. However, these results are based on the assumption that measurement settings can be chosen freely at random, so assume the existence of perfectly free random processes from the outset. Here we consider a scenario in which this assumption is weakened and show that partially free random bits can be amplified to make arbitrarily free ones. More precisely, given a source of random bits whose correlation with other variables is below a certain threshold, we propose a procedure for generating fresh random bits that are virtually uncorrelated with all other variables. We also conjecture that such procedures exist for any non-trivial threshold. Our result is based solely on the no-signalling principle, which is necessary for the existence of free randomness.

id: 1105.3201
title: An exact tensor network for the 3SAT problem
authors: A. Garcia-Saez, J. I. Latorre
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures. New numerical examples
journal: Quantum Information and Computation Vol.12 No.3&4, 0283-0292 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3201
abstract: We construct a tensor network that delivers an unnormalized quantum state whose coefficients are the solutions to a given instance of 3SAT, an NP-complete problem. The tensor network contraction that corresponds to the norm of the state counts the number of solutions to the instance. It follows that exact contractions of this tensor network are in the #P-complete computational complexity class, thus believed to be a hard task. Furthermore, we show that for a 3SAT instance with n bits, it is enough to perform a polynomial number of contractions of the tensor network structure associated to the computation of local observables to obtain one of the explicit solutions to the problem, if any. Physical realization of a state described by a generic tensor network is equivalent to finding the satisfying assignment of a 3SAT instance and, consequently, this experimental task is expected to be hard.

id: 1105.3310
title: The quantum query complexity of learning multilinear polynomials
authors: Ashley Montanaro
comments: 8 pages; v3: essentially published version
journal: Information Processing Letters, vol. 112, no. 11, pp. 438-442, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3310
abstract: In this note we study the number of quantum queries required to identify an unknown multilinear polynomial of degree d in n variables over a finite field F_q. Any bounded-error classical algorithm for this task requires Omega(n^d) queries to the polynomial. We give an exact quantum algorithm that uses O(n^(d-1)) queries for constant d, which is optimal. In the case q=2, this gives a quantum algorithm that uses O(n^(d-1)) queries to identify a codeword picked from the binary Reed-Muller code of order d.

id: 1105.3313
title: Simultaneous Wavelength Translation and Amplitude Modulation of Single Photons from a Quantum Dot
authors: Matthew T. Rakher, Lijun Ma, Marcelo Davanco, Oliver Slattery, Xiao Tang, Kartik Srinivasan
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 083602 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3313
abstract: Hybrid quantum information devices that combine disparate physical systems interacting through photons offer the promise of combining low-loss telecommunications wavelength transmission with high fidelity visible wavelength storage and manipulation. The realization of such systems requires control over the waveform of single photons to achieve spectral and temporal matching. Here, we experimentally demonstrate the simultaneous wavelength translation and amplitude modulation of single photons generated by a quantum dot emitting near 1300 nm with an exponentially-decaying waveform (lifetime $\approx$1.5 ns). Quasi-phase-matched sum-frequency generation with a pulsed 1550 nm laser creates single photons at 710 nm with a controlled amplitude modulation at 350 ps timescales.

id: 1105.3321
title: One-shot entanglement-assisted quantum and classical communication
authors: Nilanjana Datta, Min-Hsiu Hsieh
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures. Title changed due to new results on the one-shot entanglement-assisted quantum communication. In addition, an error in the previous version regarding the converse proof of the one-shot EAC capacity has been corrected
journal: IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory, vol. 59, no. 3, pp. 1929-1939, Mar. 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3321
abstract: We study entanglement-assisted quantum and classical communication over a single use of a quantum channel, which itself can correspond to a finite number of uses of a channel with arbitrarily correlated noise. We obtain characterizations of the corresponding one-shot capacities by establishing upper and lower bounds on them in terms of the difference of two smoothed entropic quantities. In the case of a memoryless channel, the upper and lower bounds converge to the known single-letter formulas for the corresponding capacities, in the limit of asymptotically many uses of it. Our results imply that the difference of two smoothed entropic quantities characterizing the one-shot entanglement-assisted capacities serves as a one-shot analogue of the mutual information, since it reduces to the mutual information, between the output of the channel and a system purifying its input, in the asymptotic, memoryless scenario.

id: 1105.3332
title: Some Remarks on Quantum Brachistochrone
authors: Fabio Masillo
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Open Systems & Information Dynamics, vol. 19, 1,1250005 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3332
abstract: We study some aspects of the Quantum Brachistochrone Problem. Physical realizability of the faster pseudo Hermitian version of the problem is also discussed. This analysis, applied to simple quantum gates, supports an informational interpretation of the problem that is quasi Hermitian invariant.

id: 1105.3339
title: Experimental Optimum Maximum-Confidence Discrimination and Optimum Unambiguous Discrimination of Two Mixed Single-Photon States
authors: Gesine A. Steudle, Sebastian Knauer, Ulrike Herzog, Erik Stock, Vladimir A. Haisler, Dieter Bimberg, Oliver Benson
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3339
abstract: We present an experimental implementation of optimum measurements for quantum state discrimination. Optimum maximum-confidence discrimination and optimum unambiguous discrimination of two mixed single-photon polarization states were performed. For the latter the states of rank two in a four-dimensional Hilbert space are prepared using both path and polarization encoding. Linear optics and single photons from a true single-photon source based on a semiconductor quantum dot are utilized.

id: 1105.3373
title: A physical approach to Tsirelson's problem
authors: Miguel Navascues, Tom Cooney, David Perez-Garcia, Ignacio Villanueva
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Found. Phys. 42, 985-995 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3373
abstract: Tsirelson's problem deals with how to model separate measurements in quantum mechanics. In addition to its theoretical importance, the resolution of Tsirelson's problem could have great consequences for device independent quantum key distribution and certified randomness. Unfortunately, understanding present literature on the subject requires a heavy mathematical background. In this paper, we introduce quansality, a new theoretical concept that allows to reinterpret Tsirelson's problem from a foundational point of view. Using quansality as a guide, we recover all known results on Tsirelson's problem in a clear and intuitive way.

id: 1105.3419
title: Characterizing quantumness via entanglement creation
authors: Sevag Gharibian, Marco Piani, Gerardo Adesso, John Calsamiglia, Pawel Horodecki
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure, submitted to special issue of IJQI
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 9(7 & 8):1701-1713, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3419
abstract: In [M. Piani et al., arXiv:1103.4032 (2011)] an activation protocol was introduced which maps the general non-classical (multipartite) correlations between given systems into bipartite entanglement between the systems and local ancillae by means of a potentially highly entangling interaction. Here, we study how this activation protocol can be used to entangle the starting systems themselves via entanglement swapping through a measurement on the ancillae. Furthermore, we bound the relative entropy of quantumness (a naturally arising measure of non-classicality in the scheme of Piani et al. above) for a special class of separable states, the so-called classical-quantum states. In particular, we fully characterize the classical-quantum two-qubit states that are maximally non-classical.

id: 1105.3446
title: Jaynes Cummings treatment of superconducting resonators with dielectric loss due to two-level systems
authors: M. Bhattacharya, K. D. Osborn, Ari Mizel
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3446
abstract: We perform a quantum mechanical analysis of superconducting resonators subject to dielectric loss arising from charged two-level systems. We present numerical and analytical descriptions of the dynamics of energy decay from the resonator within the Jaynes-Cummings model. Our analysis allows us to distinguish the strong and weak coupling regimes of the model and to describe within each regime cases where the two-level system is unsaturated or saturated. We find that the quantum theory agrees with the classical model for weak coupling. However, for strong coupling the quantum theory predicts lower loss than the classical theory in the unsaturated regime. Also, in contrast to the classical theory, the photon number at which saturation occurs in the strong coupling quantum theory is independent of the coupling between the resonator and the two-level system.

id: 1105.3451
title: Local Transformations Requiring Infinite Rounds of Classical Communication
authors: Eric Chitambar
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 190502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3451
abstract: In this paper, we study the number of rounds of communication needed to implement certain tasks by local quantum operations and classical communication (LOCC). We find that the class of LOCC operations becomes strictly more powerful as more rounds of classical communication are permitted. Specifically, for every $n$, there always exists an $n$ round protocol that is impossible to implement in $n-2$ rounds. Furthermore, we show that certain entanglement transformations are possible if and only if the protocol uses an infinite (unbounded) number of rounds. Interestingly, the number of rounds required to deterministically distill bipartite entanglement from a single multipartite state can be strongly discontinuous with respect to the amount of entanglement distilled.

id: 1105.3526
title: Synergetics in multiple exciton generation effect in quantum dots
authors: N.N. Turaeva, B.L. Oksengendler, I. Uralov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3526
abstract: We present detailed analysis of the non-Poissonian population of excitons produced by MEG effect in quantum dots on the base of statistic theory of MEG and synergetic approach for chemical reactions. From the analysis we can conclude that a non-Poissonian distribution of exciton population is evidence of non-linear and non-equilibrium character of the process of multiple generation of excitons in quantum dots at a single photon absorption

id: 1105.3563
title: Momentum representation for equilibrium reduced density matrices
authors: V. A. Golovko
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3563
abstract: The hierarchy of equations for reduced density matrices that describes a thermodynamically equilibrium quantum system obtained earlier by the author is investigated in the momentum representation. In the paper it is shown that the use of the momentum representation opens up new opportunities in studies of macroscopic quantum systems both nonsuperfluid and superfluid. It is found that the distribution over momenta in a quantum fluid is not a Bose or Fermi distribution even in the limit of practically noninteracting particles. The distribution looks like a Maxwellian one although, strictly speaking, it is not Maxwellian. The momentum distribution in a quantum crystal depends upon the interaction potential and the crystalline structure. The momentum distribution in a superfluid contains a delta function. The momentum distribution for the condensate in a superfluid crystal consists of delta peaks that are arranged periodically in momentum space. The periodical structure remains if the condensate crystal is not superfluid.

id: 1105.3566
title: Hybrid quantum repeater with encoding
authors: Nadja K. Bernardes, Peter van Loock
comments: Published version. Eq.(10) revised, results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev A 86, 052301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3566
abstract: We present an encoded hybrid quantum repeater scheme using qubit-repetition and Calderbank-Shor-Steane codes. For the case of repetition codes, we propose an explicit implementation of the quantum error-correction protocol. Moreover, we analyze the entangled-pair distribution rate for the hybrid quantum repeater with encoding and we clearly identify a triple trade-off between the efficiency of the codes, the memory decoherence time, and the local gate errors. Finally, we show that in the presence of reasonable imperfections our system can achieve rates of roughly 24 Hz per memory for 20 km repeater spacing, a final distance of 1280 km, and a final fidelity of about 0.95.

id: 1105.3573
title: The universal quantum driving force to speed up a quantum computation -- The unitary quantum dynamics
authors: Xijia Miao
comments: 38 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3573
abstract: It is shown in the paper that the unitary quantum dynamics in quantum mechanics is the universal quantum driving force to speed up a quantum computation. This assertion supports strongly in theory that the unitary quantum dynamics is the fundamental and universal principle in nature. On the other hand, the symmetric structure of Hilbert space of a composite quantum system is the quantum-computing resource that is not owned by classical computation. A new quantum-computing speedup theory is set up on the basis of the unitary quantum dynamics. Both the unitary quantum dynamics and the symmetric structure and property of the Hilbert space of the quantum system are mainly responsible for an exponential quantum-computing speedup for a general efficient quantum algorithm. The inherent importance for the unitary quantum dynamics to speed up a quantum computation lies in the unique ability of the unitary quantum dynamics to build the effective interaction between the symmetric structure of the Hilbert space of the quantum system and the mathematical symmetric structure of a problem to be solved on the quantum system. This unique ability could result in an essential difference of computational power between quantum and classical computations by combining the symmetric structure and property of the Hilbert space. The new quantum-computing speedup theory also provides reasonable mechanisms for exponential quantum-computing speedup for the existing efficient quantum algorithms based on the quantum parallel principle. These existing quantum algorithms including the hidden-subgroup-problem quantum algorithms and conventional quantum search algorithms have the common character that the symmetric structure of the Hilbert space does not have any effective effect on these quantum algorithms. This could be the main reason why these quantum algorithms are quite special and considered to be semiclassical.

id: 1105.3598
title: Fully nonlocal quantum correlations
authors: Leandro Aolita, Rodrigo Gallego, Antonio Ac¨ªn, Andrea Chiuri, Giuseppe Vallone, Paolo Mataloni, Ad¨¢n Cabello
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures and three tables. To appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032107 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3598
abstract: Quantum mechanics is a nonlocal theory, but not as nonlocal as the no-signalling principle allows. However, there exist quantum correlations that exhibit maximal nonlocality: they are as nonlocal as any non-signalling correlations and thus have a local content, quantified by the fraction $p_L$ of events admitting a local description, equal to zero. Exploiting the link between the Kochen-Specker and Bell's theorems, we derive, from every Kochen-Specker proof, Bell inequalities maximally violated by quantum correlations. We then show that these Bell inequalities lead to experimental bounds on the local content of quantum correlations which are significantly better than those based on other constructions. We perform the experimental demonstration of a Bell test originating from the Peres-Mermin Kochen-Specker proof, providing an upper bound on the local content $p_L\lesssim 0.22$.

id: 1105.3603
title: Effect of Injected Noise on Electromagnetically Induced Transparency and Slow Light
authors: V. Ranjith, N. Kumar
comments: 6 Pages, 7 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3603
abstract: We have examined theoretically the phenomenon of Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT) in a three-level system operating in the lambda-configuration in presence of an externally injected noise coupling the ground level to the intermediate (metastable) level. The changes in the depth and the width of the induced transparency and the slowing down of the probe light have been calculated as function of the probe detuning and the strength of the injected noise. The calculations are within the rotating-wave approximation (RWA). Our main results are the reduction and the broadening of the EIT with increasing strength of the injected noise, and a reduction in the slowing down of group velocity of the probe-laser beam. Thus, the injected semi-classical noise, unlike the quantum-dynamical noise associated with the spontaneous emission, is not effectively cancelled by the EIT mechanism.

id: 1105.3615
title: An analysis of states in the phase space: the anharmonic oscillator
authors: Sebastiano Tosto
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3615
abstract: The paper introduces a simple quantum model to calculate in a general way allowed frequencies and energy levels of the anharmonic oscillator. The theoretical basis of the approach has been introduced in two early papers aimed to infer the properties of quantum systems exploiting the uncertainty principle only. For clarity the anharmonic oscillator is described having in mind the lattice oscillations of atoms/ions, yet quantum formalism of the model and approach have general character and can be extended to any oscillating system. The results show that the harmonic energy levels split into a complex system of energy levels dependent upon the number of anharmonic terms that characterize the oscillator.

id: 1105.3667
title: Bypassing state initialization in Hamiltonian tomography on spin-chains
authors: C. Di Franco, M. Paternostro, M. S. Kim
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 9, Supp. 1, 181 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3667
abstract: We provide an extensive discussion on a scheme for Hamiltonian tomography of a spin-chain model that does not require state initialization [Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 187203 (2009)]. The method has spurred the attention of the physics community interested in indirect acquisition of information on the dynamics of quantum many-body systems and represents a genuine instance of a control-limited quantum protocol.

id: 1105.3684
title: Two-photon driven nonlinear dynamics and entanglement of an atom in a non uniform cavity
authors: L. Chotorlishvili, Z. Toklikishvili, S. Wimberger, J. Berakdar
comments: to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3684
abstract: In this paper we study the dynamics in the general case for a Tavis Cummings atom in a non-uniform cavity. In addition to the dynamical Stark shift, the center-of-mass motion of the atom and the recoil effect are considered in both - the weak and the strong cavity atom coupling regimes. It is shown that the spatial motion of the atom inside the cavity in the resonant case leads to a transition between topologically different solutions. This effect is manifested by a singularity in the inter-level transition spectrum. In the non-resonant case, the spatial motion of the atom leads to a switching of the spin orientation. In both effects, the key factor is the relation between the values of the Stark shift and the cavity field coupling constant. We also investigate the entanglement of an atom in the cavity with the radiation field. It is shown that the entanglement between the atom and the field, usually quantified in terms of purity, decreases with increasing the Stark shift.

id: 1105.3737
title: Exciton-spin memory with a semiconductor quantum dot molecule
authors: A. Boyer de la Giroday, N. Skold, R.M. Stevenson, I. Farrer, D.A. Ritchie, A.J. Shields
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 216802 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3737
abstract: We report on a single photon and spin storage device based on a semiconductor quantum dot molecule. Optically excited single electron-hole pairs are trapped within the molecule and their recombination rate is electrically controlled over three orders of magnitude. Single photons are stored up to 1 microsecond and read out on a sub-nanosecond timescale. Using resonant excitation, the circular polarisation of individual photons is transferred into the spin state of electron-hole pairs with a fidelity above 80%, which does not degrade for storage times up to the 12.5ns repetition period of the experiment.

id: 1105.3751
title: Implementation of a two-qubit controlled-U gate based on unconventional geometric phase with a constant gating time
authors: Bruno F. C. Yabu-uti, Jos¨¦ A. Roversi
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, APS format, an extended version is in progress with some improvements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3751
abstract: We propose an alternative scheme to implement a two-qubits Controlled-U gate in the hybrid system atom-$CCA$ (coupled cavities array). Our scheme results in a constant gating time and, with an adjustable qubit-bus coupling (atom-resonator), one can specify a particular transformation $U$ on the target qubit. We believe that this proposal may open promising perspectives for networking quantum information processors and implementing distributed and scalable quantum computation.

id: 1105.3760
title: Characterization of an InGaAs/InP single-photon detector at 200 MHz gate rate
authors: Chris Healey, Itzel Lucio-Martinez, Michael R. E. Lamont, Xiaofan Mo, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3760
abstract: We characterize a near-infrared single-photon detector based on an InGaAs/InP avalanche photodiode and the self-differencing post-processing technique. It operates at gate rates of 200 MHz and higher. The compact, integrated design employs printed circuit boards and features a semiconductor-based self-differencing subtraction implemented with a fully differential amplifier. At a single-photon detection efficiency of 6.4%, the detector has a dark count probability of 9x10^-7 per gate, an afterpulse probability of 6.3% per detection event, a detection time jitter of 150 ps, and a dead time of 5 ns (equivalent to one gate period). Furthermore, it can be operated as a standard photodiode, which benefits applications that require detecting single photons as well as strong light signals.

id: 1105.3761
title: Time-cost analysis of a quantum key distribution system clocked at 100 MHz
authors: Xiaofan Mo, Itzel Lucio Martinez, Philip Chan, Chris Healey, Steve Hosier, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 19, Issue 18, pp. 17729-17737 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3761
abstract: We describe the realization of a quantum key distribution (QKD) system clocked at 100 MHz. The system includes classical postprocessing implemented via software, and is operated over a 12 km standard telecommunication dark fiber in a real-world environment. A time-cost analysis of the sifted, error-corrected, and secret key rates relative to the raw key rate is presented, and the scalability of our implementation with respect to higher secret key rates is discussed.

id: 1105.3789
title: Asymptotic local hypothesis testing between a pure bipartite state and the completely mixed state
authors: Masaki Owari, Masahito Hayashi
comments: The presentation was thoroughly revised, and the detail analysis about the optimal two-way LOCC POVM was added. 22pages, 4 figures, accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3789
abstract: In this paper, we treat an asymptotic hypothesis testing (or state discrimination with asymmetric treatment of errors) between an arbitrary fixed bipartite pure state and the completely mixed state by one-way LOCC, two-way LOCC, and separable POVMs. As a result, we derive single-letterized formulas for the Stein's lemma type of optimal error exponents under one-way LOCC, two-way LOCC and separable POVMs, the Chernoff bounds under one-way LOCC POVMs and separable POVMs, and the Hoeffding bounds under one-way LOCC POVMs in the whole region of a parameter and under separable POVMs on a restricted region of a parameter. We also numerically calculate the Chernoff and the Hoeffding bounds under a class of three-step LOCC protocols in low-dimensional systems and show that these bounds not only outperform the bounds for one-way LOCC POVMs but also almost approximates the bounds for separable POVMs in the parameter region where analytical bounds for separable POVMs are derived.

id: 1105.3798
title: Enhanced energy relaxation process of quantum memory coupled with a superconducting qubit
authors: Yuichiro Matsuzaki, Hayato Nakano
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3798
abstract: For quantum information processing, each physical system has different advantage for the implementation and so hybrid systems to benefit from several systems would be able to provide a promising approach. One of the common hybrid approach is to combine a superconducting qubit as a controllable qubit and the other quantum system with a long coherence time as a memory qubit. The superconducting qubit allows us to have an excellent controllability of the quantum states and the memory qubit is capable of storing the information for a long time. By tuning the energy splitting between the superconducting qubit and the memory qubit, it is believed that one can realize a selective coupling between them. However, we have shown that this approach has a fundamental drawback concerning energy leakage from the memory qubit. The detuned superconducting qubit is usually affected by severe decoherence, and this causes an incoherent energy relaxation from the memory qubit to the superconducting qubit via the imperfect decoupling. We have also found that this energy transport can be interpreted as an appearance of anti quantum Zeno effect induced by the fluctuation in the superconducting qubit. We also discuss a possible solution to avoid such energy relaxation process, which is feasible with existing technology.

id: 1105.3800
title: Crtierion of effective centre-of-mass method in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Bo-Yuan Ning, Jun Zhuang, Xi-Jing Ning
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3800
abstract: In describing the motion of atoms and clusters, we face with choosing quantum mechanics or classical mechanics under different conditions. In principle, there exist two criteria for this choice, but they do contradict in some cases though they are in agreement for other cases. Actually, this problem is closely related with the effective centre-of-mass method, the underlying application of quantum mechanics. It is shown that quantum mechanics must be selected for particle's motion when the de Broglie wave length of the mass centre is larger than the particle size, and in such case the effective centre-of-mass can be used in Quantum Mechanics. In order to test this conclusion, an easy-manufactured experiment is suggested.

id: 1105.3830
title: Composition of quantum operations and products of random matrices
authors: Wojciech Roga, Marek Smaczynski, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: Acta Physica Polonica B, Vol. 42, 1123 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3830
abstract: Spectral properties of evolution operators corresponding to random maps and quantized chaotic systems strongly interacting with an environment can be described by the ensemble of non-hermitian random matrices from the real Ginibre ensemble. We analyze evolution operators Psi=Psi_s...Psi_1 representing the composition of s random maps and demonstrate that their complex eigenvalues are asymptotically described by the law of Burda et al. obtained for a product of s independent random complex Ginibre matrices. Numerical data support the conjecture that the same results are applicable to characterize the distribution of eigenvalues of the s-th power of a random Ginibre matrix. Squared singular values of Psi are shown to be described by the Fuss-Catalan distribution of order s. Results obtained for products of random Ginibre matrices are also capable to describe the s-step evolution operator for a model deterministic dynamical system - a generalized quantum baker map subjected to strong interaction with an environment.

id: 1105.3916
title: Development of a general time-dependent absorbing potential for the constrained adiabatic trajectory method
authors: Arnaud Leclerc, Georges Jolicard, John P. Killingbeck
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: The Journal of Chemical Physics, 134, 194111 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3916
abstract: The Constrained Adiabatic Trajectory Method (CATM) allows us to compute solutions of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation using the Floquet formalism and Fourier decomposition, using matrix manipulation within a non-orthogonal basis set, provided that suitable constraints can be applied to the initial conditions for the Floquet eigenstate. A general form is derived for the inherent absorbing potential, which can reproduce any dispersed boundary conditions. This new artificial potential acting over an additional time interval transforms any wavefunction into a desired state, with an error involving exponentially decreasing factors. Thus a CATM propagation can be separated into several steps to limit the size of the required Fourier basis. This approach is illustrated by some calculations for the $H_2^+$ molecular ion illuminated by a laser pulse.

id: 1105.3921
title: Edge local complementation for logical cluster states
authors: Jaewoo Joo, David L. Feder
comments: 15 pages, two figures, IOP style
journal: New Journal of Physics 13, 063025 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3921
abstract: A method is presented for the implementation of edge local complementation in graph states, based on the application of two Hadamard operations and a single controlled-phase (CZ) gate. As an application, we demonstrate an efficient scheme to construct a one-dimensional logical cluster state based on the five-qubit quantum error-correcting code, using a sequence of edge local complementations. A single physical CZ operation, together with local operations, is sufficient to create a logical CZ operation between two logical qubits. The same construction can be used to generate any encoded graph state. This approach in concatenation may allow one to create a hierarchical quantum network for quantum information tasks.

id: 1105.3932
title: A Consistent Quantum Ontology
authors: Robert B. Griffiths
comments: Very minor revisions to previous version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3932
abstract: The (consistent or decoherent) histories interpretation provides a consistent realistic ontology for quantum mechanics, based on two main ideas. First, a logic (system of reasoning) is employed which is compatible with the Hilbert-space structure of quantum mechanics as understood by von Neumann: quantum properties and their negations correspond to subspaces and their orthogonal complements. It employs a special (single framework) syntactical rule to construct meaningful quantum expressions, quite different from the quantum logic of Birkhoff and von Neumann. Second, quantum time development is treated as an inherently stochastic process under all circumstances, not just when measurements take place. The time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation provides probabilities, not a deterministic time development of the world. The resulting interpretive framework has no measurement problem and can be used to analyze in quantum terms what is going on before, after, and during physical preparation and measurement processes. In particular, appropriate measurements can reveal quantum properties possessed by the measured system before the measurement took place. There are no mysterious superluminal influences: quantum systems satisfy an appropriate form of Einstein locality. This ontology provides a satisfactory foundation for quantum information theory, since it supplies definite answers as to what the information is about. The formalism of classical (Shannon) information theory applies without change in suitable quantum contexts, and this suggests the way in which quantum information theory extends beyond its classical counterpart.

id: 1105.3956
title: Classical analog for dispersion cancellation of entangled photons with local detection
authors: R. Prevedel, K. M. Schreiter, J. Lavoie, K. J. Resch
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, matches published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 051803(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3956
abstract: Energy-time entangled photon pairs remain tightly correlated in time when the photons are passed through equal magnitude, but opposite in sign, dispersion. A recent experimental demonstration has observed this effect on ultrafast time-scales using second-harmonic generation of the photon pairs. However, the experimental signature of this effect does not require energy-time entanglement. Here, we demonstrate a directly analogue to this effect in narrow-band second harmonic generation of a pair of classical laser pulses under similar conditions. Perfect cancellation is observed for fs pulses with dispersion as large as 850 fs$^2$, comparable to the quantum result, but with an $10^{13}$-fold improvement in signal brightness.

id: 1105.3986
title: A dissipative quantum Church-Turing theorem
authors: M. Kliesch, T. Barthel, C. Gogolin, M. Kastoryano, J. Eisert
comments: 4 pages + 5 pages appendix, Implication 3 corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 120501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3986
abstract: We show that the time evolution of an open quantum system, described by a possibly time dependent Liouvillian, can be simulated by a unitary quantum circuit of a size scaling polynomially in the simulation time and the size of the system. An immediate consequence is that dissipative quantum computing is no more powerful than the unitary circuit model. Our result can be seen as a dissipative Church-Turing theorem, since it implies that under natural assumptions, such as weak coupling to an environment, the dynamics of an open quantum system can be simulated efficiently on a quantum computer. Formally, we introduce a Trotter decomposition for Liouvillian dynamics and give explicit error bounds. This constitutes a practical tool for numerical simulations, e.g., using matrix-product operators. We also demonstrate that most quantum states cannot be prepared efficiently.

id: 1105.3997
title: Resonator/zero-Qubit architecture for superconducting qubits
authors: Andrei Galiautdinov, Alexander N. Korotkov, John M. Martinis
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3997
abstract: We analyze the performance of the Resonator/zero-Qubit (RezQu) architecture in which the qubits are complemented with memory resonators and coupled via a resonator bus. Separating the stored information from the rest of the processing circuit by at least two coupling steps and the zero qubit state results in a significant increase of the ON/OFF ratio and the reduction of the idling error. Assuming no decoherence, we calculate such idling error, as well as the errors for the MOVE operation and tunneling measurement, and show that the RezQu architecture can provide high fidelity performance required for medium-scale quantum information processing.

id: 1105.4013
title: Solution to the Landau-Zener problem via Susskind-Glogower operators
authors: B.M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, D. Rodr¨ªguez-M¨¦ndez, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375, 3770-3774 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4013
abstract: We show that, by means of a right-unitary transformation, the fully quantized Landau-Zener Hamiltonian in the weak-coupling regime may be solved by using known solutions from the standard Landau-Zener problem. In the strong-coupling regime, where the rotating wave approximation is not valid, we show that the quantized Landau-Zener Hamiltonian may be diagonalized in the atomic basis by means of a unitary transformation; hence allowing numerical solutions for the few photons regime via truncation.

id: 1105.4014
title: Operational Dynamic Modeling Transcending Quantum and Classical Mechanics
authors: Denys I. Bondar, Renan Cabrera, Robert R. Lompay, Misha Yu. Ivanov, Herschel A. Rabitz
comments: 23 pages and 2 figures. Sec. VII B "Phase Space Representation in Curvilinear Coordinates" was corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 190403 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4014
abstract: We introduce a general and systematic theoretical framework for Operational Dynamic Modeling (ODM) by combining a kinematic description of a model with the evolution of the dynamical average values. The kinematics includes the algebra of the observables and their defined averages. The evolution of the average values is drawn in the form of Ehrenfest-like theorems. We show that ODM is capable of encompassing wide ranging dynamics from classical non-relativistic mechanics to quantum field theory. The generality of ODM should provide a basis for formulating novel theories.

id: 1105.4024
title: Span Programs for Functions with Constant-Sized 1-certificates
authors: Aleksandrs Belovs
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4024
abstract: Besides the Hidden Subgroup Problem, the second large class of quantum speed-ups is for functions with constant-sized 1-certificates. This includes the OR function, solvable by the Grover algorithm, the distinctness, the triangle and other problems. The usual way to solve them is by quantum walk on the Johnson graph. We propose a solution for the same problems using span programs. The span program is a computational model equivalent to the quantum query algorithm in its strength, and yet very different in its outfit. We prove the power of our approach by designing a quantum algorithm for the triangle problem with query complexity $O(n^{35/27})$ that is better than $O(n^{13/10})$ of the best previously known algorithm by Magniez et al.

id: 1105.4029
title: On the three-body Schr?dinger equation with decaying potentials
authors: Rytis Jursenas
comments: 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4029
abstract: The three-body Schr\"{o}dinger operator in the space of square integrable functions is found to be a certain extension of operators which generate the exponential unitary group containing a subgroup with nilpotent Lie algebra of length $\kappa+1$, $\kappa=0,1,...$ As a result, the solutions to the three-body Schr\"{o}dinger equation with decaying potentials are shown to exist in the commutator subalgebras. For the Coulomb three-body system, it turns out that the task is to solve - in these subalgebras - the radial Schr\"{o}dinger equation in three dimensions with the inverse power potential of the form $r^{-\kappa-1}$. As an application to Coulombic system, analytic solutions for some lower bound states are presented. Under conditions pertinent to the three-unit-charge system, obtained solutions, with $\kappa=0$, are reduced to the well-known eigenvalues of bound states at threshold.

id: 1105.4032
title: A quantum no-reflection theorem and the speeding up of Grover's search algorithm
authors: Karthikeyan S. Kumar, G. S. Paraoanu
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 93, 64002 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4032
abstract: We prove that it is impossible to built a universal quantum machine that produces reflections about an unknown state. We then point out a connection between this result and the optimality of Grover's search algorithm: if such reflection machines were available, it would be possible to accelerate Grover's search algorithm to exponential speedups.

id: 1105.4041
title: Sudden transition between classical and quantum decoherence in dissipative cavity QED and stationary quantum discord
authors: Qi-Liang He, Jing-Bo Xu, Dao-Xin Yao, Ye-Qi Zhang
comments: 8 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022312 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4041
abstract: We investigate the phenomenon of sudden transition between classical and quantum decoherence in the study of quantum discord for a dissipative cavity QED system, which consists of two noninteracting two-level atoms, each trapped in a dissipative cavity. It is found that the quantum discord between two atoms, which are prepared initially in the X-type quantum states, is not destroyed by the dissipation of the cavities for a finite time interval and the stationary quantum discord can arise in the interaction of atoms with cavities as the time approach to infinite. The transition time is sensitive to the initial state parameter of the two atoms and the mean photon number of the coherent field. Interestingly, the quantum discord between the two atoms is completely unaffected by the dissipation of the cavities if we choose the suitable value of the ratio, which depends on the decay rate of two cavities and the atom-field coupling constant.

id: 1105.4061
title: A measure of tripartite entanglement in bosonic and fermionic systems
authors: Fabrizio Buscemi, Paolo Bordone
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4061
abstract: We describe an efficient theoretical criterion suitable for the evaluation of the tripartite entanglement of any mixed three-boson or -fermion state, based on the notion of the entanglement of particles for bipartite systems of identical particles. Our approach allows one to quantify the accessible amount of quantum correlations in the systems without any violation of the local particle number superselection rule. A generalization of the tripartite negativity is here applied to some correlated systems including the continuous-time quantum walks of identical particles (both for bosons and fermions) and compared with other criteria recently proposed in the literature. Our results show the dependence of the entanglement dynamics upon the quantum statistics: the bosonic bunching results into a low amount of quantum correlations while Fermi-Dirac statistics allows for higher values of the entanglement.

id: 1105.4063
title: Discriminating quantum-optical beam-splitter channels with number-diagonal signal states: Applications to quantum reading and target detection
authors: Ranjith Nair
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures. This closely approximates the published version. The major change from v2 is that Section IV has been re-organized, with a no-go result for target detection under high loss conditions highlighted. The last sentence of the abstract has been deleted to conform to the arXiv word limit. Please see the PDF for the full abstract
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032312 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4063
abstract: We consider the problem of distinguishing, with minimum probability of error, two optical beam-splitter channels with unequal complex-valued reflectivities using general quantum probe states entangled over M signal and M' idler mode pairs of which the signal modes are bounced off the beam splitter while the idler modes are retained losslessly. We obtain a lower bound on the output state fidelity valid for any pure input state. We define number-diagonal signal (NDS) states to be input states whose density operator in the signal modes is diagonal in the multimode number basis. For such input states, we derive series formulas for the optimal error probability, the output state fidelity, and the Chernoff-type upper bounds on the error probability. For the special cases of quantum reading of a classical digital memory and target detection (for which the reflectivities are real valued), we show that for a given input signal photon probability distribution, the fidelity is minimized by the NDS states with that distribution and that for a given average total signal energy N_s, the fidelity is minimized by any multimode Fock state with N_s total signal photons. For reading of an ideal memory, it is shown that Fock state inputs minimize the Chernoff bound. For target detection under high-loss conditions, a no-go result showing the lack of appreciable quantum advantage over coherent state transmitters is derived. A comparison of the error probability performance for quantum reading of number state and two-mode squeezed vacuum state (or EPR state) transmitters relative to coherent state transmitters is presented for various values of the reflectances. While the nonclassical states in general perform better than the coherent state, the quantitative performance gains differ depending on the values of the reflectances.

id: 1105.4090
title: Quantum Decoherence of Single-Photon Counters
authors: Virginia D'Auria, Noriyuki Lee, Taoufik Amri, Claude Fabre, Julien Laurat
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 107 (2011) 050504
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4090
abstract: The interaction of a quantum system with the environment leads to the so-called quantum decoherence. Beyond its fundamental significance, the understanding and the possible control of this dynamics in various scenarios is a key element for mastering quantum information processing. Here we report the quantitative probing of what can be called the quantum decoherence of detectors, a process reminiscent of the decoherence of quantum states in the presence of coupling with a reservoir. We demonstrate how the quantum features of two single-photon counters vanish under the influence of a noisy environment. We thereby experimentally witness the transition between the full-quantum operation of the measurement device to the "semi-classical regime", described by a positive Wigner function. The exact border between these two regimes is explicitely determined and measured experimentally.

id: 1105.4096
title: Enhanced Single Photon Emission from a Diamond-Silver Aperture
authors: Jennifer T. Choy, Birgit J. M. Hausmann, Thomas M. Babinec, Irfan Bulu, Mughees Khan, Patrick Maletinsky, Amir Yacoby, Marko Lon?ar
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4096
abstract: We have developed a scalable method for coupling single color centers in diamond to plasmonic resonators and demonstrated Purcell enhancement of the single photon emission rate of nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers. Our structures consist of single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center-containing diamond nanoposts embedded in a thin silver film. We have utilized the strong plasmon resonances in the diamond-silver apertures to enhance the spontaneous emission of the enclosed dipole. The devices were realized by a combination of ion implantation and top-down nanofabrication techniques, which have enabled deterministic coupling between single NV centers and the plasmonic modes for multiple devices in parallel. The plasmon-enhanced NV centers exhibited over six-fold improvements in spontaneous emission rate in comparison to bare nanoposts and up to a factor of 3.6 in radiative lifetime reduction over bulk samples, with comparable increases in photon counts. The hybrid diamond-plasmon system presented here could provide a stable platform for the implementation of diamond-based quantum information processing and magnetometry schemes.

id: 1105.4115
title: Quantumness of correlations and entanglement
authors: A. R. Usha Devi, A. K. Rajagopal, Sudha
comments: 14 pages, no figures, revision version, Accepted for publication in the Special Issue of the International Journal of Quantum Information devoted to "Quantum Correlations: entanglement and beyond"
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. Vol. 9, Issues 7 & 8, (2011) 1757-1771
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4115
abstract: Generalized measurement schemes on one part of bipartite states, which would leave the set of all separable states insensitive are explored here to understand quantumness of correlations in a more general perspecitve. This is done by employing linear maps associated with generalized projective measurements. A generalized measurement corresponds to a quantum operation mapping a density matrix to another density matrix, preserving its positivity, hermiticity and traceclass. The Positive Operator Valued Measure (POVM) -- employed earlier in the literature to optimize the measures of classical/quatnum correlations -- correspond to completely positive (CP) maps. The other class, the not completely positive (NCP) maps, are investigated here, in the context of measurements, for the first time. It is shown that that such NCP projective maps provide a new clue to the understanding the quantumness of correlations in a general setting. Especially, the separability-classicality dichotomy gets resolved only when both the classes of projective maps (CP and NCP) are incorporated as optimizing measurements. An explicit example of a separable state -- exhibiting non-zero quantumn discord when possible optimizing measurements are restricted to POVMs -- is re-examined with this extended scheme incorporating NCP projective maps to elucidate the power of this approach.

id: 1105.4120
title: A semiclassical optics derivation of Einstein's rate equations
authors: Robert Hoeppner, Germ¨¢n J. de Valc¨¢rcel, Eugenio Rold¨¢n
comments: 3 figures
journal: American Journal of Physics, Vol. 80, Issue 10, pp. 882 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4120
abstract: We provide a semiclassical optics derivation of Einstein's rate equations (ERE) for a two-level system illuminated by a broadband light field, setting a limit for their validity that depends on the light spectral properties (namely on the height and width of its spectrum). Starting from the optical Bloch equations for individual atoms, the ensemble averaged atomic inversion is shown to follow ERE under two concurrent hypotheses: (i) the decorrelation of the inversion at a given time from the field at later times, and (ii) a Markov approximation owed to the short correlation time of the light field. The latter is then relaxed, leading to effective Bloch equations for the ensemble average in which the atomic polarization decay rate is increased by an amount equal to the width of the light spectrum, what allows its adiabatic elimination for large enough spectral width. Finally the use of a phase-diffusion model of light allows us to check all the results and hypotheses through numerical simulations of the corresponding stochastic differential equations.

id: 1105.4129
title: Quantum correlations and mutual synchronization
authors: Gian Luca Giorgi, Fernando Galve, Gonzalo Manzano, Pere Colet, Roberta Zambrini
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 85, 052101 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4129
abstract: We consider the phenomenon of mutual synchronization in a fundamental quantum system of two detuned quantum harmonic oscillators dissipating into the environment. We identify the conditions leading to this spontaneous phenomenon showing that the ability of the system to synchronize is related to the existence of disparate decay rates and is accompanied by robust quantum discord and mutual information between the oscillators, preventing the leak of information from the system.

id: 1105.4159
title: On the energy landscape of 3D spin Hamiltonians with topological order
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Jeongwan Haah
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 150504 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4159
abstract: We explore feasibility of a quantum self-correcting memory based on 3D spin Hamiltonians with topological quantum order in which thermal diffusion of topological defects is suppressed by macroscopic energy barriers. To this end we characterize the energy landscape of stabilizer code Hamiltonians with local bounded-strength interactions which have a topologically ordered ground state but do not have string-like logical operators. We prove that any sequence of local errors mapping a ground state of such Hamiltonian to an orthogonal ground state must cross an energy barrier growing at least as a logarithm of the lattice size. Our bound on the energy barrier is shown to be tight up to a constant factor for one particular 3D spin Hamiltonian.

id: 1105.4160
title: N-qubit Quantum Teleportation, Information Splitting and Superdense Coding through the composite GHZ-Bell Channel
authors: Debashis Saha, Prasanta K. Panigrahi
comments: 8 pages, 6 tables
journal: Quantum Information Processing 11, 615-628 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4160
abstract: We introduce a general odd qubit entangled system composed of GHZ and Bell pairs and explicate its usefulness for quantum teleportation, information splitting and superdense coding. After demonstrating the superdense coding protocol on the five qubit system, we prove that '2N +1' classical bits can be sent by sending 'N+1' quantum bits using this channel. It is found that the five-qubit system is also ideal for arbitrary one qubit and two qubit teleportation and quantum information splitting (QIS). For the single qubit QIS, three different protocols are feasible, whereas for the two qubit QIS, only one protocol exists. Protocols for the arbitrary N-qubit state teleportation and quantum information splitting are then illustrated.

id: 1105.4164
title: Dynamical Decoupling in Optical Fibers: Preserving Polarization Qubits from Birefringent Dephasing
authors: Bhaskar Roy Bardhan, Petr M. Anisimov, Manish K. Gupta, Katherine L. Brown, N. Cody Jones, Hwang Lee, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022340 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4164
abstract: One of the major challenges in quantum computation has been to preserve the coherence of a quantum system against dephasing effects of the environment. The information stored in photon polarization, for example, is quickly lost due to such dephasing, and it is crucial to preserve the input states when one tries to transmit quantum information encoded in the photons through a communication channel. We propose a dynamical decoupling sequence to protect photonic qubits from dephasing by integrating wave plates into optical fiber at prescribed locations. We simulate random birefringent noise along realistic lengths of optical fiber and study preservation of polarization qubits through such fibers enhanced with Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill (CPMG) dynamical decoupling. This technique can maintain photonic qubit coherence at high fidelity, making a step towards achieving scalable and useful quantum communication with photonic qubits.

id: 1105.4188
title: Counterexample to "Sufficient Conditions for uniqueness of the Weak Value" by J. Dressel and A. N. Jordan, arXiv:1106.1871v1
authors: Stephen Parrott
comments: 22 pages, laTeX. Version 1 gave a counterexample to a claim of Dressel, Agarwal, and Jordan [Phys. Rev. Lett. 104 240401 (2010). V2-8 added a critical analysis of arXiv:1106.1871v1 [DJ] along with a counterexample to its claimed "Sufficient conditions for uniqueness of the Weak Value"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4188
abstract: The abstract of "Contextual Values of Observables in Quantum Measurements" by J. Dressel, S. Agarwal, and A. N. Jordan [Phys. Rev. Lett. 104 240401 (2010)] (called DAJ below), states: "We introduce contextual values as a generalization of the eigenvalues of an observable that takes into account both the system observable and a general measurement procedure. This technique leads to a natural definition of a general conditioned average that converges uniquely to the quantum weak value in the minimal disturbance limit." A counterexample to the claim of the last sentence was presented in Version 1. Subsequently Dressel and Jordan placed in the arXiv the paper of the title (called DJ below) which attempts to prove the claim of DAJ quoted above under stronger hypotheses than given in DAJ, hypotheses which the counterexample does not satisfy. The present work (Version 6) presents a new counterexample to this revised claim of DJ. A brief introduction to "contextual values" is included. Also included is a critical analysis of DJ.

id: 1105.4189
title: Excitonic diffusion length in complex quantum systems: The effects of disorder and environmental fluctuations on symmetry-enhanced supertransfer
authors: Damian F. Abasto, Masoud Mohseni, Seth Lloyd, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 9 figures, 11 pages
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A , 370 3750 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4189
abstract: Symmetric couplings among aggregates of $n$ chromophores increase the transfer rate of excitons by a factor $n^2$, a quantum mechanical phenomenon called "supertransfer." In this work we demonstrate how supertransfer effects induced by geometrical symmetries can enhance the exciton diffusion length by a factor $n$ along cylindrically symmetric structures, consisting of arrays of rings of chromophores, and along spiral arrays. We analyse both closed system dynamics and open quantum dynamics, modelled by combining a random bosonic bath with static disorder. In the closed system case, we use the symmetries of the system within a short-time approximation to obtain a closed analytical expression for the diffusion length that explicitly reveals the supertransfer contribution. When subject to disorder, we show that supertransfer can enhance excitonic diffusion lengths for small disorders and characterize the crossover from coherent to incoherent motion. Owing to the quasi-1D nature of the model, disorder ultimately localizes the excitons, diminishing but not destroying the effects of supertransfer. When dephasing effects are included, we study the scaling of diffusion with both time and number of chromophores and observe that the transition from a coherent, ballistic regime to an incoherent, random-walk regime occurs at the same point as the change from supertransfer to classical scaling.

id: 1105.4200
title: Zitterbewegung and its significance for the Hawking radiation
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong, Qi Qiu
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures. Haitang Yang demands to take him away from the author list
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4200
abstract: The Hawking radiation can be viewed from very different perspectives, not all of which can be proved to be rigorously equivalent to one another. On the other hand, an old interest in the zitterbewegung (ZB) of the Dirac electron has recently been rekindled by the investigations on spintronics and graphene, etc. In this letter, we show that, if particles emitted by black holes are electrons or positrons, one can also regard the Hawking radiation as a ZB process.

id: 1105.4201
title: Photonic zitterbewegung and its interpretation
authors: Zhi-Yong Wang, Cai-Dong Xiong, Qi Qiu
comments: 9 pages, no figure, to be published in Chinese Physics B
journal: Chin. Phys. B 21, 020302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4201
abstract: In term of the volume-integrated Poynting vector, we present a quantum field-theory investigation on the zitterbewegung (ZB) of photons, and show that this ZB occurs only in the presence of virtual longitudinal and scalar photons. To present a heuristic explanation for such ZB, by assuming that the space time is sufficiently close to the flat Minkowski space, we show that the gravitational interaction can result in the ZB of photons.

id: 1105.4208
title: Enhancement of non-equilibrium thermal quantum discord and entanglement of a three-spin XX chain by multi-spin interaction and external magnetic field
authors: Xiu-xing Zhang, Fu-li Li
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4208
abstract: We investigate the non-equilibrium thermal quantum discord and entanglement of a three-spin chain whose two end spins are respectively coupled to two thermal reservoirs at different temperatures. In the three-spin chain, besides the XX-type nearest-neighbor two-spin interaction, a multi-spin interaction is also considered and a homogenous magnetic field is applied to each spin. We show that the extreme steady-state quantum discord and entanglement of the two end spins can always be created by holding both a large magnetic field and a strong multi-spin interaction. The results are explained by the thermal excitation depression due to switching a large energy gap between the ground state and the first excited state. The present investigation may provide a useful approach to control coupling between a quantum system and its environment.

id: 1105.4211
title: Imperfect Linear Optical Photonic Gates with Number-Resolving Photodetection
authors: A. Matthew Smith, D. B. Uskov, L. H. Ying, L. Kaplan
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032341 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4211
abstract: We use the numerical optimization techniques of Uskov et al. [PRA 81, 012303 (2010)] to investigate the behavior of the success rates for KLM style [Nature 409, 46 (2001)] two- and three-qubit entangling gates. The methods are first demonstrated at perfect fidelity, and then extended to imperfect gates. We find that as the perfect fidelity condition is relaxed, the maximum attainable success rates increase in a predictable fashion depending on the size of the system, and we compare that rate of increase for several gates.

id: 1105.4227
title: Ideal quantum gas in expanding cavity: nature of non-adiabatic force
authors: K.Nakamura, S.K.Avazbaev, Z.A. Sobirov, D.U. Matrasulov, T. Monnai
comments: 
journal: Physical Review E 83, 041133 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4227
abstract: We consider a quantum gas of non-interacting particles confined in the expanding cavity, and investigate the nature of the non-adiabatic force which is generated from the gas and acts on the cavity wall. Firstly, with use of the time-dependent canonical transformation which transforms the expanding cavity to the non-expanding one, we can define the force operator. Secondly, applying the perturbative theory which works when the cavity wall begins to move at time origin, we find that the non-adiabatic force is quadratic in the wall velocity and thereby does not break the time-reversal symmetry, in contrast with the general belief. Finally, using an assembly of the transitionless quantum states, we obtain the nonadiabatic force exactly. The exact result justifies the validity of both the definition of force operator and the issue of the perturbative theory. The mysterious mechanism of nonadiabatic transition with use of transitionless quantum states is also explained. The study is done on both cases of the hard-wall and soft-wall confinement with the time-dependent confining length.

id: 1105.4228
title: Simulation of chemical reaction dynamics on an NMR quantum computer
authors: Dawei Lu, Nanyang Xu, Ruixue Xu, Hongwei Chen, Jiangbin Gong, Xinhua Peng, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 37 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 020501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4228
abstract: Quantum simulation can beat current classical computers with minimally a few tens of qubits and will likely become the first practical use of a quantum computer. One promising application of quantum simulation is to attack challenging quantum chemistry problems. Here we report an experimental demonstration that a small nuclear-magnetic-resonance (NMR) quantum computer is already able to simulate the dynamics of a prototype chemical reaction. The experimental results agree well with classical simulations. We conclude that the quantum simulation of chemical reaction dynamics not computable on current classical computers is feasible in the near future.

id: 1105.4239
title: Retrieval of phase memory in two independent atomic ensembles by Raman process
authors: Cheng-ling Bian, Li-Qing Chen, Guo-Wan Zhang, Z. Y. Ou, Weiping Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4239
abstract: In spontaneous Raman process in atomic cell at high gain, both the Stokes field and the accompanying collective atomic excitation (atomic spin wave) are coherent. We find that, due to the spontaneous nature of the process, the phases of the Stokes field and the atomic spin wave change randomly from one realization to another but are anti-correlated. The phases of the atomic ensembles are read out via another Raman process at a later time, thus realizing phase memory in atoms. The observation of phase correlation between the Stokes field and the collective atomic excitations is an important step towards macroscopic EPR-type entanglement of continuous variables between light and atoms.

id: 1105.4248
title: Oscillator state reconstruction via tunable qubit coupling in Markovian environments
authors: Tommaso Tufarelli, M. S. Kim, Sougato Bose
comments: 6.5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys Rev A, 83, 062120 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4248
abstract: We show that a parametrically coupled qubit can be used to fully reconstruct the quantum state of a harmonic oscillator, even when both systems are subject to decoherence. By controlling the coupling strength of the qubit over time, the characteristic function of the oscillator at any phase space point can be directly measured by combining the expectation values of two Pauli operators. The effect of decoherence can be filtered out from the measured data, provided a sufficient number of experimental runs is performed. In situations where full state reconstruction is not practical or not necessary, the method can still be used to estimate low order moments of the mechanical quadratures. We also show that in the same framework it is possible to prepare superposition states of the oscillator. The model is very general but particularly appropriate for nanomechanical systems.

id: 1105.4268
title: Classical signal viewpoint to bunching and anti-bunching
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: It was stressed that the classical signal model under consideration can be reproduce anti-bunching, i.e., Fermionic statistics; a recent proof of I. Volovich, arXiv:1106.1892v1, of impossibility of classical description of anti-bunching is discussed in relation to the presented prequantum model
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4268
abstract: The similarity between classical wave mechanics and quantum mechanics (QM) played an important role in the development of QM (starting with works of De Broglie, Schr\"odinger, "late Einstein", Lamb, Lande, Mandel, Marshall, Santos, Boyer, and many others). We present a new wave-type approach, so called prequantum classical statistical field theory (PCSFT). PCSFT explores an analogy between some quantum phenomena and classical theory of random fields. Quantum systems are interpreted as symbolic representations of such fields (not only for photons, cf. Lande and Lamb, but even for massive particles). All quantum averages and correlations (including composite systems in entangled states) can be represented as averages and correlations for classical random fields. In this paper PCSFT is used to provide a classical signal representation of bunching and anti-bunching. At least the latter is typically considered as essentially quantum (nonclassical) phenomenon.

id: 1105.4269
title: Born's rule from measurements of classical signals by threshold detectors which are properly calibrated
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: The problem of double clicks is resolved; hence, one can proceed in purely wave framework, i.e., the wave-partcile duality has been resolved in favor of the wave picture of prequantum reality
journal: JOURNAL OF MODERN OPTICS, 59, N 7, 667-678 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4269
abstract: The very old problem of the statistical content of quantum mechanics (QM) is studied in a novel framework. The Born's rule (one of the basic postulates of QM) is derived from theory of classical random signals. We present a measurement scheme which transforms continuous signals into discrete clicks and reproduces the Born's rule. This is the sheme of threshold type detection. Calibration of detectors plays a crucial role.

id: 1105.4300
title: Entanglement of nanomechanical oscillators and two-mode fields induced by atomic coherence
authors: Ling Zhou, Yan Han, Jietai Jing, Weigping Zhang
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 83, 052117 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4300
abstract: We propose a scheme via three-level cascade atoms to entangle two optomechanical oscillators as well as two-mode fields. We show that two movable mirrors and two-mode fields can be entangled even for bad cavity limit. We also study entanglement of the output two-mode fields in frequency domain. The results show that the frequency of the mirror oscillation and the injected atomic coherence affect the output entanglement of the two-mode fields.

id: 1105.4303
title: Quadratic Dynamical Decoupling with Non-Uniform Error Suppression
authors: G. Quiroz, D.A. Lidar
comments: 17 pages, 22 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042328 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4303
abstract: We analyze numerically the performance of the near-optimal quadratic dynamical decoupling (QDD) single-qubit decoherence errors suppression method [J. West et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 130501 (2010)]. The QDD sequence is formed by nesting two optimal Uhrig dynamical decoupling sequences for two orthogonal axes, comprising N1 and N2 pulses, respectively. Varying these numbers, we study the decoherence suppression properties of QDD directly by isolating the errors associated with each system basis operator present in the system-bath interaction Hamiltonian. Each individual error scales with the lowest order of the Dyson series, therefore immediately yielding the order of decoherence suppression. We show that the error suppression properties of QDD are dependent upon the parities of N1 and N2, and near-optimal performance is achieved for general single-qubit interactions when N1=N2.

id: 1105.4309
title: Quantum Error Correction of Continuous Variable States against Gaussian Noise
authors: T.C.Ralph
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022339 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4309
abstract: We describe a continuous variable error correction protocol that can correct the Gaussian noise induced by linear loss on Gaussian states. The protocol can be implemented using linear optics and photon counting. We explore the theoretical bounds of the protocol as well as the expected performance given current knowledge and technology.

id: 1105.4326
title: Testing super-deterministic hidden variables theories
authors: Sabine Hossenfelder
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, to be published in Foundations of Physics
journal: Found.Phys.41:1521-1531,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4326
abstract: We propose to experimentally test non-deterministic time evolution in quantum mechanics by consecutive measurements of non-commuting observables on the same prepared state. While in the standard theory the measurement outcomes are uncorrelated, in a super-deterministic hidden variables theory the measurements would be correlated. We estimate that for macroscopic experiments the correlation time is too short to have been noticed yet, but that it may be possible with a suitably designed microscopic experiment to reach a parameter range where one would expect a super-deterministic modification of quantum mechanics to become relevant.

id: 1105.4388
title: Electron loss of fast projectiles in the collisions with molecules
authors: V.I. Matveev, D.N. Makarov, Kh.Yu. Rakhimov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4388
abstract: The single and multiple electron loss of fast highly charged projectiles in the collisions with neutral molecules are studied within the framework of a nonperturbative approach. The cross sections for single, double, and triple electron losses are calculated for the collision system $Fe^{q+}\to N_2$ ($q$=24, 25, 26) at the collision energies 10, 100, and 1000 MeV/u. The effects caused by the collision multiplicity and the orientation of the axis of target molecule are treated. It is shown that collision multiplicity effect leads to considerable differences for the cases of perpendicular and parallel orientations of the molecular axes with respect to the direction of the projectile motion, while for chaotic orientation such effect is negligible.

id: 1105.4416
title: Finding hidden Borel subgroups of the general linear group
authors: G¨¢bor Ivanyos
comments: 12pt, 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4416
abstract: We present a quantum algorithm for solving the hidden subgroup problem in the general linear group over a finite field where the hidden subgroup is promised to be a conjugate of the group of the invertible lower triangular matrices. The complexity of the algorithm is polynomial when size of the base field is not much smaller than the degree.

id: 1105.4441
title: Supersymmetric Dynamics of a Spin-1/2 Particle in an Extended External Field
authors: Gilmar de Souza Dias
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4441
abstract: We consider a electron in a external field in D=5, through the Dirac equation in the Galilean symmetry approach, and in the Lorentz symmetry approach; from these we perform the nonrelativistic limit, then we procede the supersymmetry of the same that is associated with the Galilean symmetry, we identify as a supersymmetry sector from the quantum-mechanical dynamics, and we got the algebra of fermionic charges. We naturally define as extra electrical vector E, and interpret the terms of energy coming from the fifth dimension. The energy from the fifth dimension, criate this extra electrical vector E, associated with the fifth component of the external electrical field A, this makes the energy flow from the fifth dimension to the usual three-dimensional space, when some symmetries of the usual space are broken, giving a preferential direction in the space, even though the standard electrical and magnetic fields are null.

id: 1105.4464
title: Quantum correlations with no causal order
authors: Ognyan Oreshkov, Fabio Costa, Caslav Brukner
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature Communications 3, 1092 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4464
abstract: The idea that events obey a definite causal order is deeply rooted in our understanding of the world and at the basis of the very notion of time. But where does causal order come from, and is it a necessary property of nature? We address these questions from the standpoint of quantum mechanics in a new framework for multipartite correlations which does not assume a pre-defined global causal structure but only the validity of quantum mechanics locally. All known situations that respect causal order, including space-like and time-like separated experiments, are captured by this framework in a unified way. Surprisingly, we find correlations that cannot be understood in terms of definite causal order. These correlations violate a 'causal inequality' that is satisfied by all space-like and time-like correlations. We further show that in a classical limit causal order always arises, which suggests that space-time may emerge from a more fundamental structure in a quantum-to-classical transition.

id: 1105.4487
title: Generators of nonclassical states by combination of the linear coupling of boson modes, Kerr nonlinearity and the strong linear losses
authors: V. S. Shchesnovich, D. Mogilevtsev
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures; typos in the text and figures were corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4487
abstract: We show that the generators of quantum states of light can be built by employing the Kerr nonlinearity, a strong linear absorption or losses and the linear coupling of optical modes. Our setup can be realized, for instance, with the use of the optical fiber technology. We consider in detail the simplest cases of three and four coupled modes, where a strongly lossy mode is linearly coupled to other linear and nonlinear modes. In the three-mode design, our scheme emulates the third-order nonlinear absorption, allowing for generation of the single photon states, or the two-photon absorption allowing to generate the phase states. In the four-mode design, the scheme emulates a non-local absorption which produces an entangled state of two uncoupled modes. We also note that in the latter case and in the case of the phase states generation the output state is in the linear modes, which prevents its subsequent degradation by the strong losses accompanying the strong Kerr nonlinearity.

id: 1105.4495
title: Effect of phase noise on useful quantum correlations in Bose Josephson junctions
authors: Giulia Ferrini, Dominique Spehner, Anna Minguzzi, F.W.J. Hekking
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4495
abstract: In a two-mode Bose Josephson junction the dynamics induced by a sudden quench of the tunnel amplitude leads to the periodic formation of entangled states. For instance, squeezed states are formed at short times and macroscopic superpositions of phase states at later times. The two modes of the junction can be viewed as the two arms of an interferometer; use of entangled states allows to perform atom interferometry beyond the classical limit. Decoherence due to the presence of noise degrades the quantum correlations between the atoms, thus reducing phase sensitivity of the interferometer. We consider the noise induced by stochastic fluctuations of the energies of the two modes of the junction. We analyze its effect on squeezed states and macroscopic superpositions and study quantitatively the amount of quantum correlations which can be used to enhance the phase sensitivity with respect to the classical limit. To this aim we compute the squeezing parameter and the quantum Fisher information during the quenched dynamics. For moderate noise intensities we show that these useful quantum correlations increase on time scales beyond the squeezing regime. This suggests multicomponent superpositions as interesting candidates for high-precision atom interferometry.

id: 1105.4499
title: Born Rule and Finkelstein-Hartle Frequency Operator Revisited
authors: Patrick Das Gupta
comments: Based on a talk given in a meeting on `In Many Minds about MWI of QM' held at PPISR, Bangalore
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4499
abstract: Character of observables in classical physics and quantum theory is reflected upon. Born rule in the context of measurement being an interaction between two quantum systems is discussed. A pedagogical introduction to Finkelstein-Hartle frequency operator is presented.

id: 1105.4506
title: Master equations for correlated quantum channels
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, G. Massimo Palma
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 040401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4506
abstract: We derive the general form of a master equation describing the interaction of an arbitrary multipartite quantum system, consisting of a set of subsystems, with an environment, consisting of a large number of sub-envirobments. Each subsystem "collides" with the same sequence of sub-environments which, in between the collisions, evolve according to a map that mimics relaxations effects. No assumption is made on the specific nature of neither the system nor the environment. In the weak coupling regime, we show that the collisional model produces a correlated Markovian evolution for the joint density matrix of the multipartite system. The associated Linblad super-operator contains pairwise terms describing cross correlation between the different subsystems.

id: 1105.4531
title: Quantum interferometric visibility as a witness of general relativistic proper time
authors: Magdalena Zych, Fabio Costa, Igor Pikovski, Caslav Brukner
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, 2 tables, published version
journal: Nat. Commun. 2:505 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4531
abstract: Current attempts to probe general relativistic effects in quantum mechanics focus on precision measurements of phase shifts in matter-wave interferometry. Yet, phase shifts can always be explained as arising due to an Aharonov-Bohm effect, where a particle in a flat space-time is subject to an effective potential. Here we propose a novel quantum effect that cannot be explained without the general relativistic notion of proper time. We consider interference of a "clock" - a particle with evolving internal degrees of freedom - that will not only display a phase shift, but also reduce the visibility of the interference pattern. According to general relativity proper time flows at different rates in different regions of space-time. Therefore, due to quantum complementarity the visibility will drop to the extent to which the path information becomes available from reading out the proper time from the "clock". Such a gravitationally induced decoherence would provide the first test of the genuine general relativistic notion of proper time in quantum mechanics.

id: 1105.4561
title: Quantum State Tomography with Joint SIC POMs and Product SIC POMs
authors: Huangjun Zhu, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022327 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4561
abstract: We introduce random matrix theory to study the tomographic efficiency of a wide class of measurements constructed out of weighted 2-designs, including symmetric informationally complete (SIC) probability operator measurements (POMs). In particular, we derive analytic formulae for the mean Hilbert-Schmidt distance and the mean trace distance between the estimator and the true state, which clearly show the difference between the scaling behaviors of the two error measures with the dimension of the Hilbert space. We then prove that the product SIC POMs---the multipartite analogue of the SIC POMs---are optimal among all product measurements in the same sense as the SIC POMs are optimal among all joint measurements. We further show that, for bipartite systems, there is only a marginal efficiency advantage of the joint SIC POMs over the product SIC POMs. In marked contrast, for multipartite systems, the efficiency advantage of the joint SIC POMs increases exponentially with the number of parties.

id: 1105.4591
title: Direct Sampling of Negative Quasiprobabilities of a Squeezed State
authors: T. Kiesel, W. Vogel, B. Hage, R. Schnabel
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, supplementary material added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 113604 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4591
abstract: Although squeezed states are nonclassical states, so far, their nonclassicality could not be demonstrated by negative quasiprobabilities. In this work we derive pattern functions for the direct experimental determination of so-called nonclassicality quasiprobabilities. The negativities of these quantities turn out to be necessary and sufficient for the nonclassicality of an arbitrary quantum state and are therefore suitable for a direct and general test of nonclassicality. We apply the method to a squeezed vacuum state of light that was generated by parametric down-conversion in a second-order nonlinear crystal.

id: 1105.4652
title: Observation of high coherence in Josephson junction qubits measured in a three-dimensional circuit QED architecture
authors: Hanhee Paik, D. I. Schuster, Lev S. Bishop, G. Kirchmair, G. Catelani, A. P. Sears, B. R. Johnson, M. J. Reagor, L. Frunzio, L. Glazman, S. M. Girvin, M. H. Devoret, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, 1 table. Accepted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 240501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4652
abstract: Superconducting quantum circuits based on Josephson junctions have made rapid progress in demonstrating quantum behavior and scalability. However, the future prospects ultimately depend upon the intrinsic coherence of Josephson junctions, and whether superconducting qubits can be adequately isolated from their environment. We introduce a new architecture for superconducting quantum circuits employing a three dimensional resonator that suppresses qubit decoherence while maintaining sufficient coupling to the control signal. With the new architecture, we demonstrate that Josephson junction qubits are highly coherent, with $T_2 \sim 10 \mu$s to $20 \mu$s without the use of spin echo, and highly stable, showing no evidence for $1/f$ critical current noise. These results suggest that the overall quality of Josephson junctions in these qubits will allow error rates of a few $10^{-4}$, approaching the error correction threshold.

id: 1105.4657
title: Multiparty quantum protocols for assisted entanglement distillation
authors: Nicolas Dutil
comments: PhD Thesis. 177 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4657
abstract: Quantum information theory is a multidisciplinary field whose objective is to understand what happens when information is stored in the state of a quantum system. Quantum mechanics provides us with a new resource, called quantum entanglement, which can be exploited to achieve novel tasks such as teleportation and superdense coding. Current technologies allow the transmission of entangled photon pairs across distances up to roughly 100 kilometers. For longer distances, noise arising from various sources degrade the transmission of entanglement to the point that it becomes impossible to use the entanglement as a resource for future tasks. A strategy for dealing with this difficulty is to employ quantum repeaters, stations intermediate between the sender and receiver which participate in the process of entanglement distillation, thereby improving on what the sender and receiver could do on their own. In this work, we study entanglement distillation between two recipients sharing a mixed state and with the help of repeater stations. We extend the notion of entanglement of assistance to arbitrary states and give a protocol for extracting pure entanglement. We also study quantum communication protocols in a more general context. We give a new protocol for the task of multiparty state merging. The previous multiparty state merging protocol required the use of time-sharing. Our protocol does not require time-sharing for distributed compression of two senders. In the one-shot regime, we achieve multiparty state merging with entanglement costs not restricted to corner points of the entanglement cost region. Our analysis of the entanglement cost is performed using (smooth) min- and max-entropies. We illustrate the benefits of our approach by looking at different examples.

id: 1105.4668
title: Inequalities Detecting Quantum Entanglement for $2\otimes d$ Systems
authors: Ming-Jing Zhao, Teng Ma, Shao-Ming Fei, Zhi-Xi Wang
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83 (2011) 052120
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4668
abstract: We present a set of inequalities for detecting quantum entanglement of $2\otimes d$ quantum states. For $2\otimes 2$ and $2\otimes 3$ systems, the inequalities give rise to sufficient and necessary separability conditions for both pure and mixed states. For the case of $d>3$, these inequalities are necessary conditions for separability, which detect all entangled states that are not positive under partial transposition and even some entangled states with positive partial transposition. These inequalities are given by mean values of local observables and present an experimental way of detecting the quantum entanglement of $2\otimes d$ quantum states and even multi-qubit pure states.

id: 1105.4697
title: SNEG - Mathematica package for symbolic calculations with second-quantization-operator expressions
authors: Rok Zitko
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4697
abstract: In many-particle problems involving interacting fermions or bosons, the most natural language for expressing the Hamiltonian, the observables, and the basis states is the language of the second-quantization operators. It thus appears advantageous to write numerical computer codes which allow the user to define the problem and the quantities of interest directly in terms of operator strings, rather than in some low-level programming language. Here I describe a Mathematica package which provides a flexible framework for performing the required translations between several different representations of operator expressions: condensed notation using pure ASCII character strings, traditional notation ("pretty printing"), internal Mathematica representation using nested lists (used for automatic symbolic manipulations), and various higher-level ("macro") expressions. The package consists of a collection of transformation rules that define the algebra of operators and a comprehensive library of utility functions. While the emphasis is given on the problems from solid-state and atomic physics, the package can be easily adapted to any given problem involving non-commuting operators. It can be used for educational and demonstration purposes, but also for direct calculations of problems of moderate size.

id: 1105.4714
title: Observation of the Dynamical Casimir Effect in a Superconducting Circuit
authors: C.M. Wilson, G. Johansson, A. Pourkabirian, J.R. Johansson, T. Duty, F. Nori, P. Delsing
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature 479, 376-379 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4714
abstract: One of the most surprising predictions of modern quantum theory is that the vacuum of space is not empty. In fact, quantum theory predicts that it teems with virtual particles flitting in and out of existence. While initially a curiosity, it was quickly realized that these vacuum fluctuations had measurable consequences, for instance producing the Lamb shift of atomic spectra and modifying the magnetic moment for the electron. This type of renormalization due to vacuum fluctuations is now central to our understanding of nature. However, these effects provide indirect evidence for the existence of vacuum fluctuations. From early on, it was discussed if it might instead be possible to more directly observe the virtual particles that compose the quantum vacuum. 40 years ago, Moore suggested that a mirror undergoing relativistic motion could convert virtual photons into directly observable real photons. This effect was later named the dynamical Casimir effect (DCE). Using a superconducting circuit, we have observed the DCE for the first time. The circuit consists of a coplanar transmission line with an electrical length that can be changed at a few percent of the speed of light. The length is changed by modulating the inductance of a superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) at high frequencies (~11 GHz). In addition to observing the creation of real photons, we observe two-mode squeezing of the emitted radiation, which is a signature of the quantum character of the generation process.

id: 1105.4740
title: Scalable Spin Amplification with a Gain over a Hundred
authors: Makoto Negoro, Kenichiro Tateishi, Akinori Kagawa, Masahiro Kitagawa
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4740
abstract: We propose a scalable and practical implementation of spin amplification which does not require individual addressing nor a specially tailored spin network. We have demonstrated a gain of 140 in a solid-state nuclear spin system of which the spin polarization has been increased to 0.12 using dynamic nuclear polarization with photoexcited triplet electron spins. Spin amplification scalable to a higher gain opens the door to the single spin measurement for a readout of quantum computers as well as practical applications of nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy to infinitesimal samples which have been concealed by thermal noise.

id: 1105.4752
title: Normal modes of trapped ions in the presence of anharmonic trap potentials
authors: J. P. Home, D. Hanneke, J. D. Jost, D. Leibfried, D. J. Wineland
comments: 26 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4752
abstract: We theoretically and experimentally examine the effects of anharmonic terms in the trapping potential for linear chains of trapped ions. We concentrate on two different effects that become significant at different levels of anharmonicity. The first is a modification of the oscillation frequencies and amplitudes of the ions' normal modes of vibration for multi-ion crystals, resulting from each ion experiencing a different curvature in the potential. In the second effect, which occurs with increased anharmonicity or higher excitation amplitude, amplitude-dependent shifts of the normal-mode frequencies become important. We evaluate normal-mode frequency and amplitude shifts, and comment on the implications for quantum information processing and quantum state engineering. Since the ratio of the anharmonic to harmonic terms typically increases as the ion--electrode distance decreases, anharmonic effects will become more significant as ion trap sizes are reduced. To avoid unwanted problems, anharmonicities should therefore be taken into account at the design stage of trap development.

id: 1105.4769
title: A general quantum information model for the contextual dependent systems breaking the classical probability law
authors: Masanari Asano, Irina Basieva, Andrei Khrennikov, Masanori Ohya, Ichiro Yamato
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4769
abstract: There exist several phenomena (systems) breaking the classical probability laws. Such systems are contextual dependent adaptive systems. In this paper, we present a new mathematical formula to compute the probability in those systems by using the concepts of the adaptive dynamics and quantum information theory -- quantum channels and the lifting. The basic examples of the contextual dependent phenomena can be found in quantum physics. And recently similar examples were found in biological and psychological sciences. Our novel approach is motivated by traditional quantum probability, but it is general enough to describe aforementioned phenomena outside of quantum physics.

id: 1105.4790
title: Quantifying, characterizing and controlling information flow in ultracold atomic gases
authors: Pinja Haikka, Suzanne McEndoo, Gabriele de Chiara, Massimo Palma, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 4 + little pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 031602 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4790
abstract: We study quantum information flow in a model comprising of an impurity qubit immersed in a Bose-Einstein condensed reservoir. We demonstrate how information flux between the qubit and the condensate can be manipulated by engineering the ultracold reservoir within experimentally realistic limits. We place a particular emphasis on non-Markovian dynamics, characterized by a reversed flow of information from the background gas to the qubit and identify a controllable crossover between Markovian and non-Markovian dynamics in the parameter space of the model.

id: 1105.4810
title: Entanglement Symmetry, Amplitudes, and Probabilities: Inverting Born's Rule
authors: Wojciech H. Zurek
comments: Submitted to Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.106:250402,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4810
abstract: Symmetry of entangled states under a swap of outcomes ("envariance") implies their equiprobability, and leads to Born's rule. Here I show that the amplitude of a state given by a superposition of sequences of events that share same total count (e.g., n detections of 0 and m of 1 in a spin 1/2 measurement) is proportional to the square root of the fraction - square root of the relative frequency - of all the equiprobable sequences of 0's and 1's with that n and m.

id: 1105.4814
title: Storage and retrieval of continuous-variable polarization-entangled cluster states in atomic ensembles
authors: Da-Chuang Li, Chun-Hua Yuan, Zhuo-Liang Cao, Weiping Zhang
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022328 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4814
abstract: We present a proposal for storing and retrieving a continuous-variable quadripartite polarization-entangled cluster state, using macroscopic atomic ensembles in a magnetic field. The Larmor precession of the atomic spins leads to a symmetry between the atomic canonical operators. In this scheme, each of the four spatially separated pulses passes twice through the respective ensemble in order to map the polarization-entangled cluster state onto the long-lived atomic ensembles. The stored state can then be retrieved by another four read-out pulses, each crossing the respective ensemble twice. By calculating the variances, we analyzed the fidelities of the storage and retrieval, and our scheme is feasible under realistic experimental conditions.

id: 1105.4815
title: Ancilla-less selective and efficient quantum process tomography
authors: Christian Tom¨¢s Schmiegelow, Ariel Bendersky, Miguel Antonio Larotonda, Juan Pablo Paz
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4815
abstract: Several methods, known as Quantum Process Tomography, are available to characterize the evolution of quantum systems, a task of crucial importance. However, their complexity dramatically increases with the size of the system. Here we present the theory describing a new type of method for quantum process tomography. We describe an algorithm that can be used to selectively estimate any parameter characterizing a quantum process. Unlike any of its predecessors this new quantum tomographer combines two main virtues: it requires investing a number of physical resources scaling polynomially with the number of qubits and at the same time it does not require any ancillary resources. We present the results of the first photonic implementation of this quantum device, characterizing quantum processes affecting two qubits encoded in heralded single photons. Even for this small system our method displays clear advantages over the other existing ones.

id: 1105.4821
title: Geometry of entanglement witnesses for two qutrits
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Filip A. Wudarski
comments: 9 pages
journal: Open Sys. Information Dyn. 18, 387 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4821
abstract: We characterize a convex subset of entanglement witnesses for two qutrits. Equivalently, we provide a characterization of the set of positive maps in the matrix algebra of 3 x 3 complex matrices. It turns out that boundary of this set displays elegant representation in terms of SO(2) rotations. We conjecture that maps parameterized by rotations are optimal, i.e. they provide the strongest tool for detecting quantum entanglement. As a byproduct we found a new class of decomposable entanglement witnesses parameterized by improper rotations from the orthogonal group O(2).

id: 1105.4831
title: Laser Plasma Interaction and Non-classical Properties of Radiation Field
authors: Aabhaas Vineet Mallik, Pratyay Ghosh, Ananda Dasgupta
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4831
abstract: We show by explicit calculations that non-classical states of the radiation field can be produced by allowing short term interaction between a coherent state of the radiation field with plasma. Whereas, long term interaction, which thermalizes the radiation field, can produce non-classical states of the radiation field only at sufficiently small temperatures. A measure of k-th order squeezing, stricter than the one proposed by Zhang et al, is used to check the emergence of squeezing. It is also shown that photons in the considered thermalized field would follow super-Poissonian statistics.

id: 1105.4861
title: Two-photon- photoluminescence excitation spectroscopy of single quantum-dots
authors: Y. Benny, Y. Kodriano, E. Poem, S. Khatsevitch, D. Gershoni, P. M. Petroff
comments: Accepted for publication in PRB
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4861
abstract: We present experimental and theoretical study of single semiconductor quantum dots excited by two non-degenerate, resonantly tuned variably polarized lasers. The first laser is tuned to excitonic resonances. Depending on its polarization it photogenerates a coherent single exciton state. The second laser is tuned to biexciton resonances. By scanning the energy of the second laser for various polarizations of the two lasers, while monitoring the emission from the biexciton and exciton spectral lines, we map the biexciton photoluminescence excitation spectra. The resonances rich spectra of the second photon absorption are analyzed and fully understood in terms of a many carrier theoretical model which takes into account the direct and exchange Coulomb interactions between the quantum confined carriers.

id: 1105.4864
title: Heating rate and electrode charging measurements in a scalable, microfabricated, surface-electrode ion trap
authors: D.T.C. Allcock, T.P. Harty, H.A. Janacek, N.M. Linke, C.J.Ballance, A.M. Steane, D.M. Lucas, R.L. Jarecki Jr., S.D. Habermehl, M.G. Blain, D. Stick, D.L. Moehring
comments: 6 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4864
abstract: We characterise the performance of a surface-electrode ion "chip" trap fabricated using established semiconductor integrated circuit and micro-electro-mechanical-system (MEMS) microfabrication processes which are in principle scalable to much larger ion trap arrays, as proposed for implementing ion trap quantum information processing. We measure rf ion micromotion parallel and perpendicular to the plane of the trap electrodes, and find that on-package capacitors reduce this to <~ 10 nm in amplitude. We also measure ion trapping lifetime, charging effects due to laser light incident on the trap electrodes, and the heating rate for a single trapped ion. The performance of this trap is found to be comparable with others of the same size scale.

id: 1105.4865
title: Relative entropy derivation of the uncertainty principle with quantum side information
authors: Patrick J. Coles, Li Yu, Michael Zwolak
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure. The main results of this article (with the exception of the MUS examples) are subsumed by our NEWER ARTICLE, arXiv:1112.0543 [quant-ph]. The newer article goes far beyond the present one, giving much more general results and much more conceptual insight
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4865
abstract: We give a simple proof of the uncertainty principle with quantum side information, as in [Berta et al. Nature Physics 6, 659 (2010)], invoking the monotonicity of the relative entropy. Our proof shows that the entropic uncertainty principle can be viewed as a data-processing inequality, a special case of the notion that information cannot increase due to evolution in time. This leads to a systematic method for finding the minimum uncertainty states of various entropic uncertainty relations; interestingly such states are intimately connected with the reversibility of time evolution.

id: 1105.4895
title: Driving the resonant quantum kicked rotor via extended initial conditions
authors: Alejandro Romanelli, Guzm¨¢n Hern¨¢ndez
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, send to EPJD
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4895
abstract: We study the resonances of the quantum kicked rotor subjected to an extended initial distribution. For the primary resonances we obtain the dispersion relation for the map of this system. We find an analytical dependence of the statistical moments on the shape of the initial distribution. For the secondary resonances we obtain numerically a similar dependence. This allows us to devise an extended initial condition which produces an average angular momentum pointing in a preset direction which increases with time with a preset ratio.

id: 1105.4905
title: Demonstration of integrated microscale optics in surface-electrode ion traps
authors: J. True Merrill, Curtis Volin, David Landgren, Jason M. Amini, Kenneth Wright, S. Charles Doret, C.-S. Pai, Harley Hayden, Tyler Killian, Daniel Faircloth, Kenneth R. Brown, Alexa W. Harter, Richart E. Slusher
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures
journal: 2011 New J. Phys. 13 103005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4905
abstract: In ion trap quantum information processing, efficient fluorescence collection is critical for fast, high-fidelity qubit detection and ion-photon entanglement. The expected size of future many-ion processors require scalable light collection systems. We report on the development and testing of a microfabricated surface-electrode ion trap with an integrated high numerical aperture (NA) micromirror for fluorescence collection. When coupled to a low NA lens, the optical system is inherently scalable to large arrays of mirrors in a single device. We demonstrate stable trapping and transport of 40Ca+ ions over a 0.63 NA micromirror and observe a factor of 1.9 enhancement in photon collection compared to the planar region of the trap.

id: 1105.4909
title: Monolithic Microfabricated Symmetric Ion Trap for Quantum Information Processing
authors: Fayaz Shaikh, Arkadas Ozakin, Jason M. Amini, Harley Hayden, C.-S. Pai, Curtis Volin, Douglas R. Denison, Daniel Faircloth, Alexa W. Harter, Richart E. Slusher
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4909
abstract: We describe a novel monolithic ion trap that combines the flexibility and scalability of silicon microfabrication technologies with the superior trapping characteristics of traditional four-rod Paul traps. The performace of the proposed microfabricated trap approaches that of the macroscopic structures. The fabrication process creates an angled through-chip slot which allows backside ion loading and through-laser access while avoiding surface light scattering and dielectric charging. The trap geometry and dimensions are optimized for confining long ion chains with equal ion spacing [G.-D. Lin, et al., Europhys. Lett. 86, 60004 (2009)]. Control potentials have been derived to produce linear, equally spaced ion chains of up to 50 ions spaced at 10 um. With the deep trapping depths achievable in this design, we expect that these chains will be sufficiently long-lived to be used in quantum simulations of magnetic systems [E.E. Edwards, et al., Phys. Rev. B 82, 060412(R) (2010)]. The trap is currently being fabricated at Georgia Tech using VLSI techniques.

id: 1105.4911
title: Quantum discord dynamics in structured reservoirs
authors: Z. -K. Su, S. -J. Jiang
comments: 6 pages for the main article, 6 pages for the supplementary material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4911
abstract: The non-Markovian master equations are derived to study quantum discord dynamics of two qubits coupled to a common reservoir and two independent reservoirs, respectively. We compare the dynamics under different parameters, such as reservoir spectra and resonant parameters, at high temperature and at zero temperature. The results indicate that the dynamics at these two extreme temperatures share similar characters, as well as differences.

id: 1105.4920
title: Entropic measures of nonclassical correlations
authors: Matthias D. Lang, Carlton M. Caves, Anil Shaji
comments: 32 Pages, 6 Figures. Revised to match published version
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Volume 09, Pages 1553-1586, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4920
abstract: A framework for categorizing entropic measures of nonclassical correlations in bipartite quantum states is presented. The measures are based on the difference between a quantum entropic quantity and the corresponding classical quantity obtained from measurements on the two systems. Three types of entropic quantities are used, and three different measurement strategies are applied to these quantities. Many of the resulting measures of nonclassical correlations have been proposed previously. Properties of the various measures are explored, and results of evaluating the measures for two-qubit quantum states are presented.

id: 1105.4948
title: Generating coherence and entanglement with a finite-size atomic ensemble in a ring cavity
authors: Li-hui Sun, Gao-xiang Li, Wen-ju Gu, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: Published version
journal: New Journal of Physics 13, 093019 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4948
abstract: We propose a model to study the coherence and entanglement resulting from the interaction of a finite-size atomic ensemble with degenerate counter-propagating field modes of a high-Q ring cavity. Our approach applies to an arbitrary number of atoms N and includes the spatial variation of the field throughout the ensemble. We report several new interesting aspects of coherence and entangled behavior that emerge when the size of the atomic ensemble is not taken to the thermodynamic limit of N>>1. Under such conditions, it is found that the counter-propagating cavity modes, although in the thermodynamic limit are mutually incoherent and exhibit no one-photon interference, the modes can, however, be made mutually coherent and exhibit interference after interacting with a finite-size atomic ensemble. It is also found that the spatial redistribution of the atoms over a finite size results in nonorthogonality of the collective bosonic modes. This nonorthogonality leads to the super-bunching effect that the correlations of photons of the individual cavity modes and of different modes are stronger than those of a thermal field. However, we find that the correlations are not strong enough to violate the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality and to produce squeezing and entanglement between the modes. Therefore, we investigate the spectral distributions of the logarithmic negativity and the variances of the output fields. These functions determine squeezing and entanglement properties of the output cavity fields and can be measured by a homodyne technique. We find that the entanglement is redistributed over several components of the spectrum and the finite-size effect is to concentrate the entanglement at the zero-frequency component of the spectrum.

id: 1105.4950
title: Deterministic implementation of weak quantum cubic nonlinearity
authors: Petr Marek, Radim Filip, Akira Furusawa
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053802 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4950
abstract: We propose a deterministic implementation of weak cubic nonlinearity, which is a basic building block of a full scale CV quantum computation. Our proposal relies on preparation of a specific ancillary state and transferring its nonlinear properties onto the desired target by means of deterministic Gaussian operations and feed-forward. We show that, despite the imperfections arising from the deterministic nature of the operation, the weak quantum nonlinearity can be implemented and verified with the current level of technology.

id: 1105.4973
title: Helmholtz wave trajectories in classical and quantum physics
authors: A. Orefice, R. Giovanelli, D. Ditto
comments: 18 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4973
abstract: The behavior of classical and quantum wave beams in stationary media is shown to be ruled by a "Wave Potential" function encoded in Helmholtz-like equations, determined by the structure itself of the beam and taking, in the quantum case, the form of Bohm's "Quantum Potential", which is therefore not so much a "quantum" as a "wave" property. Exact, deterministic motion laws, mutually coupled by this term and describing wave-like features such as diffraction and interference, are obtained in terms of well defined Hamiltonian trajectories, and shown to reduce to the laws of usual geometrical optics and/or classical dynamics when this coupling term is neglected. As far as the quantum case is concerned, the approach proposed in the present paper, suggested by the direct extension of the treatment holding for classical waves, describes the motion of classical-looking, point-like particles, without resorting to the use of travelling wave-packets.

id: 1105.4976
title: Sequential measurements of conjugate observables
authors: Claudio Carmeli, Teiko Heinosaari, Alessandro Toigo
comments: 25 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 285304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4976
abstract: We present a unified treatment of sequential measurements of two conjugate observables. Our approach is to derive a mathematical structure theorem for all the relevant covariant instruments. As a consequence of this result, we show that every Weyl-Heisenberg covariant observable can be implemented as a sequential measurement of two conjugate observables. This method is applicable both in finite and infinite dimensional Hilbert spaces, therefore covering sequential spin component measurements as well as position-momentum sequential measurements.

id: 1105.5054
title: Special features of the relation between Fisher Information and Schr?dinger eigenvalue equation
authors: S. P. Flego, A. Plastino, A. R. Plastino
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5054
abstract: It is well known that a suggestive relation exists that links Schr\"odinger's equation (SE) to the information-optimizing principle based on Fisher's information measure (FIM). The connection entails the existence of a Legendre transform structure underlying the SE. Here we show that appeal to this structure leads to a first order differential equation for the SE's eigenvalues that, in certain cases, can be used to obtain the eigenvalues without explicitly solving SE. Complying with the above mentioned equation constitutes a necessary condition to be satisfied by an energy eigenvalue. We show that the general solution is unique.

id: 1105.5096
title: System of classical nonlinear oscillators as a coarse-grained quantum system
authors: Milan Radonji?, Slobodan Prvanovi?, Nikola Buri?
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5096
abstract: Constrained Hamiltonian dynamics of a quantum system of nonlinear oscillators is used to provide the mathematical formulation of a coarse-grained description of the quantum system. It is seen that the evolution of the coarse-grained system preserves constant and minimal quantum fluctuations of the fundamental observables. This leads to the emergence of the corresponding classical system on a sufficiently large scale.

id: 1105.5100
title: Approximating the Turaev-Viro Invariant of Mapping Tori is Complete for One Clean Qubit
authors: Stephen P. Jordan, Gorjan Alagic
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures, presented at TQC '11. Added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5100
abstract: The Turaev-Viro invariants are scalar topological invariants of three-dimensional manifolds. Here we show that the problem of estimating the Fibonacci version of the Turaev-Viro invariant of a mapping torus is a complete problem for the one clean qubit complexity class (DQC1). This complements a previous result showing that estimating the Turaev-Viro invariant for arbitrary manifolds presented as Heegaard splittings is a complete problem for the standard quantum computation model (BQP). We also discuss a beautiful analogy between these results and previously known results on the computational complexity of approximating the Jones polynomial.

id: 1105.5132
title: Asymptotically perfect discrimination in the LOCC paradigm
authors: M. Kleinmann, H. Kampermann, D. Bru?
comments: 7 pages, 3 trees; v2: minor corrections & improvements
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042326 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5132
abstract: We revisit the problem of discriminating orthogonal quantum states within the local quantum operation and classical communication (LOCC) paradigm. Our particular focus is on the asymptotic situation where the parties have infinite resources and the protocol may become arbitrarily long. Our main result is a necessary condition for perfect asymptotic LOCC discrimination. As an application, we prove that for complete product bases, unlimited resources are of no advantage. On the other hand, we identify an example, for which it still remains undecided whether unlimited resources are superior.

id: 1105.5137
title: Hybrid nanocavities for resonant enhancement of color center emission in diamond
authors: Paul E. Barclay, Kai-Mei C. Fu, Charles Santori, Andrei Faraon, Raymond G. Beausoleil
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. X 1, 011007 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5137
abstract: Resonantly enhanced emission from the zero phonon line of a diamond nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in single crystal diamond is demonstrated experimentally using a hybrid whispering gallery mode nanocavity. A 900 nm diameter ring nanocavity formed from gallium phosphide, whose sidewalls extend into a diamond substrate, is tuned onto resonance at low-temperature with the zero phonon line of a negatively charged NV center implanted near the diamond surface. When the nanocavity is on resonance, the zero phonon line intensity is enhanced by approximately an order of magnitude, and the spontaneous emission lifetime of the NV is reduced as much as 18%, corresponding to a 6.3X enhancement of emission in the zero photon line.

id: 1105.5151
title: Cooling atom-cavity systems into entangled states
authors: J. Busch, S. De, S. S. Ivanov, B. T. Torosov, T. P. Spiller, A. Beige
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022316 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5151
abstract: Generating entanglement by simply cooling a system into a stationary state which is highly entangled has many advantages. Schemes based on this idea are robust against parameter fluctuations, tolerate relatively large spontaneous decay rates, and achieve high fidelities independent of their initial state. A possible implementation of this idea in atom-cavity systems has recently been proposed by Kastoryano et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 090502 (2011)]. Here we propose an improved entanglement cooling scheme for two atoms inside an optical cavity which achieves higher fidelities for comparable single-atom cooperativity parameters C. For example, we predict fidelities above 90% even for C as low as 20 without requiring individual laser addressing and without having to detect photons.

id: 1105.5211
title: Experimental Realization of a Four-Photon Seven-Qubit Graph State for One-Way Quantum Computation
authors: Sang Min Lee, Hee Su Park, Jaeyoon Cho, Yoonshik Kang, Jae Yong Lee, Heonoh Kim, Dong-Hoon Lee, Sang-Kyung Choi
comments: 4 pages. Supplementary Material is included in the zip file
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5211
abstract: We propose and demonstrate the scaling up of photonic graph state through path qubit fusion. Two path qubits from separate two-photon four-qubit states are fused to generate a two-dimensional seven-qubit graph state composed of polarization and path qubits. Genuine seven-qubit entanglement is verified by evaluating the witness operator. Six qubits from the graph state are used to execute the general two-qubit Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm with a success probability greater than 90%.

id: 1105.5238
title: Three-Photon Correlations in a Strongly Driven Atom-Cavity System
authors: Markus Koch, Christian Sames, Maximilian Balbach, Haytham Chibani, Alexander Kubanek, Karim Murr, Tatjana Wilk, Gerhard Rempe
comments: 4 pages + 3 pages supplementary information
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 023601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5238
abstract: The quantum dynamics of a strongly driven, strongly coupled single-atom-cavity system is studied by evaluating time-dependent second- and third-order correlations of the emitted photons. The coherent energy exchange, first, between the atom and the cavity mode, and second, between the atom-cavity system and the driving laser, is observed. Three-photon detections show an asymmetry in time, a consequence of the breakdown of detailed balance. The results are in good agreement with theory and are a first step towards the control of a quantum trajectory at larger driving strength.

id: 1105.5258
title: No-compressing of quantum phase information
authors: Yi-Nan Wang, Han-Duo Shi, Li Jing, Zhao-Xi Xiong, Jin Lei, Liang-Zhu Mu, Heng Fan
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: J.Phys.A 45, 025304(2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5258
abstract: We raise a general question of quantum information theory whether the quantum phase information can be compressed and retrieved. A general qubit contains both amplitude and phase information, while an equatorial qubit contains only a phase information. We study whether it is possible to compress the phase information of n equatorial qubits into m general qubits with m being less than n, and still those information can be retrieved perfectly. We prove that this process is not allowed by quantum mechanics.

id: 1105.5266
title: Kinetic theory of cavity cooling and self-organisation of a cold gas
authors: Wolfgang Niedenzu, Tobias Grie?er, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: EPL 96, 43001 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5266
abstract: We study spatial self-organisation and dynamical phase-space compression of a dilute cold gas of laser-illuminated polarisable particles in an optical resonator. Deriving a non-linear Fokker--Planck equation for the particles' phase-space density allows us to treat arbitrarily large ensembles in the far-detuning limit and explicitly calculate friction forces, momentum diffusion and steady-state temperatures. In addition, we calculate the self-organisation threshold in a self-consistent analytic form. For a homogeneous ensemble below threshold the cooling rate for fixed laser power is largely independent of the particle number. Cooling leads to a $q$-Gaussian velocity distribution with a steady-state temperature determined by the cavity linewidth. Numerical simulations using large ensembles of particles confirm the analytical threshold condition for the appearance of an ordered state, where the particles are trapped in a periodic pattern and can be cooled to temperatures close to a single vibrational excitation.

id: 1105.5267
title: Time evolution of Two-qubit Entanglement
authors: Jun Zhang
comments: 5 pages
journal: Quantum Information Processing, 12(4), 1627-1636, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5267
abstract: We show that the entanglement dynamics for a closed two-qubit system is part of a 10-dimensional complex linear differential equation defined on a supersphere, and the coefficients therein are completely determined by the Hamiltonian. We apply the result to investigate two physical examples of Josephson junction qubits and exchange Hamiltonians, deriving analytic solutions for the time evolution of entanglement. The Hamiltonian coefficients determines whether the entanglement is periodic. These results allow of investigating how to generate and manipulate entanglements efficiently, which are required by both quantum computation and quantum communication.

id: 1105.5269
title: Rabi Wave Packets and Peculiarities of Raman Scattering in Carbon Nanotubes, Produced by High Energy Ion Beam Modification of Diamond Single Crystals
authors: Dmitry Yearchuck, Alla Dovlatova
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5269
abstract: QED-model for multichain coupled qubit system, proposed in \cite{Part1}, was confirmed by Raman scattering studies of quasi-1D carbon zigzag-shaped nanotubes (CZSNTs), produced by high energy ion beam modification of natural diamond single crystals. Multichain coupled qubit system represents itself Su-Schriffer-Heeger $\sigma$-polaron lattice, formed in CZSNTs plus quantized external electromagnetic (EM) field. New quantum optics phenomenon - Rabi waves, predicted in \cite{Slepyan_Yerchak} has experimentally been identified for the first time. It is shown, that Raman spectra in quasi-1D CZSNTs are quite different in comparison with well known Raman spectra in 2D those ones. They characterized by semiclassical consideration by the only one vibronic mode of Su-Schriffer-Heeger $\sigma$-polaron lattice instead of longitudinal and transverse optical phonon $G^+$ and $G^-$modes and the out-of-plane radial breathing mode, which are observed in Raman spectra of 2D single wall nanotubes. It is consequence of 2D - 1D transition in all physical properties of nanotubes. It is shown, that strong electron-photon coupling takes place in CZSNTs by interaction with EM-field and quantum nature of EM-field has to be taken into account. It has been done for the first time in stationary spectroscopy at all. All optical spectra, in particular, Raman spectra are registered by usual stationary measurement technique in nonequilibrium conditions, which are the consequence of Rabi wave packets' formation. It leads in its turn to appearance of additional lines, corresponding to revival part of inversion dependence of joint EM-field + matter system in frequency representation.

id: 1105.5326
title: Scavenging quantum information: Multiple observations of quantum systems
authors: Peter Rapcan, John Calsamiglia, Ramon Munoz-Tapia, Emilio Bagan, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84(3), 032326 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5326
abstract: Given an unknown state of a qudit that has already been measured optimally, can one still extract any information about the original unknown state? Clearly, after a maximally informative measurement, the state of the system `collapses' into a post-measurement state from which the {\em{same}} observer cannot obtain further information about the original state of the system. However, the system still encodes a significant amount of information about the original preparation for a second observer who is unaware of the actions of the first one. We study how a series of independent observers can obtain, or scavenge, information about the unknown state of a system (quantified by the fidelity) when they sequentially measure it. We give closed-form expressions for the estimation fidelity, when one or several qudits are available to carry information about the single-qudit state, and study the `classical' limit when an arbitrarily large number of observers can obtain (nearly) complete information on the system. In addition to the case where all observers perform most informative measurements we study the scenario where a finite number of observers estimate the state with equal fidelity,regardless of their position in the measurement sequence; and the scenario where all observers use identical measurement apparata (up to a mutually unknown orientation) chosen so that a particular observer's estimation fidelity is maximized.

id: 1105.5339
title: Classical harmonic oscillator with quantum energy spectrum
authors: Sergey A. Rashkovskiy
comments: 19 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5339
abstract: The classical dynamical system possessing a quantum spectrum of energy and "quantum" behavior is suggested and investigated. The proposed model can be considered as a dynamical variant of the old quantum theory for harmonic oscillator in which the Bohr-Sommerfeld quantization rule is absent and "quantum-mechanical" properties are the result of system behavior itself. For this dynamical system the classical model of Franck-Hertz experiment which allows explaining the experimentally observed regularities is suggested and investigated. The examples of calculations of Franck-Hertz experiment of within the limits of the suggested model of classical dynamical system are presented.

id: 1105.5353
title: On characterizing quantum correlated equilibria
authors: Zhaohui Wei, Shengyu Zhang
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5353
abstract: Quantum game theory lays a foundation for understanding the interaction of people using quantum computers with conflicting interests. Recently Zhang proposed a simple yet rich model to study quantum strategic games, and addressed some quantitative questions for general games of growing sizes \cite{Zha10}. However, one fundamental question that the paper did not consider is the characterization of quantum correlated equilibria (QCE). In this paper, we answer this question by giving a sufficient and necessary condition for an arbitrary state $\rho$ being a QCE. In addition, when the condition fails to hold for some player $i$, we give an explicit POVM for that player to achieve a strictly positive gain. Finally, we give some upper bounds for the maximum gain by playing quantum strategies over classical ones, and the bounds are tight for some games.

id: 1105.5356
title: A 750 mW, continuous-wave, solid-state laser source at 313 nm for cooling and manipulating trapped 9Be+ ions
authors: Andrew. C. Wilson, Christian Ospelkaus, Aaron. P. VanDevender, Jonas. A. Mlynek, Kenton. R. Brown, Dietrich Leibfried, David. J. Wineland
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5356
abstract: We present a solid-state laser system that generates 750 mW of continuous-wave single-frequency output at 313 nm. Sum-frequency generation with fiber lasers at 1550 nm and 1051 nm produces up to 2 W at 626 nm. This visible light is then converted to UV by cavity-enhanced second-harmonic generation. The laser output can be tuned over a 495 GHz range, which includes the 9Be+ laser cooling and repumping transitions. This is the first report of a narrow-linewidth laser system with sufficient power to perform fault-tolerant quantum-gate operations with trapped 9Be+ ions by use of stimulated Raman transitions.

id: 1105.5359
title: Measurement of non-commuting spin components using spin-orbit interaction
authors: D. Sokolovski, E. Ya. Sherman
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A 84, 030101(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5359
abstract: We analyze the physical meaning of a possible experiment aimed at the simultaneous measurement of two non-commuting spin components. We demonstrate that switching of a strong spin-orbit interaction, e.g., in a solid state or a cold-atom system, for a short period of time simulates a simultaneous von Neumann measurement of spin components, $\sigma_x$ and $\sigma_y$. By mapping spin dynamics onto coordinate-space motion, such a measurement determines time averages of $\sigma_x$ and $\sigma_y$ which, unlike their instantaneous values, may be evaluated simultaneously to an arbitrary accuracy.

id: 1105.5383
title: Light scattering from ultracold atomic gases in optical lattices at finite temperature
authors: James S. Douglas, Keith Burnett
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 033637 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5383
abstract: We study light scattering from atoms in optical lattices at finite temperature. We examine the light scattered by fermions in the noninteracting regime and by bosons in the superfluid and Mott insulating regimes. We extend previous theoretical studies to include the full band structure of the optical lattice. We find that light scattering that excites atoms out of the lowest band leads to an increase in light scattering away from the classical diffraction peaks and is largely temperature independent. This additional light scattering leads to lower efficiency of temperature measurements based on photon counting.

id: 1105.5402
title: Doubly resonant ultrachirped pulses
authors: S. Ib¨¢?ez, A. Peralta Conde, D. Gu¨¦ry-Odelin, J. G. Muga
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 013428 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5402
abstract: Ultrachirped pulses for which the frequency chirp is of the order of the transition frequency of a two-level atom are examined. When the chirp is large enough, the resonance may be crossed twice, for positive and negative quadrature frequencies. In this scenario the analytic signal and quadrature decompositions of the field into amplitude and phase factors turn out to be quite different. The corresponding interaction pictures are strictly equivalent, but only as long as approximations are not applied. The domain of validity of the formal rotating wave approximation is dramatically enhanced using the analytic signal representation.

id: 1105.5435
title: A note about the ground state of the ${\rm H}_3^+$ hydrogen molecular ion
authors: J.C. Lopez Vieyra, A.V. Turbiner, H. Medel Cobaxin
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure, 3 tables
journal: Journ of Phys B 44 (2011) 195101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Solar and Stellar Astrophysics (astro-ph.SR); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5435
abstract: Three simple $7-, (7+3)-, 10-$parametric trial functions for the ${\rm H}_3^+$ molecular ion are presented. Each of them provides subsequently the most accurate approximation for the Born-Oppenheimer ground state energy among several-parametric trial functions. These trial functions are chosen following a criterion of physical adequacy and includes the electronic correlation in the exponential form $\sim\exp{(\gamma r_{12})}$, where $\gamma$ is a variational parameter. The Born-Oppenheimer energy is found to be $E=-1.340 34, -1.340 73, -1.341 59$\,a.u., respectively, for optimal equilateral triangular configuration of protons with the equilibrium interproton distance $R=1.65$\,a.u. The variational energy agrees in three significant digits (s.d.) with most accurate results available at present as well as for major expectation values.

id: 1105.5480
title: Parallel interaction-free measurement using spatial adiabatic passage
authors: Charles Hill, Andrew D. Greentree, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5480
abstract: Interaction-free measurement is a surprising consequence of quantum interference, where the presence of objects can be sensed without any disturbance of the object being measured. Here we show an extension of interaction-free measurement using techniques from spatial adiabatic passage, specifically multiple reciever adiabatic passage. Due to subtle properties of the adiabatic passage, it is possible image an object without interaction between the imaging photons and the sample. The technique can be used on multiple objects in parallel, and is entirely deterministic in the adiabatic limit. Unlike more conventional interaction-free measurement schemes, this adiabatic process is driven by the symmetry of the system, and not by more usual interference effects. As such it provides an interesting alternative quantum protocol which may be applicable to photonic implementations of spatial adiabatic passage. We also show that this scheme can be used to implement a collision-free quantum routing protocol.

id: 1105.5485
title: Elementary gates for ternary quantum logic circuit
authors: Yao-Min Di, Hai-Rui Wei
comments: 8 pages, 13 figures, small modification to Fig.11
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5485
abstract: In this article the elementary gates for ternary quantum logic circuit are studied. We propose the ternary controlled X (TCX) gate or ternary controlled Z (TCZ) gate as two-qutrit elementary gate, which is universal when assisted by arbitrary one-qutrit gates. It is primitive, efficient and easy to implement. Based on Cartan decomposition, we also give the one-qutrit elementary gates. Then the synthesis of some important ternary gates is investigated and the scheme of physical implementation for these ternary gates is discussed. Finally we extend these elementary gates to more general qudit case, so it provides a unified description for the synthesis of the binary and multi-valued quantum circuits.

id: 1105.5510
title: A method for characterizing coherent-state quantum gates
authors: R¨¦mi Blandino, Franck Ferreyrol, Marco Barbieri, Philippe Grangier, Rosa Tualle-Brouri
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5510
abstract: We discuss and implement experimentally a method for characterizing quantum gates operating on superpositions of coherent states. The peculiarity of this encoding of qubits is to work with a non-orthogonal basis, and therefore some technical limitations prevent us from using standard methods, such as process tomography. We adopt a different technique, that relies on some a-priori knowledge about the physics underlying the functioning of the device. A parameter characterizing the global quality of the quantum gate is obtained by \virtually" processing an entangled state.

id: 1105.5548
title: Propagation of non-classical correlations across a quantum spin chain
authors: S. Campbell, T. J. G. Apollaro, C. Di Franco, L. Banchi, A. Cuccoli, R. Vaia, F. Plastina, M. Paternostro
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052316 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5548
abstract: We study the transport of quantum correlations across a chain of interacting spin-1/2 particles. As a quantitative figure of merit, we choose a symmetric version of quantum discord and compare it with the transported entanglement, addressing various operating regimes of the spin medium. Discord turns out to be better transported for a wide range of working points and initial conditions of the system. We relate this behavior to the efficiency of propagation of a single excitation across the spin chain. Moreover, we point out the role played by a magnetic field in the dynamics of discord in the effective channel embodied by the chain. Our analysis can be interestingly extended to transport processes in more complex networks and the study of non-classical correlations under general quantum channels.

id: 1105.5551
title: Creating quantum correlations through local non-unitary memoryless channels
authors: Francesco Ciccarello, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 010102(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5551
abstract: We show that two qubits, initially in a fully classical state, can develop significant quantum correlations as measured by the quantum discord (QD) under the action of a local memoryless noise (specifically we consider the case of a Markovian amplitude-damping channel). This is analytically proven after deriving in a compact form the QD for the class of separable states involved in such a process. We provide a picture in the Bloch sphere that unambiguously highlights the physical mechanism behind the effect regardless of the specific measure of QCs adopted.

id: 1105.5574
title: QKD with finite resources: secret key rates via R¨¦nyi entropies
authors: Silvestre Abruzzo, Hermann Kampermann, Markus Mertz, Dagmar Bru?
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032321 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5574
abstract: A realistic Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) protocol necessarily deals with finite resources, such as the number of signals exchanged by the two parties. We derive a bound on the secret key rate which is expressed as an optimization problem over R\'enyi entropies. Under the assumption of collective attacks by an eavesdropper, a computable estimate of our bound for the six-state protocol is provided. This bound leads to improved key rates in comparison to previous results.

id: 1105.5577
title: Non-equilibrium Casimir forces: Spheres and sphere-plate
authors: Matthias Kr¨¹ger, Thorsten Emig, Giuseppe Bimonte, Mehran Kardar
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Europhys.Lett.95:21002,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5577
abstract: We discuss non-equilibrium extensions of the Casimir force (due to electromagnetic fluctuations), where the objects as well as the environment are held at different temperatures. While the formalism we develop is quite general, we focus on a sphere in front of a plate, as well as two spheres, when the radius is small compared to separation and thermal wavelengths. In this limit the forces can be expressed analytically in terms of the lowest order multipoles, and corroborated with results obtained by diluting parallel plates of vanishing thickness. Non-equilibrium forces are generally stronger than their equilibrium counterpart, and may oscillate with separation (at a scale set by material resonances). For both geometries we obtain stable points of zero net force, while two spheres may have equal forces in magnitude and direction resulting in a self-propelling state.

id: 1105.5635
title: Quantum computational universality of the Cai-Miyake-D¨¹r-Briegel 2D quantum state from Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki quasichains
authors: Tzu-Chieh Wei, Robert Raussendorf, Leong Chuan Kwek
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, almost published version, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042333 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5635
abstract: Universal quantum computation can be achieved by simply performing single-qubit measurements on a highly entangled resource state, such as cluster states. Cai, Miyake, D\"ur, and Briegel recently constructed a ground state of a two-dimensional quantum magnet by combining multiple Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki quasichains of mixed spin-3/2 and spin-1/2 entities and by mapping pairs of neighboring spin-1/2 particles to individual spin-3/2 particles [Phys. Rev. A 82, 052309 (2010)]. They showed that this state enables universal quantum computation by single-spin measurements. Here, we give an alternative understanding of how this state gives rise to universal measurement-based quantum computation: by local operations, each quasichain can be converted to a 1D cluster state and entangling gates between two neighboring logical qubits can be implemented by single-spin measurements. We further argue that a 2D cluster state can be distilled from the Cai-Miyake-D\"ur-Briegel state.

id: 1105.5695
title: Are All Probabilities Fundamentally Quantum Mechanical?
authors: Rajat Kumar Pradhan
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Orissa Journal of Physics, 19, 2, 161-175, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5695
abstract: The subjective and the objective aspects of probabilities are incorporated in a simple duality axiom inspired by observer participation in quantum theory. Transcending the classical notion of probabilities, it is proposed and demonstrated that all probabilities may be fundamentally quantum mechanical in the sense that they may all be derived from the corresponding amplitudes. The classical coin-toss and the quantum double slit interference experiments are discussed as illustrative prototype examples. Absence of multi-order quantum interference effects in multiple-slit experiments and the Experimental tests of complementarity in Wheeler's delayed-choice type experiments are explained using the involvement of the observer.

id: 1105.5720
title: Detection of Multiparticle Entanglement: Quantifying the Search for Symmetric Extensions
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Matthias Christandl
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 160502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5720
abstract: We provide quantitative bounds on the characterisation of multiparticle separable states by states that have locally symmetric extensions. The bounds are derived from two-particle bounds and relate to recent studies on quantum versions of de Finetti's theorem. We discuss algorithmic applications of our results, in particular a quasipolynomial-time algorithm to decide whether a multiparticle quantum state is separable or entangled (for constant number of particles and constant error in the LOCC or Frobenius norm). Our results provide a theoretical justification for the use of the Search for Symmetric Extensions as a practical test for multiparticle entanglement.

id: 1105.5727
title: Carbonyl Vibrational Wave Packet Circulation in Mn$_2$(CO)$_{10}$ Driven by Ultrashort Polarized Laser Pulses
authors: Mahmoud K. Abdel-Latif, Oliver K¨¹hn
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5727
abstract: The excitation of the degenerate $E_1$ carbonyl stretching vibrations in dimanganese decacarbonyl is shown to trigger wave packet circulation in the subspace of these two modes. On the time scale of about 5 picoseconds intramolecular anharmonic couplings do not cause appreciable disturbance, even under conditions where the two $E_1$ modes are excited by up to about two vibrational quanta each. The compactness of the circulating wave packet is shown to depend strongly on the excitation conditions such as pulse duration and field strength. Numerical results for the solution of the seven-dimensional vibrational Schr\"odinger equation are obtained for a density functional theory based potential energy surface and using the multi-configuration time-dependent Hartree method.

id: 1105.5728
title: Canonical separation of angular momentum of light into its orbital and spin parts
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula, Zofia Bialynicka-Birula
comments: 
journal: Journal of Optics, 13, 063014 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5728
abstract: It is shown that the photon picture of the electromagnetic field enables one to determine unambiguously the splitting of the total angular momentum of the electromagnetic field into the orbital part and the spin part.

id: 1105.5753
title: A Quantum Optomechanical Transistor Based on a Cavity-Optomechanical System
authors: Jin-Jin Li, Wei-He, Ka-Di Zhu
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5753
abstract: We theoretically propose a scheme to realize an all-optically controlled quantum optomechanical transistor based on a cavity-optomechanical system, where the cavity photons interfere with the input signal photons while the pump field controls the transmission spectrum of the signal laser. Theoretical analysis shows such a quantum optomechanical transistor can be switched on or off by turning on or off the pump laser, which corresponds to amplification or attenuation of the signal laser, respectively. The results further demonstrate that the output signal gain is enhanced abruptly with increasing the input pump power. The scheme proposed here will pave the way towards many important applications such as all-optical logic circuits and quantum repeaters.

id: 1105.5773
title: Quantum control of $^{88}$Sr$^+$ in a miniature linear Paul trap
authors: Nitzan Akerman, Shlomi Kotler, Yinnon Glickman, Anna Keselman, Roee Ozeri
comments: 8 pages,9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5773
abstract: We report on the construction and characterization of an apparatus for quantum information experiments using $^{88}$Sr$^+$ ions. A miniature linear radio-frequency (rf) Paul trap was designed and built. Trap frequencies above 1 MHz in all directions are obtained with 50 V on the trap end-caps and less than 1 W of rf power. We encode a quantum bit (qubit) in the two spin states of the $S_{1/2}$ electronic ground-state of the ion. We constructed all the necessary laser sources for laser cooling and full coherent manipulation of the ions' external and internal states. Oscillating magnetic fields are used for coherent spin rotations. High-fidelity readout as well as a coherence time of 2.5 ms are demonstrated. Following resolved sideband cooling the average axial vibrational quanta of a single trapped ion is $\bar n=0.05$ and a heating rate of $\dot{\bar n}=0.016$ ms$^{-1}$ is measured.

id: 1105.5831
title: Reducing Quantum Cost in Reversible Toffoli Circuits
authors: Marek Szyprowski, Pawel Kerntopf
comments: 
journal: Proceedings of Reed-Muller 2011 Workshop, May 25-26, 2011, pp. 127-136
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5831
abstract: Recently, reversible circuit synthesis has been intensively studied. One of the problems that has not been solved for a long time was exact minimization of gate count (GC) in 4-bit circuits. Finally, last year a tool of practical usage for finding optimal gate count Toffoli networks for any 4-variable function was developed. However, not much work has been done yet on exact minimization of quantum cost (QC) in 4-bit circuits. This paper presents an application of the above mentioned tool to reducing QC of 4-bit reversible circuits. It is shown that for benchmarks and for designs taken from recent publications it is possible to obtain savings in QC of up to 74% comparing with previously known circuits.

id: 1105.5836
title: Regimes of strong light-matter coupling under incoherent excitation
authors: E. del Valle, F. P. Laussy
comments: 23 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043816 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5836
abstract: We study a two-level system (atom, superconducting qubit or quantum dot) strongly coupled to the single photonic mode of a cavity, in the presence of incoherent pumping and including detuning and dephasing. This system displays a striking quantum to classical transition. On the grounds of several approximations that reproduce to various degrees exact results obtained numerically, we separate five regimes of operations, that we term "linear", "quantum", "lasing", "quenching" and "thermal". In the fully quantized picture, the lasing regime arises as a condensation of dressed states and manifests itself as a Mollow triplet structure in the direct emitter photoluminescence spectrum, which embeds fundamental features of the full-field quantization description of light-matter interactions.

id: 1105.5854
title: Steady-state entanglement in a double-well Bose-Einstein condensate through coupling to a superconducting resonator
authors: H. T. Ng, Shih-I Chu
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, minor revision
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 023629 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5854
abstract: We consider a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate in a double-well potential, where the atoms are magnetically coupled to a single-mode of the microwave field inside a superconducting resonator. We find that the system has the different dark-state subspaces in the strong- and weak-tunneling regimes, respectively. In the limit of weak tunnel coupling, steady-state entanglement between the two spatially separated condensates can be generated by evolving to a mixture of dark states via the dissipation of the photon field. We show that the entanglement can be faithfully indicated by an entanglement witness. Long-lived entangled states are useful for quantum information processing with atom-chip devices.

id: 1105.5860
title: Number-Phase Wigner Representation for Scalable Stochastic Simulations of Controlled Quantum Systems
authors: M. R. Hush, A. R. R. Carvalho, J. J. Hope
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5860
abstract: Simulation of conditional master equations is important to describe systems under continuous measurement and for the design of control strategies in quantum systems. For large bosonic systems, such as BEC and atom lasers, full quantum field simulations must rely on scalable stochastic methods whose convergence time is restricted by the use of representations based on coherent states. Here we show that typical measurements on atom-optical systems have a common form that allows for an efficient simulation using the number-phase Wigner (NPW) phase-space representation. We demonstrate that a stochastic method based on the NPW can converge over an order of magnitude longer and more precisely than its coherent equivalent. This opens the possibility of realistic simulations of controlled multi-mode quantum systems.

id: 1105.5872
title: Non-binary Entanglement-assisted Stabilizer Quantum Codes
authors: Leng Riguang, Ma Zhi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5872
abstract: In this paper, we show how to construct non-binary entanglement-assisted stabilizer quantum codes by using pre-shared entanglement between the sender and receiver. We also give an algorithm to determine the circuit for non-binary entanglement-assisted stabilizer quantum codes and some illustrated examples. The codes we constructed do not require the dual-containing constraint, and many non-binary classical codes, like non-binary LDPC codes, which do not satisfy the condition, can be used to construct non-binary entanglement-assisted stabilizer quantum codes.

id: 1105.5909
title: High-efficiency frequency doubling of continuous-wave laser light
authors: Stefan Ast, Ramon Moghadas Nia, Axel Sch?nbeck, Nico Lastzka, Jessica Steinlechner, Tobias Eberle, Moritz Mehmet, Sebastian Steinlechner, Roman Schnabel
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 36, Issue 17, pp. 3467-3469 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5909
abstract: We report on the observation of high efficiency frequency doubling of 1550 nm continuous-wave laser light in a nonlinear cavity containing a periodically poled potassium titanyl phosphate crystal (PPKTP). The fundamental field had a power of 1.10 W and was converted into 1.05 W at 775 nm, yielding a total external conversion efficiency of (95 \pm 1)%. The latter value is based on the measured depletion of the fundamental field being consistent with the absolute values derived from numerical simulations. According to our model, the conversion efficiency achieved was limited by the non-perfect mode-matching into the nonlinear cavity and the pump power available. Our result shows that cavity-assisted frequency conversion based on PPKTP is well suited for low-decoherence frequency conversion of quantum states of light.

id: 1105.5922
title: Probing molecular chirality by coherent optical absorption spectra
authors: W. Z. Jia, L. F. Wei
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5922
abstract: We propose an approach to sensitively probe the chirality of molecules by measuring their coherent optical absorption spectra. It is shown that quantum dynamics of the cyclic three-level chiral molecules driven by appropriately-designed external fields is total-phase dependent. This will result in chirality-dependent absorption spectra for the probe field. As a consequence, these absorption spectra can be utilized to identify molecular chirality and determinate enantiomer excess. The feasibility of the proposal with chiral molecules confined in hollow-core photonic crystal fiber (HC-PCF) is also discussed.

id: 1105.5947
title: Topology by Dissipation in Atomic Quantum Wires
authors: S. Diehl, E. Rico, M. A. Baranov, P. Zoller
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature Physics 7, 971 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5947
abstract: Robust edge states and non-Abelian excitations are the trademark of topological states of matter, with promising applications such as "topologically protected" quantum memory and computing. While so far topological phases have been exclusively discussed in a Hamiltonian context, we show that such phases and the associated topological protection and phenomena also emerge in open quantum systems with engineered dissipation. The specific system studied here is a quantum wire of spinless atomic fermions in an optical lattice coupled to a bath. The key feature of the dissipative dynamics described by a Lindblad master equation is the existence of Majorana edge modes, representing a non-local decoherence free subspace. The isolation of the edge states is enforced by a dissipative gap in the p-wave paired bulk of the wire. We describe dissipative non-Abelian braiding operations within the Majorana subspace, and we illustrate the insensitivity to imperfections. Topological protection is granted by a nontrivial winding number of the system density matrix.

id: 1105.5994
title: Calculating resonance positions and widths using the Siegert approximation method
authors: Kevin Rapedius
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure, contains MATLAB source code; new version with additional illustrations
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 32 (2011) 1199
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5994
abstract: Here we present complex resonance states (or Siegert states), that describe the tunneling decay of a trapped quantum particle, from an intuitive point of view which naturally leads to the easily applicable Siegert approximation method that can be used for analytical and numerical calculations of complex resonances of both the linear and nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation. Our approach thus complements other treatments of the subject that mostly focus on methods based on continuation in the complex plane or on semiclassical approximations.

id: 1105.6058
title: Long quantum channels for high-quality entanglement transfer
authors: Leonardo Banchi, Tony John George Apollaro, Alessandro Cuccoli, Ruggero Vaia, Paola Verrucchi
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 123006 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6058
abstract: High-quality quantum-state and entanglement transfer can be achieved in an unmodulated spin bus operating in the ballistic regime, which occurs when the endpoint qubits A and B are coupled to the chain by an exchange interaction $j_0$ comparable with the intrachain exchange. Indeed, the transition amplitude characterizing the transfer quality exhibits a maximum for a finite optimal value $j_0^{opt}(N)$, where $N$ is the channel length. We show that $j_0^{opt}(N)$ scales as $N^{-1/6}$ for large $N$ and that it ensures a high-quality entanglement transfer even in the limit of arbitrarily long channels, almost independently of the channel initialization. For instance, the average quantum-state transmission fidelity exceeds 90% for any chain length. We emphasize that, taking the reverse point of view, should $j_0$ be experimentally constrained, high-quality transfer can still be obtained by adjusting the channel length to its optimal value.

id: 1105.6071
title: Adiabatic transfer of light in a double cavity and the optical Landau-Zener problem
authors: N. Miladinovic, F. Hasan, N. Chisholm, I. E. Linnington, E. A. Hinds, D. H. J. O'Dell
comments: 24 pages, 18 figures. Version 2 includes a new section (Sec. VIII) on the regimes of validity of the Schroedinger-like equations and also of the adiabatic approximation, together with a new figure (Fig. 10). The discussion section (Sec. XI) has also been enhanced
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 84, 043822 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6071
abstract: We analyze the evolution of an electromagnetic field inside a double cavity when the difference in length between the two cavities is changed, e.g. by translating the common mirror. We find that this allows photons to be moved deterministically from one cavity to the other. We are able to obtain the conditions for adiabatic transfer by first mapping the Maxwell wave equation for the electric field onto a Schroedinger-like wave equation, and then using the Landau-Zener result for the transition probability at an avoided crossing. Our analysis reveals that this mapping only rigorously holds when the two cavities are weakly coupled (i.e. in the regime of a highly reflective common mirror), and that, generally speaking, care is required when attempting a hamiltonian description of cavity electrodynamics with time-dependent boundary conditions.

id: 1105.6076
title: M-Particle Quantum Walks with Delta-Interaction
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: 18 pages, shorter version uploaded and will be submitted for publication shortly. The companion paper to be released in the next month or so will study the localization problem for the M-particle walk
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6076
abstract: We consider directional correlations between M-particles on a line. For non-interacting particles we find analytic asymptotic expressions. When delta-interaction is introduced in the model we study the Fourier analysis and obtain general analytic formula for the wave function of the walk in the case M is 2 for the transformation C-delta, which can be considered an unfactorized version of the Hadamard walk in two-dimensions.

id: 1105.6112
title: Bounds for the Distance Dependence of Correlation Functions of Entangled Photons in Waveguides
authors: Andrei Khrennikov, Borje Nilsson, Sven Nordebo, Igor Volovich
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scr, 85, 2012. 065404
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6112
abstract: The distance dependence of the probability of observing two photons in a waveguide is investigated. The Glauber correlation functions of the entangled photons in waveguides are considered and the spatial and temporal dependence of the correlation functions is evaluated. We derive upper bounds to the distance dependence of the probability of observing two photons. These inequalities should be possible to observe in experiments.

id: 1105.6122
title: The minimum entropy output of a quantum channel is locally additive
authors: Gilad Gour, Shmuel Friedland
comments: Shorter Version, further simplifications of proofs
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6122
abstract: We show that the minimum von-Neumann entropy output of a quantum channel is locally additive. Hasting's counterexample for the additivity conjecture, makes this result quite surprising. In particular, it indicates that the non-additivity of the minimum entropy output is a global effect of quantum channels.

id: 1105.6157
title: Observation of Fast Evolution in Parity-Time-Symmetric System
authors: Chao Zheng, Liang Hao, Gui Lu Long
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 371, 20120053 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6157
abstract: To find and realize the optimal evolution between two states is significant both in theory and application. In quantum mechanics, the minimal evolution is bounded by the gap between the largest and smallest eigenvalue of the Hamiltonian. In the parity-time-symmetric(PT-symmetric) Hamiltonian theory, it was predicted that the optimized evolution time can be reduced drastically comparing to the bound in the Hermitian case, and can become even zero. In this Letter, we report the experimental observation of the fast evolution of a PT-symmetric Hamiltonian in an nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum system. The experimental results demonstrate that the PT-symmetric Hamiltonian can indeed evolve much faster than that in a quantum system, and time it takes can be arbitrary close to zero.

id: 1105.6168
title: Partitioning technique for a discrete quantum system
authors: L. Jin, Z. Song
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062118 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6168
abstract: We develop the partitioning technique for quantum discrete systems. The graph consists of several subgraphs: a central graph and several branch graphs, with each branch graph being rooted by an individual node on the central one. We show that the effective Hamiltonian on the central graph can be constructed by adding additional potentials on the branch-root nodes, which generates the same result as does the the original Hamiltonian on the entire graph. Exactly solvable models are presented to demonstrate the main points of this paper.

id: 1105.6212
title: An All-But-One Entropic Uncertainty Relation, and Application to Password-based Identification
authors: Niek J. Bouman, Serge Fehr, Carlos Gonz¨¢lez-Guill¨¦n, Christian Schaffner
comments: 33 pages, v2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6212
abstract: Entropic uncertainty relations are quantitative characterizations of Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, which make use of an entropy measure to quantify uncertainty. In quantum cryptography, they are often used as convenient tools in security proofs. We propose a new entropic uncertainty relation. It is the first such uncertainty relation that lower bounds the uncertainty in the measurement outcome for all but one choice for the measurement from an arbitrarily large (but specifically chosen) set of possible measurements, and, at the same time, uses the min-entropy as entropy measure, rather than the Shannon entropy. This makes it especially suited for quantum cryptography. As application, we propose a new quantum identification scheme in the bounded quantum storage model. It makes use of our new uncertainty relation at the core of its security proof. In contrast to the original quantum identification scheme proposed by Damg{\aa}rd et al., our new scheme also offers some security in case the bounded quantum storage assumption fails hold. Specifically, our scheme remains secure against an adversary that has unbounded storage capabilities but is restricted to non-adaptive single-qubit operations. The scheme by Damg{\aa}rd et al., on the other hand, completely breaks down under such an attack.

id: 1105.6268
title: Improved Error-Scaling for Adiabatic Quantum State Transfer
authors: Nathan Wiebe, Nathan S. Babcock
comments: 10 Pages, 4 figures. Comments are welcome. Version substantially revised to generalize results to cases where several derivatives of the Hamiltonian are zero on the boundary
journal: New J. Phys. 14 013024 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6268
abstract: We present a technique that dramatically improves the accuracy of adiabatic state transfer for a broad class of realistic Hamiltonians. For some systems, the total error scaling can be quadratically reduced at a fixed maximum transfer rate. These improvements rely only on the judicious choice of the total evolution time. Our technique is error-robust, and hence applicable to existing experiments utilizing adiabatic passage. We give two examples as proofs-of-principle, showing quadratic error reductions for an adiabatic search algorithm and a tunable two-qubit quantum logic gate.

id: 1105.6308
title: Quantum Memory Assisted Probing of Dynamical Spin Correlations
authors: O. Romero-Isart, M. Rizzi, C. A. Muschik, E. S. Polzik, M. Lewenstein, A. Sanpera
comments: 4.1 pages, 2 figures, accepted version, additional material and proof's corrections not included
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 065302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6308
abstract: We propose a method to probe time dependent correlations of non trivial observables in many-body ultracold lattice gases. The scheme uses a quantum non-demolition matter-light interface, first, to map the observable of interest on the many body system into the light and, then, to store coherently such information into an external system acting as a quantum memory. Correlations of the observable at two (or more) instances of time are retrieved with a single final measurement that includes the readout of the quantum memory. Such method brings at reach the study of dynamics of many-body systems in and out of equilibrium by means of quantum memories in the field of quantum simulators.

id: 1105.6310
title: Sub-Heisenberg estimation of non-random phase-shifts
authors: ?ngel Rivas, Alfredo Luis
comments: Published version. Partially rewritten including further explanations and more numerical simulations. Updated references
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 093052 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6310
abstract: We provide evidence that the uncertainty in detection of small and deterministic phase-shift deviations from a working point can be lower than the Heisenberg bound, for fixed finite mean number of photons. We achieve that by exploiting non-linearity of estimators and coherence with the vacuum.

id: 1105.6318
title: Observation of eight-photon entanglement
authors: Xing-Can Yao, Tian-Xiong Wang, Ping Xu, He Lu, Ge-Sheng Pan, Xiao-Hui Bao, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Chao-Yang Lu, Yu-Ao Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 6, 225 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6318
abstract: Using ultra-bright sources of pure-state entangled photons from parametric down conversion, an eight-photon interferometer and post-selection detection, we demonstrate the ability to experimentally manipulate eight individual photons and report the creation of an eight-photon Schr\"odinger cat state with an observed fidelity of $0.708 \pm 0.016$.

id: 1105.6321
title: Entanglement of formation for a class of $(2\otimes d)$-dimensional systems
authors: F. Lastra, C.E. L¨®pez, L. Roa, J.C. Retamal
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6321
abstract: Currently the entanglement of formation can be calculated analytically for mixed states in a $(2\otimes2)$-dimensional Hilbert space. For states in higher dimensional Hilbert space a closed formula for quantifying entanglement does not exist. In this regard only entanglement bounds has been found for estimating it. In this work, we find an analytical expression for evaluating the entanglement of formation for bipartite ($2\otimes d$)-dimensional mixed states.

id: 1105.0048
title: Novel Mechanism of Supersolid of Ultracold Polar Molecules in Optical Lattices
authors: Takahiro Ohgoe, Takahumi Suzuki, Naoki Kawashima
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn., 80, 113001 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0048
abstract: We study the checkerboard supersolid of the hard-core Bose-Hubbard model with the dipole-dipole interaction. This supersolid is different from all other supersolids found in lattice models in the sense that superflow paths through which interstitials or vacancies can hop freely are absent in the crystal. By focusing on repulsive interactions between interstitials, we reveal that the long-range tail of the dipole-dipole interaction have the role of increasing the energy cost of domain wall formations. This effect produces the supersolid by the second-order hopping process of defects. We also perform exact quantum Monte Carlo simulations and observe a novel double peak structure in the momentum distribution of bosons, which is a clear evidence for supersolid. This can be measured by the time-of-flight experiment in optical lattice systems.

id: 1105.0092
title: Study of the optimal conditions for NV- center formation in type 1b diamond, using photoluminescence and positron annihilation spectroscopies
authors: J. Botsoa, T. Sauvage, M.-P. Adam, P. Desgardin, E. Leoni, B. Courtois, F. Treussart, M.-F. Barthe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0092
abstract: We studied the parameters to optimize the production of negatively-charged nitrogen-vacancy color centers (NV-) in type~1b single crystal diamond using proton irradiation followed by thermal annealing under vacuum. Several samples were treated under different irradiation and annealing conditions and characterized by slow positron beam Doppler-broadening and photoluminescence (PL) spectroscopies. At high proton fluences another complex vacancy defect appears limiting the formation of NV-. Concentrations as high as 2.3 x 10^18 cm^-3 of NV- have been estimated from PL measurements. Furthermore, we inferred the trapping coefficient of positrons by NV-. This study brings insight into the production of a high concentration of NV- in diamond, which is of utmost importance in ultra-sensitive magnetometry and quantum hybrid systems applications.

id: 1105.0094
title: Entangled spinning particles in charged and rotating black holes
authors: Felipe Robledo-Padilla, Hugo Garcia-Compean
comments: 25+1 pages, 7 eps figures. Major changes were made through all the manuscript. Clarifications regarding modifications were introduced through the draft. Figures were changed and reduced in number. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0307114
journal: Physics Essays 26, 1 (2013)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0094
abstract: Spin precession for an EPR pair of spin-1/2 particles in equatorial orbits around a Kerr-Newman black hole is studied. Hovering observers are introduced to ensure fixed reference frames in order to perform the Wigner rotation. These observers also guarantee a reliable direction to compare spin states in rotating black holes. The velocity of the particle due frame-dragging is explicitly incorporated by addition of velocities with respect the hovering observers and the corresponding spin precession angle is computed. The spin-singlet state is observed to be mixed with the spin-triplet by dynamical and gravity effects, thus it is found that a perfect anti-correlation of entangled states for these observers is deteriorated. Finally, an analysis concerning the different limit cases of parameters of spin precession including the frame-dragging effects is carried out.

id: 1105.0128
title: Turbulence Mitigation in Phase-Conjugated Two-Photon Imaging
authors: David S. Simon, Alexander V. Sergienko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0128
abstract: It is shown that the use of phase conjugation in one arm of a correlated two-photon imaging apparatus allows undistorted ghost imaging through a region with randomly-varying phase shifts. The images are formed from correlated pairs of photons in such a way that turbulence-induced phase shifts gained by the photons during passage through the medium cancel pairwise.

id: 1105.0165
title: Quantum counter automata
authors: A. C. Cem Say, Abuzer Yakaryilmaz
comments: A revised version. 16 pages. A preliminary version of this paper appeared as A. C. Cem Say, Abuzer Yakary{\i}lmaz, and \c{S}efika Y\"{u}zsever. Quantum one-way one-counter automata. In R\={u}si\c{n}\v{s} Freivalds, editor, Randomized and quantum computation, pages 25--34, 2010 (Satellite workshop of MFCS and CSL 2010)
journal: Int. J. Found. Comput. Sci. 23, 1099 (2012)
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0165
abstract: The question of whether quantum real-time one-counter automata (rtQ1CAs) can outperform their probabilistic counterparts has been open for more than a decade. We provide an affirmative answer to this question, by demonstrating a non-context-free language that can be recognized with perfect soundness by a rtQ1CA. This is the first demonstration of the superiority of a quantum model to the corresponding classical one in the real-time case with an error bound less than 1. We also introduce a generalization of the rtQ1CA, the quantum one-way one-counter automaton (1Q1CA), and show that they too are superior to the corresponding family of probabilistic machines. For this purpose, we provide general definitions of these models that reflect the modern approach to the definition of quantum finite automata, and point out some problems with previous results. We identify several remaining open problems.

id: 1105.0236
title: Ultra-low threshold, electrically pumped quantum dot photonic crystal nanocavity laser
authors: Bryan Ellis, Marie Mayer, Gary Shambat, Tomas Sarmiento, James Harris, Eugene Haller, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics, Volume 5, pg. 297 (2011)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0236
abstract: Efficient, low threshold, and compact semiconductor laser sources are being investigated for many applications in high-speed communications, information processing, and optical interconnects. The best edge-emitting and vertical cavity surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs) have thresholds on the order of 100 \muA[1,2] but dissipate too much power to be practical for many applications, particularly optical interconnects[3]. Optically pumped photonic crystal (PC) nanocavity lasers represent the state of the art in low-threshold lasers[4,5]; however, in order to be practical, techniques to electrically pump these structures must be developed. Here we demonstrate a quantum dot photonic crystal nanocavity laser in gallium arsenide pumped by a lateral p-i-n junction formed by ion implantation. Continuous wave lasing is observed at temperatures up to 150 K. Thresholds of only 181 nA at 50 K and 287 nA at 150 K are observed - the lowest thresholds ever observed in any type of electrically pumped laser.

id: 1105.0271
title: Interspecies singlet pairing in a mixture of two spin-1 Bose condensates
authors: Jie Zhang, Tiantian Li, Yunbo Zhang
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 023614 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0271
abstract: We study the ground state properties of a mixture formed by two spin-1 condensates in the absence of an external magnetic field. As the collisional symmetry between interspecies bosonic atoms is broken, the interspecies coupling interaction ($\beta $) and interspecies singlet pairing interaction ($\gamma $) arise. The ground state can be calculated using the angular momentum theory analytically for $\gamma =0$. The full quantum approach of exact diagonalization is adopted numerically to consider the more general case as $\gamma \neq 0$. We illustrate the competition between the two interspecies interactions and find that as singlet pairing interaction dominates (or the total spin vanishes), there are still different types of singlet formations which are well determined by $\beta $.

id: 1105.0280
title: Magnetization Oscillation of a Spinor Condensate Induced by Magnetic Field Gradient
authors: Jie Zhang, Baoguo Yang, Yunbo Zhang
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, Phys. Rev. A accepted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0280
abstract: We study the spin mixing dynamics of ultracold spin-1 atoms in a weak non-uniform magnetic field with field gradient $G$, which can flip the spin from +1 to -1 so that the magnetization $m=\rho_{+}-\rho_{-}$ is not any more a constant. The dynamics of $m_F=0$ Zeeman component $\rho_{0}$, as well as the system magnetization $m$, are illustrated for both ferromagnetic and polar interaction cases in the mean-field theory. We find that the dynamics of system magnetization can be tuned between the Josephson-like oscillation similar to the case of double well, and the interesting self-trapping regimes, i.e. the spin mixing dynamics sustains a spontaneous magnetization. Meanwhile the dynamics of $\rho_0$ may be sufficiently suppressed for initially imbalanced number distribution in the case of polar interaction. A "beat-frequency" oscillation of the magnetization emerges in the case of balanced initial distribution for polar interaction, which vanishes for ferromagnetic interaction.

id: 1105.0293
title: Tonks-Girardeau gas, super-Tonks-Girardeau gas, and bound states of one-dimensional bosons in a hard-wall trap
authors: Hua Li, Taifeng Liu, Yaojiang Hao, Yunbo Zhang
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, submitted to EPL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0293
abstract: We investigate the Bose gas with repulsive or attractive interactions between atoms in the scheme of Bethe Ansatz equation in a hard wall trap. Three typical quantum phases in the current research of 1D interacting cold atoms are clarified in terms of the energy spectrum, single particle density distribution and two-particle correlation function. We identify two matching points in the phase diagram, i.e. the TG and STG gas show the same profiles at the strongly interacting point $-1/\gamma=0$, and in the weakly interacting limit $\gamma=0$ the ground states TG and BS join to each other smoothly.

id: 1105.0313
title: Classical mechanics in reparametrization-invariant formulation and the Schr?dinger equation
authors: A. A. Deriglazov, B. F. Rizzuti
comments: 5 pages, Two references added, Misprints corrected
journal: American Journal of Physics, 79 (2011) 882-885
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0313
abstract: The dynamics of any classical-mechanics system can be formulated in the reparametrization-invariant (RI) form (that is we use the parametric representation for trajectories, ${\bf x}={\bf x}(\tau)$, $t=t(\tau)$ instead of ${\bf x}={\bf x}(t)$). In this pedagogical note we discuss what the quantization rules look like for the RI formulation of mechanics. We point out that in this case some of the rules acquire an intuitively clearer form. Hence the formulation could be an alternative starting point for teaching the basic principles of quantum mechanics. The advantages can be resumed as follows. a) In RI formulation both the temporal and the spatial coordinates are subject to quantization. b) The canonical Hamiltonian of RI formulation is proportional to the quantity $\tilde H=p_t+H$, where $H$ is the Hamiltonian of the initial formulation. Due to the reparametrization invariance, the quantity $\tilde H$ vanishes for any solution, $\tilde H=0$. So the corresponding quantum-mechanical operator annihilates the wave function, $\hat{\tilde H}\Psi=0$, which is precisely the Schr\"odinger equation $i\hbar\partial_t\Psi=\hat H\Psi$. As an illustration, we discuss quantum mechanics of the relativistic particle.

id: 1105.0315
title: Top-transmon: hybrid superconducting qubit for parity-protected quantum computation
authors: F. Hassler, A. R. Akhmerov, C. W. J. Beenakker
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 095004 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0315
abstract: Qubits constructed from uncoupled Majorana fermions are protected from decoherence, but to perform a quantum computation this topological protection needs to be broken. Parity-protected quantum computation breaks the protection in a minimally invasive way, by coupling directly to the fermion parity of the system --- irrespective of any quasiparticle excitations. Here we propose to use a superconducting charge qubit in a transmission line resonator (a socalled transmon) to perform parity-protected rotations and read-out of a topological (top) qubit. The advantage over an earlier proposal using a flux qubit is that the coupling can be switched on and off with exponential accuracy, promising a reduced sensitivity to charge noise.

id: 1105.0330
title: All-optical switching and strong coupling using tunable whispering-gallery-mode microresonators
authors: D. O'Shea, C. Junge, M. Poellinger, A. Vogler, A. Rauschenbeutel
comments: 20 pages, 24 figures. Accepted for publication in Applied Physics B. Changes according to referee suggestions: minor corrections to some figures and captions, clarification of some points in the text, added references, added new paragraph with results on atom-resonator interaction
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0330
abstract: We review our recent work on tunable, ultrahigh quality factor whispering-gallery-mode bottle microresonators and highlight their applications in nonlinear optics and in quantum optics experiments. Our resonators combine ultra-high quality factors of up to Q = 3.6 \times 10^8, a small mode volume, and near-lossless fiber coupling, with a simple and customizable mode structure enabling full tunability. We study, theoretically and experimentally, nonlinear all-optical switching via the Kerr effect when the resonator is operated in an add-drop configuration. This allows us to optically route a single-wavelength cw optical signal between two fiber ports with high efficiency. Finally, we report on progress towards strong coupling of single rubidium atoms to an ultra-high Q mode of an actively stabilized bottle microresonator.

id: 1105.0333
title: Decoherence times of universal two-qubit gates in the presence of broad-band noise
authors: E. Paladino, A. D'Arrigo, A. Mastellone, G. Falci
comments: 35 pages, 11 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 13, 093037 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0333
abstract: The controlled generation of entangled states of two quantum bits is a fundamental step toward the implementation of a quantum information processor. In nano-devices this operation is counteracted by the solid-state environment, characterized by a broadband and non-monotonic power spectrum, often 1/f at low frequencies. For single-qubit gates, incoherent processes due to fluctuations acting on different time scales result in peculiar short- and long-time behavior. Markovian noise gives rise to exponential decay with relaxation and decoherence times, T1 and T2, simply related to the symmetry of the qubit-environment coupling Hamiltonian. Noise with the 1/f power spectrum at low frequencies is instead responsible for defocusing processes and algebraic short-time behavior. In this paper, we identify the relevant decoherence times of an entangling operation due to the different decoherence channels originating from solid-state noise. Entanglement is quantified by concurrence, which we evaluate in an analytic form employing a multi-stage approach. The 'optimal' operating conditions of reduced sensitivity to noise sources are identified. We apply this analysis to a superconducting \sqrt{i-SWAP} gate for experimental noise spectra.

id: 1105.0426
title: Exploring Symmetry Breaking at the Dicke Quantum Phase Transition
authors: K. Baumann, R. Mottl, F. Brennecke, T. Esslinger
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 140402 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0426
abstract: We study symmetry breaking at the Dicke quantum phase transition by coupling a motional degree of freedom of a Bose-Einstein condensate to the field of an optical cavity. Using an optical heterodyne detection scheme we observe symmetry breaking in real-time and distinguish the two superradiant phases. We explore the process of symmetry breaking in the presence of a small symmetry-breaking field, and study its dependence on the rate at which the critical point is crossed. Coherent switching between the two ordered phases is demonstrated.

id: 1105.0508
title: Exactly Solvable Quantum Mechanics and Infinite Families of Multi-indexed Orthogonal Polynomials
authors: Satoru Odake, Ryu Sasaki
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. Comments and references added. Typo corrected(4,5 lines below eq.(5)). To appear in Phys.Lett.B
journal: Phys.Lett. B702 (2011) 164-170
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0508
abstract: Infinite families of multi-indexed orthogonal polynomials are discovered as the solutions of exactly solvable one-dimensional quantum mechanical systems. The simplest examples, the one-indexed orthogonal polynomials, are the infinite families of the exceptional Laguerre and Jacobi polynomials of type I and II constructed by the present authors. The totality of the integer indices of the new polynomials are finite and they correspond to the degrees of the `virtual state wavefunctions' which are `deleted' by the generalisation of Crum-Adler theorem. Each polynomial has another integer n which counts the nodes.

id: 1105.0563
title: Density and Temperature of Bosons from Quantum Fluctuations
authors: Hua Zheng, Aldo Bonasera
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0563
abstract: A method to determine the density and temperature of a system is proposed based on quantum fluctuations typical of Bosons in the limit where the reached temperature T is close to the critical temperature $T_c$ for a Bose condensate at a given density $\rho$. Quadrupole and particle multiplicity fluctuations relations are derived in terms of $\frac{T}{T_c}$. This method is valid for weakly interacting infinite and finite Boson systems. As an example, we apply it to heavy ion collisions using the Constrained Molecular Dynamics (CoMD) approach which includes the Fermi statistics. The model shows some clusterization into deuteron and ${\alpha}$ clusters which could suggest a Bose condensate. However, our approach demonstrates that in the model there is no Bose condensate but it gives useful informations to be tested experimentally. We stress the differences with methods based on classical approximations. The derived 'quantum' temperatures are systematically higher than the corresponding 'classical' ones. The role of the Coulomb charge of fragments is discussed.

id: 1105.0599
title: Aharonov-Bohm interferences from local deformations in graphene
authors: Fernando de Juan, Alberto Cortijo, Mar¨ªa A. H. Vozmediano, Andr¨¦s Cano
comments: Some bugs fixed
journal: Nature Physics 7, 811 (2011)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0599
abstract: One of the most interesting aspects of graphene is the tied relation between structural and electronic properties. The observation of ripples in the graphene samples both free standing and on a substrate has given rise to a very active investigation around the membrane-like properties of graphene and the origin of the ripples remains as one of the most interesting open problems in the system. The interplay of structural and electronic properties is successfully described by the modelling of curvature and elastic deformations by fictitious gauge fields that have become an ex- perimental reality after the suggestion that Landau levels can form associated to strain in graphene and the subsequent experimental confirmation. Here we propose a device to detect microstresses in graphene based on a scanning-tunneling-microscopy setup able to measure Aharonov-Bohm inter- ferences at the nanometer scale. The interferences to be observed in the local density of states are created by the fictitious magnetic field associated to elastic deformations of the sample.

id: 1105.0633
title: New Gauge Fields from Extension of Parallel Transport of Vector Spaces to Underlying Scalar Fields
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: 16 pages,1 figure, paper for talk at SPIE conference, April 27-29, 2011
journal: Proc.SPIE Int.Soc.Opt.Eng. 8057:80570X,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0633
abstract: Gauge theories can be described by assigning a vector space V(x) to each space time point x. A common set of complex numbers, C, is usually assumed to be the set of scalars for all the V{x}. This is expanded here to assign a separate set of scalars, C{x}, to V{x} for each x. The freedom of choice of bases, expressed by the action of a gauge group operator on the V{x}, is expanded here to include the freedom of choice of complex scale factors, c_{y,x}, as elements of GL(1,C) that relate C{y} to C{x}. A gauge field representation of c_{y,x} gives two gauge fields, A(x) and iB(x). Inclusion of these fields in the covariant derivatives of Lagrangians results in A(x) appearing as a gauge boson for which mass is optional and B(x) as a massless gauge boson. B(x) appears to be the photon field. The nature of A(x) is not known at present. One does know that the coupling constant of A(x) to matter fields is very small compared to the fine structure constant.

id: 1105.0686
title: Slow quench dynamics of periodically driven quantum gases
authors: Dario Poletti, Corinna Kollath
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 013615 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0686
abstract: We study the evolution of bosons in a periodically driven optical lattice during a slow change of the driving amplitude. Both the regime of high frequency and low frequency driving are investigated. In the low frequency regime, resonant absorption of energy is observed. In the high frequency regime, the dynamics is compared to a system with an effective Hamiltonian in which the atoms are `dressed' by the driving field. This `dressing' can dramatically change the amplitude and sign of the effective tunneling. A particular focus of this study is the investigation of the time-scales necessary for the evolving quantum state to follow almost adiabatically to the ground-state of the effective many body system.

id: 1105.0749
title: Equivalence principle, quantum mechanics, and atom-interferometric tests
authors: Domenico Giulini
comments: 26 pages, 3 figures. Written up version of a talk delivered on October 1st 2010 at the Regensburg conference on Quantum Field Theory and Gravity. Version 2: references updated and typos eliminated
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0749
abstract: That gravitation can be understood as purely metric phenomenon depends crucially on the validity of a number of hypotheses which are summarised by the Einstein Equivalence Principle, the least well tested part of which being the Universality of Gravitational Redshift. A recent and currently widely debated proposal (Nature 463 (2010) 926-929) to re-interpret some 10-year old experiments in atom interferometry would imply, if tenable, substantial reductions on upper bounds for possible violations of the Universality of Gravitational Redshift by four orders of magnitude. This interpretation, however, is problematic and raises various compatibility issues concerning basic principles of General Relativity and Quantum Mechanics. I review some relevant aspects of the equivalence principle and its import into quantum mechanics, and then turn to the problems raised by the mentioned proposal. I conclude that this proposal is too problematic to warrant the claims that were launched with it.

id: 1105.0834
title: Quantum interference in exciton-Mn spin interactions in a CdTe semiconductor quantum dot
authors: A. Trojnar, M. Korkusinski, E. Kadantsev, P. Hawrylak, M. Goryca, T. Kazimierczuk, P. Kossacki, P. Wojnar, M. Potemski
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0834
abstract: We show theoretically and experimentally the existence of a new quantum interference(QI) effect between the electron-hole interactions and the scattering by a single Mn impurity. Theoretical model, including electron-valence hole correlations, the short and long range exchange interaction of Mn ion with the heavy hole and with electron and anisotropy of the quantum dot, is compared with photoluminescence spectroscopy of CdTe dots with single magnetic ions. We show how design of the electronic levels of a quantum dot enable the design of an exciton, control of the quantum interference and hence engineering of light-Mn interaction.

id: 1105.0869
title: Ultra-low noise single-photon detector based on Si avalanche photodiode
authors: Yong-Su Kim, Youn-Chang Jeong, Sebastien Sauge, Vadim Makarov, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: Fixed a broken figure, updated references. 6 pages, 7 figures, 1 table
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 82, 093110 (2011)
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0869
abstract: We report operation and characterization of a lab-assembled single-photon detector based on commercial silicon avalanche photodiodes (PerkinElmer C30902SH, C30921SH). Dark count rate as low as 5 Hz was achieved by cooling the photodiodes down to -80 C. While afterpulsing increased as the photodiode temperature was decreased, total afterpulse probability did not become significant due to detector's relatively long deadtime in a passively-quenched scheme. We measured photon detection efficiency higher than 50% at 806 nm.

id: 1105.0891
title: Zero-energy states in graphene quantum dots and rings
authors: C. A. Downing, D. A. Stone, M. E. Portnoi
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, references added, typos corrected, discussion section expanded
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 155437 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0891
abstract: We present exact analytical zero-energy solutions for a class of smooth decaying potentials, showing that the full confinement of charge carriers in electrostatic potentials in graphene quantum dots and rings is indeed possible without recourse to magnetic fields. These exact solutions allow us to draw conclusions on the general requirements for the potential to support fully confined states, including a critical value of the potential strength and spatial extent.

id: 1105.0932
title: An Optical-Lattice-Based Quantum Simulator For Relativistic Field Theories and Topological Insulators
authors: Leonardo Mazza, Alejandro Bermudez, Nathan Goldman, Matteo Rizzi, Miguel Angel Martin-Delgado, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 24 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 015007
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0932
abstract: We present a proposal for a versatile cold-atom-based quantum simulator of relativistic fermionic theories and topological insulators in arbitrary dimensions. The setup consists of a spin-independent optical lattice that traps a collection of hyperfine states of the same alkaline atom, to which the different degrees of freedom of the field theory to be simulated are then mapped. We show that the combination of bi-chromatic optical lattices with Raman transitions can allow the engineering of a spin-dependent tunneling of the atoms between neighboring lattice sites. These assisted-hopping processes can be employed for the quantum simulation of various interesting models, ranging from non-interacting relativistic fermionic theories to topological insulators. We present a toolbox for the realization of different types of relativistic lattice fermions, which can then be exploited to synthesize the majority of phases in the periodic table of topological insulators.

id: 1105.1105
title: Time-resolved qubit readout via nonlinear Josephson inductance
authors: Georg M. Reuther, David Zueco, Peter H?nggi, Sigmund Kohler
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 093022 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1105
abstract: We propose a generalisation of dispersive qubit readout which provides the time evolution of a flux qubit observable. Our proposal relies on the non-linear coupling of the qubit to a harmonic oscillator with high frequency, representing a dc-SQUID. Information about the qubit dynamics is obtained by recording the oscillator response to resonant driving and subsequent lock-in detection. The measurement process is simulated for the example of coherent qubit oscillations. This corroborates the underlying measurement relation and also reveals that the measurement scheme possesses low backaction and high fidelity.

id: 1105.1189
title: Suppression of Kelvon-induced decay of quantized vortices in oblate Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: S. J. Rooney, P. B. Blakie, B. P. Anderson, A. S. Bradley
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physical Review A 84, 023637 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1189
abstract: We study the Kelvin mode excitations on a vortex line in a three-dimensional trapped Bose-Einstein condensate at finite temperature. Our stochastic Gross-Pitaevskii simulations show that the activation of these modes can be suppressed by tightening the confinement along the direction of the vortex line, leading to a strong suppression in the vortex decay rate as the system enters a regime of two-dimensional vortex dynamics. As the system approaches the condensation transition temperature we find that the vortex decay rate is strongly sensitive to dimensionality and temperature, observing a large enhancement for quasi-two-dimensional traps. Three-dimensional simulations of the recent vortex dipole decay experiment of Neely et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 160401 (2010)] confirm two-dimensional vortex dynamics, and predict a dipole lifetime consistent with experimental observations and suppression of Kelvon-induced vortex decay in highly oblate condensates.

id: 1105.1282
title: Quantum Big Bang without fine-tuning in a toy-model
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 20 pp., 1 fig., invited talk for the conference "10th Workshop on Quantization, Dualities and Integrable Systems" (April 22 - 24, 2011), this http URL
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 343 (2012) 012136
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1282
abstract: The question of possible physics before Big Bang (or after Big Crunch) is addressed via a schematic non-covariant simulation of the loss of observability of the Universe. Our model is drastically simplified by the reduction of its degrees of freedom to the mere finite number. The Hilbert space of states is then allowed time-dependent and singular at the critical time $t=t_c$. This option circumvents several traditional theoretical difficulties in a way illustrated via solvable examples. In particular, the unitary evolution of our toy-model quantum Universe is shown interruptible, without any fine-tuning, at the instant of its bang or collapse $t= t_c$.

id: 1105.1342
title: Excitation, two-center interference and the orbital geometry in laser-induced nonsequential double ionization of diatomic molecules
authors: T. Shaaran, B.B. Augstein, C. Figueira de Morisson Faria
comments: 11 pages revtex, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 013429 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1342
abstract: We address the influence of the molecular orbital geometry and of the molecular alignment with respect to the laser-field polarization on laser-induced nonsequential double ionization of diatomic molecules for different molecular species, namely $\mathrm{N}_2$ and $\mathrm{Li}_2$. We focus on the recollision excitation with subsequent tunneling ionization (RESI) mechanism, in which the first electron, upon return, promotes the second electron to an excited state, from where it subsequently tunnels. We show that the electron-momentum distributions exhibit interference maxima and minima due to the electron emission at spatially separated centers. We provide generalized analytical expressions for such maxima or minima, which take into account $s$ $p$ mixing and the orbital geometry. The patterns caused by the two-center interference are sharpest for vanishing alignment angle and get washed out as this parameter increases. Apart from that, there exist features due to the geometry of the lowest occupied molecular orbital (LUMO), which may be observed for a wide range of alignment angles. Such features manifest themselves as the suppression of probability density in specific momentum regions due to the shape of the LUMO wavefunction, or as an overall decrease in the RESI yield due to the presence of nodal planes.

id: 1105.1385
title: Entanglement Measures for Quasi-Two-Dimensional Fractional Quantum Hall States
authors: J. Biddle, Michael R. Peterson, S. Das Sarma
comments: 24 pages, 26 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 125141 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1385
abstract: We theoretically examine entanglement in fractional quantum hall states, explicitly taking into account and emphasizing the quasi-two-dimensional nature of experimental quantum Hall systems. In particular, we study the entanglement entropy and the entanglement spectrum as a function of the finite layer thickness $d$ of the quasi-two-dimensional system for a number of filling fractions $\nu$ in the lowest and the second Landau levels: $\nu$ = 1/3, 7/3, 1/2, and 5/2. We observe that the entanglement measures are dependent on which Landau level the electrons fractionally occupy, and find that filling factions 1/3 and 7/3, which are considered to be Laughlin states, weaken with $d$ in the lowest Landau level ($\nu$=1/3) and strengthen with $d$ in the second Landau level ($\nu$=7/3). For the enigmatic even-denominator $\nu=5/2$ state, we find that entanglement in the ground state is consistent with that of the non-Abelian Moore-Read Pfaffian state at an optimal thickness $d$. We also find that the single-layer $\nu = 1/2$ system is not a fractional quantum Hall state consistent with the experimental observation. In general, our theoretical findings based on entanglement considerations are completely consistent with the results based on wavefunction overlap calculations.

id: 1105.1401
title: An Analogy of the Quantum Hall Condutivity in a Lorentz-symmetry Violation Setup
authors: L. R. Ribeiro, E. Passos, C. Furtado
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1401
abstract: We investigated some influences of unconventional physics, such Lorentz-symmetry violation, for quantum mechanical systems. In this context, we calculated a important contribution for Standard Model Extension. In the non-relativistic limit, we obtained a analogy of the Landau levels and the quantum Hall conductivity related to this contribution for low energy systems.

id: 1105.1425
title: Cooperative scattering measurement of coherence in a spatially modulated Bose gas
authors: Bo Lu, Thibault Vogt, Xinxing Liu, Xu Xu, Xiaoji Zhou, Xuzong Chen
comments: 4pages, 3figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1425
abstract: Correlations of a Bose gas released from an optical lattice are measured using superradiant scattering. Conditions are chosen so that after initial incident light pumping at the Bragg angle for diffraction, due to matter wave amplification and mode competition, superradiant scattering into the Bragg diffracted mode is preponderant. A temporal analysis of the superradiant scattering gain reveals periodical oscillations and damping due to the initial lack of coherence between lattice sites. Such damping is used for characterizing first order spatial correlations in our system with a precision of one lattice period.

id: 1105.1443
title: Enhanced Coherence of a Quantum Doublet Coupled to Tomonaga-Luttinger Liquid Leads
authors: Antonio Cirillo, Matteo Mancini, Domenico Giuliano, Pasquale Sodano
comments: 36 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nuclear Physics, Section B 852 (2011), pp. 235-268
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1443
abstract: We use boundary field theory to describe the phases accessible to a tetrahedral qubit coupled to Josephson junction chains acting as Tomonaga-Luttinger liquid leads. We prove that, in a pertinent range of the fabrication and control parameters, an attractive finite coupling fixed point emerges due to the geometry of the composite Josephson junction network. We show that this new stable phase is characterized by the emergence of a quantum doublet which is robust not only against the noise in the external control parameters (magnetic flux, gate voltage) but also against the decoherence induced by the coupling of the tetrahedral qubit with the superconducting leads. We provide protocols allowing to read and to manipulate the state of the emerging quantum doublet and argue that a tetrahedral Josephson junction network operating near the new finite coupling fixed point may be fabricated with today's technologies.

id: 1105.1461
title: The Poincare-Birkhoff theorem in Quantum Mechanics
authors: D. A. Wisniacki, M. Saraceno, F. J. Arranz, R. M. Benito, F. Borondo
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, Full resolution figures available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1461
abstract: Quantum manifestations of the dynamics around resonant tori in perturbed Hamiltonian systems, dictated by the Poincar\'e--Birkhoff theorem, are shown to exist. They are embedded in the interactions involving states which differ in a number of quanta equal to the order of the classical resonance. Moreover, the associated classical phase space structures are mimicked in the quasiprobability density functions and their zeros.

id: 1105.1462
title: Field Tuning the G-Factor in InAs Nanowire Double Quantum Dots
authors: M. D. Schroer, K. D. Petersson, M. Jung, J. R. Petta
comments: Related papers at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 176811 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1462
abstract: We study the effects of magnetic and electric fields on the g-factors of spins confined in a two-electron InAs nanowire double quantum dot. Spin sensitive measurements are performed by monitoring the leakage current in the Pauli blockade regime. Rotations of single spins are driven using electric-dipole spin resonance. The g-factors are extracted from the spin resonance condition as a function of the magnetic field direction, allowing determination of the full g-tensor. Electric and magnetic field tuning can be used to maximize the g-factor difference and in some cases altogether quench the EDSR response, allowing selective single spin control.

id: 1105.1545
title: Quantum Langevin model for exoergic ion-molecule reactions and inelastic processes
authors: Bo Gao
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 83, 062712 (2011)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1545
abstract: We presents a fully quantal version of the Langevin model for the total rate of exoergic ion-molecule reactions or inelastic processes. The model, which is derived from a rigorous multichannel quantum-defect formulation of bimolecular processes, agrees with the classical Langevin model at sufficiently high temperatures. It also gives the first analytic description of ion-molecule reactions and inelastic processes in the ultracold regime where the quantum nature of the relative motion between the reactants becomes important.

id: 1105.1585
title: Spinor with Schr\" odinger symmetry and non-relativistic supersymmetry
authors: Hiroshi Yoda, Shin'ichi Nojiri
comments: 9 pages; version to appear in Physics Letters B
journal: Phys. Lett. B702 (2011) 69--74
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1585
abstract: We construct the $d$ dimensional "half" Schr\"odinger equation, which is a kind of the root of the Schr\"odinger equation, from the $d+1$ dimensional free Dirac equation. The solution of the "half" Schr\"odinger equation also satisfies the usual free Schr\"odinger equation. We also find that the explicit transformation laws of the Schr\"odinger and the half Schr\"odinger fields under the Schr\"odinger symmetry transformation are derived by starting from the Klein-Gordon equation and the Dirac equation in $d+1$ dimensions. We derive the 3 and 4 dimensional super-Schr\"odinger algebra from the superconformal algebra in 4 and 5 dimensions. The algebra is realized by introducing two complex scalar and one complex) spinor fields and the explicit transformation properties have been found.

id: 1105.1794
title: Small-Energy Analysis for the Selfadjoint Matrix Schroedinger Operator on the Half Line
authors: Tuncay Aktosun, Martin Klaus, Ricardo Weder
comments: This published version has been edited to improve the presentation of the results
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics vol 52 (2011) 102101
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1794
abstract: The matrix Schroedinger equation with a selfadjoint matrix potential is considered on the half line with the most general selfadjoint boundary condition at the origin. When the matrix potential is integrable and has a first moment, it is shown that the corresponding scattering matrix is continuous at zero energy. An explicit formula is provided for the scattering matrix at zero energy. The small-energy asymptotics are established also for the corresponding Jost matrix, its inverse, and various other quantities relevant to the corresponding direct and inverse scattering problems.

id: 1105.1803
title: On the Quantum Creation of Matter in the Expanding Universe
authors: Natalia Gorobey, Alexander Lukyanenko
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1803
abstract: Quantum Action Principle which has been used as a ground for a probabilistic interpretation of one-particle relativistic quantum mechanics \cite{GLL} is applied to quantum cosmology. The quantum creation of matter in a minisuperspace model with one homogeneous scalar field is considered. The initial state of the universe is defined as a stationary ground state of the Hamiltonian with the Euclidean signature in which the mean value of the universe radius is equal to the Plank length and the number of the scalar field quanta is equal zero. We interpret the change of the signature as the universe "birth". From this moment of time the dynamics of the scale factor is considered as classical. The real phase of the amplitude of the creation process is taken as a quantum action. The balance between matter and gravitation energies in the creation process is fulfilled by the condition of the stationarity of the quantum action with respect to the internal time of the universe.

id: 1105.1812
title: Contextual Risk and Its Relevance in Economics
authors: Diederik Aerts, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Journal of Engineering Science and Technology Review, 4, pp. 241-245, 2012
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); General Finance (q-fin.GN); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1812
abstract: Uncertainty in economics still poses some fundamental problems illustrated, e.g., by the Allais and Ellsberg paradoxes. To overcome these difficulties, economists have introduced an interesting distinction between 'risk' and 'ambiguity' depending on the existence of a (classical Kolmogorovian) probabilistic structure modeling these uncertainty situations. On the other hand, evidence of everyday life suggests that 'context' plays a fundamental role in human decisions under uncertainty. Moreover, it is well known from physics that any probabilistic structure modeling contextual interactions between entities structurally needs a non-Kolmogorovian quantum-like framework. In this paper we introduce the notion of 'contextual risk' with the aim of modeling a substantial part of the situations in which usually only 'ambiguity' is present. More precisely, we firstly introduce the essentials of an operational formalism called 'the hidden measurement approach' in which probability is introduced as a consequence of fluctuations in the interaction between entities and contexts. Within the hidden measurement approach we propose a 'sphere model' as a mathematical tool for situations in which contextual risk occurs. We show that a probabilistic model of this kind is necessarily non-Kolmogorovian, hence it requires either the formalism of quantum mechanics or a generalization of it. This insight is relevant, for it explains the presence of quantum or, better, quantum-like, structures in economics, as suggested by some authors, and can serve to solve the aforementioned paradoxes.

id: 1105.1814
title: A Contextual Risk Model for the Ellsberg Paradox
authors: Diederik Aerts, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Journal of Engineering Science and Technology Review, 4, pp. 246-250, 2012
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); General Finance (q-fin.GN); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1814
abstract: The Allais and Ellsberg paradoxes show that the expected utility hypothesis and Savage's Sure-Thing Principle are violated in real life decisions. The popular explanation in terms of 'ambiguity aversion' is not completely accepted. On the other hand, we have recently introduced a notion of 'contextual risk' to mathematically capture what is known as 'ambiguity' in the economics literature. Situations in which contextual risk occurs cannot be modeled by Kolmogorovian classical probabilistic structures, but a non-Kolmogorovian framework with a quantum-like structure is needed. We prove in this paper that the contextual risk approach can be applied to the Ellsberg paradox, and elaborate a 'sphere model' within our 'hidden measurement formalism' which reveals that it is the overall conceptual landscape that is responsible of the disagreement between actual human decisions and the predictions of expected utility theory, which generates the paradox. This result points to the presence of a 'quantum conceptual layer' in human thought which is superposed to the usually assumed 'classical logical layer'.

id: 1105.1817
title: Synthetic gauge fields and homodyne transmission in Jaynes-Cummings lattices
authors: A. Nunnenkamp, Jens Koch, S. M. Girvin
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 095008 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1817
abstract: Many-body physics is traditionally concerned with systems of interacting massive particles. Recent studies of effective interactions between photons, induced in the circuit QED architecture by coupling the microwave field to superconducting qubits, have paved the way for photon-based many-body physics. We derive the magnitude and intrinsic signs of photon hopping amplitudes in such circuit QED arrays. For a finite, ring-shaped Jaynes-Cummings lattice exposed to a synthetic gauge field we show that degeneracies in the single-excitation spectrum emerge, which can give rise to strong correlations for the interacting system with multiple excitations. We calculate the homodyne transmission for such a device, explain the generalization of vacuum Rabi splittings known for the single-site Jaynes-Cummings model, and identify fingerprints of interactions beyond the linear response regime.

id: 1105.1842
title: Property Testing for Cyclic Groups and Beyond
authors: Francois Le Gall, Yuichi Yoshida
comments: 15 pages, full version of a paper to appear in the proceedings of COCOON'11. v2: Ref. [14] added and a few modifications to Appendix A done
journal: 
subjects: Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1842
abstract: This paper studies the problem of testing if an input (Gamma,*), where Gamma is a finite set of unknown size and * is a binary operation over Gamma given as an oracle, is close to a specified class of groups. Friedl et al. [Efficient testing of groups, STOC'05] have constructed an efficient tester using poly(log|Gamma|) queries for the class of abelian groups. We focus in this paper on subclasses of abelian groups, and show that these problems are much harder: Omega(|Gamma|^{1/6}) queries are necessary to test if the input is close to a cyclic group, and Omega(|Gamma|^c) queries for some constant c are necessary to test more generally if the input is close to an abelian group generated by k elements, for any fixed integer k>0. We also show that knowledge of the size of the ground set Gamma helps only for k=1, in which case we construct an efficient tester using poly(log|Gamma|) queries; for any other value k>1 the query complexity remains Omega(|Gamma|^c). All our upper and lower bounds hold for both the edit distance and the Hamming distance. These are, to the best of our knowledge, the first nontrivial lower bounds for such group-theoretic problems in the property testing model and, in particular, they imply the first exponential separations between the classical and quantum query complexities of testing closeness to classes of groups.

id: 1105.1897
title: Large scale EPR correlations and cosmic gravitational waves
authors: B. Lamine, R. Herv¨¦, M.-T. Jaekel, A. Lambrecht, S. Reynaud
comments: 5 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 95 (2011), 20004
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1897
abstract: We study how quantum correlations survive at large scales in spite of their exposition to stochastic backgrounds of gravitational waves. We consider Einstein-Podolski-Rosen (EPR) correlations built up on the polarizations of photon pairs and evaluate how they are affected by the cosmic gravitational wave background (CGWB). We evaluate the quantum decoherence of the EPR correlations in terms of a reduction of the violation of the Bell inequality as written by Clauser, Horne, Shimony and Holt (CHSH). We show that this decoherence remains small and that EPR correlations can in principle survive up to the largest cosmic scales.

id: 1105.1921
title: Gravitationally induced inhibitions of dispersion according to the Schr?dinger-Newton Equation
authors: Domenico Giulini, Andr¨¦ Gro?ardt
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 28 (2011) 195026
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1921
abstract: We re-consider the time dependent Schr\"odinger-Newton equation as a model for the self-gravitational interaction of a quantum system. We numerically locate the onset of gravitationally induced inhibitions of dispersion of Gaussian wave packets and find them to occur at mass values more than 6 orders of magnitude higher than reported by Salzman and Carlip (2006, 2008), namely at about $10^{10}\,\mathrm{u}$. This fits much better to simple analytical estimates but unfortunately also questions the experimental realisability of the proposed laboratory test of quantum gravity in the foreseeable future, not just because of large masses, but also because of the need to provide sufficiently long coherence times.

id: 1105.2014
title: p-Wave cold collisions in an optical lattice clock
authors: N. D. Lemke, J. von Stecher, J. A. Sherman, A. M. Rey, C. W. Oates, A. D. Ludlow
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 103902 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2014
abstract: We study ultracold collisions in fermionic ytterbium by precisely measuring the energy shifts they impart on the atom's internal clock states. Exploiting Fermi statistics, we uncover p-wave collisions, in both weakly and strongly interacting regimes. With the higher density afforded by two-dimensional lattice confinement, we demonstrate that strong interactions can lead to a novel suppression of this collision shift. In addition to reducing the systematic errors of lattice clocks, this work has application to quantum information and quantum simulation with alkaline-earth atoms.

id: 1105.2086
title: Synchronization of many nano-mechanical resonators coupled via a common cavity field
authors: C. A. Holmes, C. P. Meaney, G. J. Milburn
comments: 23 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2086
abstract: Using amplitude equations, we show that groups of identical nano-mechanical resonators, interacting with a common mode of a cavity microwave field, synchronize to form a single mechanical mode which couples to the cavity with a strength dependent on the square sum of the individual mechanical-microwave couplings. Classically this system is dominated by periodic behaviour which, when analyzed using amplitude equations, can be shown to exhibit multi-stability. In contrast groups of sufficiently dissimilar nano-mechanical oscillators may lose synchronization and oscillate out of phase at significantly higher amplitudes. Further the method by which synchronization is lost resembles that for large amplitude forcing which is not of the Kuramoto form.

id: 1105.2119
title: Shortcuts to adiabaticity for trapped ultracold gases
authors: Jean-Fran?ois Schaff, Pablo Capuzzi, Guillaume Labeyrie, Patrizia Vignolo
comments: 36 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2119
abstract: We study, experimentally and theoretically, the controlled transfer of harmonically trapped ultracold gases between different quantum states. In particular we experimentally demonstrate a fast decompression and displacement of both a non-interacting gas and an interacting Bose-Einstein condensate which are initially at equilibrium. The decompression parameters are engineered such that the final state is identical to that obtained after a perfectly adiabatic transformation despite the fact that the fast decompression is performed in the strongly non-adiabatic regime. During the transfer the atomic sample goes through strongly out-of-equilibrium states while the external confinement is modified until the system reaches the desired stationary state. The scheme is theoretically based on the invariants of motion and scaling equations techniques and can be generalized to decompression trajectories including an arbitrary deformation of the trap. It is also directly applicable to arbitrary initial non-equilibrium states.

id: 1105.2155
title: Optical nanofibers and spectroscopy
authors: R. Garcia-Fernandez, W. Alt, F. Bruse, C. Dan, K. Karapetyan, O. Rehband, A. Stiebeiner, U. Wiedemann, D. Meschede, A. Rauschenbeutel
comments: 13 pages, 18 figures. Accepted for publication in Applied Physics B. Changes according to referee suggestions: changed title, clarification of some points in the text, added references, replacement of Figure 13a
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2155
abstract: We review our recent progress in the production and characterization of tapered optical fibers with a sub-wavelength diameter waist. Such fibers exhibit a pronounced evanescent field and are therefore a useful tool for highly sensitive evanescent wave spectroscopy of adsorbates on the fiber waist or of the medium surrounding. We use a carefully designed flame pulling process that allows us to realize preset fiber diameter profiles. In order to determine the waist diameter and to verify the fiber profile, we employ scanning electron microscope measurements and a novel accurate in situ optical method based on harmonic generation. We use our fibers for linear and non-linear absorption and fluorescence spectroscopy of surface-adsorbed organic molecules and investigate their agglomeration dynamics. Furthermore, we apply our spectroscopic method to quantum dots on the surface of the fiber waist and to caesium vapor surrounding the fiber. Finally, towards dispersive measurements, we present our first results on building and testing a single-fiber bi-modal interferometer.

id: 1105.2185
title: Transport Properties through Double Barrier Structure in Graphene
authors: Ahmed Jellal, El Bouazzaoui Choubabi, Hocine Bahlouli, Abdullah Aljaafari
comments: 18 pages, 12 figures, clarifications and reference added, misprints corrected. Version to appear in JLTP
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2185
abstract: The mode-dependent transmission of relativistic ballistic massless Dirac fermion through a graphene based double barrier structure is being investigated for various barrier parameters. We compare our results with already published work and point out the relevance of these findings to a systematic study of the transport properties in double barrier structures. An interesting situation arises when we set the potential in the leads to zero, then our 2D problem reduces effectively to a 1D massive Dirac equation with an effective mass proportional to the quantized wave number along the transverse direction. Furthermore we have shown that the minimal conductivity and maximal Fano factor remain insensitive to the ratio between the two potentials V_2/V_1=\alpha.

id: 1105.2189
title: The two-level atom laser: analytical results and the laser transition
authors: Paul Gartner
comments: 23 pages, 3 figures. Extended discussion of the paper aim (in the Introduction) and of the results (Conclusions and Discussion). Results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A84, 053804 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2189
abstract: The problem of the two-level atom laser is studied analytically. The steady-state solution is expressed as a continued fraction, and allows for accurate approximation by rational functions. Moreover, we show that the abrupt change observed in the pump dependence of the steady-state population is directly connected with the transition to the lasing regime. The condition for a sharp transition to Poissonian statistics is expressed as a scaling limit of vanishing cavity loss and light-matter coupling, $\kappa \to 0$, $g \to 0$, such that $g^2/\kappa$ stays finite and $g^2/\kappa > 2 \gamma$, where $\gamma$ is the rate of atomic losses. The same scaling procedure is also shown to describe a similar change to Poisson distribution in the Scully-Lamb laser model too, suggesting that the low-$\kappa$, low-$g$ asymptotics is of a more general significance for the laser transition.

id: 1105.2190
title: Spectroscopic Studies of Some Diatomic Molecules using Spectrum Generating Algebra Approach
authors: K. J. Oyewumi, K. D. Sen
comments: 28 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2190
abstract: For arbitrary values n and l quantum numbers, we present the solutions of the 3-dimensional Schrodinger wave equation with the pseudoharmonic potential via SU(1,1) Spectrum Generating Algebra (SGA) approach. The explicit bound state energies and eigenfunctions are obtained. The matrix elements r2 and r d/dr are obtained (in a closed form) directly from the creation and annihilation operators. In addition, the expectation values of r2 and p2 and the Heisenberg Uncertainty Products (HUP) for set of diatomic molecules (O2, I2, N2, H2, CO, NO, HCl, CH, LiH, ScH, TiH, VH, CrH, MnH, TiC, NiC, ScN, ScF, Ar2) for arbitrary values of n and l quantum numbers are obtained. The results obtained are in excellent agreement with the available results in the literature. It is also shown that the HUP is obeyed for all diatomic molecules considered.

id: 1105.2276
title: Finite Temperature Scaling, Bounds, and Inequalities for the Non-interacting Density Functionals
authors: James W. Dufty, S.B. Trickey
comments: submitted for publication in Phys. Rev. B
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2276
abstract: Finite temperature density functional theory requires representations for the internal energy, entropy, and free energy as functionals of the local density field. A central formal difficulty for an orbital-free representation is construction of the corresponding functionals for non-interacting particles in an arbitrary external potential. That problem is posed here in the context of the equilibrium statistical mechanics of an inhomogeneous system. The density functionals are defined and shown to be equal to the extremal state for a functional of the reduced one-particle statistical operators. Convexity of the latter functionals implies a class of general inequalities. First, it is shown that the familiar von Weizs\"acker lower bound for zero temperature functionals applies at finite temperature as well. An upper bound is obtained in terms of a single-particle statistical operator corresponding to the Thomas-Fermi approximation. Next, the behavior of the density functionals under coordinate scaling is obtained. The inequalities are exploited to obtain a class of upper and lower bounds at constant temperature, and a complementary class at constant density. The utility of such constraints and their relationship to corresponding results at zero temperature are discussed.

id: 1105.2342
title: Nonclassical Degrees of Freedom in the Riemann Hamiltonian
authors: Mark Srednicki
comments: 4 pages, no figures; v3-6 have minor corrections to v2, v2 has a more complete solution of the sign problem than v1
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 100201 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Number Theory (math.NT); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2342
abstract: The Hilbert-Polya conjecture states that the imaginary parts of the zeros of the Riemann zeta function are eigenvalues of a quantum hamiltonian. If so, conjectures by Katz and Sarnak put this hamiltonian in Altland and Zirnbauer's universality class C. This implies that the system must have a nonclassical two-valued degree of freedom. In such a system, the dominant primitive periodic orbits contribute to the density of states with a phase factor of -1. This resolves a previously mysterious sign problem with the oscillatory contributions to the density of the Riemann zeros.

id: 1105.2418
title: Strong coupling expansion for the Bose-Hubbard and the Jaynes-Cummings lattice model
authors: Christoph Heil, Wolfgang von der Linden
comments: 29 pages, 21 figures
journal: 2012 J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 24 295601
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2418
abstract: A strong coupling expansion, based on the Kato-Bloch perturbation theory, which has recently been proposed by Eckardt et al. [Phys. Rev. B 79, 195131] and Teichmann et al. [Phys. Rev. B 79, 224515] is implemented in order to study various aspects of the Bose-Hubbard and the Jaynes-Cummings lattice model. The approach, which allows to generate numerically all diagrams up to a desired order in the interaction strength is generalized for disordered systems and for the Jaynes-Cummings lattice model. Results for the Bose-Hubbard and the Jaynes-Cummings lattice model will be presented and compared with results from VCA and DMRG. Our focus will be on the Mott insulator to superfluid transition.

id: 1105.2482
title: Binary mixtures of condensates in generic confining potentials
authors: P. Facchi, G. Florio, S. Pascazio, F. V. Pepe
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 505305
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2482
abstract: We study a binary mixture of Bose-Einstein condensates, confined in a generic potential, in the Thomas-Fermi approximation. We search for the zero-temperature ground state of the system, both in the case of fixed numbers of particles and fixed chemical potentials.

id: 1105.2495
title: Deconstructing non-dissipative non-Dirac-hermitian relativistic quantum systems
authors: Pijush K. Ghosh
comments: 11 pages, LaTeX, no figures
journal: Phys.Lett.A375:3250-3254,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2495
abstract: A method to construct non-dissipative non-Dirac-hermitian relativistic quantum system that is isospectral with a Dirac-hermitian Hamiltonian is presented. The general technique involves a realization of the basic canonical (anti-)commutation relations involving the Dirac matrices and the bosonic degrees of freedom in terms of non-Dirac-hermitian operators, which are hermitian in a Hilbert space that is endowed with a pre-determined positive-definite metric. Several examples of exactly solvable non-dissipative non-Dirac-hermitian relativistic quantum systems are presented by establishing/employing a connection between Dirac equation and supersymmetry

id: 1105.2556
title: Asymptotic eigenvalue distributions of block-transposed Wishart matrices
authors: Teodor Banica, Ion Nechita
comments: 
journal: J. Theoret. Probab. 26 (2013), 855-869
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2556
abstract: We study the partial transposition ${W}^\Gamma=(\mathrm{id}\otimes \mathrm{t})W\in M_{dn}(\mathbb C)$ of a Wishart matrix $W\in M_{dn}(\mathbb C)$ of parameters $(dn,dm)$. Our main result is that, with $d\to\infty$, the law of $m{W}^\Gamma$ is a free difference of free Poisson laws of parameters $m(n\pm 1)/2$. Motivated by questions in quantum information theory, we also derive necessary and sufficient conditions for these measures to be supported on the positive half line.

id: 1105.2583
title: Finite bias Cooper pair splitting
authors: L. Hofstetter, S. Csonka, A. Baumgartner, F¨¹l?p, S. d'Hollosy, J. Nyg?rd, C. Sch?nenberger
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 136801 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2583
abstract: In a device with a superconductor coupled to two parallel quantum dots (QDs) the electrical tunability of the QD levels can be used to exploit non-classical current correlations due to the splitting of Cooper pairs. We experimentally investigate the effect of a finite potential difference across one quantum dot on the conductance through the other completely grounded QD in a Cooper pair splitter fabricated on an InAs nanowire. We demonstrate that the electrical transport through the device can be tuned by electrical means to be dominated either by Cooper pair splitting (CPS), or by elastic co-tunneling (EC). The basic experimental findings can be understood by considering the energy dependent density of states in a QD. The reported experiments add bias-dependent spectroscopy to the investigative tools necessary to develop CPS-based sources of entangled electrons in solid-state devices.

id: 1105.2637
title: Two interacting particles in a random potential
authors: Dmitry O. Krimer, Ramaz Khomeriki, Sergej Flach
comments: 
journal: JETP Letters 94, 406 (2011)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2637
abstract: We study the scaling of the localization length of two interacting particles in a one-dimensional random lattice with the single particle localization length. We obtain several regimes, among them one interesting weak Fock space disorder regime. In this regime we derive a weak logarithmic scaling law. Numerical data support the absence of any strong enhancement of the two particle localization length.

id: 1105.2709
title: Three-by-three bound entanglement with general unextendible product bases
authors: ?ukasz Skowronek
comments: 36 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2709
abstract: We discuss the subject of Unextendible Product Bases with the orthogonality condition dropped and we prove that the lowest rank non-separable positive-partial-transpose states, i.e. states of rank 4 in 3 x 3 systems are always locally equivalent to a projection onto the orthogonal complement of a linear subspace spanned by an orthogonal Unextendible Product Basis. The product vectors in the kernels of the states belong to a non-zero measure subset of all general Unextendible Product Bases, nevertheless they can always be locally transformed to the orthogonal form. This fully confirms the surprising numerical results recently reported by Leinaas et al. Parts of the paper rely heavily on the use of Bezout's Theorem from algebraic geometry.

id: 1105.2775
title: Seeing topological order in time-of-flight measurements
authors: E. Alba, X. Fernandez-Gonzalvo, J. Mur-Petit, J. K. Pachos, J. J. Garcia-Ripoll
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 235301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2775
abstract: In this work we provide a general methodology to directly measure topological order in cold atom systems. As an application we propose the realisation of a characteristic topological model, introduced by Haldane, using optical lattices loaded with fermionic atoms in two internal states. We demonstrate that time-of-flight measurements directly reveal the topological order of the system in the form of momentum space skyrmions.

id: 1105.2886
title: Nonlinear Waves and Coherent Structures in the Quantum Single-Wave Model
authors: Stephan I. Tzenov, Kiril B. Marinov
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Plasmas 18, 102312 (2011)
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2886
abstract: Starting from the von Neumann-Maxwell equations for the Wigner quasi-probability distribution and for the self-consistent electric field, the quantum analog of the classical single-wave model has been derived. The linear stability of the quantum single-wave model has been studied, and periodic in time patterns have been found both analytically and numerically. In addition, some features of quantum chaos have been detected in the unstable region in parameter space. Further, a class of standing-wave solutions of the quantum single-wave model has also been found, which have been observed to behave as stable solitary-wave structures. The analytical results have been finally compared to the exact system dynamics obtained by solving the corresponding equations in Schrodinger representation numerically.

id: 1105.3071
title: Deflection of Rotating Symmetric Molecules by Inhomogeneous Fields
authors: Erez Gershnabel, Ilya Sh. Averbukh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3071
abstract: We consider deflection of rotating symmetric molecules by inhomogeneous optical and static electric fields, compare results with the case of linear molecules, and find new singularities in the distribution of the scattering angle. Scattering of the prolate/oblate molecules is analyzed in detail, and it is shown that the process can be efficiently controlled by means of short and strong femtosecond laser pulses. In particular, the angular dispersion of the deflected molecules may be dramatically reduced by laser-induced molecular pre-alignment. We first study the problem by using a simple classical model, and then find similar results by means of more sophisticated methods, including the formalism of adiabatic invariants and direct numerical simulation of the Euler-Lagrange equations of motion. The suggested control scheme opens new ways for many applications involving molecular focusing, guiding, and trapping by optical and static fields.

id: 1105.3233
title: Precision calculation of blackbody radiation shifts for optical frequency metrology
authors: M. S. Safronova, M. G. Kozlov, Charles W. Clark
comments: 5 pages; v2: final version, significant editing done, no changes in results/interpretation
journal: PRL, v.107, 143006 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3233
abstract: We show that three group IIIB divalent ions, B+, Al+, and In+, have anomalously small blackbody radiation (BBR) shifts of the ns^2 1S0 - nsnp 3P0 clock transitions. The fractional BBR shifts for these ions are at least 10 times smaller than those of any other present or proposed optical frequency standards at the same temperature, and are less than 0.3% of the Sr clock shift. We have developed a hybrid configuration interaction + coupled-cluster method that provides accurate treatment of correlation corrections in such ions, considers all relevant states in the same systematic way, and yields a rigorous upper bound on the uncertainty of the final results. We reduce the BBR contribution to the fractional frequency uncertainty of the Al+ clock to 4 \times 10^{-19} at T=300K. We also reduce the uncertainties due to this effect at room temperature to 10^{-18} level for B+ and In+ to facilitate further development of these systems for metrology and quantum sensing. These uncertainties approach recent estimates of the feasible precision of currently proposed optical atomic clocks.

id: 1105.3238
title: Conjectures and questions in convex geometry (of interest for quantum theory and other physical statistical theories)
authors: P.G.L. Porta Mana
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Metric Geometry (math.MG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3238
abstract: Some conjectures and open problems in convex geometry are presented, and their physical origin, meaning, and importance, for quantum theory and generic statistical theories, are briefly discussed.

id: 1105.3243
title: Higher time derivatives, stability and Fermi Statistics
authors: Justo Lopez-Sarrion, Carlos M. Reyes
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3243
abstract: We show that statistics is crucial for the instability problem derived from higher time derivatives. In fact, and contrary to previous statements, we check that when dealing with Fermi systems, the Hamiltonian is well bounded and the quantum states are normalizable. Although, ghost states are still present, they do not affect unitarity under certain conditions. We first analyze a quantum oscillator involving Grassman variables and then we generalize it to a Dirac field. Finally, we discuss some physical implications

id: 1105.3318
title: Macroscopic quantum tunneling in nanoelectromechanical systems
authors: Mika A. Sillanpaa, Raphael Khan, Tero T. Heikkila, Pertti J. Hakonen
comments: 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 195433 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3318
abstract: The experimental observation of quantum phenomena in mechanical degrees of freedom is difficult, as the systems become linear towards low energies and the quantum limit, and thus reside in the correspondence limit. Here we investigate how to access quantum phenomena in flexural nanomechanical systems which are strongly deflected by a voltage. Near a metastable point, one can achieve a significant nonlinearity in the electromechanical potential at the scale of zero point energy. The system could then escape from the metastable state via macroscopic quantum tunneling (MQT). We consider two model systems suspended atop a voltage gate, namely, a graphene sheet, and a carbon nanotube. We find that the experimental demonstration of the phenomenon is currently possible but demanding, since the MQT crossover temperatures fall in the milli-Kelvin range. A carbon nanotube is suggested as the most promising system.

id: 1105.3349
title: The electron effective mass in the strongly correlated 2D-uniform electron fluid from finite-temperature calculations
authors: M.W.C. Dharma-wardana
comments: 7 prb-style pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3349
abstract: The very-low temperature thermal effective mass m* of paramagnetic and ferromagnetic electrons in a uniform electron fluid in two dimensions is studied. Analytical and numerical evaluations are used to meaningfully define an m*, even in the the Hartree-Fock approximation. The Hartree-Fock m* decreases linearly with the electron-disk radius r_s. Correlation effects lead to strong cancellations between exchange and correlation. Thus the effective mass is enhanced with increasing r_s for the unpolarized fluid, while m* decreases with the r_s of the polarized fluid. The effective mass is calculated from the coefficient of the quadratic temperature dependence of exchange-correlation free energy F_{xc}. This is calculated in a physically transparent manner using a new formula for the effective mass. This uses the T=0 pair-distribution functions of Gori-Giorgi et al., and the temperature derivative of a quantum analogue of the potential of mean-force well known in the statistical mechanics of classical fluids. The results are compared with recent quantum Monte-Carlo simulations at T=0, as well as with other available experimental and theoretical data for the effective mass.

id: 1105.3395
title: Magnetic Resonance Force Microscopy of paramagnetic electron spins at millikelvin temperatures
authors: A. Vinante, G. Wijts, O. Usenko, L. Schinkelshoek, T. H. Oosterkamp
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature Communications 2, 572 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3395
abstract: Magnetic Resonance Force Microscopy (MRFM) is a powerful technique to detect a small number of spins that relies on force-detection by an ultrasoft magnetically tipped cantilever and selective magnetic resonance manipulation of the spins. MRFM would greatly benefit from ultralow temperature operation, because of lower thermomechanical noise and increased thermal spin polarization. Here, we demonstrate MRFM operation at temperatures as low as 30 mK, thanks to a recently developed SQUID-based cantilever detection technique which avoids cantilever overheating. In our experiment, we detect dangling bond paramagnetic centers on a silicon surface down to millikelvin temperatures. Fluctuations of such kind of defects are supposedly linked to 1/f magnetic noise and decoherence in SQUIDs as well as in several superconducting and single spin qubits. We find evidence that spin diffusion plays a key role in the low temperature spin dynamics.

id: 1105.3420
title: Strongly Coupled Chameleons and the Neutronic Quantum Bouncer
authors: Philippe Brax, Guillaume Pignol
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, coincides with the PRL version
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3420
abstract: We consider the potential detection of chameleons using bouncing ultracold neutrons. We show that the presence of a chameleon field over a planar plate would alter the energy levels of ultra cold neutrons in the terrestrial gravitational field. When chameleons are strongly coupled to nuclear matter, $\beta\gtrsim 10^8$, we find that the shift in energy levels would be detectable with the forthcoming GRANIT experiment, where a sensitivity of order one percent of a peV is expected. We also find that an extremely large coupling $\beta\gtrsim 10^{11}$ would lead to new bound states at a distance of order 2 microns, which is already ruled out by previous Grenoble experiments. The resulting bound, $\beta\lesssim 10^{11}$, is already three orders of magnitude better than the upper bound, $\beta\lesssim 10^{14}$, from precision tests of atomic spectra.

id: 1105.3432
title: Rotation of quantum liquid without singular vortex lines
authors: Yakov Greenberg, Vladimir Zelevinsky
comments: 17 pages, 57 References. Introduction and Conclusion Sections were modified with more references added. Accepted for publication in J. Phys A: Math. and Theor
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 035001 (2012)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3432
abstract: The operator equations for quantum hydrodynamics are discussed and solved in a simple cylindrical geometry. We find a solution with the velocity curl "frozen" into a density of the liquid in the absence of singular vortex lines. The spectrum of small oscillations around this solution is found as a generalization of the standard phonon spectrum, and the stability of the solution is demonstrated.

id: 1105.3483
title: Hole-doped semiconductor nanowire on top of an s-wave superconductor: A new and experimentally accessible system for Majorana fermions
authors: Li Mao, Ming Gong, E. Dumitrescu, Sumanta Tewari, Chuanwei Zhang
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 177001 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3483
abstract: Majorana fermions were envisioned by E. Majorana in 1935 to describe neutrinos. Recently it has been shown that they can be realized even in a class of electron-doped semiconductors, on which ordinary s-wave superconductivity is proximity induced, provided the time reversal symmetry is broken by an external Zeeman field above a threshold. Here we show that in a hole-doped semiconductor nanowire the threshold Zeeman field for Majorana fermions can be very small for some magic values of the hole density. In contrast to the electron-doped systems, smaller Zeeman fields and much stronger spin-orbit coupling and effective mass of holes allow the hole-doped systems to support Majorana fermions in a parameter regime which is routinely realized in current experiments.

id: 1105.3529
title: Hidden Order and Dynamics in Supersymmetric Valence Bond Solid States -- Super-Matrix Product State Formalism
authors: Kazuki Hasebe, Keisuke Totsuka
comments: 20 pages, a problem with PdfLaTeX fixed. supplementary material is available upon request
journal: Phys.Rev.B 84, 104426 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3529
abstract: Supersymmetric valence bond solid models are extensions of the VBS model, a paradigmatic model of `solvable' gapped quantum antiferromagnets, to the case with doped fermionic holes. In this paper, we present a detailed analysis of physical properties of the models. For systematic studies, a supersymmetric version of the matrix product formalism is developed. On 1D chains, we exactly evaluate the hole-doping behavior of various physical quantities, such as the spin/charge excitation spectrum, superconducting order parameter. A generalized hidden order is proposed, and the corresponding string non-local order parameter is also calculated. The behavior of the string order parameter is discussed in the light of the entanglement spectrum.

id: 1105.3535
title: Synthetic magnetic fluxes on the honeycomb lattice
authors: Agnieszka G¨®recka, Beno?t Gr¨¦maud, Christian Miniatura
comments: 12 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3535
abstract: We devise experimental schemes able to mimic uniform and staggered magnetic fluxes acting on ultracold two-electron atoms, such as ytterbium atoms, propagating in a honeycomb lattice. The atoms are first trapped into two independent state-selective triangular lattices and are further exposed to a suitable configuration of resonant Raman laser beams. These beams induce hops between the two triangular lattices and make atoms move in a honeycomb lattice. Atoms traveling around each unit cell of this honeycomb lattice pick up a nonzero phase. In the uniform case, the artificial magnetic flux sustained by each cell can reach about two flux quanta, thereby realizing a cold atom analogue of the Harper model with its notorious Hofstadter's butterfly structure. Different condensed-matter phenomena such as the relativistic integer and fractional quantum Hall effects, as observed in graphene samples, could be targeted with this scheme.

id: 1105.3579
title: A test of "fluctuation theorem" in non-Markovian open quantum systems
authors: Tatsuro Kawamoto, Naomichi Hatano
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3579
abstract: We study fluctuation theorems for open quantum systems with a non-Markovian heat bath using the approach of quantum master equations and examine the physical quantities that appear in those fluctuation theorems. The approach of Markovian quantum master equations to the fluctuation theorems was developed by Esposito and Mukamel [Phys. Rev. E {\bf73}, 046129 (2006)]. We show that their discussion can be formally generalized to the case of a non-Markovian heat bath when the local system is linearly connected to a Gaussian heat bath with the spectrum distribution of the Drude form. We found by numerically simulating the spin-boson model in non-Markovian regime that the "detailed balance" condition is well satisfied except in a strongly non-equilibrium transient situation, and hence our generalization of the definition of the "entropy production" is almost always legitimate. Therefore, our generalization of the fluctuation theorem seems meaningful in wide regions.

id: 1105.3604
title: Six-dimensional space-time from quaternionic quantum mechanics
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Eva-Maria Graefe
comments: final version to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys. Rev. D 84, 125016 (2011)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3604
abstract: Quaternionic quantum Hamiltonians describing nonrelativistic spin particles require the ambient physical space to have five dimensions. The quantum dynamics of a spin-1/2 particle system characterised by a generic such Hamiltonian is worked out in detail. It is shown that there exists, within the structure of quaternionic quantum mechanics, a canonical reduction to three spatial dimensions upon which standard quantum theory is retrieved. In this dimensional reduction, three of the five dynamical variables are shown to oscillate around a cylinder, thus behaving in a quasi one-dimensional manner at large distances. An analogous mechanism is shown to exist in the case of octavic Hamiltonians, where the ambient physical space has nine dimensions. Possible experimental tests in search for the signature of extra dimensions at low energies are briefly discussed.

id: 1105.3611
title: Gauge fields emerging from time reversal symmetry breaking for spin-5/2 fermions in a honeycomb lattice
authors: Gergely Szirmai, Edina Szirmai, Alejandro Zamora, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys.Rev.A84:011611,2011
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3611
abstract: We propose an experimentally feasible setup with ultracold alkaline earth atoms to simulate the dynamics of U(1) lattice gauge theories in 2+1 dimensions with a Chern-Simons term. To this end we consider the ground state properties of spin-5/2 alkaline earth fermions in a honeycomb lattice. We use the Gutzwiller projected variational approach in the strongly repulsive regime in the case of filling 1/6. The ground state of the system is a chiral spin liquid state with $2\pi/3$ flux per plaquette, which spontaneously violates time reversal invariance. We demonstrate that due to the breaking of time reversal symmetry the system exhibits quantum Hall effect and chiral edge states. We relate the experimentally accessible spin fluctuations to the emerging gauge field dynamics. We discuss also properties of the lowest energy competing orders.

id: 1105.3660
title: A stability analysis of a real space split operator method for the Klein-Gordon equation
authors: Frederick Blumenthal, Heiko Bauke
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3660
abstract: We carry out a stability analysis for the real space split operator method for the propagation of the time-dependent Klein-Gordon equation that has been proposed Ruf et al. [M. Ruf, H. Bauke, C.H. Keitel, A real space split operator method for the Klein-Gordon equation, Journal of Computational Physics 228 (24) (2009) 9092-9106, doi:10.1016/j.jcp.2009.09.012]. The region of algebraic stability is determined analytically by means of a von-Neumann stability analysis for systems with homogeneous scalar and vector potentials. Algebraic stability implies convergence ofthe real space split operator method for smooth absolutely integrable initial conditions. In the limit of small spatial grid spacings $h$ in each of the $d$ spatial dimensions and small temporal steps $\tau$, the stability condition becomes $h/\tau>\sqrt{d}c$ for second order finite differences and $\sqrt{3}h/(2\tau)>\sqrt{d}c$ for fourth order finite differences, respectively, with $c$ denoting the speed of light. Furthermore, we demonstrate numerically that the stability region for systems with inhomogeneous potentials coincides almost with the region of algebraic stability for homogeneous potentials.

id: 1105.3670
title: Prepotential approach to solvable rational extensions of Harmonic Oscillator and Morse potentials
authors: C.-L. Ho
comments: 7 pages, no figures. Sect II considerably shortened, discussions on ground states added. Version to appear in J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52 (2011) 122107
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3670
abstract: We show how the recently discovered solvable rational extensions of Harmonic Oscillator and Morse potentials can be constructed in a direct and systematic way, without the need of supersymmetry, shape invariance, Darboux-Crum and Darboux-B\"acklund transformations

id: 1105.3745
title: Modulation of near-field heat transfer between two gratings
authors: Svend-Age Biehs, Felipe S.S. Rosa, Philippe Ben-Abdallah
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 98, 243102 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3745
abstract: We present a theoretical study of near-field heat transfer between two uniaxial anisotropic planar structures. We investigate how the distance and relative orientation (with respect to their optical axes) between the objects affect the heat flux. In particular, we show that by changing the angle between the optical axes it is possible in certain cases to modulate the net heat flux up to 90% at room temperature, and discuss possible applications of such a strong effect.

id: 1105.3764
title: Hydrodynamics, particle relabelling and relativity
authors: Peter Holland
comments: 21 pages
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys., 51, 667 (2012)
subjects: Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3764
abstract: Using the wave equation as an example, it is shown how to extend the hydrodynamic Lagrangian-picture method of constructing field evolution using a continuum of trajectories to second-order theories. The wave equation is represented through Eulerian-picture models that are distinguished by their Lorentz transformation properties. Introducing the idea of the relativity of the particle label, it is demonstrated how the corresponding trajectory models are compatible with the relativity principle. It is also shown how the Eulerian variational formulation may be obtained by canonical transformation from the Lagrangian picture, and how symmetries in the Lagrangian picture may be used to generate Eulerian conserved charges.

id: 1105.3772
title: Electron spin coherence exceeding seconds in high purity silicon
authors: Alexei M. Tyryshkin, Shinichi Tojo, John J. L. Morton, Helge Riemann, Nikolai V. Abrosimov, Peter Becker, Hans-Joachim Pohl, Thomas Schenkel, Michael L. W. Thewalt, Kohei M. Itoh, S. A. Lyon
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures, supplementary information
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3772
abstract: Silicon is undoubtedly one of the most promising semiconductor materials for spin-based information processing devices. Its highly advanced fabrication technology facilitates the transition from individual devices to large-scale processors, and the availability of an isotopically-purified $^{28}$Si form with no magnetic nuclei overcomes what is a main source of spin decoherence in many other materials. Nevertheless, the coherence lifetimes of electron spins in the solid state have typically remained several orders of magnitude lower than what can be achieved in isolated high-vacuum systems such as trapped ions. Here we examine electron spin coherence of donors in very pure $^{28}$Si material, with a residual $^{29}$Si concentration of less than 50 ppm and donor densities of $10^{14-15}$ per cm$^3$. We elucidate three separate mechanisms for spin decoherence, active at different temperatures, and extract a coherence lifetime $T_2$ up to 2 seconds. In this regime, we find the electron spin is sensitive to interactions with other donor electron spins separated by ~200 nm. We apply a magnetic field gradient in order to suppress such interactions and obtain an extrapolated electron spin $T_2$ of 10 seconds at 1.8 K. These coherence lifetimes are without peer in the solid state by several orders of magnitude and comparable with high-vacuum qubits, making electron spins of donors in silicon ideal components of a quantum computer, or quantum memories for systems such as superconducting qubits.

id: 1105.3781
title: Quantum measures and integrals
authors: Stan Gudder
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3781
abstract: We show that quantum measures and integrals appear naturally in any $L_2$-Hilbert space $H$. We begin by defining a decoherence operator $D(A,B)$ and it's associated $q$-measure operator $\mu (A)=D(A,A)$ on $H$. We show that these operators have certain positivity, additivity and continuity properties. If $\rho$ is a state on $H$, then $D_\rho (A,B)=\rmtr\sqbrac{\rho D(A,B)}$ and $\mu_\rho (A)=D_\rho (A,A)$ have the usual properties of a decoherence functional and $q$-measure, respectively. The quantization of a random variable $f$ is defined to be a certain self-adjoint operator $\fhat$ on $H$. Continuity and additivity properties of the map $f\mapsto\fhat$ are discussed. It is shown that if $f$ is nonnegative, then $\fhat$ is a positive operator. A quantum integral is defined by $\int fd\mu_\rho =\rmtr (\rho\fhat\,)$. A tail-sum formula is proved for the quantum integral. The paper closes with an example that illustrates some of the theory.

id: 1105.3795
title: A Scalable, Self-Analyzing Digital Locking System for use on Quantum Optics Experiments
authors: B. M. Sparkes, H. M. Chrzanowski, D. P. Parrain, B. C. Buchler, P. K. Lam, T. Symul
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 82, 075113 (2011)
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3795
abstract: Digital control of optics experiments has many advantages over analog control systems, specifically in terms of scalability, cost, flexibility, and the integration of system information into one location. We present a digital control system, freely available for download online, specifically designed for quantum optics experiments that allows for automatic and sequential re-locking of optical components. We show how the inbuilt locking analysis tools, including a white-noise network analyzer, can be used to help optimize individual locks, and verify the long term stability of the digital system. Finally, we present an example of the benefits of digital locking for quantum optics by applying the code to a specific experiment used to characterize optical Schrodinger cat states.

id: 1105.3796
title: The Multiverse Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Raphael Bousso, Leonard Susskind
comments: 46 pages, 13 figures. v2, v3: references added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3796
abstract: We argue that the many-worlds of quantum mechanics and the many worlds of the multiverse are the same thing, and that the multiverse is necessary to give exact operational meaning to probabilistic predictions from quantum mechanics. Decoherence - the modern version of wave-function collapse - is subjective in that it depends on the choice of a set of unmonitored degrees of freedom, the "environment". In fact decoherence is absent in the complete description of any region larger than the future light-cone of a measurement event. However, if one restricts to the causal diamond - the largest region that can be causally probed - then the boundary of the diamond acts as a one-way membrane and thus provides a preferred choice of environment. We argue that the global multiverse is a representation of the many-worlds (all possible decoherent causal diamond histories) in a single geometry. We propose that it must be possible in principle to verify quantum-mechanical predictions exactly. This requires not only the existence of exact observables but two additional postulates: a single observer within the universe can access infinitely many identical experiments; and the outcome of each experiment must be completely definite. In causal diamonds with finite surface area, holographic entropy bounds imply that no exact observables exist, and both postulates fail: experiments cannot be repeated infinitely many times; and decoherence is not completely irreversible, so outcomes are not definite. We argue that our postulates can be satisfied in "hats" (supersymmetric multiverse regions with vanishing cosmological constant). We propose a complementarity principle that relates the approximate observables associated with finite causal diamonds to exact observables in the hat.

id: 1105.3889
title: On a generalization of the binomial distribution and its Poisson-like limit
authors: E. M. F. Curado, J. P. Gazeau, Ligia M. C. S. Rodrigues
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3889
abstract: We examine a generalization of the binomial distribution associated with a strictly increasing sequence of numbers and we prove its Poisson-like limit. Such generalizations might be found in quantum optics with imperfect detection. We discuss under which conditions this distribution can have a probabilistic interpretation.

id: 1105.3914
title: Heisenberg, uncertainty, and the scanning tunneling microscope
authors: Werner A Hofer
comments: The paper has now been published in Frontiers of Physics. I have added a paragraph at the end citing other work on the foundations of quantum mechanics by Khrennikov, Groessing, Elze, and t'Hooft
journal: Frontiers of Physics 7, 218-222 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3914
abstract: We show by a statistical analysis of high-resolution scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) experiments, that the interpretation of the density of electron charge as a statistical quantity leads to a conflict with the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. Given the precision in these experiments we find that the uncertainty principle would be violated by close to two orders of magnitude, if this interpretation were correct. We are thus forced to conclude that the density of electron charge is a physically real, i.e., in principle precisely measurable quantity.

id: 1105.3930
title: The emergence of Special and Doubly Special Relativity
authors: Petr Jizba, Fabio Scardigli
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure, RevTeX4, substantially revised version, accepted in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D86:025029,2012
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3930
abstract: Building on our previous work [Phys.Rev.D82,085016(2010)], we show in this paper how a Brownian motion on a short scale can originate a relativistic motion on scales that are larger than particle's Compton wavelength. This can be described in terms of polycrystalline vacuum. Viewed in this way, special relativity is not a primitive concept, but rather it statistically emerges when a coarse graining average over distances of order, or longer than the Compton wavelength is taken. By analyzing the robustness of such a special relativity under small variations in the polycrystalline grain-size distribution we naturally arrive at the notion of doubly-special relativistic dynamics. In this way, a previously unsuspected, common statistical origin of the two frameworks is brought to light. Salient issues such as the role of gauge fixing in emergent relativity, generalized commutation relations, Hausdorff dimensions of representative path-integral trajectories and a connection with Feynman chessboard model are also discussed.

id: 1105.4038
title: Coquaternionic quantum dynamics for two-level systems
authors: Dorje C. Brody, Eva-Maria Graefe
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Acta Polytechnica 51, 14-20 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4038
abstract: The dynamical aspects of a spin-1/2 particle in Hermitian coquaternionic quantum theory is investigated. It is shown that the time evolution exhibits three different characteristics, depending on the values of the parameters of the Hamiltonian. When energy eigenvalues are real, the evolution is either isomorphic to that of a complex Hermitian theory on a spherical state space, or else it remains unitary along an open orbit on a hyperbolic state space. When energy eigenvalues form a complex conjugate pair, the orbit of the time evolution closes again even though the state space is hyperbolic.

id: 1105.4215
title: Quantum states and linear response in dc and electromagnetic fields for charge current and spin polarization of electrons at Bi/Si interface with giant spin-orbit coupling
authors: D.V. Khomitsky
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: Journal of Experimental and Theoretical Physics, 2012, Vol.114, No.5, pp.738-747
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4215
abstract: An expansion of the nearly free-electron model constructed by Frantzeskakis, Pons and Grioni [Phys. Rev. B {\bf 82}, 085440 (2010)] describing quantum states at Bi/Si(111) interface with giant spin-orbit coupling is developed and applied for the band structure and spin polarization calculation, as well as for the linear response analysis for charge current and induced spin caused by dc field and by electromagnetic radiation. It is found that the large spin-orbit coupling in this system may allow resolving the spin-dependent properties even at room temperature and at realistic collision rate. The geometry of the atomic lattice combined with spin-orbit coupling leads to an anisotropic response both for current and spin components related to the orientation of the external field. The in-plane dc electric field produces only the in-plane components of spin in the sample while both the in-plane and out-of-plane spin components can be excited by normally propagating electromagnetic wave with different polarizations.

id: 1105.4353
title: Jacobi Crossover Ensembles of Random Matrices and Statistics of Transmission Eigenvalues
authors: Santosh Kumar, Akhilesh Pandey
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, Volume 43, Number 8, Pages 085001(22pp), Year 2010
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4353
abstract: We study the transition in conductance properties of chaotic mesoscopic cavities as time-reversal symmetry is broken. We consider the Brownian motion model for transmission eigenvalues for both types of transitions, viz., orthogonal-unitary and symplectic-unitary crossovers depending on the presence or absence of spin-rotation symmetry of the electron. In both cases the crossover is governed by a Brownian motion parameter {\tau}, which measures the extent of time-reversal symmetry breaking. It is shown that the results obtained correspond to the Jacobi crossover ensembles of random matrices. We derive the level density and the correlation functions of higher orders for the transmission eigenvalues. We also obtain the exact expressions for the average conductance, average shot-noise power and variance of conductance, as functions of {\tau}, for arbitrary number of modes (channels) in the two leads connected to the cavity. Moreover, we give the asymptotic result for the variance of shot-noise power for both the crossovers, the exact results being too long. In the {\tau} \rightarrow 0 and {\tau} \rightarrow \infty limits the known results for the orthogonal (or symplectic) and unitary ensembles are reproduced. In the weak time-reversal symmetry breaking regime our results are shown to be in agreement with the semiclassical predictions.

id: 1105.4361
title: Conductance Distributions in Chaotic Mesoscopic Cavities
authors: Santosh Kumar, Akhilesh Pandey
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: Journal of Physics A, Volume 43, Number 28, Pages 285101, 2010
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4361
abstract: We consider the conductance distributions in chaotic mesoscopic cavities for all three invariant classes of random matrices for the arbitrary number of channels N1, N2 in the connecting leads. We show that the Laplace transforms of the distributions can be expressed in terms of determinants in the unitary case and Pfaffians in the orthogonal and symplectic cases. The inverse Laplace transforms then give the exact distributions. This formalism is particularly useful for small values of N = min (N1, N2), and thus is of direct experimental relevance. We also obtain the conductance distributions for orthogonal-unitary and symplectic-unitary crossover ensembles.

id: 1105.4442
title: Quantum Discord in a spin-1/2 transverse XY Chain Following a Quench
authors: Tanay Nag, Ayoti Patra, Amit Dutta
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4442
abstract: We report a study on the zero-temperature quantum discord as a measure of two-spin correlation of a transverse XY spin chain following a quench across a quantum critical point and investigate the behavior of mutual information, classical correlations and hence of discord in the final state as a function of the rate of quenching. We show that though discord vanishes in the limit of very slow as well as very fast quenching, it exhibits a peak for an intermediate value of the quenching rate. We show that though discord and also the mutual information exhibit a similar behavior with respect to the quenching rate to that of concurrence or negativity following an identical quenching, there are quantitative differences. Our studies indicate that like concurrence, discord also exhibits a power law scaling with the rate of quenching in the limit of slow quenching though it may not be expressible in a closed power law form. We also explore the behavior of discord on quenching linearly across a quantum multicritical point (MCP) and observe a scaling similar to that of the defect density.

id: 1105.4466
title: Measuring spin correlations in optical lattices using superlattice potentials
authors: K. G. L. Pedersen, B. M. Andersen, G. M. Bruun, O. F. Syljuasen, A. S. Sorensen
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 041603(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4466
abstract: We suggest two experimental methods for probing both short- and long-range spin correlations of atoms in optical lattices using superlattice potentials. The first method involves an adiabatic doubling of the periodicity of the underlying lattice to probe neighboring singlet (triplet) correlations for fermions (bosons) by the occupation of the new vibrational ground state. The second method utilizes a time-dependent superlattice potential to generate spin-dependent transport by any number of prescribed lattice sites, and probes correlations by the resulting number of doubly occupied sites. For experimentally relevant parameters, we demonstrate how both methods yield large signatures of antiferromagnetic (AF) correlations of strongly repulsive fermionic atoms in a single shot of the experiment. Lastly, we show how this method may also be applied to probe d-wave pairing, a possible ground state candidate for the doped repulsive Hubbard model.

id: 1105.4525
title: Symbolic-manipulation constructions of Hilbert-space metrics in quantum mechanics
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 12 pp., 2 figures, to be presented to the Computer Algebra in Scientific Computing conference (this http URL) in Kassel, Germany, during September 5 - 9, 2011
journal: 
subjects: Symbolic Computation (cs.SC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4525
abstract: The problem of the determination of the Hilbert-space metric which renders a given Hamiltonian $H$ self-adjoint is addressed from the point of view of applicability of computer-assisted algebraic manipulations. An exactly solvable example of the so called Gegenbauerian quantum-lattice oscillator is recalled for the purpose. Both the construction of suitable metric (basically, the solution of the Dieudonne's operator equation) and the determination of its domain of positivity are shown facilitated by the symbolic algebraic manipulations and by MAPLE-supported numerics and graphics.

id: 1105.4642
title: Loss and decoherence due to stray infrared light in superconducting quantum circuits
authors: R. Barends, J. Wenner, M. Lenander, Y. Chen, R. C. Bialczak, J. Kelly, E. Lucero, P. O'Malley, M. Mariantoni, D. Sank, H. Wang, T. C. White, Y. Yin, J. Zhao, A. N. Cleland, John M. Martinis, J. J. A. Baselmans
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 99, 113507 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4642
abstract: We find that stray infrared light from the 4 K stage in a cryostat can cause significant loss in superconducting resonators and qubits. For devices shielded in only a metal box, we measured resonators with quality factors Q = 10^5 and qubits with energy relaxation times T_1=120 ns, consistent with a stray light-induced quasiparticle density of 170-230 \mu m^{-3}. By adding a second black shield at the sample temperature, we found about an order of magnitude improvement in performance and no sensitivity to the 4 K radiation. We also tested various shielding methods, implying a lower limit of Q = 10^8 due to stray light in the light-tight configuration.

id: 1105.4651
title: Comparative study of quantum dynamics of a few bosons in a one-dimensional split hard-wall trap: exact results versus Bose-Hubbard-model approximations
authors: Hongli Guo, Xiangguo Yin, Shu Chen
comments: 9 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Phys. B, 44, 195002 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4651
abstract: We study the dynamical properties of a few bosons confined in an one-dimensional split hard wall trap with the interaction strength varying from the weakly to strongly repulsive regime. The system is initially prepared in one side of the double well by setting the barrier strength of the split trap to be infinity and then the barrier strength is suddenly changed to a finite value. Both exact diagonalization method and Bose-Hubbard model (BHM) approximation are used to study the dynamical evolution of the initial system. The exact results based on exact diagonaliztion verify the enhancement of correlated tunneling in the strongly interacting regime. Comparing results obtained by two different methods, we conclude that one-band BHM approximation can well describe the dynamics in the weakly interacting regime, but is not efficient to give quantitatively consistent results in the strongly interacting regime. Despite of the quantitative discrepancy, we validate that the form of correlated tunneling gives an important contribution to tunneling in the large interaction regime. To get a quantitative description for the dynamics of bosons in the strongly interacting regime, we find that a multi-band BHM approximation is necessary.

id: 1105.4741
title: Solution of One-dimensional Dirac Equation via Poincare Map
authors: Hocine Bahlouli, El Bouazzaoui Choubabi, Ahmed Jellal
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures. Version to appear in EPL
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4741
abstract: We solve the general one-dimensional Dirac equation using a "Poincare Map" approach which avoids any approximation to the spacial derivatives and reduces the problem to a simple recursive relation which is very practical from the numerical implementation point of view. To test the efficiency and rapid convergence of this approach we apply it to a vector coupling Woods--Saxon potential, which is exactly solvable. Comparison with available analytical results is impressive and hence validates the accuracy and efficiency of this method.

id: 1105.4756
title: The entanglement entropy of one-dimensional gases
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, Mihail Mintchev, Ettore Vicari
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. v2: Typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 020601 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4756
abstract: We introduce a systematic framework to calculate the bipartite entanglement entropy of a spatial subsystem in a one-dimensional quantum gas which can be mapped into a noninteracting fermion system. To show the wide range of applicability of the proposed formalism, we use it for the calculation of the entanglement in the eigenstates of periodic systems, in a gas confined by boundaries or external potentials, in junctions of quantum wires and in a time-dependent parabolic potential.

id: 1105.4793
title: Observation of anomalous decoherence effect in a quantum bath at room temperature
authors: Pu Huang, Xi Kong, Nan Zhao, Fazhan Shi, Pengfei Wang, Xing Rong, Ren-Bao Liu, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 22 pages, related paper at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4793
abstract: Decoherence of quantum objects is critical to modern quantum sciences and technologies. It is generally believed that stronger noises cause faster decoherence. Strikingly, recent theoretical research discovers the opposite case for spins in quantum baths. Here we report experimental observation of the anomalous decoherence effect for the electron spin-1 of a nitrogen-vacancy centre in high-purity diamond at room temperature. We demonstrate that under dynamical decoupling, the double-transition can have longer coherence time than the single-transition, even though the former couples to the nuclear spin bath as twice strongly as the latter does. The excellent agreement between the experimental and the theoretical results confirms the controllability of the weakly coupled nuclear spins in the bath, which is useful in quantum information processing and quantum metrology.

id: 1105.4818
title: Observation of local temporal correlations in trapped quantum gases
authors: Vera Guarrera, Peter Wuertz, Arne Ewerbeck, Andreas Vogler, Giovanni Barontini, Herwig Ott
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4818
abstract: We measure the temporal pair correlation function $g^{(2)}(\tau)$ of a trapped gas of bosons above and below the critical temperature for Bose-Einstein condensation. The measurement is performed {\it in situ} using a local, time-resolved single-atom sensitive probing technique. Third and fourth order correlation functions are also extracted. We develop a theoretical model and compare it with our experimental data, finding good quantitative agreement and highlighting the role of interactions. Our results promote temporal correlations as new observables to study the dynamics of ultracold quantum gases.

id: 1105.4826
title: Realization of Discrete Quantum Billiard in 2D Optical Lattices
authors: Dmitry O. Krimer, Ramaz Khomeriki
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 041807(R) (2011)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4826
abstract: We propose the method for optical visualization of Bose-Hubbard model with two interacting bosons in the form of two-dimensional (2D) optical lattices consisting of optical waveguides, where the waveguides at the diagonal are characterized by different refractive index than others elsewhere, modeling the boson-boson interaction. We study the light intensity distribution function averaged over direction of propagation for both ordered and disordered cases, exploring sensitivity of the averaged picture with respect to the beam injection position. For our finite systems the resulting patterns reminiscent the ones set in billiards and therefore we introduce a definition of discrete quantum billiard discussing the possible relevance to its well established continuous counterpart.

id: 1105.4860
title: Asymptotic and numerical studies of resonant tunneling in 2D quantum waveguides of variable cross-section
authors: Lev Baskin, Muaed Kabardov, Pekka Neittaanm?ki, Boris Plamenevskii, Oleg Sarafanov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4860
abstract: A waveguide coincides with a strip having two narrows of diameter $\epsilon$. Electron motion is described by the Helmholtz equation with Dirichlet boundary condition. The part of waveguide between the narrows plays the role of resonator and there can occur electron resonant tunneling. This phenomenon consists in the fact that, for an electron with energy $E$, the probability $T(E)$ to pass from one part of the waveguide to the other part through the resonator has a sharp peak at $E=E_{res}$, where $E_{res}$ denotes a "resonant" energy. In the present paper, we compare the asymptotics of $E_{res}=E_{res}(\epsilon)$ and $T(E)=T(E, \epsilon)$ as $\epsilon \to 0$ with the corresponding numerical results obtained by approximate computing the waveguide scattering matrix. We show that there exists a band of $\epsilon$ where the asymptotics and numerical results are in close agreement. The numerical calculations become inefficient as $\epsilon$ decreases; however, at such a condition the asymptotics remains reliable. On the other hand, the asymptotics gives way to the numerical method as $\epsilon$ increases; in fact, for wide narrows the resonant tunneling vanishes by itself. Though, in the present paper, we consider only a 2D waveguide, the applicability of the methods goes far beyond the above simplest model. In particular, the same approach will work for asymptotic and numerical analysis of resonant tunneling in 3D quantum waveguides.

id: 1105.4992
title: Basics of Bose-Einstein Condensation
authors: V.I. Yukalov
comments: Review article
journal: Phys. Part. Nucl. 42 (2011) 460-513
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4992
abstract: The review is devoted to the elucidation of the basic problems arising in the theoretical investigation of systems with Bose-Einstein condensate. Understanding these challenging problems is necessary for the correct description of Bose-condensed systems. The principal problems considered in the review are as follows: (i) What is the relation between Bose-Einstein condensation and global gauge symmetry breaking? (ii) How to resolve the Hohenberg-Martin dilemma of conserving versus gapless theories? (iii) How to describe Bose-condensed systems in strong spatially random potentials? (iv) Whether thermodynamically anomalous fluctuations in Bose systems are admissible? (v) How to create nonground-state condensates? Detailed answers to these questions are given in the review. As examples of nonequilibrium condensates, three cases are described: coherent modes, turbulent superfluids, and heterophase fluids.

id: 1105.5212
title: Classical and Quantum Correlations of Scalar Field in the Inflationary Universe
authors: Yasusada Nambu, Yuji Ohsumi
comments: 21 pages, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys.Rev.D84:044028,2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5212
abstract: We investigate classical and quantum correlations of a quantum field in the inflationary universe using a particle detector model. By considering the entanglement and correlations between two comoving detectors interacting with a scalar field, we find that the entanglement between the detectors becomes zero after their physical separation exceeds the Hubble horizon. Furthermore, the quantum discord, which is defined as the quantum part of total correlation, approaches zero on super horizon scale. These behaviors support appearance of classical nature of the quantum fluctuation generated during the inflationary era.

id: 1105.5262
title: Supersymmetric factorization yields exact solutions to the molecular Stark effect problem for "stretched" states
authors: Mikhail Lemeshko, Mustafa Mustafa, Sabre Kais, Bretislav Friedrich
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 043415 (2011)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5262
abstract: By invoking supersymmetry, we found a condition under which the Stark effect problem for a polar and polarizable molecule subject to nonresonant electric fields becomes exactly solvable. The exact solvability condition for the interaction parameters involved yields exact wavefunction for the "stretched" states, $|J=m,m>$, and for the $|1,1>$ state in the case of a purely induced-dipole interaction. The analytic expressions for the eigenenergy, the space-fixed dipole moment, the alignment cosine, and the expectation value of the angular momentum allow to readily reverse-engineer the problem of finding the values of the interaction parameters required for creating quantum states with preordained characteristics.

id: 1105.5279
title: Transmission through Biased Graphene Strip
authors: Hocine Bahlouli, El Bouazzaoui Choubabi, Abderrahim El Mouhafid, Ahmed Jellal
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5279
abstract: We solve the 2D Dirac equation describing graphene in the presence of a linear vector potential. The discretization of the transverse momentum due to the infinite mass boundary condition reduced our 2D Dirac equation to an effective massive 1D Dirac equation with an effective mass equal to the quantized transverse momentum. We use both a numerical Poincare Map approach, based on space discretization of the original Dirac equation, and direct analytical method. These two approaches have been used to study tunneling phenomena through a biased graphene strip. The numerical results generated by the Poincare Map are in complete agreement with the analytical results.

id: 1105.5317
title: Non-equilibrium quantum dynamics after local quenches
authors: Uma Divakaran, Ferenc Igl¨®i, Heiko Rieger
comments: 23 pages, 14 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. 11, 10027 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5317
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics resulting from preparing a one-dimensional quantum system in the ground state of initially two decoupled parts which are then joined together (local quench). Specifically we focus on the transverse Ising chain and compute the time-dependence of the magnetization profile, m_l(t), and correlation functions at the critical point, in the ferromagnetically ordered phase and in the paramagnetic phase. At the critical point we find finite size scaling forms for the nonequilibrium magnetization and compare predictions of conformal field theory with our numerical results. In the ferromagnetic phase the magnetization profiles are well matched by our predictions from a quasi-classical calculation.

id: 1105.5334
title: Observation of topologically protected bound states in a one dimensional photonic system
authors: Takuya Kitagawa, Matthew A. Broome, Alessandro Fedrizzi, Mark S. Rudner, Erez Berg, Ivan Kassal, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik, Eugene Demler, Andrew G. White
comments: 4.5 pages + Appendix
journal: Nature Communications 3, 882, 2012
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5334
abstract: One of the most striking features of quantum mechanics is the appearance of phases of matter with topological origins. These phases result in remarkably robust macroscopic phenomena such as the edge modes in integer quantum Hall systems, the gapless surface states of topological insulators, and elementary excitations with non-abelian statistics in fractional quantum Hall systems and topological superconductors. Many of these states hold promise in the applications to quantum memories and quantum computation. Artificial quantum systems, with their precise controllability, provide a versatile platform for creating and probing a wide variety of topological phases. Here we investigate topological phenomena in one dimension, using photonic quantum walks. The photon evolution simulates the dynamics of topological phases which have been predicted to arise in, for example, polyacetylene. We experimentally confirm the long-standing prediction of topologically protected localized states associated with these phases by directly imaging their wavefunctions. Moreover, we reveal an entirely new topological phenomenon: the existence of a topologically protected pair of bound states which is unique to periodically driven systems. Our experiment demonstrates a powerful new approach for controlling topological properties of quantum systems through periodic driving.

id: 1105.5354
title: Resonant Regimes in the Fock-Space Coherence of Multilevel Quantum Dots
authors: Eduardo Vaz, Jordan Kyriakidis
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: E. Vaz, J. Kyriakidis, Physical Review B, volume 86, issue 23, number 235310 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5354
abstract: The coherence between quantum states with different particle numbers --- the Fock-space coherence --- qualitatively differs from the more common Hilbert-space coherence between states with equal particle numbers. For a quantum dot with multiple channels available for transport, we find the conditions for decoupling the dynamics of the Fock-space coherence from both the Hilbert-space coherence as well as the population dynamics. We further find specific energy and coupling regimes where a long-lived resonance in the Fock-space coherence of the system is realized, even where no resonances are found either in the populations or Hilbert-space coherence. Numerical calculations show this resonance remains robust in the presence of both boson-mediated relaxation and transport through the quantum dot.

id: 1105.5370
title: Quantum Communication Complexity of Quantum Authentication Protocols
authors: Ello¨¢ B. Guedes, Francisco Marcos de Assis
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5370
abstract: In order to perform Quantum Cryptography procedures it is often essencial to ensure that the parties of the communication are authentic. Such task is accomplished by quantum authentication protocols which are distributed algorithms based on the intrinsic properties of Quantum Mechanics. The choice of an authentication protocol must consider that quantum states are very delicate and that the channel is subject to eavesdropping. However, even in face of the various existing definitions of quantum authentication protocols in the literature, little is known about them in this perspective, and this lack of knowledge may unfavor comparisons and wise choices. In the attempt to overcome this limitation, in the present work we aim at showing an approach to evaluate quantum authentication protocols based on the determination of their quantum communication complexity. Based on our investigation, no similar methods to analyze quantum authentication protocols were found in the literature. Pursuing this further, our approach has advantages that need to be highlighted: it characterizes a systematic procedure to evaluate quantum authentication protocols; its evaluation is intuitive, based only on the protocol execution; the resulting measure is a concise notation of what resources a quantum authentication protocol demands and how many communications are performed; it allows comparisons between protocols; it makes possible to analyze the communication effort when an eavesdropping occurs; and, lastly, it is likely to be applied in almost any quantum authentication protocol. To illustrate the proposed approach, we also bring results about its application in ten existing quantum authentication protocols (data origin authentication and identity authentication). Such evaluations increase the knowledge about the existing protocols, presenting its advantages, limitations and contrasts.

id: 1105.5418
title: Entanglement in random pure states: Spectral density and average von Neumann entropy
authors: Santosh Kumar, Akhilesh Pandey
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures, Submitted for publication
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, Volume 44, Number 44, Pages 445301, Year 2011
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5418
abstract: Quantum entanglement plays a crucial role in quantum information, quantum teleportation and quantum computation. The information about the entanglement content between subsystems of the composite system is encoded in the Schmidt eigenvalues. We derive here closed expressions for the spectral density of Schmidt eigenvalues for all three invariant classes of random matrix ensembles. We also obtain exact results for average von Neumann entropy. We find that maximum average entanglement is achieved if the system belongs to the symplectic invariant class.

id: 1105.5493
title: Quantum noise in three-dimensional BEC interferometry
authors: B. Opanchuk, M. Egorov, S. Hoffmann, A. Sidorov, P. D. Drummond
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5493
abstract: We develop a theory of quantum fluctuations and squeezing in a three-dimensional Bose-Einstein condensate atom interferometer with nonlinear losses. We use stochastic equations in a truncated Wigner representation to treat quantum noise. Our approach includes the multi-mode spatial evolution of spinor components and describes the many-body dynamics of a mesoscopic quantum system.

id: 1105.5665
title: Spin and Orbital angular momentum propagation in anisotropic media: theory
authors: Antonio Pic¨®n, Albert Benseny, Jordi Mompart, Gabriel F. Calvo
comments: 
journal: Journal of Optics 13, 064019 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5665
abstract: This paper is devoted to study the propagation of light beams carrying orbital angular momentum in optically anisotropic media. We first review some properties of homogeneous anisotropic media, and describe how the paraxial formalism is modified in order to proceed with a new approach dealing with a general setting of paraxial propagation along uniaxial inhomogeneous media. This approach is suitable for describing the space-variant-optical-axis phase plates.

id: 1105.5822
title: On Evolution Equations for Marginal Correlation Operators
authors: V.I. Gerasimenko, D.O. Polishchuk
comments: 27 pages
journal: Math. Methods Appl. Sci. 36 (17) (2013) 2311-2328
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5822
abstract: This paper is devoted to the problem of the description of nonequilibrium correlations in quantum many-particle systems. The nonlinear quantum BBGKY hierarchy for marginal correlation operators is rigorously derived from the von Neumann hierarchy for correlation operators that give an alternative approach to the description of states in comparison with the density operators. A nonperturbative solution of the Cauchy problem of the nonlinear quantum BBGKY hierarchy for marginal correlation operators is constructed.

id: 1105.5834
title: Orbital excitation blockade and algorithmic cooling in quantum gases
authors: Waseem S. Bakr, Philipp M. Preiss, M. Eric Tai, Ruichao Ma, Jonathan Simon, Markus Greiner
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5834
abstract: Interaction blockade occurs when strong interactions in a confined few-body system prevent a particle from occupying an otherwise accessible quantum state. Blockade phenomena reveal the underlying granular nature of quantum systems and allow the detection and manipulation of the constituent particles, whether they are electrons, spins, atoms, or photons. The diverse applications range from single-electron transistors based on electronic Coulomb blockade to quantum logic gates in Rydberg atoms. We have observed a new kind of interaction blockade in transferring ultracold atoms between orbitals in an optical lattice. In this system, atoms on the same lattice site undergo coherent collisions described by a contact interaction whose strength depends strongly on the orbital wavefunctions of the atoms. We induce coherent orbital excitations by modulating the lattice depth and observe a staircase-type excitation behavior as we cross the interaction-split resonances by tuning the modulation frequency. As an application of orbital excitation blockade (OEB), we demonstrate a novel algorithmic route for cooling quantum gases. Our realization of algorithmic cooling utilizes a sequence of reversible OEB-based quantum operations that isolate the entropy in one part of the system, followed by an irreversible step that removes the entropy from the gas. This work opens the door to cooling quantum gases down to ultralow entropies, with implications for developing a microscopic understanding of strongly correlated electron systems that can be simulated in optical lattices. In addition, the close analogy between OEB and dipole blockade in Rydberg atoms provides a roadmap for the implementation of two-qubit gates in a quantum computing architecture with natural scalability.

id: 1105.5835
title: Zero energy Majorana modes in spin ladders and a possible realization of the Kitaev model
authors: A. A. Nersesyan, A. M. Tsvelik
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: EPL 96, 17002 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5835
abstract: We show that in double-chain Mott insulators (ladders), disordered alternating ionic potentials may locally destroy coherence of magnetic excitations and lead to the appearance of spontaneously dimerized islands inside the Haldane spin-liquid phase. We argue that a boundary between the dimerized and Haldane phases of a spin-1/2 ladder supports a localized zero-energy Majorana fermion mode. Based on these findings we suggest a realization of a generalized Kitaev model where Majorana fermions can propagate in more than one dimension.

id: 1105.5846
title: Analytic description of atomic interaction at ultracold temperatures II: Scattering around a magnetic Feshbach resonance
authors: Bo Gao
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 84, 022706 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5846
abstract: Starting from a multichannel quantum-defect theory, we derive analytic descriptions of a magnetic Feshbach resonance in an arbitrary partial wave $l$, and the atomic interactions around it. An analytic formula, applicable to both broad and narrow resonances of arbitrary $l$, is presented for ultracold atomic scattering around a Feshbach resonance. Other related issues addressed include (a) the parametrization of a magnetic Feshbach resonance of arbitrary $l$, (b) rigorous definitions of "broad" and "narrow" resonances of arbitrary $l$ and their different scattering characteristics, and (c) the tuning of the effective range and the generalized effective range by a magnetic field.

id: 1105.6015
title: A general approach to quantum dynamics using a variational master equation: Application to phonon-damped Rabi rotations in quantum dots
authors: Dara P. S. McCutcheon, Nikesh S. Dattani, Erik M. Gauger, Brendon W. Lovett, Ahsan Nazir
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Published version, revised title, minor changes to the text
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 081305(R) (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6015
abstract: We develop a versatile master equation approach to describe the non-equilibrium dynamics of a two-level system in contact with a bosonic environment, which allows for the exploration of a wide range of parameter regimes within a single formalism. As an experimentally relevant example, we apply this technique to the study of excitonic Rabi rotations in a driven quantum dot, and compare its predictions to the numerical Feynman integral approach. We find excellent agreement between the two methods across a generally difficult range of parameters. In particular, the variational master equation technique captures effects usually considered to be non-perturbative, such as multi-phonon processes and bath-induced driving renormalisation, and can give reliable results even in regimes in which previous master equation approaches fail.

id: 1105.6023
title: Effcient simulation of the adaptive time-dependent density-matrix renormalization-group with periodic boundary conditions
authors: Jie Ren
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6023
abstract: We introduce a numerical method of the adaptive time-dependent density-matrix renormalization-group to compute one-dimensional quantum spin systems with periodic boundary condition. We check our algorithm to study the dynamic correlation in spin-1/2 Heisenberg XX chain at zero temperature, and the numerical analysis of errors indicates that this method could be used to efficiently simulate the time-dependent properties of low-energy dynamics in an arbitrary one-dimensional quantum many-body systems with the nearest-neighbor interaction.

id: 1105.6102
title: Some Exactly-Solvable Quantum Problems and their Applications to Hetero- and Nano-Structures with Nontrivial Topology
authors: Georgios Konstantinou, Konstantinos Moulopoulos
comments: 2 pages, 7 figures, Abstract submitted for the XXVII Panhellenic Conference on Solid State Physics and Materials Science (to be held in Limassol, Cyprus, September 2011)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6102
abstract: Analytical calculations based on a Landau Level (LL) picture are reported for a many-electron system moving in an interface (with a finite-width Quantum Well (QW)) and in the presence of an external perpendicular magnetic field. They lead to a sequence of previously unnoticed singular features in global magnetization and magnetic susceptibility that give rise to nontrivial corrections to the standard de Haas-van Alphen periods. Additional features due to Zeeman splitting are also reported (such as new energy minima that originate from the interplay of QW, Zeeman and LL Physics). A corresponding calculation in a Composite Fermion picture leads to new predictions on magnetic response properties of a fully-interacting electron liquid in a finite-width interface. Exact solutions for the energetics of a fully three-dimensional system of many noninteracting electrons in a magnetic field are also presented (a system mostly discussed in astrophysical applications), with Hurwitz zeta functions playing an important role on thermodynamic properties. Finally, exact solutions for the energetics of an electron gas on a cylindrical surface (and in the presence of an Aharonov-Bohm flux threading the cylinder) are presented, in two cases: when the radius R of the cylinder is microscopically small and the length of the cylinder is macrocopically large (an electron gas nanotube), and vice versa. Inclusion in the above systems of a radial magnetic field and also of Zeeman splitting gives rise to curvature-induced spin-orbit coupling, that leads to interesting behaviors that can also be dealt with analytically. A corresponding SU(2) formulation and a number of diagonalization results for the energy of such curved systems have, in the limit of vanishing curvature, the correct behaviors (namely, the standard spin-Physics in flat space, that is decoupled from the standard orbital-Physics of Landau Levels).

id: 1105.6104
title: Linear Dynamic Polarizability and the Absorption Spectrum of an Exciton in an Aharonov-Bohm Quantum Ring
authors: A.V. Ghazaryan, A.P.Djotyan, K. Moulopoulos, A.A. Kirakosyan
comments: 2 pages, 2 figures, Abstract submitted for the XXVII Panhellenic Conference on Solid State Physics and Materials Science (to be held in Limassol, Cyprus, September 2011)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6104
abstract: We analytically solve the problem of an exciton (with particles interacting by a delta potential) in a one-dimensional quantum ring in the presence of an Aharonov-Bohm flux. By following a more straightforward method than in earlier works we determine the energy spectrum and the associated eigenfunctions together with other physical properties of the system in closed analytical forms. After finding the energy spectra of the exciton in this system, we then calculate the dynamic linear electric polarizability and the absorption coefficients; we find that the magnetic flux changes the values of the absorption coefficients dramatically and that by changing the value of magnetic flux parameter from 0 to 0.5 dark exciton states states transform to bright ones and vice versa.

id: 1105.6180
title: Probing neutron's electric neutrality with Ramsey Spectroscopy of gravitational quantum states of ultra-cold neutrons
authors: Katharina Durstberger-Rennhofer, Tobias Jenke, Hartmut Abele
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Physical Review D
journal: Phys.Rev.D84:036004,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6180
abstract: We propose to test the electric neutrality of neutrons by a new technique using the spectroscopy of quantum states of ultra-cold neutrons in the gravity potential above a vertical mirror. The new technique is an application of Ramsey's method of separated oscillating fields to neutron's quantum states in the gravity potential of the earth. In the presence of an electric field E parallel or antiparallel to the direction of the acceleration of the earth g, the energy of the quantum states changes due to an additional electrostatic potential if a neutron carries a non-vanishing charge. In the long run our new method has the potential to improve the current limit for the electric charge of the neutron by 2 orders of magnitude.

id: 1105.6186
title: Scaling behavior and phase diagram of a PT-symmetric non-Hermitian Bose-Hubbard system
authors: L. Jin, Z. Song
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, accepted by Annals of Physics
journal: Annals of Physics 330, 142 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6186
abstract: We study scaling behavior and phase diagram of a PT-symmetric non-Hermitian Bose-Hubbard model. In the free interaction case, using both analytical and numerical approaches, the metric operator for many-particle is constructed. The derived properties of the metric operator, similarity matrix and equivalent Hamiltonian reflect the fact that all the matrix elements change dramatically with diverging derivatives near the exceptional point. In the nonzero interaction case, it is found that even small on-site interaction can break the PT symmetry drastically. It is demonstrated that the scaling law can be established for the exceptional point in both small and large interaction limit. Based on perturbation and numerical methods, we also find that the phase diagram shows rich structure: there exist multiple regions of unbroken PT symmetry.

id: 1105.6258
title: Quantum ratchet transport with minimal dispersion rate
authors: Fei Zhan, S. Denisov, A. V. Ponomarev, P. H?nggi
comments: 6 pages; 3 figures; 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043617 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6258
abstract: We analyze the performance of quantum ratchets by considering the dynamics of an initially localized wave packet loaded into a flashing periodic potential. The directed center-of-mass motion can be initiated by the uniform modulation of the potential height, provided that the modulation protocol breaks all relevant time- and spatial reflection symmetries. A poor performance of quantum ratchet transport is characterized by a slow net motion and a fast diffusive spreading of the wave packet, while the desirable optimal performance is the contrary. By invoking a quantum analog of the classical P\'eclet number, namely the quotient of the group velocity and the dispersion of the propagating wave packet, we calibrate the transport properties of flashing quantum ratchets and discuss the mechanisms that yield low-dispersive directed transport.

id: 1105.6264
title: Dimers, Effective Interactions, and Pauli Blocking Effects in a Bilayer of Cold Fermionic Polar Molecules
authors: N. T. Zinner, J. R. Armstrong, A. G. Volosniev, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures, accepted version
journal: Few-Body Systems, Volume 53, Issue 3-4, pp. 369-385, 2012
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6264
abstract: We consider a bilayer setup with two parallel planes of cold fermionic polar molecules when the dipole moments are oriented perpendicular to the planes. The binding energy of two-body states with one polar molecule in each layer is determined and compared to various analytic approximation schemes in both coordinate- and momentum-space. The effective interaction of two bound dimers is obtained by integrating out the internal dimer bound state wave function and its robustness under analytical approximations is studied. Furthermore, we consider the effect of the background of other fermions on the dimer state through Pauli blocking, and discuss implications for the zero-temperature many-body phase diagram of this experimentally realizable system.

id: 1105.6282
title: Quantum theory of hydrogen key of point mutation in DNA
authors: E.K. Ivanova, N.N. Turaeva, B.L. Oksengendler
comments: 
journal: BioPhysics, Issue 2, (2011) 3
subjects: Other Quantitative Biology (q-bio.OT); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6282
abstract: Quantum theory of hydrogen atoms distribution between two complementary nucleotide bases in DNA double helix at moment of replication has been proposed in this work. It bases on two mechanisms of proton tunneling: the Andreev-Meyerovich mechanism with spontaneous phonon radiation and the Kagan-Maximov (Flynn-Stoneham) mechanism at phonon scattering. According to the presented model, the probability of proton location in shallow potential well (point mutation form) is directly proportional to temperature. It was shown that the point mutation probability decreases with increasing replication velocity.

id: 1105.6324
title: Heterodimer of two distinguishable atoms in a one-dimensional optical lattice
authors: Otim Odong, Jerome C. Sanders, Juha Javanainen
comments: Very close to published version
journal: Physical Review A 84, 033613 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6324
abstract: Within the Bose-Hubbard model, we theoretically determine the stationary states of two distinguishable atoms in a one-dimensional optical lattice and compare with the case of two identical bosons. A heterodimer has odd-parity dissociated states that do not depend on the interactions with the atoms, and the lattice momenta of the two atomic species may have different averages even for a bound state of the dimer. We discuss two possible methods of detecting the dimer. First, the different distributions of the quasimomenta of the two species may be observed in suitable time-of-flight experiments. Also, an asymmetry in the line shape as a function of the modulation frequency may reveal the presence of the odd-parity dissociated states when a heterodimer is dissociated by modulating the depth of the optical lattice.

id: 1105.6340
title: Finite-temperature magnetization transport of the one-dimensional anisotropic Heisenberg model
authors: Simon Jesenko, Marko Znidaric
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures; v3: few minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 174438 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.6340
abstract: We study finite-temperature magnetization transport in a one-dimensional anisotropic Heisenberg model, focusing in particular on the gapped phase. Using numerical simulations by two different methods, a propagation of localized wavepackets and a study of nonequilibrium steady states of a master equation in a linear-response regime, we conclude that the transport at finite temperatures is diffusive. With decreasing temperature the diffusion constant increases, possibly exponentially fast. This means that at low temperatures the transition from ballistic to asymptotic diffusive behavior happens at very long times. We also study dynamics of initial domain wall like states, showing that on the attainable time scales they remain localized.

id: 1105.4808
title: Entanglement spectra of complex paired superfluids
authors: J. Dubail, N. Read
comments: 4 + epsilon pages. V2: typo fixed and additional reference. V3: small changes and additional reference
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 157001 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4808
abstract: We study the entanglement in various fully-gapped complex paired states of fermions in two dimensions, focusing on the entanglement spectrum (ES), and using the BCS form of the ground state wavefunction on a cylinder. Certain forms of the pairing functions allow a simple and explicit exact solution for the ES. In the weak-pairing phase of l-wave paired spinless fermions (l odd), the universal low-lying part of the ES consists of |l| chiral Majorana fermion modes [or 2|l| (l even) for spin-singlet states]. For |l|>1, the pseudo-energies of the modes are split in general, but for all l there is a zero--pseudo-energy mode at zero wavevector if the number of modes is odd. This ES agrees with the perturbed conformal field theory of the edge excitations. For more general BCS states, we show how the entanglement gap diverges as a model pairing function is approached.

id: 1105.4900
title: The effects of interaction on quantum spin Hall insulators
authors: Dung-Hai Lee
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4900
abstract: We study the $S_z$-conserving quantum spin Hall insulator in the presence of Hubbard $U$ from a field theory point view. The main findings are the following. (1) For arbitrarily small U the edges possess power-law correlated antiferromagnetic XY local moments. Gapless charge excitations arise from the Goldstone-Wilczek mechanism. (2) The decaying exponent of the XY correlation is $\ge 2$ hence normally space-time vortices should proliferate. (3) For thermodynamic samples, vortex proliferation is prohibited by the conservation of edge charge. (4) For a sample with finite width electron tunneling between opposite edges allows vortex proliferation hence is a strongly relevant perturbation (more relevant than in the non-interacting theory). (5) The phase transition between the antiferromagnetic and the topological insulating phases is triggered by the condensation of magnetic excitons.

id: 1105.0925
title: Domain wall dynamics in integrable and chaotic spin-1/2 chains
authors: Lea F. Santos, Aditi Mitra
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. E. 84, 016206 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.0925
abstract: We study the time evolution of correlation functions, spin current, and local magnetization in an isolated spin-1/2 chain initially prepared in a sharp domain wall state. The results are compared with the level of spatial delocalization of the eigenstates of the system which is measured using the inverse participation ratio. Both integrable and non-integrable regimes are considered. Non-integrability is introduced to the integrable Hamiltonian with nearest neighbor couplings by adding a single site impurity field or by adding next-nearest-neighbor couplings. A monotonic correspondence between the enhancement of the level of delocalization, spin current and magnetization dynamics occurs in the integrable domain. This correspondence is however lost for chaotic models with weak Ising interactions.

id: 1105.1796
title: BCS-BEC Crossover and Topological Phase Transition in 3D Spin-Orbit Coupled Degenerate Fermi Gases
authors: Ming Gong, Sumanta Tewari, Chuanwei Zhang
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 195303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1796
abstract: We investigate the BCS-BEC crossover in three dimensional degenerate Fermi gases in the presence of spin-orbit coupling (SOC) and Zeeman field. We show that the superfluid order parameter destroyed by a large Zeeman field can be restored by the SOC. With increasing strengths of the Zeeman field, there is a series of topological quantum phase transitions from a non-topological superfluid state with fully gapped fermionic spectrum to a topological superfluid state with four topologically protected Fermi points (i.e., nodes in the quasiparticle excitation gap) and then to a second topological superfluid state with only two topologically protected Fermi points. The quasiparticle excitations near the Fermi points realize the long-sought low-temperature analog of Weyl fermions of particle physics. We show that the topological phase transitions can be probed using the experimentally realized momentum resolved photoemission spectroscopy.

id: 1105.4629
title: Photon-Assisted Tunneling in a Biased Strongly Correlated Bose Gas
authors: Ruichao Ma, M. Eric Tai, Philipp M. Preiss, Waseem S. Bakr, Jonathan Simon, Markus Greiner
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.4629
abstract: We study the impact of coherently generated lattice photons on an atomic Mott insulator subjected to a uniform force. Analogous to an array of tunnel-coupled and biased quantum dots, we observe sharp, interaction-shifted photon-assisted tunneling resonances corresponding to tunneling one and two lattice sites either with or against the force, and resolve multiorbital shifts of these resonances. By driving a Landau-Zener sweep across such a resonance, we realize a quantum phase transition between a paramagnet and an antiferromagnet, and observe quench dynamics when the system is tuned to the critical point. Direct extensions will produce gauge fields and site-resolved spin flips, for topological physics and quantum computing.

id: 1105.2656
title: Continuity bounds on the quantum relative entropy - II
authors: Koenraad M.R. Audenaert, Jens Eisert
comments: 5 pages; V2: The results have been rephrased in terms of the minimal eigenvalues of rho and sigma, and because of this the statement of the bound has simplified a lot; V3: typo's corrected, in particular in the inequalities of Corollaries 1 and 2
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 112201 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2656
abstract: The quantum relative entropy is frequently used as a distance measure between two quantum states, and inequalities relating it to other distance measures are important mathematical tools in many areas of quantum information theory. We have derived many such inequalities in our previous work (K.M.R. Audenaert and J. Eisert, J. Math. Phys. 46, 102104 (2005)). The present paper is a follow-up on this, and provides sharp upper bounds on the relative entropy in terms of the trace norm distance and of the smallest eigenvalues of both states concerned. The results obtained here are more general than the corresponding one from our previous work, and also corrects a mistake in one of its proofs. As a by-product, we obtain a sharp upper bound on the regularised relative entropy introduced by Lendi, Farhadmotamed and van Wonderen.

id: 1105.5050
title: Regularity and chaos at critical points of first-order quantum phase transitions
authors: M. Macek, A. Leviatan
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, published version, Phys. Rev. C
journal: Journal-ref: Phys. Rev. C 84 (2011) 041302(R)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5050
abstract: We study the interplay between regular and chaotic dynamics at the critical point of a generic first-order quantum phase transition in an interacting boson model of nuclei. A classical analysis reveals a distinct behavior of the coexisting phases in a broad energy range. The dynamics is completely regular in the deformed phase and, simultaneously, strongly chaotic in the spherical phase. A quantum analysis of the spectra separates the regular states from the irregular ones, assigns them to particular phases, and discloses persisting regular rotational bands in the deformed region.

id: 1105.5021
title: Strongly correlated states of a small cold atomic cloud from geometric gauge fields
authors: B. Juli¨¢-D¨ªaz, D. Dagnino, K. J. G¨¹nter, T. Grass, N. Barber¨¢n, M. Lewenstein, J. Dalibard
comments: 8 pages, revised and enlarged version, to be published Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053605 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5021
abstract: Using exact diagonalization for a small system of cold bosonic atoms, we analyze the emergence of strongly correlated states in the presence of an artificial magnetic field. This gauge field is generated by a laser beam that couples two internal atomic states, and it is related to Berry's geometrical phase that emerges when an atom follows adiabatically one of the two eigenstates of the atom--laser coupling. Our approach allows us to go beyond the adiabatic approximation, and to characterize the generalized Laughlin wave functions that appear in the strong magnetic field limit.

id: 1105.1527
title: Quantum phase transitions in Bose-Fermi systems
authors: D. Petrellis, A. Leviatan, F. Iachello
comments: 38 pages, 29 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. 326 (2011) 926-957
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.1527
abstract: Quantum phase transitions in a system of N bosons with angular momentum L=0,2 (s,d) and a single fermion with angular momentum j are investigated both classically and quantum mechanically. It is shown that the presence of the odd fermion strongly influences the location and nature of the phase transition, especially the critical value of the control parameter at which the phase transition occurs. Experimental evidence for the U(5)-SU(3) (spherical to axially-deformed) transition in odd-even nuclei is presented.

id: 1105.5380
title: Local extrema of entropy functions under tensor products
authors: Shmuel Friedland, Gilad Gour, Aidan Roy
comments: 9 pages, comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5380
abstract: We show that under a certain condition of local commutativity the minimum von-Neumann entropy output of a quantum channel is locally additive. We also show that local minima of the 2-norm entropy functions are closed under tensor products if one of the subspaces has dimension 2.

id: 1105.3637
title: Zeros of 6j Symbols:Atoms:Nuclei and Bosons
authors: Larry Zamick Shadow Robinson
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. C 84, 044325 (2011)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3637
abstract: The same 6j symbols that explains the absence of a certain atomic state in LS coupling also explain the absence of certain states for a system of bosons and also for certain nuclear states in jj coupling.

