id: 1106.0029
title: Effect of phase noise on the generation of stationary entanglement in cavity optomechanics
authors: M. Abdi, Sh Barzanjeh, P. Tombesi, D. Vitali
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032325 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0029
abstract: We study the effect of laser phase noise on the generation of stationary entanglement between an intracavity optical mode and a mechanical resonator in a generic cavity optomechanical system. We show that one can realize robust stationary optomechanical entanglement even in the presence of non-negligible laser phase noise. We also show that the explicit form of the laser phase noise spectrum is relevant, and discuss its effect on both optomechanical entanglement and ground state cooling of the mechanical resonator.

id: 1106.0052
title: Two Qubits Tavis-Cummings Model Beyond the Rotating Wave Approximation: Degenerate Regime
authors: S. Agarwal, S.M. Hashemi Rafsanjani, J.H. Eberly
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0052
abstract: We study the dynamics of two qubits interacting with a single mode of a harmonic oscillator beyond the rotating wave approximation in the ideally degenerate regime. Exact analytic expressions are obtained for state properties of interest, including qubit entanglement for a certain class of initial states of the oscillator and the qubits. Qualitative differences and similarities in the evolution of the qubits in the degenerate regime when the oscillator is treated quantum mechanically and classically are discussed.

id: 1106.0062
title: Comment on "Quantification of Macroscopic Quantum Superpositions within Phase Space"
authors: Jiangbin Gong
comments: minor changes, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0062
abstract: The phase space measure proposed by Lee and Jeong [PRL 106, 220401 (2011)] is shown to be closely related to a well-studied measure in the literature. For pure states, the newly proposed measure is equivalent to an old measure; for mixed states, some discussions are given.

id: 1106.0063
title: Non-adiabatic transitions in a non-symmetric optical lattice
authors: L. Morales-Molina, S. A. Reyes
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0063
abstract: We study Landau-Zener interband transitions for a non-symmetric optical lattice in the presence of an external force. We show that gain and losses of the light beam, as well as the relative occupation probabilities of the bands involved in the transitions can be accurately managed upon tuning the amplitude of the non-Hermitian component of the lattice. Exact expressions for the transition and non-transition probabilities for a non-symmetric system obtained within a two-mode approximation are provided. These equations successfully account for the main features of the transitions in the optical lattice. We also interpret the non-conventional Bloch oscillations at criticality studied in Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 123601 (2009) as a series of a Landau-Zener transitions.

id: 1106.0071
title: Time-resolved measurement of photon states using two-photon interference with photons from short-time reference pulses
authors: Changliang Ren, Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 6 pages, including 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032108 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0071
abstract: To fully utilize the energy-time degree of freedom of photons for optical quantum information processes, it is necessary to control and characterize the quantum states of the photons at extremely short time scales. For measurements beyond the time resolution of available detectors, two-photon interference with a photon in a short time reference pulse may be a viable alternative. In this paper, we derive the temporal measurement operators for the bunching statistics of a single photon input state with a reference photon. It is shown that the effects of the pulse shape of the reference pulse can be expressed in terms of a spectral filter selecting the bandwidth within which the measurement can be treated as an ideal projection on eigenstates of time. For full quantum tomography, temporal coherence can be determined by using superpositions of reference pulses at two different times. Moreover, energy-time entanglement can be evaluated based on the two-by-two entanglement observed in the coherences between pairs of detection times.

id: 1106.0087
title: Perfect State Transfer in PT-symmetric Non-Hermitian Networks
authors: X. Z. Zhang, L. Jin, Z. Song
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012106 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0087
abstract: We systematically study the parity- and time-reversal (PT) symmetric non-Hermitian version of a quantum network proposed in the paper of Christandl et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 92, 187902 (2004)]. The nature of this model shows that it is a paradigm to demonstrate the complex relationship between the pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonian and its Hermitian counterpart as well as a candidate in the experimental realization to simulate PT-symmetry breaking. We also show that this model allows a conditional perfect state transfer within the unbroken PT-symmetry region but not an arbitrary one. This is due to the fact that the evolution operator at a certain period is equivalent to the PT operator for the real-valued wave function in the elaborate PT-symmetric Hilbert space.

id: 1106.0098
title: Efficiency of light-frequency conversion in an atomic ensemble
authors: H. H. Jen, T. A. B. Kennedy
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 023815 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0098
abstract: The efficiency of frequency up and down conversion of light in an atomic ensemble, with a diamond level configuration, is analyzed theoretically. The conditions of pump field intensities and detunings required to maximize the conversion as a function of optical thickness of the ensemble are determined. The influence of the probe pulse duration on the conversion efficiency is investigated by numeric solution of the Maxwell-Bloch equations.

id: 1106.0104
title: More nonlocality with less purity
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay
comments: Latex
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 210402 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0104
abstract: Quantum information is nonlocal in the sense that local measurements on a composite quantum system, prepared in one of many mutually orthogonal states, may not reveal in which state the system was prepared. It is shown that in the many copy limit this kind of nonlocality is fundamentally different for pure and mixed quantum states. In particular, orthogonal mixed states may not be distinguishable by local operations and classical communication (LOCC), no matter how many copies are supplied, whereas any set of N orthogonal pure states can be perfectly discriminated with m copies, where, m<N. Thus mixed quantum states can exhibit a new kind of nonlocality absent in pure states. We also argue that a set of orthogonal quantum states may be said to be maximally indistinguishable iff the set is not conclusively locally distinguishable with multiple copies.

id: 1106.0109
title: Demonstrating Additional Law of Relativistic Velocities based on Squeezed Light
authors: Da-Bao Yang, Yan Li, Fu-Lin Zhang, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0109
abstract: Special relativity is foundation of many branches of modern physics, of which theoretical results are far beyond our daily experience and hard to realized in kinematic experiments. However, its outcomes could be demonstrated by making use of convenient substitute, i.e. squeezed light in present paper. Squeezed light is very important in the field of quantum optics and the corresponding transformation can be regarded as the coherent state of SU(1; 1). In this paper, the connection between the squeezed operator and Lorentz boost is built under certain conditions. Furthermore, the additional law of relativistic velocities and the angle of Wigner rotation are deduced as well.

id: 1106.0125
title: Robustness of quantum discord to sudden death in NMR
authors: Jianwei Xu, Qihui Chen
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures, single-column
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0125
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of entanglement and quantum discord of two qubits in liquid state homonuclear NMR. Applying a phenomenological description for NMR under relaxation process, and taking a group of typical parameters of NMR, we show that when a zero initial state $|00> $ experiences a relaxation process, its entanglement disappears completely after a sequence of so-called sudden deaths and revivals, while the quantum discord retains remarkable values after a sequence of oscillations. That is to say, the quantum discord is more robust than entanglement.

id: 1106.0128
title: Quantum information processing in self-assembled crystals of cold polar molecules
authors: M. Ortner, Y.L. Zhou, P. Rabl, P. Zoller
comments: Submitted to Quantum Information Processing
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0128
abstract: We discuss the implementation of quantum gate operations in a self-assembled dipolar crystal of polar molecules. Here qubits are encoded in long-lived spin states of the molecular ground state and stabilized against collisions by repulsive dipole-dipole interactions. To overcome the single site addressability problem in this high density crystalline phase, we describe a new approach for implementing controlled single and two-qubit operations based on resonantly enhanced spin-spin interactions mediated by a localized phonon mode. This local mode is created at a specified lattice position with the help of an additional marker molecule such that individual qubits can be manipulated by using otherwise global static and microwave fields only. We present a general strategy for generating state and time dependent dipole moments to implement a universal set of gate operations for molecular qubits and we analyze the resulting gate fidelities under realistic conditions. Our analysis demonstrates the experimental feasibility of this approach for scalable quantum computing or digital quantum simulation schemes with polar molecules.

id: 1106.0138
title: Markovian and non-Markovian dynamics in quantum and classical systems
authors: Bassano Vacchini, Andrea Smirne, Elsi-Mari Laine, Jyrki Piilo, Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 093004 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0138
abstract: We discuss the conceptually different definitions used for the non-Markovianity of classical and quantum processes. The well-established definition for non-Markovianity of a classical stochastic process represents a condition on the Kolmogorov hierarchy of the n-point joint probability distributions. Since this definition cannot be transferred to the quantum regime, quantum non-Markovianity has recently been defined and quantified in terms of the underlying quantum dynamical map, using either its divisibility properties or the behavior of the trace distance between pairs of initial states. Here, we investigate and compare these definitions and their relations to the classical notion of non-Markovianity by employing a large class of non-Markovian processes, known as semi-Markov processes, which admit a natural extension to the quantum case. A number of specific physical examples is constructed which allow to study the basic features of the classical and the quantum definitions and to evaluate explicitly the measures for quantum non-Markovianity. Our results clearly demonstrate several fundamental distinctions between the classical and the quantum notion of non-Markovianity, as well as between the various quantum measures for non-Markovianity.

id: 1106.0140
title: All-optical quantum computing with a hybrid solid-state processing unit
authors: Pei Pei, Feng-Yang Zhang, Chong Li, He-Shan Song
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, supplement the demonstration for the efficiency and practicability of the proposal, supplement figure 4, and amend some words and phrases
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 84 042339 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0140
abstract: We develop an architecture of hybrid quantum solid-state processing unit for universal quantum computing. The architecture allows distant and nonidentical solid-state qubits in distinct physical systems to interact and work collaboratively. All the quantum computing procedures are controlled by optical methods using classical fields and cavity QED. Our methods have prominent advantage of the insensitivity to dissipation process benefiting from the virtual excitation of subsystems. Moreover, the QND measurements and state transfer for the solid-state qubits are proposed. The architecture opens promising perspectives for implementing scalable quantum computation in a broader sense that different solid-state systems can merge and be integrated into one quantum processor afterwards.

id: 1106.0177
title: Quantum Optimal Control Theory in the Linear Response Formalism
authors: Alberto Castro, I. V. Tokatly
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 033410 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0177
abstract: Quantum optimal control theory (QOCT) aims at finding an external field that drives a quantum system in such a way that optimally achieves some predefined target. In practice this normally means optimizing the value of some observable, a so called merit function. In consequence, a key part of the theory is a set of equations, which provides the gradient of the merit function with respect to parameters that control the shape of the driving field. We show that these equations can be straightforwardly derived using the standard linear response theory, only requiring a minor generalization -- the unperturbed Hamiltonian is allowed to be time-dependent. As a result, the aforementioned gradients are identified with certain response functions. This identification leads to a natural reformulation of QOCT in term of the Keldysh contour formalism of the quantum many-body theory. In particular, the gradients of the merit function can be calculated using the diagrammatic technique for non-equilibrium Green's functions, which should be helpful in the application of QOCT to computationally difficult many-electron problems.

id: 1106.0202
title: Imprinting interference fringes in massive optomechanical systems
authors: Ole Steuernagel
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 7 subfigures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0202
abstract: An interferometric scheme for the creation of momentum superposition states of mechanical oscillators, using a quantum mirror kicked by free photons is analyzed. The scheme features ultra-fast preparation with immediate detection and should allow for the observation of signatures of momentum superpositions in a massive macroscopic system at non-zero temperatures. It is robust against thermalized initial states, displacement and movement, mirror imperfections, and the measurements' back-actions.

id: 1106.0270
title: Scalable uniform construction of highly-conditional quantum gates
authors: Svetoslav S. Ivanov, Nikolay V. Vitanov
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022319 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0270
abstract: We present a scalable uniform technique for construction of highly conditional C$^n$-NOT quantum gates of trapped ion qubits, such as the Toffoli gate, without using ancilla states and circuits of an exorbitant number of concatenated one- and two-qubit gates. Apart from the initial dressing of the internal qubit states with vibrational phonons and the final restoration of the phonon ground state, our technique requires the application of just a single composite pulse on the target qubit and is applicable both in and outside the Lamb-Dicke regime. We design special narrowband composite pulses, which suppress all transitions but the conditional transition of the target qubit; moreover, these composite pulses significantly improve the spatial addressing selectivity.

id: 1106.0272
title: High-fidelity local addressing of trapped ions and atoms by composite sequences of laser pulses
authors: S. S. Ivanov, N. V. Vitanov
comments: Optics Letters Vol. 36, No. 7 (2011)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0272
abstract: A vital requirement for a quantum computer is the ability to locally address, with high fidelity, any of its qubits without affecting their neighbors. We propose an addressing method using composite sequences of laser pulses, which reduces dramatically the addressing error in a lattice of closely spaced atoms or ions, and at the same time significantly enhances the robustness of qubit manipulations. To this end, we design novel high-fidelity composite pulses for the most important single-qubit operations. In principle, this method allows one to beat the diffraction limit, for only atoms situated in a small spatial region around the center of the laser beam are excited, well within the laser beam waist.

id: 1106.0280
title: Relativistic Quantum Information: developments in Quantum Information in general relativistic scenarios
authors: E. Martin-Martinez
comments: 287 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0280
abstract: Recently, there has been increased interest in understanding entanglement and quantum communication in black hole spacetimes and in using quantum information techniques to address questions in gravity. Studies on relativistic entanglement show the emergence of conceptually important qualitative differences to a non-relativistic treatment. For instance, entanglement was found to be an observer-dependent property that changes from the perspective of accelerated observers moving in flat spacetime. Relativisitic quantum information theory uses well-known tools coming from quantum information and quantum optics to study quantum effects provoked by gravity to learn information about the spacetime. We can take advantage of our knowledge about quantum correlations and effects produced by the gravitational interaction to set the basis for experimental proposals ultimately aiming at finding corrections due to quantum gravity effects, too mild to be directly observed. This doctoral thesis dissertation summarises most of the research carried out during my PhD on this topic.

id: 1106.0289
title: Locally Inaccessible Information as a Fundamental Ingredient to Quantum Information
authors: F. F. Fanchini, L. K. Castelano, M. F. Cornelio, M. C. de Oliveira
comments: We relate the entanglement and the conditional entropy exclusively as a function of quantum discord. Final Version
journal: New Journal of Physics 14, 013027 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0289
abstract: Quantum discord (QD) measures the fraction of the pairwise mutual information that is locally inaccessible, in a multipartite system. Fundamental aspects related to two important measures in quantum information theory the Entanglement of Formation (EOF) and the conditional entropy, can be understood in terms of the distribution of this form of Local Inaccessible Information (LII). As such, the EOF for an arbitrarily mixed bipartite system AB can be related to the gain or loss of LII due to the extra knowledge that a purifying ancillary system E has on the pair AB. Similarly, a clear meaning of the negativity of the conditional entropy for AB is given. We exemplify by showing that these relations elucidate important and yet not well understood quantum features, such as the bipartite entanglement sudden death and the distinction between EOF and QD for quantifying quantum correlation. For that we introduce the concept of LII flow which quantifies the LII shared in multipartite system when a sequential local measurements are performed.

id: 1106.0329
title: Optimal eavesdropping on QKD without quantum memory
authors: Aur¨¦lien Bocquet, Anthony Leverrier, Romain All¨¦aume
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. Analysis of six-state and SARG04 QKD protocols added
journal: J. Phys. A 45, 025305 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0329
abstract: We consider the security of the BB84, six-state and SARG04 quantum key distribution protocols when the eavesdropper doesn't have access to a quantum memory. In this case, Eve's most general strategy is to measure her ancilla with an appropriate POVM designed to take advantage of the post-measurement information that will be released during the sifting phase of the protocol. After an optimization on all the parameters accessible to Eve, our method provides us with new bounds for the security of six-state and SARG04 against a memoryless adversary. In particular, for the six-state protocol we show that the maximum QBER for which a secure key can be extracted is increased from 12.6% (for collective attacks) to 20.4% with the memoryless assumption.

id: 1106.0405
title: Estimating Pre- and Post-Selected Ensembles
authors: Serge Massar, Sandu Popescu
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052106 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0405
abstract: In analogy with the usual state estimation problem, we introduce the problem of state estimation for a pre- and post-selected ensemble. The problem has fundamental physical significance since, as argued by Y. Aharonov and collaborators, pre- and post-selected ensembles are the most basic quantum ensembles. Two new features are shown to appear: 1) information is flowing to the measuring device both from the past and from the future; 2)because of the post-selection, certain measurement outcomes can be forced never to occur. Due to these features, state estimation in such ensembles is dramatically different from the case of ordinary, pre-selected only ensembles. Here we develop a general theoretical framework for studying this problem, and illustrate it through several examples. We also prove a general theorem showing that information flowing from the future is related to the complex conjugate information flowing from the past. We emphasize that all state estimation problems can be extended to the pre- and post-selected situation. The present work thus lays the foundations of a much more general theory of quantum state estimation.

id: 1106.0440
title: Solving Quantum Ground-State Problems with Nuclear Magnetic Resonance
authors: Zhaokai Li, Man-Hong Yung, Hongwei Chen, Dawei Lu, James D. Whitfield, Xinhua Peng, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures
journal: Sci. Rep. 1, 88 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0440
abstract: Quantum ground-state problems are computationally hard problems; for general many-body Hamiltonians, there is no classical or quantum algorithm known to be able to solve them efficiently. Nevertheless, if a trial wavefunction approximating the ground state is available, as often happens for many problems in physics and chemistry, a quantum computer could employ this trial wavefunction to project the ground state by means of the phase estimation algorithm (PEA). We performed an experimental realization of this idea by implementing a variational-wavefunction approach to solve the ground-state problem of the Heisenberg spin model with an NMR quantum simulator. Our iterative phase estimation procedure yields a high accuracy for the eigenenergies (to the 10^-5 decimal digit). The ground-state fidelity was distilled to be more than 80%, and the singlet-to-triplet switching near the critical field is reliably captured. This result shows that quantum simulators can better leverage classical trial wavefunctions than classical computers.

id: 1106.0485
title: How Quantum Computers Fail: Quantum Codes, Correlations in Physical Systems, and Noise Accumulation
authors: Gil Kalai
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0485
abstract: The feasibility of computationally superior quantum computers is one of the most exciting and clear-cut scientific questions of our time. The question touches on fundamental issues regarding probability, physics, and computability, as well as on exciting problems in experimental physics, engineering, computer science, and mathematics. We propose three related directions towards a negative answer. The first is a conjecture about physical realizations of quantum codes, the second has to do with correlations in stochastic physical systems, and the third proposes a model for quantum evolutions when noise accumulates. The paper is dedicated to the memory of Itamar Pitowsky.

id: 1106.0507
title: Electron spin ensemble strongly coupled to a three-dimensional microwave cavity
authors: Eisuke Abe, Hua Wu, Arzhang Ardavan, John J. L. Morton
comments: To appear in Appl. Phys. Lett
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 98, 251108 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0507
abstract: We demonstrate the strong coupling between an electron spin ensemble and a three-dimensional cavity in a reflection geometry. We also find that an anticrossing in the cavity/spin spectrum can be observed under conditions that the collective coupling strength $g_c$ is smaller than the spin linewidth $\gamma_s$ or the cavity linewidth. We identify a ratio of $g_c$ to $\gamma_s$ ($g_c/\gamma_s >$ 0.64) as a condition to observe a splitting in the cavity frequency. Finally, we confirm that $g_c$ scales with $\sqrt{N}$, where $N$ is the number of polarized spins.

id: 1106.0509
title: Lasing in Strong Coupling
authors: F. P. Laussy, E. del Valle, J. J. Finley
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Prof. SPIE 8255, 82551G (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0509
abstract: An almost ideal thresholdless laser can be realized in the strong-coupling regime of light-matter interaction, with Poissonian fluctuations of the field at all pumping powers and all intensities of the field. This ideal scenario is thwarted by quantum nonlinearities when crossing from the linear to the stimulated emission regime, resulting in a universal jump in the second order coherence, which measurement could however be used to establish a standard of lasing in strong coupling.

id: 1106.0553
title: A simple all-microwave entangling gate for fixed-frequency superconducting qubits
authors: Jerry M. Chow, A. D. Corcoles, Jay M. Gambetta, Chad Rigetti, B. R. Johnson, John A. Smolin, J. R. Rozen, George A. Keefe, Mary B. Rothwell, Mark B. Ketchen, M. Steffen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 080502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0553
abstract: We demonstrate an all-microwave two-qubit gate on superconducting qubits which are fixed in frequency at optimal bias points. The gate requires no additional subcircuitry and is tunable via the amplitude of microwave irradiation on one qubit at the transition frequency of the other. We use the gate to generate entangled states with a maximal extracted concurrence of 0.88 and quantum process tomography reveals a gate fidelity of 81%.

id: 1106.0556
title: Macroscopic quantum phenomena from the large N perspective
authors: C H Chou, B L Hu, Y Subasi
comments: 
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 306, 012002 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0556
abstract: Macroscopic quantum phenomena (MQP) is a relatively new research venue, with exciting ongoing experiments and bright prospects, yet with surprisingly little theoretical activity. What makes MQP intellectually stimulating is because it is counterpoised against the traditional view that macroscopic means classical. In this series of papers we report on a systematic investigation into some key foundational issues of MQP, with the hope of constructing a viable theoretical framework for this new endeavour. The three major themes discussed in these three essays are the large N expansion, the correlation hierarchy and quantum entanglement for systems of `large' sizes, with many components or degrees of freedom. In this paper we use different theories in a variety of contexts to examine the conditions or criteria whereby a macroscopic quantum system may take on classical attributes, and, more interestingly, that it keeps some of its quantum features. The theories we consider here are, the O(N) quantum mechanical model, semiclassical stochastic gravity and gauge / string theories; the contexts include that of a `quantum roll' in inflationary cosmology, entropy generation in quantum Vlasov equation for plasmas, the leading order and next-to-leading order large N behaviour, and hydrodynamic / thermodynamic limits. By examining different representative systems where detailed theoretical analysis has been carried out, we find that there is no a priori good reason why quantum phenomena in macroscopic objects cannot exist.

id: 1106.0572
title: BQP_p = PP for integer p > 2
authors: Joseph Bebel, Henry Yuen
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors due to the fact that strong error reduction for BQP_p problems is significantly more subtle than demonstrated, which compromises the main result
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0572
abstract: There's something really strange about quantum mechanics. It's not just that cats can be dead and alive at the same time, and that entanglement seems to violate the principle of locality; quantum mechanics seems to be what Aaronson calls "an island in theoryspace", because even slight perturbations to the theory of quantum mechanics seem to generate absurdities. In [Aar 04] and [Aar 05], he explores these perturbations and the corresponding absurdities in the context of computation. In particular, he shows that a quantum theory where the measurement probabilities are computed using p-norm instead of the standard 2-norm has the effect of blowing up the class BQP (the class of problems that can be efficiently solved on a quantum computer) to at least PP (the class of problems that can be solved in probabilistic polynomial time). He showed that PP \subseteq BQP_p \subseteq PSPACE for all constants p != 2, and that BQP_p = PP for even integers p > 2. Here, we show that this equality holds for all integers p > 2.

id: 1106.0584
title: Generalized partial measurements
authors: G.S. Paraoanu
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 93, 64002 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0584
abstract: We introduce a type of measurements that generalize the so-called "partial measurements" performed in recent years with phase qubits. While in the case of partial measurements it has been demonstrated that one could undo the effect of the measurement only for non-switching events, we show here that generalized partial measurements can be reversed probabilistically for both switching and non-switching events. We calculate the associated Fisher information and discuss the estimation sensitivity for quantum tomography. Two ways of implementing this type of measurements with superconducting qubits are proposed.

id: 1106.0613
title: Quantum entanglement distribution using a magnetic field sensor
authors: Marcus Schaffry, Simon C. Benjamin, Yuichiro Matsuzaki
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0613
abstract: Sensors based on crystal defects, especially nitrogen vacancy (NV) centres in nanodiamond, can achieve detection of single magnetic moments. Here we show that this exquisite control can be utilized to entangle remote electronic spins for applications in quantum computing; the mobile sensor provides a `flying' qubit while the act of sensing the local field constitutes a two-qubit projective measurement. Thus the tip mediates entanglement between an array of well-separated (and thus well controlled) qubits. Our calculations establish that such a device would be remarkably robust against realistic issues such as dephasing and multimodal vibrations in the sensor tip. We also provide calculations establishing the feasibility of performing a demonstrator experiment with a fixed sensor in the immediate future.

id: 1106.0699
title: Optically controllable photonic structures with zero absorption
authors: Chris O'Brien, Olga Kocharovskaya
comments: 4 pages and 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0699
abstract: We show the possibility to periodically modulate refractive index in atomic medium in space or/and time while simultaneously keeping vanishing absorption/gain. Such modulation is based on periodic resonant enhancement of refractive index, controlled by an external optical field, and opens a way to produce coherently controllable photonic structures. We suggest possible implementation of the proposed scheme in rare-earth doped crystals with excited state absorption.

id: 1106.0712
title: Kochen-Specker Sets and the Rank-1 Quantum Chromatic Number
authors: Giannicola Scarpa, Simone Severini
comments: 12 pages
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 58, no. 4, April 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0712
abstract: The quantum chromatic number of a graph $G$ is sandwiched between its chromatic number and its clique number, which are well known NP-hard quantities. We restrict our attention to the rank-1 quantum chromatic number $\chi_q^{(1)}(G)$, which upper bounds the quantum chromatic number, but is defined under stronger constraints. We study its relation with the chromatic number $\chi(G)$ and the minimum dimension of orthogonal representations $\xi(G)$. It is known that $\xi(G) \leq \chi_q^{(1)}(G) \leq \chi(G)$. We answer three open questions about these relations: we give a necessary and sufficient condition to have $\xi(G) = \chi_q^{(1)}(G)$, we exhibit a class of graphs such that $\xi(G) < \chi_q^{(1)}(G)$, and we give a necessary and sufficient condition to have $\chi_q^{(1)}(G) < \chi(G)$. Our main tools are Kochen-Specker sets, collections of vectors with a traditionally important role in the study of noncontextuality of physical theories, and more recently in the quantification of quantum zero-error capacities. Finally, as a corollary of our results and a result by Avis, Hasegawa, Kikuchi, and Sasaki on the quantum chromatic number, we give a family of Kochen-Specker sets of growing dimension.

id: 1106.0713
title: Cluster state generation using van der Waals and dipole-dipole interactions in optical lattices
authors: Elena Kuznetsova, T. Bragdon, Robin C?t¨¦, S. F. Yelin
comments: Revised and expanded version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0713
abstract: We present a scalable method for generation of a cluster state for measurement-based quantum computing using van der Waals or dipole-dipole interactions between neutral atoms or polar molecules in an optical lattice. Nearest neighbor entanglement is accomplished by performing a phase gate using interaction of atoms in Rydberg states or molecules in large dipole moment states. All nearest neighbors are sequentially entangled in a finite number of operations, independent of the number of qubits, producing a 1D cluster state. A universal 2D cluster state can be generated in several ms in a two-dimensional optical lattice by producing a series of 1D cluster states in one lattice direction, followed by application of the entangling operations in another lattice direction. We discuss the viability of the scheme with Rb Rydberg atoms.

id: 1106.0748
title: Restoring Local Causality and Objective Reality to the Entangled Photons
authors: Joy Christian
comments: 12 pages. Reference added. Published as Chapter 8 in Disproof of Bell's Theorem: Illuminating the Illusion of Entanglement (BrownWalker Press, Florida, 2012). Note that the entangled photon state reproduced in arXiv:1005.4932 is physically different from the singlet photon state reproduced here. For further details see also arXiv:1201.0775
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0748
abstract: Unlike our basic theories of space and time, quantum mechanics is not a locally causal theory. Moreover, it is widely believed that any hopes of restoring local causality within a realistic theory have been undermined by Bell's theorem and its supporting experiments. By contrast, we provide a strictly local, deterministic, and realistic explanation for the correlations observed in two such supporting experiments, performed independently at Orsay and Innsbruck. To this end, a pair of local variables is constructed to simulate detections of photon polarizations at various angles, chosen freely by Alice and Bob. These generate purely random outcomes, A = +1 or -1 and B = +1 or -1, occurring within a parallelized 3-sphere. These outcomes do not depend on the contexts of measurements, but are determined entirely by the randomly chosen initial orientation of the 3-sphere. When they are compared, however, the correlation between them turn out to be exactly equal to -cos2(alpha - beta), with the corresponding CHSH inequality violated for the polarization angles alpha, alpha', beta, and beta' in precisely the manner predicted by quantum mechanics. The key ingredient in our explanation is the topology of the 3-sphere, which remains closed under multiplication, thus preserving the locality condition of Bell. It allows us to model the physical space as a 3-sphere, and reveals that the illusion of quantum nonlocality in the present case stems from a twist in the Hopf fibration of the 3-sphere.

id: 1106.0763
title: Selective linear or quadratic optomechanical coupling via measurement
authors: M. R. Vanner
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, (accepted in Physical Review X)
journal: Phys. Rev. X 1, 021011 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0763
abstract: The ability to engineer both linear and non-linear coupling with a mechanical resonator is an important goal for the preparation and investigation of macroscopic mechanical quantum behavior. In this work, a measurement based scheme is presented where linear or square mechanical displacement coupling can be achieved using the optomechanical interaction linearly proportional to the mechanical position. The resulting square displacement measurement strength is compared to that attainable in the dispersive case using the direct interaction to the mechanical displacement squared. An experimental protocol and parameter set are discussed for the generation and observation of non-Gaussian states of motion of the mechanical element.

id: 1106.0767
title: Decoherent Histories Quantum Mechanics with One 'Real' Fine-Grained History
authors: Murray Gell-Mann, James B. Hartle
comments: 11 pages, one figure, expanded discussion and acknowledgments
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 85, 062120 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0767
abstract: Decoherent histories quantum theory is reformulated with the assumption that there is one "real" fine-grained history, specified in a preferred complete set of sum-over-histories variables. This real history is described by embedding it in an ensemble of comparable imagined fine-grained histories, not unlike the familiar ensemble of statistical mechanics. These histories are assigned extended probabilities, which can sometimes be negative or greater than one. As we will show, this construction implies that the real history is not completely accessible to experimental or other observational discovery. However, sufficiently and appropriately coarse-grained sets of alternative histories have standard probabilities providing information about the real fine-grained history that can be compared with observation. We recover the probabilities of decoherent histories quantum mechanics for sets of histories that are recorded and therefore decohere. Quantum mechanics can be viewed as a classical stochastic theory of histories with extended probabilities and a well-defined notion of reality common to all decoherent sets of alternative coarse-grained histories.

id: 1106.0788
title: Optomechanical Entanglement in the Presence of Laser Phase Noise
authors: R. Ghobadi, A. R. Bahrampour, C. Simon
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 063827 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0788
abstract: We study the simplest optomechanical system in the presence of laser phase noise using the covariance matrix formalism. We show that the destructive effect of the phase noise is especially strong in the bistable regime. This explains why ground state cooling is still possible in the presence of phase noise, as it happens far away from the bistable regime. On the other hand, the optomechanical entanglement is strongly affected by phase noise.

id: 1106.0795
title: Remote information concentration and multipartite entanglement in multilevel systems
authors: Xin-Wen Wang, Deng-Yu Zhang, Guo-Jian Yang, Shi-Qing Tang, Li-Jun Xie
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042310 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0795
abstract: Remote information concentration (RIC) in $d$-level systems (qudits) is studied. It is shown that the quantum information initially distributed in three spatially separated qudits can be remotely and deterministically concentrated to a single qudit via an entangled channel without performing any global operations. The entangled channel can be different types of genuine multipartite pure entangled states which are inequivalent under local operations and classical communication. The entangled channel can also be a mixed entangled state, even a bound entangled state which has a similar form to the Smolin state, but has different features from the Smolin state. A common feature of all these pure and mixed entangled states is found, i.e., they have $d^2$ common commuting stabilizers. The differences of qudit-RIC and qubit-RIC ($d=2$) are also analyzed.

id: 1106.0825
title: Security of Post-selection based Continuous Variable Quantum Key Distribution against Arbitrary Attacks
authors: Nathan Walk, Thomas Symul, Timothy C. Ralph, Ping Koy Lam
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0825
abstract: We extend the security proof for continuous variable quantum key distribution protocols using post selection to account for arbitrary eavesdropping attacks by employing the concept of an equiv- alent protocol where the post-selection is implemented as a projective quantum measurement. We demonstrate that the security can be calculated using only experimentally accessible quantities and finally explicitly evaluate the performance for the case of a noisy Gaussian channel in the limit of unbounded key length.

id: 1106.0836
title: Few emitters in a cavity: From cooperative emission to individualization
authors: A. Auffeves, D. Gerace, S. Portolan, A. Drezet, M. F. Santos
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 093020
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0836
abstract: We study the temporal correlations of the field emitted by an electromagnetic resonator coupled to a mesoscopic number of two-level emitters that are incoherently pumped by a weak external drive. We solve the master equation of the system for increasing number of emitters and as a function of the cavity quality factor, and we identify three main regimes characterized by well distinguished statistical properties of the emitted radiation. For small cavity decay rate, the emission events are uncorrelated and the number of photons in the emitted field becomes larger than one, resembling the build-up of a laser field inside the cavity. At intermediate decay rates (as compared to the emitter-cavity coupling) and for few emitters, the statistics of the emitted radiation is bunched and strikingly dependent on the parity of the number of emitters. The latter property is related to the cooperativity of the emitters mediated by their coupling to the cavity mode, and its connection with steady state subradiance is discussed. Finally, in the bad cavity regime the typical situation of emission from a collection of individual emitters is recovered. We also analyze how the cooperative behavior evolves as a function of pure dephasing, which allows to recover the case of a classical source made of an ensemble of independent emitters, similar to what is obtained for a very leaky cavity. State-of-art techniques of Q-switch of resonant cavities, allied with the recent capability to tune single emitters in and out of resonance, suggest this system as a versatile source of different quantum states of light.

id: 1106.0849
title: The bosonic birthday paradox
authors: Alex Arkhipov, Greg Kuperberg
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0849
abstract: We motivate and prove a version of the birthday paradox for $k$ identical bosons in $n$ possible modes. If the bosons are in the uniform mixed state, also called the maximally mixed quantum state, then we need $k \sim \sqrt{n}$ bosons to expect two in the same state, which is smaller by a factor of $\sqrt{2}$ than in the case of distinguishable objects (boltzmannons). While the core result is elementary, we generalize the hypothesis and strengthen the conclusion in several ways. One side result is that boltzmannons with a randomly chosen multinomial distribution have the same birthday statistics as bosons. This last result is interesting as a quantum proof of a classical probability theorem; we also give a classical proof.

id: 1106.0911
title: The three and a half layers of dynamics : analog, digital, semi-digital, analog
authors: T. P. Singh
comments: 11 pages. Fourth Prize essay in the FQXi essay competition (2010/11) `Is reality digital or analog?' [fqxi.org]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0911
abstract: Quantum theory is extremely successful in explaining most physical phenomena, and is not contradicted by any experiment. Yet, the theory has many puzzling features : the occurrence of probabilities, the unclear distinction between the microscopic and the macroscopic, the unexplained absence of superpositions in positions of macroscopic objects, the dependence of the theory on an external classical time, and the experimentally verified but peculiar `influence' outside the light-cone in EPR experiments. These puzzles point towards a conflict between quantum theory and our present understanding of spacetime structure, and suggest the existence of a deeper theory. In this essay we make the case that in the underlying theory the matter and spacetime degrees of freedom are non-commuting matrices, and yet the dynamics is analog. A digital quantum-theory like dynamics for matter as well as spacetime emerges in the statistical thermodynamic approximation to this deeper theory. When most of the matter clumps into macroscopic structures, it is shown to behave classically, and it induces classical dynamics on spacetime; this is the eventual analog limit, our macroscopic world. In between the digital layer and the uppermost analog layer is the realm of standard quantum theory - microscopic objects and their interaction with measuring apparatuses on a classical spacetime background : the semi-digital approximation. Such a multi-layered description of dynamics can explain the puzzling features of quantum theory, and is testable by ongoing laboratory experiments.

id: 1106.0945
title: Simulating cyclotron-Bloch dynamics of a charged particle in a 2D lattice by means of cold atoms in driven quasi 1D optical lattices
authors: Andrey R. Kolovsky
comments: Submitted to special issue "Recent Progress on Quantum Dynamics Ultracold Atoms" of "Frontiers of Physics"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0945
abstract: Quantum dynamics of a charged particle in a 2D lattice subject to magnetic and electric fields is a rather complicated interplay between cyclotron oscillations (the case of vanishing electric field) and Bloch oscillations (zero magnetic field), details of which has not yet been completely understood. In the present work we suggest to study this problem by using cold atoms in optical lattices. We introduce a 1D model which can be easily realized in laboratory experiments with quasi 1D optical lattices and show that this model captures many features of the cyclotron-Bloch dynamics of the quantum particle in 2D square lattices.

id: 1106.0979
title: Transition Probability (Fidelity) and Its Relatives
authors: Armin Uhlmann
comments: Talk at the 2009 Vaexoe Quantum Theory Conference. 11 pages
journal: Found. Phys. (2011) 41: 288-298
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0979
abstract: Transition Probability (fidelity) for pairs of density operators can be defined as "functor" in the hierarchy of "all" quantum systems and also within any quantum system. The introduction of "amplitudes" for density operators allows for a more intuitive treatment of these quantities, also pointing to a natural parallel transport. The latter is governed by a remarkable gauge theory with strong relations to the Riemann-Bures metric.

id: 1106.0988
title: Enhancing electromagnetically-induced transparency in a multilevel broadened medium
authors: M. Scherman, O.S. Mishina, P. Lombardi, E. Giacobino, J. Laurat
comments: 
journal: Optics Express 20, 4 (2012) 4346
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0988
abstract: Electromagnetically-induced transparency has become an important tool to control the optical properties of dense media. However, in a broad class of systems, the interplay between inhomogeneous broadening and the existence of several excited levels may lead to a vanishing transparency. Here, by identifying the underlying physical mechanisms resulting in this effect, we show that transparency can be strongly enhanced. We thereby demonstrate a 5-fold enhancement in a room-temperature vapor of alkali-metal atoms via a specific shaping of the atomic velocity distribution.

id: 1106.1057
title: CNOT on Polarization States of Coherent Light
authors: Goce Chadzitaskos, Jiri Tolar
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1057
abstract: We propose a CNOT gate for quantum computation. The CNOT operation is based on existence of triactive molecules, which in one direction have dipole moment and cause rotation of the polarization plane of linearly polarized light and in perpendicular direction have a magnetic moment. The incoming linearly polarized laser beam is divided into two beams by beam splitter. In one beam a control state is prepared and the other beam is a target. The interaction of polarized states of both beams in a solution containing triactive molecules can be described as interaction of two qubits in CNOT.

id: 1106.1077
title: Collective Electronic Excitation Coupling between Planar Optical Lattices using Ewald's Method
authors: Hashem Zoubi, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 6 pages, and 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44, 205303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1077
abstract: Using Ewald's summation method we investigate collective electronic excitations (excitons) of ultracold atoms in parallel planar optical lattices including long range interactions. The exciton dispersion relation can then be suitably rewritten and efficiently calculated for long range resonance dipole-dipole interactions. Such in-plane excitons resonantly couple for two identical optical lattices, with an energy transfer strength decreasing exponentially with the distance between the lattices. This allows a restriction of the transfer to neighboring planes and gives rise to excitons delocalized between the lattices. In general equivalent results will hold for any planar system containing lattice layers of optically active and dipolar materials.

id: 1106.1082
title: Tensor network states and geometry
authors: G. Evenbly, G. Vidal
comments: 18 pages, 18 figures
journal: J Stat Phys (2011) 145:891-918
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1082
abstract: Tensor network states are used to approximate ground states of local Hamiltonians on a lattice in D spatial dimensions. Different types of tensor network states can be seen to generate different geometries. Matrix product states (MPS) in D=1 dimensions, as well as projected entangled pair states (PEPS) in D>1 dimensions, reproduce the D-dimensional physical geometry of the lattice model; in contrast, the multi-scale entanglement renormalization ansatz (MERA) generates a (D+1)-dimensional holographic geometry. Here we focus on homogeneous tensor networks, where all the tensors in the network are copies of the same tensor, and argue that certain structural properties of the resulting many-body states are preconditioned by the geometry of the tensor network and are therefore largely independent of the choice of variational parameters. Indeed, the asymptotic decay of correlations in homogeneous MPS and MERA for D=1 systems is seen to be determined by the structure of geodesics in the physical and holographic geometries, respectively; whereas the asymptotic scaling of entanglement entropy is seen to always obey a simple boundary law -- that is, again in the relevant geometry. This geometrical interpretation offers a simple and unifying framework to understand the structural properties of, and helps clarify the relation between, different tensor network states. In addition, it has recently motivated the branching MERA, a generalization of the MERA capable of reproducing violations of the entropic boundary law in D>1 dimensions.

id: 1106.1099
title: Practical Quantum Coin Flipping
authors: Anna Pappa, Andr¨¦ Chailloux, Eleni Diamanti, Iordanis Kerenidis
comments: v2, 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052305 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1099
abstract: In this article we show for the first time that quantum coin flipping with security guarantees that are strictly better than any classical protocol is possible to implement with current technology. Our protocol takes into account all aspects of an experimental implementation like losses, multi-photon pulses emitted by practical photon sources, channel noise, detector dark counts and finite quantum efficiency. We calculate the abort probability when both players are honest, as well as the probability of one player forcing his desired outcome. For channel length up to 21 km, we achieve a cheating probability that is better than in any classical protocol. Our protocol is easy to implement using attenuated laser pulses, with no need for entangled photons or any other specific resources.

id: 1106.1114
title: Entanglement Witnesses for Graph States: General Theory and Examples
authors: Bastian Jungnitsch, Tobias Moroder, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 12 pages + appendix, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032310 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1114
abstract: We present a general theory for the construction of witnesses that detect genuine multipartite entanglement in graph states. First, we present explicit witnesses for all graph states of up to six qubits which are better than all criteria so far. Therefore, lower fidelities are required in experiments that aim at the preparation of graph states. Building on these results, we develop analytical methods to construct two different types of entanglement witnesses for general graph states. For many classes of states, these operators exhibit white noise tolerances that converge to one when increasing the number of particles. We illustrate our approach for states such as the linear and the 2D cluster state. Finally, we study an entanglement monotone motivated by our approach for graph states.

id: 1106.1159
title: Protected quantum computation with multiple resonators in ultrastrong coupling circuit QED
authors: Pierre Nataf, Cristiano Ciuti
comments: Added results with N = 3,4,5 Josephson atoms and different anisotropy ratios for the decoherence channels in the new figures 2 and 3
journal: Physical Review Letters 107 (2011) 190402
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1159
abstract: We investigate theoretically the dynamical behavior of a qubit obtained with the two ground eigenstates of an ultrastrong coupling circuit-QED system consisting of a finite number of Josephson fluxonium atoms inductively coupled to a transmission line resonator. We show an universal set of quantum gates by using multiple transmission line resonators (each resonator represents a single qubit). We discuss the intrinsic 'anisotropic' nature of noise sources for fluxonium artificial atoms. Through a master equation treatment with colored noise and manylevel dynamics, we prove that, for a general class of anisotropic noise sources, the coherence time of the qubit and the fidelity of the quantum operations can be dramatically improved in an optimal regime of ultrastrong coupling, where the ground state is an entangled photonic 'cat' state.

id: 1106.1162
title: Investigating the Spectral Geometry of a Soft Wall
authors: J. D. Bouas, S. A. Fulling, F. D. Mera, K. Thapa, C. S. Trendafilova, J. Wagner
comments: 16 pages,4 figures; International Conference on Spectral Geometry (Dartmouth, 2010). Revision (final submission to Proc. Symp. Pure Math.) has minor updates and corrections
journal: Spectral Geometry, ed. by A. H. Barnett et al., Proc. Symp. Pure Math. v. 84, pp. 139-154 (AMS, Providence, 2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1162
abstract: The idealized theory of quantum vacuum energy density is a beautiful application of the spectral theory of differential operators with boundary conditions, but its conclusions are physically unacceptable. A more plausible model of a reflecting boundary that stays within linear spectral theory confines the waves by a steeply rising potential function, which can be taken as a power of one coordinate, z^\alpha. We report investigations of this model with considerable student involvement. An exact analytical solution with some numerics for \alpha=1 and an asymptotic (semiclassical) analysis of a related problem for \alpha=2 are presented.

id: 1106.1166
title: Simulating quantum statistics with entangled photons: a continuous transition from bosons to fermions
authors: Jonathan C. F. Matthews, Konstantinos Poulios, Jasmin D. A. Meinecke, Alberto Politi, Alberto Peruzzo, Nur Ismail, Kerstin W?rhoff, Mark G. Thompson, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 1539, (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1166
abstract: In contrast to classical physics, quantum mechanics divides particles into two classes-bosons and fermions-whose exchange statistics dictate the dynamics of systems at a fundamental level. In two dimensions quasi-particles known as 'anyons' exhibit fractional exchange statistics intermediate between these two classes. The ability to simulate and observe behaviour associated to fundamentally different quantum particles is important for simulating complex quantum systems. Here we use the symmetry and quantum correlations of entangled photons subjected to multiple copies of a quantum process to directly simulate quantum interference of fermions, bosons and a continuum of fractional behaviour exhibited by anyons. We observe an average similarity of 93.6\pm0.2% between an ideal model and experimental observation. The approach generalises to an arbitrary number of particles and is independent of the statistics of the particles used, indicating application with other quantum systems and large scale application.

id: 1106.1190
title: Tutorial: The trapped-ion qubit toolbox
authors: Roee Ozeri
comments: Wil be published in Contemporary Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1190
abstract: In this tutorial we review the basic building blocks of Quantum Information Processing with cold trapped atomic-ions. We mainly focus on methods to implement single-qubit rotations and two-qubit entangling gates, which form a universal set of quantum gates. Different ion qubit choices and their respective gate implementations are described.

id: 1106.1208
title: Increasing Entanglement by Separable Operations and New Monotones for W-type Entanglement
authors: Eric Chitambar, Wei Cui, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: This is the published version Phys. Rev. A 85, 062316 (2012). It expands on the results of Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 240504 (2012)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062316 (2012); Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 240504 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1208
abstract: The class of local operations and classical communication (LOCC) pertains to an important measurement scenario in many quantum communication schemes. While LOCC belongs to the more general class of separable operations (SEP), the exact difference between the two remains a challenging open problem. In this article, we seek to better understand the structure of LOCC and its relationship to SEP by comparing their respective abilities for distilling EPR entanglement from one copy of an $N$-qubit W-class state (i.e. that of the form $\sqrt{x_0}\ket{00...0}+\sqrt{x_1}\ket{10...0}+...+\sqrt{x_n}\ket{00...1}$). In terms of transformation success probability, we are able to quantify a gap as large as 37% between the two classes. Our work involves constructing new analytic entanglement monotones for W-class states which can increase on average by separable operations. Additionally, we are able to show that the set of LOCC operations, considered as a subset of the most general quantum measurements, is not closed.

id: 1106.1209
title: Randomly distilling W-class states into general configurations of two-party entanglement
authors: Wei Cui, Eric Chitambar, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1209
abstract: In this article we obtain new results for the task of converting a \textit{single} $N$-qubit W-class state (of the form $\sqrt{x_0}\ket{00...0}+\sqrt{x_1}\ket{10...0}+...+\sqrt{x_N}\ket{00...1}$) into maximum entanglement shared between two random parties. Previous studies in random distillation have not considered how the particular choice of target pairs affects the transformation, and here we develop a strategy for distilling into \textit{general} configurations of target pairs. We completely solve the problem of determining the optimal distillation probability for all three qubit configurations and most four qubit configurations when $x_0=0$. Our proof involves deriving new entanglement monotones defined on the set of four qubit W-class states. As an additional application of our results, we present new upper bounds for converting a generic W-class state into the standard W state $\ket{W_N}=\sqrt{\frac{1}{N}}(\ket{10...0}+...+\ket{00...1})$.

id: 1106.1251
title: Casimir interaction between a cylinder and a plate at finite temperature: Exact results and comparison to proximity force approximation
authors: L. P. Teo
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.D84:025022,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1251
abstract: We study the finite temperature Casimir interaction between a cylinder and a plate using the exact formula derived from the Matsubara representation and the functional determinant representation. We consider the scalar field with Dirichlet and Neumann boundary conditions. The asymptotic expansions of the Casimir energy and the Casimir force when the separation $a$ between the cylinder and the plate is small are derived. As in the zero temperature case, it is found that the leading terms of the Casimir energy and the Casimir force agree with those derived from the proximity force approximation when $rT\gg 1$, where $r$ is the radius of the cylinder. When $aT\ll 1\ll rT$ (the medium temperature region), the leading term of the Casimir energy is of order $T^{5/2}$ whereas for the Casimir force, it is of order $T^{7/2}$. In this case, the leading terms are independent of the separation $a$. When $1\ll aT\ll rT$ (the high temperature region), the dominating terms of the Casimir energy and the Casimir force come from the zeroth Matsubara frequency. In this case, the leading terms are linear in $T$, but for the energy, it is inversely proportional to $a^{3/2}$, whereas for the force, it is inversely proportional to $a^{5/2}$. The first order corrections to the proximity force approximations in different temperature regions are computed using perturbation approach. In the zero temperature case, the results agree with those derived in [Bordag, Phys. Rev. D \textbf{73}, 125018 (2006)].

id: 1106.1254
title: Quantum Theory without Quantization
authors: Ken Wharton
comments: 9 pages, Awarded 3rd Prize in 2011 FQXi Essay Contest ("Is Reality Digital or Analog?")
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1254
abstract: The only evidence we have for a discrete reality comes from quantum measurements; without invoking these measurements, quantum theory describes continuous entities. This seeming contradiction can be resolved via analysis that treats measurements as boundary constraints. It is well-known that boundaries can induce apparently-discrete behavior in continuous systems, and strong analogies can be drawn to the case of quantum measurement. If quantum discreteness arises in this manner, this would not only indicate an analog reality, but would also offer a solution to the so-called "measurement problem".

id: 1106.1261
title: Entangled Network and Quantum Communication
authors: Nasser Metwally
comments: 
journal: Phys. Letters A 375 (2011) 4268-4273
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1261
abstract: A theoretical scheme is introduced to generate entangled network via Dzyaloshinskii- Moriya (DM)interaction. The dynamics of entanglement generated between different nodes by direct or indirect interaction is investigated. It is shown that, the direction of (DM) interaction and the location of the nodes have a sensational effect on the degree of entanglement. We quantify the minimum entanglement generated between all the nodes. The upper and lower bound of the entanglement of the generated network depends on the direction of DM interaction and the repetition of the behavior depends on the strength of DM. The generated entangled nodes are used as quantum channel to perform quantum teleportation, where we show that the fidelity of teleporting unknown information between the network members depends on the location of the members.

id: 1106.1313
title: Microscopic description of dissipative dynamics of a level crossing transition
authors: M. Scala, B. Militello, A. Messina, N.V. Vitanov
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1313
abstract: We analyze the effect of a dissipative bosonic environment on the Landau-Zener-Stuckelberg-Majorana (LZSM) level crossing model by using a microscopic approach to derive the relevant master equation. For an environment at zero temperature and weak dissipation our microscopic approach confirms the independence of the survival probability on the decay rate that has been predicted earlier by the simple phenomenological LZSM model. For strong decay the microscopic approach predicts a notable increase of the survival probability, which signals dynamical decoupling of the initial state. Unlike the phenomenological model our approach makes it possible to study the dependence of the system dynamics on the temperature of the environment. In the limit of very high temperature we find that the dynamics is characterized by a very strong dynamical decoupling of the initial state - temperature-induced quantum Zeno effect.

id: 1106.1360
title: Electromagnetically induced transparency with Rydberg atoms
authors: David Petrosyan, Johannes Otterbach, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: revised ms
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 213601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1360
abstract: We present a theory of electromagnetically induced transparency in a cold ensemble of strongly interacting Rydberg atoms. Long-range interactions between the atoms constrain the medium to behave as a collection of superatoms, each comprising a blockade volume that can accommodate at most one Rydberg excitation. The propagation of a probe field is affected by its two-photon correlations within the blockade distance, which are strongly damped due to low saturation threshold of the superatoms. Our model is computationally very efficient and is in quantitative agreement with the results of recent experiment of Pritchard et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 193603 (2010)].

id: 1106.1373
title: Correlations in excited states of local Hamiltonians
authors: Jianxin Chen, Zhengfeng Ji, Zhaohui Wei, Bei Zeng
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1373
abstract: Physical properties of the ground and excited states of a $k$-local Hamiltonian are largely determined by the $k$-particle reduced density matrices ($k$-RDMs), or simply the $k$-matrix for fermionic systems---they are at least enough for the calculation of the ground state and excited state energies. Moreover, for a non-degenerate ground state of a $k$-local Hamiltonian, even the state itself is completely determined by its $k$-RDMs, and therefore contains no genuine ${>}k$-particle correlations, as they can be inferred from $k$-particle correlation functions. It is natural to ask whether a similar result holds for non-degenerate excited states. In fact, for fermionic systems, it has been conjectured that any non-degenerate excited state of a 2-local Hamiltonian is simultaneously a unique ground state of another 2-local Hamiltonian, hence is uniquely determined by its 2-matrix. And a weaker version of this conjecture states that any non-degenerate excited state of a 2-local Hamiltonian is uniquely determined by its 2-matrix among all the pure $n$-particle states. We construct explicit counterexamples to show that both conjectures are false. It means that correlations in excited states of local Hamiltonians could be dramatically different from those in ground states. We further show that any non-degenerate excited state of a $k$-local Hamiltonian is a unique ground state of another $2k$-local Hamiltonian, hence is uniquely determined by its $2k$-RDMs (or $2k$-matrix).

id: 1106.1445
title: From Classical to Quantum Shannon Theory
authors: Mark M. Wilde
comments: v1: 642 pages, 255 exercises, 79 figures, available under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike license (see this http URL); v2: minor corrections; v3: 663 pages, fixed typos, added new sections, added index; v4: 672 pages, other corrections; v5: 670 pages, minor corrections. To be published by Cambridge University Press in May 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1445
abstract: The aim of this book is to develop "from the ground up" many of the major, exciting, pre- and post-millenium developments in the general area of study known as quantum Shannon theory. As such, we spend a significant amount of time on quantum mechanics for quantum information theory (Part II), we give a careful study of the important unit protocols of teleportation, super-dense coding, and entanglement distribution (Part III), and we develop many of the tools necessary for understanding information transmission or compression (Part IV). Parts V and VI are the culmination of this book, where all of the tools developed come into play for understanding many of the important results in quantum Shannon theory.

id: 1106.1453
title: Local probability model for the Bell correlation based on the statistics of chaotic light and non-commutative processes
authors: Louis Sica
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1453
abstract: As discussed below, Bell's inequalities and experimental results rule out commutative hidden variable models as a basis for Bell correlations, but not necessarily non-commutative probability models. A local probability model is constructed for Bell correlations based on non-commutative operations involving polarizers. As in the entanglement model, the Bell correlation is obtained from a probability calculus without explicit use of deterministic hidden variables. The probability calculus used is associated with chaotic light. Joint wave intensity correlations at spatially separated polarization analyzers are computed using common information originating at the source. When interpreted as photon count rates, these yield quantum mechanical joint probabilities after the contribution of indeterminate numbers of photon pairs greater than one is subtracted out. The formalism appears to give a local account of Bell correlations.

id: 1106.1479
title: Coupling of a Single Diamond Nanocrystal to a Whispering-Gallery Microcavity: Photon Transportation Benefitting from Rayleigh Scattering
authors: Yong-Chun Liu, Yun-Feng Xiao, Bei-Bei Li, Xue-Feng Jiang, Yan Li, Qihuang Gong
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 011805 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1479
abstract: We study the Rayleigh scattering induced by a diamond nanocrystal in a whispering-gallery-microcavity--waveguide coupling system, and find that it plays a significant role in the photon transportation. On one hand, this study provides a new insight into future solid-state cavity quantum electrodynamics toward strong coupling physics. On the other hand, benefitting from this Rayleigh scattering, novel photon transportation such as dipole induced transparency and strong photon antibunching can occur simultaneously. As potential applications, this system can function as high-efficiency photon turnstiles. In contrast to [B. Dayan \textit{et al.}, \textrm{Science} \textbf{319},1062 (2008)], the photon turnstiles proposed here are highly immune to nanocrystal's azimuthal position.

id: 1106.1480
title: Offsets in Electrostatically Determined Distances: Implications for Casimir Force Measurements
authors: S.K. Lamoreaux, A.O. Sushkov
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1480
abstract: The imperfect termination of static electric fields at semiconducting surfaces has been long known in solid state and transistor physics. We show that the imperfect shielding leads to an offset in the distance between two surfaces as determined by electrostatic force measurements. The effect exists even in the case of good conductors (metals) albeit much reduced.

id: 1106.1504
title: Gaussian enveloped decoherence of the atomic states in quantum cavity
authors: G. Zhang, Z. Song
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1504
abstract: We revisit the decoherence of the atomic state in the resonant Jaynes-Cummings model with the field initially being in a coherent state. We show that the purity of the atom exhibits oscillating Gaussian dependence on the time with a width independent of the initial atomic state. It is also shown that when the atom and the coherent state match each other in phase, the atomic decoherence is Gaussian time dependence.

id: 1106.1514
title: Landau-Zener-Stuckelberg interferometry of a single electron spin in a noisy environment
authors: Pu Huang, Jingwei Zhou, Fang Fang, Xi Kong, Xiangkun Xu, Chenyong Ju, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 1, 011003 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1514
abstract: We demonstrate quantum coherent control of a single electron spin in a NV center in diamond using the Landau-Zener-Stuckelberg interferometry at room temperature. Interference pattern is observed oscillating as a function of microwave frequency. The decays in the visibility of the interference are well explained by numerical simulation which includes the thermal fluctuations of the nuclear bath which shows that Landau-Zener-Stuckelberg interferometry can be used for probing electron spin decoherence processes.

id: 1106.1536
title: Multipartite continuous-variable entanglement distillation using local squeezing and only one photon-subtraction operation
authors: Song Yang, XuBo Zou, ShengLi Zhang, Bao-Sen Shi, Peter van Loock, GuangCan Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1536
abstract: In this paper, we study entanglement distillation of multipartite continuous-variable Gaussian entangled states. Following Opatrn\'{y} \emph{et al.}'s photon subtraction (PS) scheme, the probability of successful distillation decreases exponentially with the number of parties $N$. However, here, we shall propose an entanglement distillation scheme whose success probability scales as a constant with $N$. Our protocol employs several local squeezers, but it requires only a single PS operation. Using the logarithmic negativity as a measure of entanglement, we find that both the success probability and the distilled entanglement can be improved at the same time. Moreover, an $N$-mode transfer theorem (transferring states from phase space to Hilbert space) is presented.

id: 1106.1544
title: Microcanonical ensemble and incompleteness of quantum mechanics
authors: V. A. Skrebnev
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1544
abstract: It is shown, that the only reason for possibility of using microcanonical ensemble is that there are probabilistic processes in microworld, that are not described by quantum mechanic. On a simple example it is demonstrated, that canonical distribution is not independent and equal to microcanonical, but is a result of averaging by microcanonical ensemble.

id: 1106.1550
title: Comments on "Observation of Fast Evolution in Parity-Time-Symmetric System"
authors: Fabio Masillo
comments: 2 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1550
abstract: In the paper "Observation of Fast Evolution in Parity-Time-Symmetric System" the authors propose a physical apparatus for the realization of a faster than Hermitian evolution. This last appears in contrast with the conclusions obtained in our paper "Some Remarks on Quantum Brachistochrone". We will clarify this apparent contradiction and some problematic aspects of the treatment in [1].

id: 1106.1639
title: Rhythms of Memory and Bits on Edge: Symbol Recognition as a Physical Phenomenon
authors: John M. Myers, F. Hadi Madjid
comments: LaTeX, 27 pages, 9 EPS figures, 1 table. This paper grew out of a talk given at the Workshop on Topological Quantum Information, organized by L. H. Kauffman and S. J. Lomonaco, Jr., on May 16 and 17, 2011, held at the Centro di Ricerca Matematica Ennio De Giorgi (CRM) in Pisa, Italy
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1639
abstract: Preoccupied with measurement, physics has neglected the need, before anything can be measured, to recognize what it is that is to be measured. The recognition of symbols employs a known physical mechanism. The elemental mechanism-a damped inverted pendulum joined by a driven adjustable pendulum (in effect a clock)-both recognizes a binary distinction and records a single bit. Referred to by engineers as a "clocked flip-flop," this paired-pendulum mechanism pervades scientific investigation. It shapes evidence by imposing discrete phases of allowable leeway in clock readings; and it generates a mathematical form of evidence that neither assumes a geometry nor assumes quantum states, and so separates statements of evidence from further assumptions required to explain that evidence, whether the explanations are made in quantum terms or in terms of general relativity. Cleansed of unnecessary assumptions, these expressions of evidence form a platform on which to consider the working together of general relativity and quantum theory as explanatory language for evidence from clock networks, such as the Global Positioning System. Quantum theory puts Planck's constant into explanations of the required timing leeway, while explanations of leeway also draw on the theory of general relativity, prompting the question: does Planck's constant in the timing leeway put the long known tension between quantum theory and general relativity in a new light?

id: 1106.1683
title: Quantum simulator of an open quantum system using superconducting qubits: exciton transport in photosynthetic complexes
authors: Sarah Mostame, Patrick Rebentrost, Alexander Eisfeld, Andrew J. Kerman, Dimitris I. Tsomokos, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, minor modifications
journal: New Journal of Physics 14, 105013 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1683
abstract: Open quantum system approaches are widely used in the description of physical, chemical and biological systems. A famous example is electronic excitation transfer in the initial stage of photosynthesis, where harvested energy is transferred with remarkably high efficiency to a reaction center. This transport is affected by the motion of a structured vibrational environment, which makes simulations on a classical computer very demanding. Here we propose an analog quantum simulator of complex open system dynamics with a precisely engineered quantum environment. Our setup is based on superconducting circuits, a well established technology. As an example, we demonstrate that it is feasible to simulate exciton transport in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson photosynthetic complex. Our approach allows for a controllable single-molecule simulation and the investigation of energy transfer pathways as well as non-Markovian noise-correlation effects.

id: 1106.1708
title: Millikelvin Spatial Thermometry of Trapped Ions
authors: B.G. Norton, E.W. Streed, M.J.Petrasiunas, A. Jechow, D. Kielpinski
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1708
abstract: We demonstrate millikelvin thermometry of laser cooled trapped ions with high-resolution imaging. This equilibrium approach is independent of the cooling dynamics and has lower systematic error than Doppler thermometry, with \pm5 mK accuracy and \pm1 mK precision. We used it to observe highly anisotropic dynamics of a single ion, finding temperatures of < 60 mK and > 15 K simultaneously along different directions. This thermometry technique can offer new insights into quantum systems sympathetically cooled by ions, including atoms, molecules, nanomechanical oscillators, and electric circuits.

id: 1106.1758
title: Wide-band quantum interface for visible-to-telecommunication wavelength conversion
authors: Rikizo Ikuta, Yoshiaki Kusaka, Tsuyoshi Kitano, Hiroshi Kato, Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Communications 2 537 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1758
abstract: We perform the first demonstration of a quantum interface for frequency down-conversion from visible to telecommunication bands by using a nonlinear crystal. This interface has a potential to work over wide bandwidths, leading to a high-speed interface of frequency conversion. We achieve the conversion of a pico-second visible photon at 780 nm to a 1522-nm photon, and observe that the conversion process retain entanglement between the down-converted photon and another photon.

id: 1106.1848
title: Reply on Comments on "Observation of a Fast Evolution in a Parity-time-symmetric System"(Aixiv.1106.1550)
authors: Chao Zheng, Liang Hao, Gui Lu Long
comments: 1 page, 0 picture
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1848
abstract: Masillo [1] commented on our manuscript [2] "Observation of a Fast Evolution in a Parity-time-symmetric System", pointing out a contradiction of our work with Ref.[3]. In this reply, we pointed out there is no disagreement between Masillo's comment and our work in Ref. [2]. The efficiency cost pointed out in Ref.\cite{masillo} exists, namely to obtain the PT-symmetric hamiltonian evolution, one has to make a measurement on the auxiliary qubit and the auxiliary qubit is at state $|0\ket$ only probabilistically. This is reflected in the amplitude of the spectrum in the NMR quantum simulation. As a result, we made a small modification in a new version of the Ref. [2], and Fig. 2 of Ref.[2] has been replaced by spectra of two different $\alpha$'s in order to illustrate this fact.

id: 1106.1854
title: Measuring the internal state of a single atom without energy exchange
authors: J¨¹rgen Volz, Roger Gehr, Guilhem Dubois, J¨¦r?me Est¨¨ve, Jakob Reichel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1854
abstract: Real quantum measurements almost always cause a much stronger back action than required by the laws of quantum mechanics. In particular, free-space optical detection methods for single atoms and ions such as the shelving technique, though being among the most sensitive detection methods in quantum physics, inevitably require spontaneous scattering, even in the dispersive regime. This causes heating, a limitation for atom-based quantum information processing where it obviates straightforward reuse of the qubit. No such energy exchange is required by quantum mechanics. Here we experimentally demonstrate optical detection of an atomic qubit with significantly less than one spontaneous scattering event. We measure transmission and reflection of an optical cavity containing the atom. In addition to the qubit detection itself, we quantitatively measure how much spontaneous scattering has occurred. This allows us to relate the information gained to the amount of spontaneous emission, and we obtain a detection error below 10% while scattering less than 0.2 photons on average. Furthermore, we perform a quantum Zeno type experiment to quantify the measurement back action and find that every incident photon leads to an almost complete state collapse. Together, these results constitute a full experimental characterization of a quantum measurement in the "energy exchange-free" regime below a single spontaneous emission event. Besides its fundamental interest, this means significant simplification for proposed neutral-atom quantum computation schemes and may enable sensitive detection of molecules and atoms lacking closed transitions.

id: 1106.1863
title: Extending matchgates into universal quantum computation
authors: Daniel J. Brod, Ernesto F. Galv?o
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022310 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1863
abstract: Matchgates are a family of two-qubit gates associated with noninteracting fermions. They are classically simulatable if acting only on nearest neighbors, but become universal for quantum computation if we relax this restriction or use SWAP gates [Jozsa and Miyake, Proc. R. Soc. A 464, 3089 (2008)]. We generalize this result by proving that any nonmatchgate parity-preserving unitary is capable of extending the computational power of matchgates into universal quantum computation. We identify the single local invariant of parity-preserving unitaries responsible for this, and discuss related results in the context of fermionic systems.

id: 1106.1867
title: Polarization-entanglement conserving frequency conversion of photons
authors: Sven Ramelow, Alessandro Fedrizzi, Andreas Poppe, Nathan K. Langford, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013845 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1867
abstract: Entangled photons play a pivotal role in the distribution of quantum information in quantum networks. However, the frequency bands for optimal transmission and storage of photons are not necessarily the same. Here we experimentally demonstrate the coherent frequency conversion of photons entangled in their polarization, a widely used degree of freedom in photonic quantum information processing. We verify the successful entanglement conversion by violating a Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) Bell inequality and fully confirm that our characterised fidelity of entanglement transfer is close to unity using both state and process tomography. Our implementation is robust and flexible, making it a practical building block for future quantum networks.

id: 1106.1871
title: Sufficient conditions for uniqueness of the weak value
authors: J. Dressel, A. N. Jordan
comments: 17 pages, final published response
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 015304 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1871
abstract: We review and clarify the sufficient conditions for uniquely defining the generalized weak value as the weak limit of a conditioned average using the contextual values formalism introduced in Dressel J, Agarwal S and Jordan A N 2010 Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 240401. We also respond to criticism of our work in [arXiv:1105.4188v1] concerning a proposed counter-example to the uniqueness of the definition of the generalized weak value. The counter-example does not satisfy our prescription in the case of an underspecified measurement context. We show that when the contextual values formalism is properly applied to this example, a natural interpretation of the measurement emerges and the unique definition in the weak limit holds. We also prove a theorem regarding the uniqueness of the definition under our sufficient conditions for the general case. Finally, a second proposed counter-example in [arXiv:1105.4188v6] is shown not to satisfy the sufficiency conditions for the provided theorem.

id: 1106.1886
title: Nonequilibrium Dynamics of Charged Particles in an Electromagnetic Field: Causal and Stable Dynamics from 1/c Expansion of QED
authors: C. H. Fleming, P. R. Johnson, B. L. Hu
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 255002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1886
abstract: We derive from a microscopic Hamiltonian a set of stochastic equations of motion for a system of spinless charged particles in an electromagnetic (EM) field based on a consistent application of a dimensionful 1/c expansion of quantum electrodynamics (QED). All relativistic corrections up to order 1/c^3 are captured by the dynamics, which includes electrostatic interactions (Coulomb), magnetostatic backreaction (Biot-Savart), dissipative backreaction (Abraham-Lorentz) and quantum field fluctuations at zero and finite temperatures. With self-consistent backreaction of the EM field included we show that this approach yields causal and runaway-free equations of motion, provides new insights into charged particle backreaction, and naturally leads to equations consistent with the (classical) Darwin Hamiltonian and has quantum operator ordering consistent with the Breit Hamiltonian. To order 1/c^3 the approach leads to a nonstandard mass renormalization which is associated with magnetostatic self-interactions, and no cutoff is required to prevent runaways. Our new results also show that the pathologies of the standard Abraham-Lorentz equations can be seen as a consequence of applying an inconsistent (i.e. incomplete, mixed-order) expansion in 1/c, if, from the start, the analysis is viewed as generating a low-energy effective theory rather than an exact solution. Finally, we show that the 1/c expansion within a Hamiltonian framework yields well-behaved noise and dissipation, in addition to the multiple-particle interactions.

id: 1106.1892
title: Photon Antibunching, Sub-Poisson Statistics and Cauchy-Bunyakovsky and Bell's Inequalities
authors: Igor V. Volovich
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1892
abstract: We discuss some mathematical aspects of photon antibunching and sub-Poisson photon statistics. It is known that Bell's inequalities for entangled states can be reduced to the Cauchy-Bunyakovsky inequalities. In this note some rigorous results on impossibility of classical hidden variables representations of certain quantum correlation functions are proved which are also based on the Cauchy-Bunyakovsky inequalities. The difference K between the variance and the mean as a measure of non-classicality of a state is discussed. For the classical case K is nonnegative while for the n-particle state it is negative and moreover it equals -n. The non-classicality of quantum states discussed here for the sub-Poisson statistics is different from another non-classicality called entanglement though both can be traced to the violation of the Cauchy-Bunyakovsky inequality.

id: 1106.1926
title: Probing the ladder of dressed states and nonclassical light generation in quantum dot-cavity QED
authors: Arka Majumdar, Michal Bajcsy, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1926
abstract: We investigate the photon induced tunneling phenomena in a photonic crystal cavity containing a strongly coupled quantum dot and describe how this tunneling can be used to generate photon states consisting mainly of a particular Fock state. Additionally, we study experimentally the photon-induced tunneling as a function of excitation laser power and frequency and show the signature of second rung of the Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian in the observed photon-statistics.

id: 1106.1949
title: A microscopic model of electronic field noise heating in ion traps
authors: A. Safavi-Naini, P. Rabl, P. Weck, H. R. Sadeghpour
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, updated to match PRA version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1949
abstract: Motional heating of ions in micro-fabricated traps is a challenge hindering experimental realization of large-scale quantum processing devices. Recently a series of measurements of the heating rates in surface-electrode ion traps characterized their frequency, distance, and temperature dependencies, but our understanding of the microscopic origin of this noise is still vague. In this work we develop a theoretical model for the electric field noise which is associated with a random distribution of adsorbed atoms on the trap electrode surface. By using first principle calculations of the fluctuating dipole moments of the adsorbed atoms we evaluate the distance, frequency and temperature dependence of the resulting electric field fluctuation spectrum.Our theory calculates the noise spectrum beyond the standard scenario of two-level fluctuators, by incorporating all the relevant vibrational states. The $1/f$ noise is shown to commence at roughly the frequency of the fundamental phonon transition rate and the $d^{-4}$ dependence with distance of the ion from the electrode surface is established.

id: 1106.1986
title: Interplay between coherence and decoherence in LHCII photosynthetic complex
authors: Paolo Giorda, Silvano Garnerone, Paolo Zanardi, Seth Lloyd
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1986
abstract: This paper investigates the dynamics of excitonic transport in photocomplex LHCII, the primary component of the photosynthetic apparatus in green plants. The dynamics exhibits a strong interplay between coherent processes mediated by the excitonic Hamiltonian, and incoherent processes due to interactions with the environment. The spreading of the exciton over a single monomer is well described by a proper measure of delocalization that allows one to identify two relevant time scales. An exciton initially localized in one chromophore first spreads coherently to neighboring chromophores. During this initial coherent spreading, quantum effects such as entanglement play a role. As the effects of a decohering environment come into play, coherence and decoherence interact to give rise to efficient and robust excitonic transport, reaching a maximum efficiency at the levels of decoherence found in physiological conditions. We analyze the efficiency for different possible topologies (monomer, dimer, trimer, tetramer) and show how the trimer has a particular role both in the antenna and the wire configuration.

id: 1106.1992
title: Efficient quantum computing using coherent photon conversion
authors: N. K. Langford, S. Ramelow, R. Prevedel, W. J. Munro, G. J. Milburn, A. Zeilinger
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: Nature 478, 360-363 (20 October 2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1992
abstract: Single photons provide excellent quantum information carriers, but current schemes for preparing, processing and measuring them are inefficient. For example, down-conversion provides heralded, but randomly timed single photons, while linear-optics gates are inherently probabilistic. Here, we introduce a deterministic scheme for photonic quantum information. Our single, versatile process---coherent photon conversion---provides a full suite of photonic quantum processing tools, from creating high-quality heralded single- and multiphoton states free of higher-order imperfections to implementing deterministic multiqubit entanglement gates and high-efficiency detection. It fulfils all requirements for a scalable photonic quantum computing architecture. Using photonic crystal fibres, we experimentally demonstrate a four-colour nonlinear process usable for coherent photon conversion and show that current technology provides a feasible path towards deterministic operation. Our scheme, based on interacting bosonic fields, is not restricted to optical systems, but could also be implemented in optomechanical, electromechanical and superconducting systems which exhibit extremely strong intrinsic nonlinearities.

id: 1106.2018
title: Collective Uncertainty Entanglement Test
authors: ?ukasz Rudnicki, Pawe? Horodecki, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 150502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2018
abstract: For a given pure state of a composite quantum system we analyze the product of its projections onto a set of locally orthogonal separable pure states. We derive a bound for this product analogous to the entropic uncertainty relations. For bipartite systems the bound is saturated for maximally entangled states and it allows us to construct a family of entanglement measures, we shall call collectibility. As these quantities are experimentally accessible, the approach advocated contributes to the task of experimental quantification of quantum entanglement, while for a three-qubit system it is capable to identify the genuine three-party entanglement.

id: 1106.2028
title: Behavior of Quantum Correlations under Local Noise
authors: Alexander Streltsov, Hermann Kampermann, Dagmar Bru?
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 170502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2028
abstract: We characterize the behavior of quantum correlations under the influence of local noisy channels. Intuition suggests that such noise should be detrimental for quantumness. When considering qubit systems, we show for which channel this is indeed the case: the amount of quantum correlations can only decrease under the action of unital channels. However, non-unital channels (e.g. such as dissipation) can create quantum correlations for some initially classical state. Furthermore, for higher-dimensional systems even unital channels may increase the amount of quantum correlations. Thus, counterintuitively, local decoherence can generate quantum correlations.

id: 1106.2036
title: Quantum Walk with Jumps
authors: H. Lavi?ka, V. Poto?ek, T. Kiss, E. Lutz, I. Jex
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 64, 119-129 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2036
abstract: We analyze a special class of 1-D quantum walks (QWs) realized using optical multi-ports. We assume non-perfect multi-ports showing errors in the connectivity, i.e. with a small probability the multi- ports can connect not to their nearest neighbor but to another multi-port at a fixed distance - we call this a jump. We study two cases of QW with jumps where multiple displacements can emerge at one timestep. The first case assumes time-correlated jumps (static disorder). In the second case, we choose the positions of jumps randomly in time (dynamic disorder). The probability distributions of position of the QW walker in both instances differ significantly: dynamic disorder leads to a Gaussian-like distribution, while for static disorder we find two distinct behaviors depending on the parity of jump size. In the case of even-sized jumps, the distribution exhibits a three-peak profile around the position of the initial excitation, whereas the probability distribution in the odd case follows a Laplace-like discrete distribution modulated by additional (exponential) peaks for long times. Finally, our numerical results indicate that by an appropriate mapping an universal functional behavior of the variance of the long-time probability distribution can be revealed with respect to the scaled average of jump size.

id: 1106.2056
title: Statistical estimation of the quality of quantum-tomography protocols
authors: Yu. I. Bogdanov, G. Brida, I. D. Bukeev, M. Genovese, K. S. Kravtsov, S. P. Kulik, E. V. Moreva, A. A. Soloviev, A. P. Shurupov
comments: 20 pages, 20 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042108 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2056
abstract: We present a complete methodology for testing the performances of quantum tomography protocols. The theory is validated by several numerical examples and by the comparison with experimental results achieved with various protocols for whole families of polarization states of qubits and ququaters including pure, mixed, entangled and separable.

id: 1106.2078
title: Direct Fisher inference of the quartic oscillator's eigenvalues
authors: S. P. Flego, A. Plastino, A. R. Plastino
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2078
abstract: It is well known that a suggestive connection links Schr\"odinger's equation (SE) and the information-optimizing principle based on Fisher's information measure (FIM). It has been shown that this entails the existence of a Legendre transform structure underlying the SE. Such a structure leads to a first order partial differential equation (PDE) for the SE's eigenvalues from which a complete solution for them can be obtained. As an application we deal with the quantum theory of anharmonic oscillators, a long-standing problem that has received intense attention motivated by problems in quantum field theory and molecular physics. By appeal to the Cramer Rao bound we are able to Fisher-infer the particular PDE-solution that yields the eigenvalues without explicitly solving Schr\"odinger's equation. Remarkably enough, and in contrast with standard variational approaches, our present procedure does not involve free fitting parameters.

id: 1106.2082
title: Theory of light-matter interactions in cascade and diamond type atomic ensembles
authors: Hsiang-Hua Jen
comments: PhD thesis. Official and color version at this http URL Georgia Institute of Technology theses database, published in 2010-11-09
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2082
abstract: In this thesis, we investigate the quantum mechanical interaction of light with matter in the form of a gas of ultracold atoms: the atomic ensemble. We present a theoretical analysis of two problems, which involve the interaction of quantized electromagnetic fields (called signal and idler) with the atomic ensemble (i) cascade two-photon emission in an atomic ladder configuration, and (ii) photon frequency conversion in an atomic diamond configuration. The motivation of these studies comes from potential applications in long-distance quantum communication where it is desirable to generate quantum correlations between telecommunication wavelength light fields and ground level atomic coherences. We develop a theory of correlated signal-idler pair correlation. The analysis is complicated by the possible generation of multiple excitations in the atomic ensemble. An analytical treatment is given in the limit of a single excitation assuming adiabatic laser excitations. The analysis predicts superradiant timescales in the idler emission in agreement with experimental observation. To relax the restriction of a single excitation, we develop a different theory of cascade emission, which is solved by numerical simulation of classical stochastic differential equation using the theory of open quantum systems. The simulations are in good qualitative agreement with the analytical theory of superradiant timescales. We provide a quantum theory of near-infrared to telecom wavelength conversion in the diamond configuration. The system provides a crucial part of a quantum-repeater memory element, which enables a "stored" near-infrared photon to be converted to a telecom wavelength for transmission without the destruction of light-atom quantum correlation.

id: 1106.2105
title: On Quantum Channel Estimation with Minimal Resources
authors: M. Zorzi, F. Ticozzi, A. Ferrante
comments: 23 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2105
abstract: We determine the minimal experimental resources that ensure a unique solution in the estimation of trace-preserving quantum channels with both direct and convex optimization methods. A convenient parametrization of the constrained set is used to develop a globally converging Newton-type algorithm that ensures a physically admissible solution to the problem. Numerical simulations are provided to support the results, and indicate that the minimal experimental setting is sufficient to guarantee good estimates.

id: 1106.2119
title: Superlinear threshold detectors in quantum cryptography
authors: Lars Lydersen, Nitin Jain, Christoffer Wittmann, ?ystein Mar?y, Johannes Skaar, Christoph Marquardt, Vadim Makarov, Gerd Leuchs
comments: Rewritten for clearity. Included a discussion on detector dark counts, a discussion on how to tackle this type of loopholes, and updated references. 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032320 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2119
abstract: We introduce the concept of a superlinear threshold detector, a detector that has a higher probability to detect multiple photons if it receives them simultaneously rather than at separate times. Highly superlinear threshold detectors in quantum key distribution systems allow eavesdropping the full secret key without being revealed. Here, we generalize the detector control attack, and analyze how it performs against quantum key distribution systems with moderately superlinear detectors. We quantify the superlinearity in superconducting single-photon detectors based on earlier published data, and gated avalanche photodiode detectors based on our own measurements. The analysis shows that quantum key distribution systems using detector(s) of either type can be vulnerable to eavesdropping. The avalanche photodiode detector becomes superlinear towards the end of the gate, allowing eavesdropping using trigger pulses containing less than 120 photons per pulse. Such an attack would be virtually impossible to catch with an optical power meter at the receiver entrance.

id: 1106.2138
title: Virtual qubits, virtual temperatures, and the foundations of thermodynamics
authors: Nicolas Brunner, Noah Linden, Sandu Popescu, Paul Skrzypczyk
comments: v2: Published version. 15 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 05111 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2138
abstract: We argue that thermal machines can be understood from the perspective of `virtual qubits' at `virtual temperatures': The relevant way to view the two heat baths which drive a thermal machine is as a composite system. Virtual qubits are two-level subsystems of this composite, and their virtual temperatures can take on any value, positive or negative. Thermal machines act upon an external system by placing it in thermal contact with a well-selected range of virtual qubits and temperatures. We demonstrate these claims by studying the smallest thermal machines. We show further that this perspective provides a powerful way to view thermodynamics, by analysing a number of phenomena. This includes approaching Carnot efficiency (where we find that all machines do so essentially by becoming equivalent to the smallest thermal machines), entropy production in irreversible machines, and a way to view work in terms of negative temperature and population inversion. Moreover we introduce the idea of "genuine" thermal machines and are led to considering the concept of "strength" of work.

id: 1106.2151
title: Quadratic Dynamical Decoupling: Universality Proof and Error Analysis
authors: Wan-Jung Kuo, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 18 pages
journal: Physical Review A 84, 042329 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2151
abstract: We prove the universality of the generalized QDD_{N1,N2} (quadratic dynamical decoupling) pulse sequence for near-optimal suppression of general single-qubit decoherence. Earlier work showed numerically that this dynamical decoupling sequence, which consists of an inner Uhrig DD (UDD) and outer UDD sequence using N1 and N2 pulses respectively, can eliminate decoherence to O(T^N) using O(N^2) unequally spaced "ideal" (zero-width) pulses, where T is the total evolution time and N=N1=N2. A proof of the universality of QDD has been given for even N1. Here we give a general universality proof of QDD for arbitrary N1 and N2. As in earlier proofs, our result holds for arbitrary bounded environments. Furthermore, we explore the single-axis (polarization) error suppression abilities of the inner and outer UDD sequences. We analyze both the single-axis QDD performance and how the overall performance of QDD depends on the single-axis errors. We identify various performance effects related to the parities and relative magnitudes of N1 and N2. We prove that using QDD_{N1,N2} decoherence can always be eliminated to O(T^min[N1,N2]).

id: 1106.2169
title: New Quantum Bounds for Inequalities involving Marginal Expectations
authors: Elie Wolfe, S. F. Yelin
comments: 6 pages. Now includes appendices containing a pseudo-code formulation of the algorithm as well as a discussion of general physical symmetries. A new lower bound to the quantum volume has been derived, and an error in the mapping of physical observables to variational parameters has been corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012123 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2169
abstract: We review, correct, and develop an algorithm which determines arbitrary Quantum Bounds, based on the seminal work of Tsirelson [Lett. Math. Phys. 4, 93 (1980)]. The potential of this algorithm is demonstrated by deriving both new number-valued Quantum Bounds, as well as identifying a new class of function-valued Quantum Bounds. Those results facilitate an 8-dimensional Volume Analysis of Quantum Mechanics which extends the work of Cabello [PRA 72 (2005)]. We contrast the Quantum Volume defined be these new bounds to that of Macroscopic Locality, defined by the inequalities corresponding to the first level of the hierarchy of Navascues et al [NJP 10 (2008)], proving our function-valued Quantum Bounds to be more complete.

id: 1106.2177
title: Unitary equilibration after a quantum quench of a thermal state
authors: N. Tobias Jacobson, Lorenzo Campos Venuti, Paolo Zanardi
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022115 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2177
abstract: In this work we investigate the equilibration dynamics after a sudden Hamiltonian quench of a quantum spin system initially prepared in a thermal state. To characterize the equilibration we evaluate the Loschmidt echo, a global measure for the degree of distinguishability between the initial and time-evolved quenched states. We present general results valid for small quenches and detailed analysis of the quantum XY chain. The result is that quantum criticality manifests, even at small but finite temperatures, in a universal double-peaked form of the echo statistics and poor equilibration for sufficiently relevant perturbations. In addition, for this model we find a tight lower bound on the Loschmidt echo in terms of the purity of the initial state and the more-easily-evaluated Hilbert-Schmidt inner product between initial and time-evolved quenched states. This bound allows us to relate the time-averaged Loschmidt echo with the purity of the time-averaged state, a quantity that has been shown to provide an upper bound on the variance of observables.

id: 1106.2190
title: Fault-tolerant ancilla preparation and noise threshold lower bounds for the 23-qubit Golay code
authors: Adam Paetznick, Ben W. Reichardt
comments: 47 pages, 19 figures. (v2): added more detailed overhead analysis, fixed clerical error in Fig. 4
journal: Quantum Information & Computation 12:1034-1080 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2190
abstract: In fault-tolerant quantum computing schemes, the overhead is often dominated by the cost of preparing codewords reliably. This cost generally increases quadratically with the block size of the underlying quantum error-correcting code. In consequence, large codes that are otherwise very efficient have found limited fault-tolerance applications. Fault-tolerant preparation circuits therefore are an important target for optimization. We study the Golay code, a 23-qubit quantum error-correcting code that protects the logical qubit to a distance of seven. In simulations, even using a naive ancilla preparation procedure, the Golay code is competitive with other codes both in terms of overhead and the tolerable noise threshold. We provide two simplified circuits for fault-tolerant preparation of Golay code-encoded ancillas. The new circuits minimize error propagation, reducing the overhead by roughly a factor of four compared to standard encoding circuits. By adapting the malignant set counting technique to depolarizing noise, we further prove a threshold above 1.32 x 10^{-3} noise per gate.

id: 1106.2191
title: Jaynes-Cummings model:Counter rotating effect on the vacuum Rabi splitting and atom-cavity dynamics
authors: Yu-Yu Zhang, Qing-Hu Chen, Shi-Yao Zhu
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Chinese Physics Letters 30, 114203 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2191
abstract: he effect of the counter-rotating terms in the Jaynes-Cummings model is investigated with an extended coherent-state approach. The counter-rotating terms greatly modify the vacuum Rabi splitting. Two peaks with different heights in the weak coupling regime and more than two peaks in the intermediate coupling regime are predicted. The collapses and revivals in the evolution of the atomic population inversion disappear in the intermediate coupling regime, but reappear in the strong coupling regime. This reappearance is similar to that under the rotating-wave approximation, attributed to the summation of periodic cosine functions of the evolution.

id: 1106.2214
title: Quantum Zeno Subspaces induced by Temperature
authors: B. Militello, M. Scala, A. Messina
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022106 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2214
abstract: We discuss the partitioning of the Hilbert space of a quantum system induced by the interaction with another system at thermal equilibrium, showing that the higher the temperature the more effective is the formation of Zeno subspaces. We show that our analysis keeps its validity even in the case of interaction with a bosonic reservoir, provided appropriate limitations of the relevant bandwidth.

id: 1106.2224
title: On frequency errors of nanomechanical-resonators-based-on quantum computing
authors: Li-gong Zhou, Ming Gao, Jin-Lin Peng, Xiang-bin Wang
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2224
abstract: We study the consequence of the frequency errors of individual oscillators on the scalability of quantum computing based on nanomechanical resonators. We show the fidelity change of the quantum operation due to the frequency shifts numerically. We present a method to perfectly compensate for these negative effects. Our method is robust to whatever large frequency errors.

id: 1106.2225
title: The general form of gamma-family of quantum relative entropies
authors: Ryszard Pawe? Kostecki
comments: 
journal: Open Systems and Information Dynamics 18:2 (2011), 191-221
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2225
abstract: We use the Falcone-Takesaki non-commutative flow of weights and the resulting theory of non-commutative Lp spaces in order to define the family of relative entropy functionals that naturally generalise the quantum relative entropies of Jencova-Ojima and the classical relative entropies of Zhu-Rohwer, and belong to an intersection of families of Petz relative entropies with Bregman relative entropies. For the purpose of this task, we generalise the notion of Bregman entropy to the infinite-dimensional non-commutative case using the Legendre-Fenchel duality. In addition, we use the Falcone-Takesaki duality to extend the duality between coarse-grainings and Markov maps to the infinite-dimensional non-commutative case. Following the recent result of Amari for the Zhu-Rohwer entropies, we conjecture that the proposed family of relative entropies is uniquely characterised by the Markov monotonicity and the Legendre-Fenchel duality. The role of these results in the foundations and applications of quantum information theory is discussed.

id: 1106.2240
title: Bell scenarios in which nonlocality and entanglement are inversely related
authors: G. Vallone, G. Lima, E.S. G¨®mez, G. Ca?as, J.-A. Larsson, P. Mataloni, A. Cabello
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 012102 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2240
abstract: We show that for two-qubit chained Bell inequalities with an arbitrary number of measurement settings, nonlocality and entanglement are not only different properties but are inversely related. Specifically, we analytically prove that in absence of noise, robustness of nonlocality, defined as the maximum fraction of detection events that can be lost such that the remaining ones still do not admit a local model, and concurrence are inversely related for any chained Bell inequality with an arbitrary number of settings. The closer quantum states are to product states, the harder it is to reproduce quantum correlations with local models. We also show that, in presence of noise, nonlocality and entanglement are simultaneously maximized only when the noise level is equal to the maximum level tolerated by the inequality; in any other case, a more nonlocal state is always obtained by reducing the entanglement. In addition, we observed that robustness of nonlocality and concurrence are also inversely related for the Bell scenarios defined by the tight two-qubit three-setting $I_{3322}$ inequality, and the tight two-qutrit inequality $I_3$.

id: 1106.2264
title: Entanglement thresholds for random induced states
authors: Guillaume Aubrun, Stanislaw J. Szarek, Deping Ye
comments: 34 pages; v.3: reorganized proof, new results only in section 7.1, references added; v.2: main result strengthened (much stronger threshold property) allowing the sharp "N-particle" interpretation of the results stated in the abstract, new appendix on majorization and \infty-Wasserstein distance, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2264
abstract: For a random quantum state on $H=C^d \otimes C^d$ obtained by partial tracing a random pure state on $H \otimes C^s$, we consider the whether it is typically separable or typically entangled. For this problem, we show the existence of a sharp threshold $s_0=s_0(d)$ of order roughly $d^3$. More precisely, for any $a > 0$ and for d large enough, such a random state is entangled with very large probability when $s < (1-a)s_0$, and separable with very large probability when $s > (1+a)s_0$. One consequence of this result is as follows: for a system of N identical particles in a random pure state, there is a threshold $k_0 = k_0(N) \sim N/5$ such that two subsystems of k particles each typically share entanglement if $k > k_0$, and typically do not share entanglement if $k < k_0$. Our methods work also for multipartite systems and for "unbalanced" systems such as $C^{d} \otimes C^{d'}$, $d \neq d'$. The arguments rely on random matrices, classical convexity, high-dimensional probability and geometry of Banach spaces; some of the auxiliary results may be of reference value. A high-level non-technical overview of the results of this paper and of a related article arXiv:1011.0275 can be found in arXiv:1112.4582.

id: 1106.2297
title: Qutrit: entanglement dynamics in the finite qutrit chain in the consistent magnetic field
authors: E. A. Ivanchenko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2297
abstract: Based on the Liouville-von Neumann equation, we obtain closed system of equations for the description of a qutrit or coupled qutrits in arbitrary time-dependent external magnetic field. The dependence of the dynamics on the initial states and magnetic field modulation is studied analytically and numerically. We compare the relative entanglement measure's dynamics in the bi-qutrit system with permutation particle symmetry. We find the magnetic field modulation which retains the entanglement in the system of two coupled qutrits. Analytical formulas for entanglement measures in the chain from 2 to 6 qutrits are presented.

id: 1106.2307
title: A study on quantum mechanical approach for $C_{60}$ diffraction analysis
authors: Xiang-Yao Wu, Bo-Jun Zhang, Xiao-Jing Liu, Nuo Ba, Yi-Heng Wu, Hou-Li Tang, Jing Wang, Si-Qi Zhang
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0910.3027
journal: Physica E, 44, 386-389, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2307
abstract: Diffraction phenomena of large molecules have been studied in many experiments, and these experiments are described by many theoretical works. In this paper, we study $C_{60}$ molecules single and double-slit diffraction with quantum theory approach, and we pay close attention to the $C_{60}$ diffraction experiment carried out by A.Zeilinger et.at in 1999. In double-slit diffraction, we consider the decoherence effect, and find the theoretical results are good agreement with experimental data.

id: 1106.2329
title: Quantum Gates Between Flying Qubits via Spin-Independent Scattering
authors: Sougato Bose, Vladimir Korepin
comments: Comments welcome. 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2329
abstract: We show how the spin independent scattering between two identical flying qubits can be used to implement an entangling quantum gate between them. We consider one dimensional models with a delta interaction in which the qubits undergoing the collision are distinctly labeled by their opposite momenta. The logical states of the qubit may either be two distinct spin (or other internal) states of a fermion or a boson or two distinct momenta magnitudes of a spinless boson. Our scheme could be added to linear optics-like quantum information processing to enhance its efficiency, and can also aid the scaling of quantum computers based on static qubits without resorting to photons. Three distinct ingredients -- the quantum indistinguishability of the qubits, their interaction, and their dimensional confinement, come together in a natural way to enable the quantum gate.

id: 1106.2337
title: Channel covariance, twirling, contraction, and some upper bounds on the quantum capacity
authors: Yingkai Ouyang
comments: 33 pages, 3 figures. Title changed with slight revisions and to appear in QIC
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 14, No. 11&12, 2014 September 1, pp0917-0936
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2337
abstract: Evaluating the quantum capacity of quantum channels is an important but difficult problem, even for channels of low input and output dimension. Smith and Smolin showed that the quantum capacity of the Clifford-twirl of a qubit amplitude damping channel (a qubit depolarizing channel) has a quantum capacity that is at most the coherent information of the qubit amplitude damping channel evaluated on the maximally mixed input state. We restrict our attention to obtaining upper bounds on the quantum capacity using a generalization of Smith and Smolin's degradable extension technique. Given a degradable channel $\mathcal N$ and a finite projective group of unitaries $\mathcal V$, we show that the $\mathcal V$-twirl of $\mathcal N$ has a quantum capacity at most the coherent information of $\mathcal N$ maximized over a $\mathcal V$-contracted space of input states. As a consequence, degradable channels that are covariant with respect to diagonal Pauli matrices have quantum capacities that are their coherent information maximized over just the diagonal input states. As an application of our main result, we supply new upper bounds on the quantum capacity of some unital and non-unital channels -- $d$-dimensional depolarizing channels, two-qubit locally symmetric Pauli channels, and shifted qubit depolarizing channels.

id: 1106.2340
title: Selforganisation and sympathetic cooling of multispecies ensembles in a cavity
authors: Tobias Grie?er, Wolfgang Niedenzu, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 053031 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2340
abstract: We predict concurrent selforganisation and cooling of multispecies ensembles of laser-illuminated polarisable particles within a high-Q cavity mode. Resonant collective scattering of laser light into the cavity creates optical potentials which above a threshold pump power transforms a homogeneous particle distribution to a crystalline order for all constituents. Adding extra particles of any mass and temperature always lowers the pump power required for selfordering and allows to concurrently trap atoms, for which high phase-space densities are readily available, in combination with many other kind of atoms, molecules or even polarisable nanoparticles. Collective scattering leads to energy exchange between the different species without direct collisional interactions. We analytically calculate the threshold condition, energy fluxes and the resulting equilibrium phase-space distributions and show that cavity-mediated energy transfer enhances cooling of heavy particles by adding light particles forming a cold reservoir. Extensive numerical many-body simulations support the results of our kinetic analytic model.

id: 1106.2350
title: An efficient all-optical switch using a lambda atom in a cavity QED system
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen, Joseph Kerckhoff
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures, v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043821 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2350
abstract: We propose an all-optical switch constructed from a two-mode optical resonator containing a strongly coupled, three-state system. The coupling allows a weak, continuous wave laser drive to incoherently control the transmission of a much stronger, continuous wave signal laser into (and through) the resonator. We demonstrate that in this simple setup the presence of a control drive with one tenth the power of the signal drive can induce near complete reflection of the signal, while its absence allows for near complete transmission. The switch can also be operated as a set-reset relay with two control inputs that efficiently drive the switch into either the reflecting or the transmitting state.

id: 1106.2396
title: Controlling a superconducting nanowire single-photon detector using tailored bright illumination
authors: Lars Lydersen, Mohsen K. Akhlaghi, A. Hamed Majedi, Johannes Skaar, Vadim Makarov
comments: Expanded discussions, updated references. 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 113042 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2396
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate that a superconducting nanowire single-photon detector is deterministically controllable by bright illumination. We found that bright light can temporarily make a large fraction of the nanowire length normally-conductive, can extend deadtime after a normal photon detection, and can cause a hotspot formation during the deadtime with a highly nonlinear sensitivity. In result, although based on different physics, the superconducting detector turns out to be controllable by virtually the same techniques as avalanche photodiode detectors. As demonstrated earlier, when such detectors are used in a quantum key distribution system, this allows an eavesdropper to launch a detector control attack to capture the full secret key without being revealed by to many errors in the key.

id: 1106.2409
title: Hyperbits: the information quasiparticles
authors: M. Pawlowski, A. Winter
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022331 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2409
abstract: Information theory has its particles, bits and qubits, just as physics has electrons and photons. However, in physics we have a special category of objects with no clear counterparts in information theory: quasiparticles. They are introduced to simplify complex emergent phenomena making otherwise very difficult calculations possible and providing additional insight into the inner workings of the system. We show that we can adopt a similar approach in information theory. We introduce the hyperbits, the first information quasiparticles which we prove to be a resource equivalent to entanglement and classical communication, and give examples how they can be used to simplify calculations and get more insight into communication protocols.

id: 1106.2457
title: Non-Markovian decay and dynamics of decoherence in private and public environments
authors: Axel D. Dente, Pablo R. Zangara, Horacio M. Pastawski
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures. Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042104 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2457
abstract: We study the decay process in an open system, emphasizing on the relevance of the environment's spectral structure. Non-Markovian effects are included to quantitatively analyze the degradation rate of the coherent evolution. The way in which a two level system is coupled to different environments is specifically addressed: multiple connections to a single bath (public environment)or single connections to multiple baths (private environments). We numerically evaluate the decay rate of a local excitation by using the Survival Probability and the Loschmidt Echo. These rates are compared to analytical results obtained from the standard Fermi Golden Rule (FGR) in Wide Band Approximation, and a Self-Consistent evaluation that accounts for the bath's memory in cases where an exact analytical solution is possible. We observe that the correlations appearing in a public bath introduce further deviations from the FGR as compared with a private bath.

id: 1106.2460
title: The Influence of Geometry on the Vibronic Spectra of Quantum Aggregates
authors: A. Eisfeld, G. Schulz, J.S. Briggs
comments: 
journal: Journal of Luminescence 131 (2011) 2555
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2460
abstract: A study is presented of the localisation of excitonic states on extended molecular aggregates composed of identical monomers arising, not from disorder due to statistical energy shifts of the monomers, induced by environmental interactions (Anderson localisation), but rather simply due to changes in the orientation and geometrical arrangement of the transition dipoles. It is shown further that such small changes nevertheless can have a drastic effect on the shape of the vibronic spectrum of the aggregate. The vibronic spectra are calculated using the "coherent exciton scattering" (CES) approximation whose derivation we generalise to be applicable to aggregates of arbitrary size and geometry.

id: 1106.2486
title: Maximal CHSH violations with low efficiency photodetection and homodyne measurements
authors: Marco T¨²lio Quintino, Mateus Ara¨²jo, Daniel Cavalcanti, Marcelo Fran?a Santos, Marcelo Terra Cunha
comments: 8+3 pages, 3 figures; proofs simplified. Accepted for publication in JPA
journal: Journal of Physics. A, Mathematical and Theoretical, v. 45, p. 215308, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2486
abstract: We study nonlocality tests in which each party performs photodetection and homodyne measurements. The results of such measurements are dichotomized and a Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality is used. We prove that in this scenario the maximal violation is attainable and fully characterize the set of maximally violating states. If we restrict our search to states composed by at most 2, 4, and 6 photons per mode, we find critical photodetection efficiencies of 0.48, 0.36, and 0.29. We also found an entangled variation of the famous cat states that has critical efficiency 0.32. These values are well within the limit of current photodetector technology, which suggests the present approach as a road for a loophole-free Bell experiment.

id: 1106.2500
title: First considerations on the generalized uncertainty principle for finite-dimensional discrete phase spaces
authors: Marcelo A Marchiolli, Maurizio Ruzzi
comments: 31 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2500
abstract: Generalized uncertainty principle and breakdown of the spacetime continuum certainly represent two important results derived of various approaches related to quantum gravity and black hole physics near the well-known Planck scale. The discreteness of space suggests, in particular, that all measurable lengths are quantized in units of a fundamental scale (in this case, the Planck length). Here, we propose a self-consistent theoretical framework for an important class of physical systems characterized by a finite space of states, and show that such a framework enlarges previous knowledge about generalized uncertainty principles, as topological effects in finite-dimensional discrete phase spaces come into play. Besides, we also investigate under what circumstances the generalized uncertainty principle (GUP) works out well and its inherent limitations.

id: 1106.2526
title: Quantum Estimation Theory of Error and Disturbance in Quantum Measurement
authors: Yu Watanabe, Masahito Ueda
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2526
abstract: We formulate the error and disturbance in quantum measurement by invoking quantum estimation theory. The disturbance formulated here characterizes the non-unitary state change caused by the measurement. We prove that the product of the error and disturbance is bounded from below by the commutator of the observables. We also find the attainable bound of the product.

id: 1106.2570
title: Entanglement generation and transfer between remote atomic qubits interacting with squeezed field
authors: Paulo Jose dos Reis, S. Shelly Sharma, N. K. Sharma
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures, sections III and IV merged with section II and analytic expressions moved to Appendices A and B. Figures improved and corrected typos
journal: The European Physical Journal D, Vol. 67 : 84 (April 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2570
abstract: A pair of two level atoms A1A2, prepared either in a separable state or in an entangled state, interacts with a single mode of two mode squeezed cavity field while a third atomic qubit B interacts with the second mode of the squeezed field in a remote cavity. We analyze, numerically, the generation, sudden death and revival of three qubit entanglement as a function of initial entanglement of qubits A1A2 and degree of squeezing of electromagnetic field. Global negativity of partially transposed state operator is used to quantify the entanglement of three atom state. It is found that the initial entanglement of two mode field as well as that of the pair A1A2, both, contribute to three atom entanglement. A maximally entangled single excitation Bell pair in first cavity and two mode field with squeeze parameter s=0.64 are the initial conditions that optimize the peak value of three qubit mixed state entanglement. A smaller value of s=0.4 under similar conditions is found to generate a three qubit mixed state with comparable entanglement dynamics free from entanglement sudden death.

id: 1106.2597
title: Many-Body Physics with Trapped Ions
authors: Christian Schneider, Diego Porras, Tobias Schaetz
comments: 38 pages, 17 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2597
abstract: Direct experimental access to some of the most intriguing quantum phenomena is not granted due to the lack of precise control of the relevant parameters in their naturally intricate environment. Their simulation on conventional computers is impossible, since quantum behaviour arising with superposition states or entanglement is not efficiently translatable into the classical language. However, one could gain deeper insight into complex quantum dynamics by experimentally simulating the quantum behaviour of interest in another quantum system, where the relevant parameters and interactions can be controlled and robust effects detected sufficiently well. We report on the progress in experimentally simulating quantum many-body physics with trapped ions.

id: 1106.2667
title: Comment on "Effect of entanglement on the decay dynamics of a pair of H(2p) atoms due to spontaneous emission"
authors: Pedro Sancho, Luis Plaja
comments: 
journal: PRA 83 066101 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2667
abstract: Tanabe et al (Phys. Rev. A {\bf 82} 040101(R) 2010) have experimentally demonstrated that the emission properties of unstable atoms in entangled and product states are different. The authors define an apparent decay time as a fitting parameter which falls below the lifetime of the single atom for entangled pairs. We argue that their results about coincidence time spectra are correct, but those concerning lifetimes cannot be considered conclusive because they assume the emission of photons by the two atoms to be independent processes, a doubtful hypothesis for entangled states. We suggest an improved evaluation of the lifetimes based on a rigorous approach, which demands some modifications of the experimental procedure.

id: 1106.2675
title: Resilience of gated avalanche photodiodes against bright illumination attacks in quantum cryptography
authors: Z. L. Yuan, J. F. Dynes, A. J. Shields
comments: 
journal: Appl.Phys.Lett.98:231104,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2675
abstract: Semiconductor avalanche photodiodes (APDs) are commonly used for single photon detection in quantum key distribution. Recently, many attacks using bright illumination have been proposed to manipulate gated InGaAs APDs. In order to devise effective counter-measures, careful analysis of these attacks must be carried out to distinguish between incorrect operation and genuine loopholes. Here, we show that correctly-operated, gated APDs are immune to continuous-wave illumination attacks, while monitoring the photocurrent for anomalously high values is a straightforward counter-measure against attacks using temporally tailored light.

id: 1106.2704
title: Engineering steady states using jump-based feedback for multipartite entanglement generation
authors: R. N. Stevenson, J. J. Hope, A. R. R. Carvalho
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2704
abstract: We investigate the use of quantum-jump-based feedback to manipulate the stability of multipartite entangled dark states in an open quantum system. Using the model proposed in Phys. Rev. A 76, 010301(R) (2007) for a pair of atoms, we show a general strategy to produce many-body singlet stationary entangled states for larger number of atoms. In the case of four qubits, we propose a simple local feedback control that, although not optimal, is realistic and stabilises a highly entangled state. We discuss the limitations and analyse alternative strategies within the framework of direct jump feedback schemes.

id: 1106.2742
title: Quantum learning without quantum memory
authors: G. Sent¨ªs, J. Calsamiglia, R. Munoz-Tapia, E. Bagan
comments: This paper has been expanded and generalized in arXiv:1208.0663, and has therefore been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2742
abstract: A quantum learning machine for binary classification of qubit states that does not require quantum memory is introduced and shown to perform with the very same error rate as the optimal (programmable) discrimination machine for any size of the training set. At variance with the latter, this machine can be used an arbitrary number of times without retraining. Its required (classical) memory grows only logarithmically with the number of training qubits, while (asymptotically) its excess risk decreases as the inverse of this number, and twice as fast as the excess risk of an "estimate-and-discriminate" machine, which estimates the states of the training qubits and classifies the data qubit with a discrimination protocol tailored to the obtained estimates.

id: 1106.2754
title: Double blinding-attack on entanglement-based quantum key distribution protocols
authors: Guillaume Adenier, Irina Basieva, Andrei Yu. Khrennikov, Masanori Ohya, Noboru Watanabe
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2754
abstract: We propose a double blinding-attack on entangled-based quantum key distribution protocols. The principle of the attack is the same as in existing blinding attack except that instead of blinding the detectors on one side only, Eve is blinding the detectors of both Alice and Bob. In the BBM92 protocol, the attack allows Eve to get a full knowledge of the key and remain undetected even if Alice and Bob are using 100% efficient detectors. The attack can be easily extended to Ekert protocol, with an efficiency as high as 85.3%.

id: 1106.2759
title: Computations in Finite Groups and Quantum Physics
authors: Vladimir V. Kornyak
comments: 17 p., to be published in LNCS; v2: changes to match to published paper
journal: Lect.Notes Comput.Sci.6885:263-279,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2759
abstract: Mathematical core of quantum mechanics is the theory of unitary representations of symmetries of physical systems. We argue that quantum behavior is a natural result of extraction of "observable" information about systems containing "unobservable" elements in their descriptions. Since our aim is physics where the choice between finite and infinite descriptions can not have any empirical consequences, we consider the problem in the finite background. Besides, there are many indications from observations - from the lepton mixing data, for example - that finite groups underly phenomena in particle physics at the deep level. The "finite" approach allows to reduce any quantum dynamics to the simple permutation dynamics, and thus to express quantum observables in terms of permutation invariants of symmetry groups and their integer characteristics such as sizes of conjugate classes, sizes of group orbits, class coefficients, dimensions of representations. Our study has been accompanied by computations with finite groups, their representations and invariants. We have used both our C implementation of algorithms for working with groups and computer algebra system GAP.

id: 1106.2776
title: Shortcuts to adiabaticity for non-Hermitian systems
authors: S. Ib¨¢?ez, S. Mart¨ª nez-Garaot, Xi Chen, E. Torrontegui, J. G. Muga
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 023415 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2776
abstract: Adiabatic processes driven by non-Hermitian, time-dependent Hamiltonians may be sped up by generalizing inverse engineering techniques based on Berry's transitionless driving algorithm or on dynamical invariants. We work out the basic theory and examples described by two-level Hamiltonians: the acceleration of rapid adiabatic passage with a decaying excited level and of the dynamics of a classical particle on an expanding harmonic oscillator.

id: 1106.2784
title: Electronic excitation dynamics in multichromophoric systems described via a polaron-representation master equation
authors: Avinash Kolli, Ahsan Nazir, Alexandra Olaya-Castro
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures; minor corrections made; accepted for publication in Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2784
abstract: We derive a many-site version of the non-Markovian time-convolutionless polaron master equation [S. Jang et al., J. Chem Phys. 129, 101104 (2008)] to describe electronic excitation dynamics in multichromophoric systems. By treating electronic and vibrational degrees of freedom in a combined frame (polaron frame), this theory is capable of interpolating between weak and strong exciton-phonon coupling and is able to account for initial non-equilibrium bath states and spatially correlated environments. Besides outlining a general expression for the expected value of any electronic system observable in the original frame, we also discuss implications of the Markovian and secular approximations highlighting that they need not hold in the untransformed frame despite being strictly satisfied in the polaron frame. The key features of the theory are illustrated using as an example a four-site subsystem of the Fenna-Mathew-Olson light-harvesting complex. For a spectral density including a localised high-energy mode, we show that oscillations of site populations may only be observed when non-equilibrium bath effects are taken into account. Furthermore, we illustrate how this formalism allows us to identify the electronic or vibrational origin of the oscillatory dynamics.

id: 1106.2823
title: Topological Schr?dinger cats: Non-local quantum superpositions of topological defects
authors: Jacek Dziarmaga, Wojciech H. Zurek, Michael Zwolak
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Physics 8, 49 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2823
abstract: Topological defects (such as monopoles, vortex lines, or domain walls) mark locations where disparate choices of a broken symmetry vacuum elsewhere in the system lead to irreconcilable differences. They are energetically costly (the energy density in their core reaches that of the prior symmetric vacuum) but topologically stable (the whole manifold would have to be rearranged to get rid of the defect). We show how, in a paradigmatic model of a quantum phase transition, a topological defect can be put in a non-local superposition, so that - in a region large compared to the size of its core - the order parameter of the system is "undecided" by being in a quantum superposition of conflicting choices of the broken symmetry. We demonstrate how to exhibit such a "Schr\"odinger kink" by devising a version of a double-slit experiment suitable for topological defects. Coherence detectable in such experiments will be suppressed as a consequence of interaction with the environment. We analyze environment-induced decoherence and discuss its role in symmetry breaking.

id: 1106.2838
title: Interaction between light and matter: A photon wave function approach
authors: Pablo L. Saldanha, C. H. Monken
comments: 13 pages, no figures. To appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 073015 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2838
abstract: The Bialynicki-Birula-Sipe photon wave function formalism is extended to include the interaction between photons and continuous non-absorptive media. When the second quantization of this formalism is introduced, a new way of describing the quantum interactions between light and matter emerges. As an example of application, the quantum state of the twin photons generated by parametric down conversion is obtained in agreement with previous treatments, but with a more intuitive interpretation.

id: 1106.2841
title: Non-Markovianity assisted Steady State Entanglement
authors: Susana F. Huelga, ?ngel Rivas, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 160402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2841
abstract: We analyze the steady state entanglement generated in a coherently coupled dimer system subject to dephasing noise as a function of the degree of Markovianity of the evolution. By keeping fixed the effective noise strength while varying the memory time of the environment, we demonstrate that non-Markovianity is an essential, quantifiable resource that may support the formation of steady state entanglement whereas purely Markovian dynamics governed by Lindblad master equations lead to separable steady states. This result illustrates possible mechanisms leading to long-lived entanglement in purely decohering, possibly local, environments. We present a feasible experimental demonstration of this noise assisted phenomenon using a system of trapped ions.

id: 1106.2850
title: Universal quantum state merging
authors: Igor Bjelakovi?, Holger Boche, Gisbert Jan?en
comments: 35 pages, 0 figures, Accepted for publication in J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 032204 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2850
abstract: We determine the optimal entanglement rate of quantum state merging when assuming that the state is unknown except for its membership in a certain set of states. We find that merging is possible at the lowest rate allowed by the individual states. Additionally, we establish a lower bound for the classical cost of state merging under state uncertainty. To this end we give an elementary proof for the cost in case of a perfectly known state which makes no use of the "resource framework". As applications of our main result, we determine the capacity for one-way entanglement distillation if the source is not perfectly known. Moreover, we give another achievability proof for the entanglement generation capacity over compound quantum channels.

id: 1106.2901
title: Undetectable quantum transfer through a continuum
authors: Jing Ping, Yin Ye, Xin-Qi Li, YiJing Yan, Shmuel Gurvitz
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, revised version, Phys. Lett. A, in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2901
abstract: We demonstrate that a quantum particle, initially prepared in a quantum well, can propagate through a reservoir with a continuous spectrum and reappear in a distant well without being registered in the reservoir. It is shown that such a passage through the reservoir takes place even if the latter is {\em continuously} monitored. We discuss a possible experimental realization of such a teleportation phenomenon in mesoscopic systems.

id: 1106.2906
title: Accuracy features for quantum process tomography using superconductor phase qubits
authors: Yu. I. Bogdanov, S.A. Nuyanzin
comments: The paper is based on presentation at conference "Nanophysics" (Nizhny Novgorod, Russia, 14-19 March 2011) Accepted for publication in journal "Bulletin of the Russian Academy of Sciences: Physics"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2906
abstract: We propose a method for precision statistical control of quantum processes based on superconductor phase qubits. Using the universal quantum tomography method, we provide a detailed analysis of accuracy of tomography for a 2-qubit gate SQiSW, which arises due to capacitive coupling between qubits. The developed approach could be successfully applied for quality and efficiency problems of superconductor quantum information technologies.

id: 1106.2909
title: High-fidelity quantum memory using nitrogen-vacancy center ensemble for hybrid quantum computation
authors: W. L. Yang, Zhang-qi Yin, Y. Hu, M. Feng, J. F. Du
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, accepted for PRA rapid communication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 010301(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2909
abstract: We study a hybrid quantum computing system using nitrogen-vacancy center ensemble (NVE) as quantum memory, current-biased Josephson junction (CBJJ) superconducting qubit fabricated in a transmission line resonator (TLR) as quantum computing processor and the microwave photons in TLR as quantum data bus. The storage process is seriously treated by considering all kinds of decoherence mechanisms. Such a hybrid quantum device can also be used to create multi-qubit W states of NVEs through a common CBJJ. The experimental feasibility and challenge are justified using currently available technology.

id: 1106.2910
title: Semi-quantum key distribution protocol using Bell state
authors: Zhiwei Sun, Ruigang Du, Dongyang Long
comments: 4 pages, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2910
abstract: A quantum key distribution protocol with classical Bob based on polarization entangled photon pairs is presented. It approximates a single photon and exploited the inherent randomness of quantum measurements to attain highly secure keys and high efficiency of the transmission.

id: 1106.2911
title: Spatial propagation of excitonic coherence enables ratcheted energy transfer
authors: Stephan Hoyer, Akihito Ishizaki, K. Birgitta Whaley
comments: Accepted version for Phys. Rev. E. 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86, 041911 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2911
abstract: Experimental evidence shows that a variety of photosynthetic systems can preserve quantum beats in the process of electronic energy transfer, even at room temperature. However, whether this quantum coherence arises in vivo and whether it has any biological function have remained unclear. Here we present a theoretical model that suggests that the creation and recreation of coherence under natural conditions is ubiquitous. Our model allows us to theoretically demonstrate a mechanism for a ratchet effect enabled by quantum coherence, in a design inspired by an energy transfer pathway in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson complex of the green sulfur bacteria. This suggests a possible biological role for coherent oscillations in spatially directing energy transfer. Our results emphasize the importance of analyzing long-range energy transfer in terms of transfer between inter-complex coupling (ICC) states rather than between site or exciton states.

id: 1106.2914
title: Nonlocal compensation of pure phase objects with entangled photons
authors: S. Cialdi, D. Brivio, E. Tesio, M.G.A. Paris
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043817 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2914
abstract: We suggest and demonstrate a scheme for coherent nonlocal compensation of pure phase objects based on two-photon polarization and momentum entangled states. The insertion of a single phase object on one of the beams reduces the purity of the state and the amount of shared entanglement, whereas the original entanglement can be retrieved by adding a suitable phase object on the other beam. In our setup polarization and momentum entangled states are generated by spontaneous parametric downconversion and then purified using a programmable spatial light modulator, which may be also used to impose arbitrary space dependent phase functions to the beams. As a possible application, we suggest and demonstrate a quantum key distribution protocol based on nonlocal phase compensation.

id: 1106.2922
title: Fair and optimistic quantum contract signing
authors: N. Paunkovic, J. Bouda, P. Mateus
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2922
abstract: We present a fair and optimistic quantum contract signing protocol between two clients that requires no communication with the third trusted party during the exchange phase. We discuss its fairness and show that it is possible to design such a protocol for which the probability of a dishonest client to cheat becomes negligible, and scales as N^{-1/2}, where N is the number of messages exchanged between the clients. Our protocol is not based on the exchange of signed messages: its fairness is based on the laws of quantum mechanics. Thus, it is abuse-free, and the clients do not have to generate new keys for each message during the Exchange phase. We discuss a real-life scenario when the measurement errors and qubit state corruption due to noisy channels occur and argue that for real, good enough measurement apparatus and transmission channels, our protocol would still be fair. Our protocol could be implemented by today's technology, as it requires in essence the same type of apparatus as the one needed for BB84 cryptographic protocol. Finally, we briefly discuss two alternative versions of the protocol, one that uses only two states (based on B92 protocol) and the other that uses entangled pairs, and show that it is possible to generalize our protocol to an arbitrary number of clients.

id: 1106.2947
title: Disorder overtakes Order in Information Concentration over Quantum Networks
authors: R. Prabhu, Saurabh Pradhan, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: v1: 11 pages, 7 figures, REVTeX 4; v2: published version, minor additions, 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042334 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2947
abstract: We consider different classes of quenched disordered quantum XY spin chains, including quantum XY spin glass and quantum XY model with a random transverse field, and investigate the behavior of genuine multiparty entanglement in the ground states of these models. We find that there are distinct ranges of the disorder parameter that gives rise to a higher genuine multiparty entanglement than in the corresponding systems without disorder -- an order-from-disorder in genuine multiparty entanglement. Moreover, we show that such a disorder-induced advantage in the genuine multiparty entanglement is useful -- it is almost certainly accompanied by a order-from-disorder for a multiport quantum dense coding capacity with the same ground state used as a multiport quantum network.

id: 1106.2978
title: Exact nonequilibrium steady state of a strongly driven open XXZ chain
authors: Tomaz Prosen
comments: 5 REVTeX pages; minor corrections + fig.2 added, essentially equivalent to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 137201 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2978
abstract: An exact and explicit ladder-tensor-network ansatz is presented for the non-equilibrium steady state of an anisotropic Heisenberg XXZ spin-1/2 chain which is driven far from equilibrium with a pair of Lindblad operators acting on the edges of the chain only. We show that the steady-state density operator of a finite system of size n is - apart from a normalization constant - a polynomial of degree 2n-2 in the coupling constant. Efficient computation of physical observables is faciliated in terms of a transfer operator reminiscent of a classical Markov process. In the isotropic case we find cosine spin profiles, 1/n^2 scaling of the spin current, and long-range correlations in the steady state. This is a fully nonperturbative extension of a recent result [Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 217206 (2011)].

id: 1106.3000
title: Continuous variable entanglement measurement without phase locking
authors: Dong Wang, Xianshan Huang
comments: 8 pages,3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3000
abstract: A new simple entanglement measurement method is proposed for the bright EPR beams generated from a non-degenerate optical parametric amplifier operating at deamplification. Due to the output signal and idler modes are frequency degenerate and in phase, the needed phase shift of interference for the measurement of the correlated phase quadratures and anti-correlated amplitude quadratures can be accomplished by a quarter-wave plate and a half wave plate without separating the signal and idler beam. Therefore, phase locking and local oscillators are avoided.

id: 1106.3019
title: Nash equilibrium in quantum superpositions
authors: Faisal Shah Khan, Simon. J.D. Phoenix
comments: Proceedings of SPIE, Vol. 8057 80570K-1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3019
abstract: A working definition of the term \quantum game" is developed in an attempt to gain insights into aspects of quantum mechanics via game theory.

id: 1106.3024
title: 99% efficiency in collecting photons from a single emitter
authors: Xue-Wen Chen, Stephan Goetzinger, Vahid Sandoghdar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3024
abstract: In Nature Photonics 5, 166 (2011), we reported on a planar dielectric antenna that achieved 96% efficiency in collecting the photons emitted by a single molecule. In that work the transition dipole moment of the molecule was set perpendicular to the antenna plane. Here, we present an extension of that scheme that reaches collection efficiencies beyond 99% for emitters with arbitrarily oriented dipole moments. Our work opens important doors in a wide range of contexts including quantum optics, quantum metrology, nano-analytics, and biophysics. In particular, we provide antenna parameters to realize ultrabright single-photon sources in high-index materials such as semiconductor quantum dots and color centers in diamond, as well as sensitive detection of single molecules in nanofluidic devices.

id: 1106.3033
title: Simulating quantum systems on the Bethe lattice by translationally invariant infinite-Tree Tensor Network
authors: Adam Nagy
comments: final version, to be published in Annals of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3033
abstract: We construct an algorithm to simulate imaginary time evolution of translationally invariant spin systems with local interactions on an infinite, symmetric tree. We describe the state by symmetric iPEPS and use translation-invariant operators for the updates at each time step. The contraction of this tree tensor network can be computed efficiently by recursion without approximations and one can then truncate all the iPEPS tensors at the same time. The translational symmetry is preserved at each time step that makes the algorithm very well conditioned and stable. The computational cost scales like $O(D^{q+1})$ with the bond dimension $D$ and coordination number $q$, much favourable than that of the iTEBD on trees [D. Nagaj et al. Phys. Rev. B \textbf{77}, 214431 (2008)]. Studying the transverse-field Ising model on the Bethe lattice, we find a second order phase transition with finite correlation lengths.

id: 1106.3047
title: Entanglement or separability: The choice of how to factorize the algebra of a density matrix
authors: Walter Thirring, Reinhold A. Bertlmann, Philipp K?hler, Heide Narnhofer
comments: 29 pages, 9 figures. Introduction, Conclusion and References have been extended in v2
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D64, 181 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3047
abstract: We discuss the concept of how entanglement changes with respect to different factorizations of the total algebra which describes the quantum states. Depending on the considered factorization a quantum state appears either entangled or separable. For pure states we always can switch unitarily between separability and entanglement, however, for mixed states a minimal amount of mixedness is needed. We discuss our general statements in detail for the familiar case of qubits, the GHZ states, Werner states and Gisin states, emphasizing their geometric features. As theorists we use and play with this free choice of factorization, which is naturally fixed for an experimentalist. For theorists it offers an extension of the interpretations and is adequate to generalizations, as we point out in the examples of quantum teleportation and entanglement swapping.

id: 1106.3049
title: Continuous variable quantum computation with spatial degrees of freedom of photons
authors: D. S. Tasca, R. M. Gomes, F. Toscano, P. H. Souto Ribeiro, S. P. Walborn
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052325 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3049
abstract: We discuss the use of the transverse spatial degrees of freedom of photons propagating in the paraxial approximation for continuous variable information processing. Given the wide variety of linear optical devices available, a diverse range of operations can be performed on the spatial degrees of freedom of single photons. Here we show how to implement a set of continuous quantum logic gates which allow for universal quantum computation. In contrast with the usual quadratures of the electromagnetic field, the entire set of single photon gates for spatial degrees of freedom does not require optical nonlinearity and, in principle, can be performed with a single device: the spatial light modulator. Nevertheless, nonlinear optical processes, such as four-wave mixing, are needed in the implementation of two-photon gates. The efficiency of these gates is at present very low, however small scale investigations of continuous variable quantum computation are within the reach of current technology. In this regard, we show how novel cluster states for one-way quantum computing can be produced using spontaneous parametric down conversion.

id: 1106.3089
title: A smooth entropy approach to quantum hypothesis testing and the classical capacity of quantum channels
authors: Nilanjana Datta, Milan Mosonyi, Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Fernando G. S. L. Brandao
comments: v4: Title changed, improved bounds, both direct and strong converse rates are covered, a new Discussion section added. 20 pages
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theo. 59, 8014 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3089
abstract: We use the smooth entropy approach to treat the problems of binary quantum hypothesis testing and the transmission of classical information through a quantum channel. We provide lower and upper bounds on the optimal type II error of quantum hypothesis testing in terms of the smooth max-relative entropy of the two states representing the two hypotheses. Using then a relative entropy version of the Quantum Asymptotic Equipartition Property (QAEP), we can recover the strong converse rate of the i.i.d. hypothesis testing problem in the asymptotics. On the other hand, combining Stein's lemma with our bounds, we obtain a stronger ($\ep$-independent) version of the relative entropy-QAEP. Similarly, we provide bounds on the one-shot $\ep$-error classical capacity of a quantum channel in terms of a smooth max-relative entropy variant of its Holevo capacity. Using these bounds and the $\ep$-independent version of the relative entropy-QAEP, we can recover both the Holevo-Schumacher-Westmoreland theorem about the optimal direct rate of a memoryless quantum channel with product state encoding, as well as its strong converse counterpart.

id: 1106.3138
title: A macro-realism inequality for opto-electro-mechanical systems
authors: Neill Lambert, Robert Johansson, Franco Nori
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures. Added additional figure (2b), and associated content
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 245421 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3138
abstract: We show how to apply the Leggett-Garg inequality to opto-electro-mechanical systems near their quantum ground state. We find that by using a dichotomic quantum non-demolition measurement (via, e.g., an additional circuit-QED measurement device) either on the cavity or on the nanomechanical system itself, the Leggett-Garg inequality is violated. We argue that only measurements on the mechanical system itself give a truly unambigous violation of the Leggett-Garg inequality for the mechanical system. In this case, a violation of the Leggett-Garg inequality indicates physics beyond that of "macroscopic realism" is occurring in the mechanical system. Finally, we discuss the difficulties in using unbound non-dichotomic observables with the Leggett-Garg inequality.

id: 1106.3173
title: Connecting two jumplike unravelings for non-Markovian open quantum systems
authors: Kimmo Luoma, Kalle-Antti Suominen, Jyrki Piilo
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032113 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3173
abstract: The development and use of Monte Carlo algorithms plays a visible role in the study of non-Markovian quantum dynamics due to the provided insight and powerful numerical methods for solving the system dynamics. In the Markovian case, the connections between the various types of methods are fairly well-understood while for non-Markovian case there has so far been only a few studies. We focus here on two jumplike unravelings of non-Markovian dynamics, the non-Markovian quantum jump (NMQJ) method and the property state method by Gambetta, Askerud, and Wiseman (GAW). The results for simple quantum optical systems illustrate the connections between the realizations of the two methods and also highlight how the probability currents between the system and environment, or between the property states of the total system, associate to the decay rates of time-local master equations, and consequently to the jump rates of the NMQJ method.

id: 1106.3224
title: Experimentally faking the violation of Bell's inequalities
authors: Ilja Gerhardt, Qin Liu, Ant¨ªa Lamas-Linares, Johannes Skaar, Valerio Scarani, Vadim Makarov, Christian Kurtsiefer
comments: Added discussion of countermeasures, updated references. This version is published in Phys. Rev. Lett. 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 170404 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3224
abstract: Entanglement witnesses such as Bell inequalities are frequently used to prove the non-classicality of a light source and its suitability for further tasks. By demonstrating Bell inequality violations using classical light in common experimental arrangements, we highlight why strict locality and efficiency conditions are not optional, particularly in security-related scenarios.

id: 1106.3235
title: Rank Reduction for the Local Consistency Problem
authors: Jianxin Chen, Zhengfeng Ji, Alexander Klyachko, David W. Kribs, Bei Zeng
comments: 6 pages, 0 figures. To appear in J.Math.Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3235
abstract: We address the problem of how simple a solution can be for a given quantum local consistency instance. More specifically, we investigate how small the rank of the global density operator can be if the local constraints are known to be compatible. We prove that any compatible local density operators can be satisfied by a low rank global density operator. Then we study both fermionic and bosonic versions of the N-representability problem as applications. After applying the channel-state duality, we prove that any compatible local channels can be obtained through a global quantum channel with small Kraus rank.

id: 1106.3237
title: Generating entanglement between microwave photons and qubits in multiple cavities coupled by a superconducting qutrit
authors: Chui-Ping Yang, Qi-Ping Su, Shi-Biao Zheng, Siyuan Han
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022320 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3237
abstract: We discuss how to generate entangled coherent states of four \textrm{microwave} resonators \textrm{(a.k.a. cavities)} coupled by a superconducting qubit. We also show \textrm{that} a GHZ state of four superconducting qubits embedded in four different resonators \textrm{can be created with this scheme}. In principle, \textrm{the proposed method} can be extended to create an entangled coherent state of $n$ resonators and to prepare a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state of $n$ qubits distributed over $n$ cavities in a quantum network. In addition, it is noted that four resonators coupled by a coupler qubit may be used as a basic circuit block to build a two-dimensional quantum network, which is useful for scalable quantum information processing.

id: 1106.3297
title: Monotonicity of the Holevo quantity: a necessary condition for equality in terms of a channel and its applications
authors: M. E. Shirokov
comments: the improved version of this paper is included in arXiv:1203.0262
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3297
abstract: A condition for reversibility (sufficiency) of a channel with respect to a given countable family of states with bounded rank is obtained. This condition shows that a quantum channel preserving the Holevo quantity of at least one (discrete or continuous) ensemble of states with rank $\leq r$ has the r-partially entanglement-breaking complementary channel. Several applications of this result are considered. In particular, it is shown that coincidence of the constrained Holevo capacity and the quantum mutual information of a quantum channel at least at one full rank state implies that this channel is entanglement-breaking.

id: 1106.3320
title: Temperature-independent quantum logic for molecular spectroscopy
authors: J. Mur-Petit, J. P¨¦rez-R¨ªos, J. Campos-Mart¨ªnez, M. I. Hern¨¢ndez, S. Willitsch, J. J. Garc¨ªa-Ripoll
comments: v3. Substantially enlarged manuscript with details of derivations and calculations in two appendices. To appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022308 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3320
abstract: We propose a fast and non-destructive spectroscopic method for single molecular ions that implements quantum logic schemes between an atomic ion and the molecular ion of interest. Our proposal relies on a hybrid coherent manipulation of the two-ion system, using optical or magnetic forces depending on the types of molecular levels to be addressed (Zeeman, rotational, vibrational or electronic degrees of freedom). The method is especially suited for the non-destructive precision spectroscopy of single molecular ions, and sets a starting point for new hybrid quantum computation schemes that combine molecular and atomic ions, covering the measurement and entangling steps.

id: 1106.3339
title: Gauge Invariance from a Graphical Self-Consistency Criterion
authors: W.M. Stuckey, Timothy McDevitt, Michael Silberstein
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0908.4348
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3339
abstract: We propose that quantum physics is the continuous approximation of a more fundamental, discrete graph theory (theory X). Accordingly, the Euclidean transition amplitude Z provides a partition function for geometries over the graph, which is characterized topologically by the difference matrix and source vector of the discrete graphical action. The difference matrix and source vector of theory X are related via a graphical self-consistency criterion (SCC) based on the boundary of a boundary principle on a graph. In this approach, the SCC ensures the source vector is divergence-free and resides in the row space of the difference matrix. Accordingly, the difference matrix will necessarily have a nontrivial eigenvector with eigenvalue zero, so the graphical SCC is the origin of gauge invariance. Factors of infinity associated with gauge groups of infinite volume are excluded in our approach, since Z is restricted to the row space of the difference matrix and source vector. Using this formalism, we obtain the two-source Euclidean transition amplitude over a (1+1)- dimensional graph with N vertices fundamental to the scalar Gaussian theory.

id: 1106.3377
title: Computational Power and Correlation in Quantum Computational Tensor Network
authors: Keisuke Fujii, Tomoyuki Morimae
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure; v2: Revised version; v3 General proof is added; v4 minor changes; v5 published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85 032338 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3377
abstract: We investigate relations between computational power and correlation in resource states for quantum computational tensor network, which is a general framework for measurement-based quantum computation. We find that if the size of resource states is finite, not all resource states allow correct projective measurements in the correlation space, which is related to non-vanishing two-point correlations in the resource states. On the other hand, for infinite-size resource states, we can always implement correct projective measurements if the resource state can simulate arbitrary single-qubit rotations, since such a resource state exhibits exponentially-decaying two-point correlations. This implies that a many-body state whose two-point correlation cannot be upperbounded by an exponentially-decaying function cannot simulate arbitrary single-qubit rotations.

id: 1106.3380
title: Fixed Space of Positive Trace-Preserving Super-Operators
authors: Ansis Rosmanis
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3380
abstract: We examine the fixed space of positive trace-preserving super-operators. We describe a specific structure that this space must have and what the projection onto it must look like. We show how these results, in turn, lead to an alternative proof of the complete characterization of the fixed space of completely positive trace-preserving super-operators.

id: 1106.3392
title: Is the average of the spin-correlation elements the real measure of the entanglement of the two-qubit systems?
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany
comments: A new version placed as arxiv:1204.0341
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3392
abstract: Based on the Pauli spin operators we develop the notion of the spin-correlation matrix for the two-qubit system. If this matrix is non-zero, the measure of the correlation between the qubits is the average of the non-zero elements. Trivially, for zero matrix the bipartite is uncorrelated. This criterion turns out to be a necessary and sufficient condition for the full correlation, where it includes information on both entanglement and correlation other than entanglement. Moreover, we discuss to what extent this criterion can give information on the entanglement of the system. The criterion is generic in the sense that it can be applied to mixed and pure systems. Also, it can be easily extended to treat the correlation of multipartite systems. We compare the results obtained from this criterion to those from concurrence for various examples and we gain agreement regarding entanglement. We believe that this criterion may have a wide range of potential applications in quantum information theory.

id: 1106.3394
title: Variance squeezing and entanglement of the XX central spin model
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany, M Sebawe Abdalla
comments: 19 pages,8 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 035302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3394
abstract: In this paper, we study the quantum properties for a system that consists of a central atom interacting with surrounding spins through the Heisenberg $XX$ couplings of equal strength. Employing the Heisenberg equations of motion we manage to derive an exact solution for the dynamical operators. We consider that the central atom and its surroundings are initially prepared in the excited state and in the coherent spin state, respectively. For this system, we investigate the evolution of variance squeezing and entanglement. The nonclassical effects have been remarked in the behavior of all components of the system. The atomic variance can exhibit revival-collapse phenomenon based on the value of the detuning parameter.

id: 1106.3429
title: Leggett-type nonlocal realist inequalities without any constraint on the geometrical alignment of measurement settings
authors: Ashutosh Rai, Dipankar Home, A. S. Majumdar
comments: Revised form accepted for publication in "Phys. Rev A" (7 pages, 2 figures). Revised argument presented in the last para of the proof of the theorem in Sec III (C), the results remain unchanged. A typo corrected in the Eq. (8)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052115 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3429
abstract: Leggett-type nonlocal realist inequalities that have been derived to date are all contingent upon suitable geometrical constraints to be strictly satisfied by the spatial arrangement of the relevant measurement settings. This undesirable restriction is removed in the present work by deriving appropriate forms of nonlocal realist inequalities, one of which involve the least number of settings compared to all such inequalities derived earlier. The way such inequalities would provide a logically firmer basis for a clearer testing of Leggett-type nonlocal realist model vis-a-vis quantum mechanics is explained.

id: 1106.3460
title: Linear circuit models for on-chip quantum electrodynamics
authors: Alp¨¢r M¨¢ty¨¢s, Christian Jirauschek, Federico Peretti, Paolo Lugli, Gy?rgy Csaba
comments: 
journal: IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech. 59, 65-71 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3460
abstract: We present equivalent circuits that model the interaction of microwave resonators and quantum systems. The circuit models are derived from a general interaction Hamiltonian. Quantitative agreement between the simulated resonator transmission frequency, qubit Lamb shift and experimental data will be shown. We demonstrate that simple circuit models, using only linear passive elements, can be very useful in understanding systems where a small quantum system is coupled to a classical microwave apparatus.

id: 1106.3463
title: Dynamical decoupling noise spectroscopy
authors: Gonzalo A. Alvarez, Dieter Suter
comments: 4+ pages, 3 figures. New experimental data was added. New references added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 230501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3463
abstract: Decoherence is one of the most important obstacles that must be overcome in quantum information processing. It depends on the qubit-environment coupling strength, but also on the spectral composition of the noise generated by the environment. If the spectral density is known, fighting the effect of decoherence can be made more effective. Applying sequences of inversion pulses to the qubit system, we generate effective filter functions that probe the environmental spectral density. Comparing different pulse sequences, we recover the complete spectral density function and distinguish different contributions to the overall decoherence.

id: 1106.3502
title: Duplex quantum communication through a spin chain
authors: Zhao-Ming Wang, C. Allen Bishop, Yong-Jian Gu, Bin Shao
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022345 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3502
abstract: Data multiplexing within a quantum computer can allow for the simultaneous transfer of multiple streams of information over a shared medium thereby minimizing the number of channels needed for requisite data transmission. Here, we investigate a two-way quantum communication protocol using a spin chain placed in an external magnetic field. In our scheme, Alice and Bob each play the role of a sender and a receiver as two states cos({\theta}1/2)|0> + sin({\theta}1/2)exp(i{\phi}1)|1>, cos({\theta}2/2)|0> + sin({\theta}2/2)exp(i{\phi}2)|1> are transferred through one channel simultaneously. We find that the transmission fidelity at each end of a spin chain can usually be enhanced by the presence of a second party. This is an important result for establishing the viability of duplex quantum communication through spin chain networks.

id: 1106.3513
title: Controllable-dipole quantum memory
authors: Khabat Heshami, Adam Green, Yang Han, Arnaud Rispe, Erhan Saglamyurek, Neil Sinclair, Wolfgang Tittel, Christoph Simon
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 013813 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3513
abstract: We present a quantum memory protocol for photons that is based on the direct control of the transition dipole moment. We focus on the case where the light-matter interaction is enhanced by a cavity. We show that the optimal write process (maximizing the storage efficiency) is related to the optimal read process by a reversal of the {\it effective time} $\tau=\int dt g^2(t)/\kappa$, where $g(t)$ is the time-dependent coupling and $\kappa$ is the cavity decay rate. We discuss the implementation of the protocol in a rare-earth ion doped crystal, where an optical transition can be turned on and off by switching a magnetic field.

id: 1106.3515
title: Construction of mutually unbiased bases with cyclic symmetry for qubit systems
authors: Ulrich Seyfarth, Kedar S. Ranade
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042327 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3515
abstract: For the complete estimation of arbitrary unknown quantum states by measurements, the use of mutually unbiased bases has been well-established in theory and experiment for the past 20 years. However, most constructions of these bases make heavy use of abstract algebra and the mathematical theory of finite rings and fields, and no simple and generally accessible construction is available. This is particularly true in the case of a system composed of several qubits, which is arguably the most important case in quantum information science and quantum computation. In this paper, we close this gap by providing a simple and straightforward method for the construction of mutually unbiased bases in the case of a qubit register. We show that our construction is also accessible to experiments, since only Hadamard and controlled-phase gates are needed, which are available in most practical realizations of a quantum computer. Moreover, our scheme possesses the optimal scaling possible, i.e., the number of gates scales only linearly in the number of qubits.

id: 1106.3537
title: Dynamical entanglement purification using chains of atoms and optical cavities
authors: Denis Gonta, Peter van Loock
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, revised version with incorporated erratum
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3537
abstract: In the framework of cavity QED, we propose a practical scheme to purify dynamically a bipartite entangled state using short chains of atoms coupled to high-finesse optical cavities. In contrast to conventional entanglement purification protocols, we avoid CNOT gates, thus reducing complicated pulse sequences and superfluous qubit operations. Our interaction scheme works in a deterministic way, and together with entanglement distribution and swapping, opens a route towards efficient quantum repeaters for long-distance quantum communication.

id: 1106.3544
title: Quantum deformation of the angular distributions of synchrotron radiation. Emission of particles in the first excited state
authors: V. G. Bagrov, A. N. Bourimova, D. M. Gitman, A. D. Levin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3544
abstract: The exact expressions for the characteristics of synchrotron radiation of charged particles in the first excited state are obtained in analytical form using quantum theory methods. We performed a detailed analysis of the angular distribution structure of radiation power and its polarization for particles with spin 0 and 1/2. It is shown that the exact quantum calculations lead to results that differ substantially from the predictions of classical theory.

id: 1106.3549
title: On the Origin of the $\log d$ Variation of the Electrostatic Force Minimizing Voltage in Casimir Experiments
authors: S.K. Lamoreaux, A.O. Sushkov
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3549
abstract: A number of experimental measurements of the Casimir force have observed a logarithmic distance variation of the voltage that minimizes electrostatic force between the plates in a sphere-plane geometry. We show that this variation can be simply understood from a geometric averaging of surface potential patches together with the Proximity Force Approximation.

id: 1106.3584
title: The interpretation of quantum mechanics and of probability: Identical role of the 'observer'
authors: Louis Vervoort
comments: Presented in the Vaxjo Conference (FPP6) on the Foundations of Physics and Probability, Vaxjo (Sweden) June 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3584
abstract: The aim of the article is to argue that the interpretations of quantum mechanics and of probability are much closer than usually thought. Indeed, a detailed analysis of the concept of probability (within the standard frequency theory of R. von Mises) reveals that the latter concept always refers to an observing system. The enigmatic role of the observer in the Copenhagen interpretation therefore derives from a precise understanding of probability. Besides explaining several elements of the Copenhagen interpretation, our model also allows to reinterpret recent results from 'relational quantum mechanics', and to question the premises of the 'subjective approach to quantum probabilities'.

id: 1106.3592
title: SLOCC determinant invariants of order 2^{n/2} for even n qubits
authors: Xiangrong Li, Dafa Li
comments: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 075308
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3592
abstract: In this paper, we study SLOCC determinant invariants of order 2^{n/2} for any even n qubits which satisfy the SLOCC determinant equations. The determinant invariants can be constructed by a simple method and the set of all these determinant invariants is complete with respect to permutations of qubits. SLOCC entanglement classification can be achieved via the vanishing or not of the determinant invariants. We exemplify the method for several even number of qubits, with an emphasis on six qubits.

id: 1106.3593
title: Slow-light Enhanced Correlated Photon-Pair Generation in Silicon
authors: C. Xiong, Christelle Monat, Alex S. Clark, Christian Grillet, Graham D. Marshall, M. J. Steel, Juntao Li, Liam O'Faolain, Thomas F. Krauss, John G. Rarity, Benjamin J. Eggleton
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 36, Issue 17, pp. 3413-3415 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3593
abstract: We report the generation of correlated photon pairs in the telecom C-band, at room temperature, from a dispersion-engineered silicon photonic crystal waveguide. The spontaneous four-wave mixing process producing the photon pairs is enhanced by slow-light propagation enabling an active device length of less than 100 {\mu}m. With a coincidence to accidental ratio of 12.8, at a pair generation rate of 0.006 per pulse, this ultra-compact photon pair source is immediately applicable towards scalable quantum information processing realized on-chip.

id: 1106.3614
title: Laser cooling of a nanomechanical oscillator into its quantum ground state
authors: Jasper Chan, T. P. Mayer Alegre, Amir H. Safavi-Naeini, Jeff T. Hill, Alex Krause, Simon Groeblacher, Markus Aspelmeyer, Oskar Painter
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures
journal: Nature 478, 89-92 (06 October 2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3614
abstract: A patterned Si nanobeam is formed which supports co-localized acoustic and optical resonances that are coupled via radiation pressure. Starting from a bath temperature of T=20K, the 3.68GHz nanomechanical mode is cooled into its quantum mechanical ground state utilizing optical radiation pressure. The mechanical mode displacement fluctuations, imprinted on the transmitted cooling laser beam, indicate that a final phonon mode occupancy of 0.85 +-0.04 is obtained.

id: 1106.3671
title: Electron localizations in double concentric quantum ring
authors: I. Filikhin, S.G. Matinyan, B. Vlahovic
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3671
abstract: We investigate the electron localization in double concentric quantum rings (DCQRs) when a perpendicular magnetic field is applied. In weakly coupled DCQRs, the situation can occur when the single electron energy levels associated with different rings may be crossed. To avoid degeneracy, the anti-crossing of these levels has a place. We show that in this DCQR the electron spatial transition between the rings occurs due to the electron level anti-crossing. The anti-crossing of the levels with different radial quantum numbers provides the conditions for electron tunneling between rings. To study electronic structure of the semiconductor DCQR, the single sub-band effective mass approach with energy dependence was used. Results of numerical simulation for the electron transition are presented for DCQRs of geometry related to one fabricated in experiment.

id: 1106.3720
title: Not all physical errors can be linear CPTP maps in a correlation space
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae, Keisuke Fujii
comments: 5 pages
journal: Scientific Reports 2, 508 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3720
abstract: In the framework of quantum computational tensor network, which is a general framework of measurement-based quantum computation, the resource many-body state is represented in a tensor-network form, and universal quantum computation is performed in a virtual linear space, which is called a correlation space, where tensors live. Since any unitary operation, state preparation, and the projection measurement in the computational basis can be simulated in a correlation space, it is natural to expect that fault-tolerant quantum circuits can also be simulated in a correlation space. However, we point out that not all physical errors on physical qudits appear as linear completely-positive trace-preserving errors in a correlation space. Since the theories of fault-tolerant quantum circuits known so far assume such noises, this means that the simulation of fault-tolerant quantum circuits in a correlation space is not so straightforward for general resource states.

id: 1106.3732
title: On the new translational shape invariant potentials
authors: Arturo Ramos
comments: 9 pages, uses iopart10.clo, version 2
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 342001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3732
abstract: Recently, several authors have found new translational shape invariant potentials not present in classic classifications like that of Infeld and Hull. For example, Quesne on the one hand and Bougie, Gangopadhyaya and Mallow on the other have provided examples of them, consisting on deformations of the classical ones. We analyze the basic properties of the new examples and observe a compatibility equation which has to be satisfied by them. We study particular cases of such equation and give more examples of new translational shape invariant potentials.

id: 1106.3751
title: Quantum phase transition of light in a 1-D photon-hopping-controllable resonator array
authors: Chun-Wang Wu, Ming Gao, Zhi-Jiao Deng, Hong-Yi Dai, Ping-Xing Chen, Cheng-Zu Li
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3751
abstract: We give a concrete experimental scheme for engineering the insulator-superfluid transition of light in a one-dimensional (1-D) array of coupled superconducting stripline resonators. In our proposed architecture, the on-site interaction and the photon hopping rate can be tuned independently by adjusting the transition frequencies of the charge qubits inside the resonators and at the resonator junctions, respectively, which permits us to systematically study the quantum phase transition of light in a complete parameter space. By combining the techniques of photon-number-dependent qubit transition and fast read-out of the qubit state using a separate low-Q resonator mode, the statistical property of the excitations in each resonator can be obtained with a high efficiency. An analysis of the various decoherence sources and disorders shows that our scheme can serve as a guide to coming experiments involving a small number of coupled resonators.

id: 1106.3756
title: Comment on "Resilience of gated avalanche photodiodes against bright illumination attacks in quantum cryptography"
authors: Lars Lydersen, Vadim Makarov, Johannes Skaar
comments: 2 pages
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 99, 196101 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3756
abstract: This is a comment on the publication by Yuan et al. [Appl. Phys. Lett. 98, 231104 (2011); arXiv:1106.2675v1 [quant-ph]].

id: 1106.3829
title: Robust preparation and manipulation of protected qubits using time--varying Hamiltonians
authors: Thomas Coudreau, Benoit Doucot, Romain Dubessy, Daria Andreoli, P¨¦rola Milman
comments: To be published in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3829
abstract: We show that it is possible to initialize and manipulate in a deterministic manner protected qubits using time varying Hamiltonians. Taking advantage of the symmetries of the system, we predict the effect of the noise during the initialization and manipulation. These predictions are in good agreement with numerical simulations. Our study shows that the topological protection remains efficient under realistic experimental conditions.

id: 1106.3848
title: Casimir and short-range gravity tests
authors: Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: 8 pages, proceedings for the "Rencontres de Moriond - Gravitation 2011"
journal: Experimental Gravity and Gravitational Waves, p.199-206 (Th\'e Gioi, 2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3848
abstract: Comparison with theory of Casimir force measurements are used to test the gravity force law at ranges from 0.1 to 10 micrometers. The interest of such tests depends crucially on the theoretical evaluation of the Casimir force in realistic experimental configurations. We present the scattering approach which is nowadays the best tool for such an evaluation. We then describe the current status of the comparisons between theory and experiments.

id: 1106.3886
title: Magneto-Electric response functions for simple atomic systems
authors: James Babington, Bart A. van Tiggelen
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3886
abstract: We consider a simple atomic two-body bound state system that is overall charge neutral and placed in a static electric and magnetic field, and calculate the magneto-electric response function as a function of frequency. This is done from first principles using a two-particle Hamiltonian for both an harmonic oscillator and Coulomb binding potential. In the high frequency limit, the response function falls off as 1/\omega^2 whilst at low frequencies it tends to a constant value.

id: 1106.3894
title: Entanglement in Coupled Harmonic Oscillators via Unitary Transformation
authors: Ahmed Jellal, Fethi Madouri, Abdeldjalil Merdaci
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures, clarification and reference added, misprints corrected. Version published in JSTAT
journal: J.Stat.Mech.:P09015,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3894
abstract: We develop an approach to study the entanglement in two coupled harmonic oscillators. We start by introducing an unitary transformation to end up with the solutions of the energy spectrum. These are used to construct the corresponding coherent states through the standard way. To evaluate the degree of the entanglement between the obtained states, we calculate the purity function in terms of the coherent and number states, separately. The result is yielded to two parameters dependance of the purity, which can be controlled easily. Interesting results are derived by fixing the mixing angle of such transformation as \pi/2. We compare our results with already published work and point out the relevance of these findings to a systematic formulation of the entanglement effect in two coupled harmonic oscillators.

id: 1106.3911
title: Density Functional Resonance Theory of Unbound Electronic Systems
authors: Daniel L. Whitenack, Adam Wasserman
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 163002 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3911
abstract: Density Functional Resonance Theory (DFRT) is a complex-scaled version of ground-state Density Functional Theory (DFT) that allows one to calculate the resonance energies and lifetimes of metastable anions. In this formalism, the exact energy and lifetime of the lowest-energy resonance of unbound systems is encoded into a complex "density" that can be obtained via complex-coordinate scaling. This complex density is used as the primary variable in a DFRT calculation just as the ground-state density would be used as the primary variable in DFT. As in DFT, there exists a mapping of the N-electron interacting system to a Kohn-Sham system of N non-interacting particles in DFRT. This mapping facilitates self consistent calculations with an initial guess for the complex density, as illustrated with an exactly-solvable model system. Whereas DFRT yields in principle the exact resonance energy and lifetime of the interacting system, we find that neglecting the complex-correlation contribution leads to errors of similar magnitude to those of standard scattering close-coupling calculations under the bound-state approximation.

id: 1106.3956
title: Secure $N$-dimensional Simultaneous Dense Coding and Applications
authors: Haozhen Situ, Daowen Qiu, Paulo Mateus, Nikola Paunkovi
comments: 13 pages, comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3956
abstract: imultaneous dense coding guarantees that Bob and Charlie simultaneously achieve their respective information from Alice in their respective processes of dense coding. The idea is to use the locking operation to lock the entanglement channels. In this paper, we present some new results on simultaneous dense coding: (1) We propose three simultaneous dense coding protocols, which utilize different $N$-dimensional quantum entanglement (i.e. Bell state, W state and GHZ state). (2) Besides the quantum Fourier transform, two new locking operators (i.e. the double controlled-NOT operator and the SWAP operator) are introduced. (3) In the case that spatially distant Bob and Charlie must implement the unlocking operation through communication, we improve our protocol's fairness by implementing the unlocking operation in series of steps. (4) We improve the security of simultaneous dense coding against the intercept-resend attack. (5) We show that simultaneous dense coding can be used to implement a fair contract signing protocol. (6) We also show that the $N$-dimensional quantum Fourier transform can act as the locking operator in simultaneous teleportation of qu$N$its.

id: 1106.3958
title: Nonlocality with less Complementarity
authors: Tobias Fritz
comments: 6 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022102 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3958
abstract: In quantum mechanics, nonlocality (a violation of a Bell inequality) is intimately linked to complementarity, by which we mean that consistently assigning values to different observables at the same time is not possible. Nonlocality can only occur when some of the relevant observables do not commute, and this noncommutativity makes the observables complementary. Beyond quantum mechanics, the concept of complementarity can be formalized in several distinct ways. Here we describe some of these possible formalizations and ask how they relate to nonlocality. We partially answer this question by describing two toy theories which display nonlocality and obey the no-signaling principle, although each of them does not display a certain kind of complementarity. The first toy theory has the property that it maximally violates the CHSH inequality, although the corresponding local observables are pairwise jointly measurable. The second toy theory also maximally violates the CHSH inequality, although its state space is classical and all measurements are mutually nondisturbing: if a measurement sequence contains some measurement twice with any number of other measurements in between, then these two measurements give the same outcome with certainty.

id: 1106.4017
title: Quantum simulation of classical thermal states
authors: W. D¨¹r, M. Van den Nest
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 170402 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4017
abstract: We establish a connection between ground states of local quantum Hamiltonians and thermal states of classical spin systems. For any discrete classical statistical mechanical model in any spatial dimension, we find an associated quantum state such that the reduced density operator behaves as the thermal state of the classical system. We show that all these quantum states are unique ground states of a universal 5-body local quantum Hamiltonian acting on a (polynomially enlarged) system of qubits arranged on a 2D lattice. The only free parameters of the quantum Hamiltonian are coupling strengthes of two-body interactions, which allow one to choose the type and dimension of the classical model as well as the interaction strength and temperature.

id: 1106.4027
title: An initial value representation for the Loschmidt echo
authors: Eduardo Zambrano, Alfredo M. Ozorio de Almeida
comments: 2 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E. 84 pp 045201(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4027
abstract: We obtain an initial value representation for the quantum Loschmidt echo from the semiclassical theory of Wigner function evolution, together with classical first-order perturbation theory. In the limit of small actions, the amplitude of each trajectory reduces to unity, just as in the dephasing representation introduced by Vanicek, but these trajectories are here generated by the mean Hamiltonian for both the forward and the backward motion. This slight change of action may substantially alter the phase. The amplitude correction depends on the second derivative of the action. This improved dephasing approximation is verified to work even for quadratic Hamiltonians, for which the semiclassical evolution is exact, thus extending the range of application beyond its original scope in quantum chaos.

id: 1106.4067
title: Eigenvalue and eigenspace anholonomies in hierarchical systems
authors: Atushi Tanaka, Sang Wook Kim, Taksu Cheon
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Europhysics Letters 96 (2011) 10005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4067
abstract: An adiabatic cycle of parameters in a quantum system can yield the quantum anholonomies, nontrivial evolution not just in phase of the states, but also in eigenvalues and eigenstates. Such exotic anholonomies imply that an adiabatic cycle rearranges eigenstates even without spectral degeneracy. We show that an arbitrarily large quantum circuit generated by recursive extension can also exhibit the eigenvalue and eigenspace anholonomies.

id: 1106.4082
title: Rank-based SLOCC classification for odd n qubits
authors: Xiangrong Li, Dafa Li
comments: Submitted to QIC on November 12, 2010
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 11, 0695 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4082
abstract: We study the entanglement classification under stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC) for odd n-qubit pure states. For this purpose, we introduce the rank with respect to qubit i for an odd n-qubit state. The ranks with respect to qubits 1,2,...,n give rise to the classification of the space of odd n qubits into 3^n families.

id: 1106.4139
title: Measures of operator entanglement of two-qubit gates
authors: S. Balakrishnan, R. Sankaranarayanan
comments: Regular article
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062320 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4139
abstract: Two different measures of operator entanglement of two-qubit gates, namely, Schmidt strength and linear entropy, are studied. While these measures are shown to have one-to-one relation between them for Schmidt number 2 class of gates, no such relation exists for Schmidt number 4 class, implying that the measures are inequivalent in general. Further, we establish a simple relation between linear entropy and local invariants of two-qubit gates. The implication of the relation is discussed.

id: 1106.4143
title: Quantum Zeno-based control mechanism for molecular fragmentation
authors: C. Sanz-Sanz, A. S. Sanz, T. Gonzalez-Lezana, O. Roncero, S. Miret-Artes
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 136, 121101 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4143
abstract: A quantum control mechanism is proposed for molecular fragmentation processes within a scenario grounded on the quantum Zeno effect. In particular, we focus on the van der Waals Ne-Br$_2$ complex, which displays two competing dissociation channels via vibrational and electronic predissociation. Accordingly, realistic three dimensional wave packet simulations are carried out by using ab initio interaction potentials recently obtained to reproduce available experimental data. Two numerical models to simulate the repeated measurements are reported and analyzed. It is found that the otherwise fast vibrational predissociation is slowed down in favor of the slow electronic (double fragmentation) predissociation, which is enhanced by several orders of magnitude. Based on these theoretical predictions, some hints to experimentalists to confirm their validity are also proposed.

id: 1106.4151
title: Universality in the Gravitational Stretching of Clocks, Waves and Quantum States
authors: C. S. Unnikrishnan, George T. Gillies
comments: Gravity Research Foundation honorable mention, 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4151
abstract: There are discernible and fundamental differences between clocks, waves and physical states in classical physics. These fundamental concepts find a common expression in the context of quantum physics in gravitational fields; matter and light waves, quantum states and oscillator clocks become quantum synonymous through the Planck-Einstein-de Broglie relations and the equivalence principle. With this insight, gravitational effects on quantum systems can be simply and accurately analyzed. Apart from providing a transparent framework for conceptual and quantitative thinking on matter waves and quantum states in a gravitational field, we address and resolve with clarity the recent controversial discussions on the important issue of the relation and the crucial difference between gravimetery using atom interferometers and the measurement of gravitational time dilation.

id: 1106.4173
title: Quantum phase transition in the delocalized regime of the spin-boson model
authors: Qing-Jun Tong, Jun-Hong An, Hong-Gang Luo, C. H. Oh
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 174301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4173
abstract: The existence of the delocalized-localized quantum phase transition (QPT) in the ohmic spin-boson model has been commonly recognized. While the physics in the localized regime is relatively simple, the delocalized regime shows many interesting behaviors. Here we reveal that in this regime there exists a novel QPT: namely, from a phase without a bound state to a phase with a bound state, which leads to completely different dynamical behaviors in these two phases. If the reservoir is initially in the displaced vacuum state (i.e., the coherent state), the spin dynamics exhibits lossless oscillation when the bound state exists; otherwise, the oscillation will decay completely. This result is compatible with the coherence-incoherence transition occurring in the small-tunneling limit. Our work indicates that the QPT physics in the spin-boson model needs further exploration.

id: 1106.4220
title: Entanglement classes of symmetric Werner states
authors: David W. Lyons, Scott N. Walck
comments: 4 pages, 1 table, additional references in version 2, revised abstract and introduction in version 3, small clarifications for published version in version 4
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 84:042316, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4220
abstract: The symmetric Werner states for $n$ qubits, important in the study of quantum nonlocality and useful for applications in quantum information, have a surprisingly simple and elegant structure in terms of tensor products of Pauli matrices. Further, each of these states forms a unique local unitary equivalence class, that is, no two of these states are interconvertible by local unitary operations.

id: 1106.4234
title: Properties of a Polarization based Phase Operator
authors: Chandra Prajapati, D. Ranganathan
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4234
abstract: We define a Hermitian phase operator for zero mass spin one particles (photons) by taking account polarization. The Hilbert space includes the positive helicity states and negative helicity states with opposite circular polarization. We define an operator which corresponds to the physical process of reversing the sense of polarization and acts as a bridge between positive helicity states and negative helicity states. The exponential phase operator obtained using the entire set is unitary and acts as ladder operator over all the states. The phase operator derived from this exponential operator satisfies the canonical commutation relations with the number operator. We have calculated the density matrix and the phase probability distribution of various states like coherent states, squeezed states and thermal states, to illustrate the utility of our operator.

id: 1106.4248
title: Toroidal moments of Schr?dinger eigenstates
authors: M. Encinosa, J. Williamson
comments: Typo corrected version of manuscript submitted to Physica E, Feb. 24. Deleted stray exponent in Eq.(21). Corrected truncation of Eq.(36), results unchanged. Corrected exponent formatting
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4248
abstract: The Hamiltonian for a particle constrained to motion near a toroidal helix with loops of arbitrary eccentricity is developed. The resulting three dimensional Schr\"odinger equation is reduced to a one dimensional effective equation inclusive of curvature effects. A basis set is employed to find low-lying eigenfunctions of the helix. Toroidal moments corresponding to the individual eigenfunctions are calculated. The dependence of the toroidal moments on the eccentricity of the loops is reported. Unlike the classical case, the moments strongly depend on the details of loop eccentricity.

id: 1106.4254
title: Dynamic learning of pairwise and three-way entanglement
authors: Elizabeth Behrman, James Steck
comments: 6 pages; 2 figures; 5 tables; Submitted to NaBIC 2011
journal: Proceedings of the Third World Congress on Nature and Biologically Inspired Computing (NaBIC2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4254
abstract: In previous work, we have developed a dynamic learning paradigm for "programming" a general quantum computer. A learning algorithm is used to find a set of parameters for a coupled qubit system such that the system at an initial time evolves to a state in which a given measurement results in the desired calculation value. This can be thought of as a quantum neural network (QNN). Here, we apply our method to a system of three qubits, and demonstrate training the quantum computer to estimate both pairwise and three-way entanglement.

id: 1106.4257
title: Quantum entanglement in multiparticle systems of two-level atoms
authors: Ram Narayan Deb
comments: 18 pages: Typos have been corrected and some of the references have been modified. Updated to the journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032327 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4257
abstract: We propose the necessary and sufficient condition for the presence of quantum entanglement in arbitrary symmetric pure states of two-level atomic systems. We introduce a parameter to quantify quantum entanglement in such systems. We express the inherent quantum fluctuations of a composite system of two-level atoms as a sum of the quantum fluctuations of the individual constituent atoms and their correlation terms. This helps to separate out and study solely the quantum correlations among the atoms and obtain the criterion for the presence of entanglement in such multiatomic systems.

id: 1106.4267
title: An optimal quantum algorithm to approximate the mean and its application for approximating the median of a set of points over an arbitrary distance
authors: Gilles Brassard, Frederic Dupuis, Sebastien Gambs, Alain Tapp
comments: Ten pages, no figures, three algorithms
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4267
abstract: We describe two quantum algorithms to approximate the mean value of a black-box function. The first algorithm is novel and asymptotically optimal while the second is a variation on an earlier algorithm due to Aharonov. Both algorithms have their own strengths and caveats and may be relevant in different contexts. We then propose a new algorithm for approximating the median of a set of points over an arbitrary distance function.

id: 1106.4279
title: Extremal extensions of entanglement witnesses: Unearthing new bound entangled states
authors: R. Sengupta, Arvind
comments: 8 pages 6 figures revtex4-1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032328 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4279
abstract: In this paper, we discuss extremal extensions of entanglement witnesses based on Choi's map. The constructions are based on a generalization of the Choi map due to Osaka, from which we construct entanglement witnesses. These extremal extensions are powerful in terms of their capacity to detect entanglement of positive under partial transpose (PPT) entangled states and lead to unearthing of entanglement of new PPT states. We also use the Cholesky-like decomposition to construct entangled states which are revealed by these extremal entanglement witnesses.

id: 1106.4292
title: Tracking an open quantum system using a finite state machine: stability analysis
authors: Raisa I. Karasik, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052120 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4292
abstract: A finite-dimensional Markovian open quantum system will undergo quantum jumps between pure states, if we can monitor the bath to which it is coupled with sufficient precision. In general these jumps, plus the between-jump evolution, create a trajectory which passes through infinitely many different pure states, even for ergodic systems. However, as shown recently by us [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{106}, 020406 (2011)], it is possible to construct {\em adaptive} monitorings which restrict the system to jumping between a finite number of states. That is, it is possible to track the system using a {\em finite state machine} as the apparatus. In this paper we consider the question of the stability of these monitoring schemes. Restricting to cyclic jumps for a qubit, we give a strong analytical argument that these schemes are always stable, and supporting analytical and numerical evidence for the example of resonance fluorescence. This example also enables us to explore a range of behaviors in the evolution of individual trajectories, for several different monitoring schemes.

id: 1106.4295
title: Extreme commutative quantum observables are sharp
authors: Teiko Heinosaari, Juha-Pekka Pellonp??
comments: 5 pages, minor corrections in v2
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 315303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4295
abstract: It is well known that, in the description of quantum observables, positive operator valued measures (POVMs) generalize projection valued measures (PVMs) and they also turn out be more optimal in many tasks. We show that a commutative POVM is an extreme point in the convex set of all POVMs if and only if it is a PVM. This results implies that non-commutativity is a necessary ingredient to overcome the limitations of PVMs.

id: 1106.4398
title: Cryptanalysis of the arbitrated quantum signature protocols
authors: Fei Gao, Su-Juan Qin, Fen-Zhuo Guo, Qiao-Yan Wen
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: Physical Review A 84, 022344 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4398
abstract: As a new model for signing quantum message, arbitrated quantum signature (AQS) has recently received a lot of attention. In this paper we study the cryptanalysis of previous AQS protocols from the aspects of forgery and disavowal. We show that in these protocols the receiver Bob can realize existential forgery of the sender's signature under known message attack. Bob can even achieve universal forgery when the protocols are used to sign a classical message. Furthermore, the sender Alice can successfully disavow any of her signatures by simple attack. The attack strategies are described in detail and some discussions about the potential improvements of the protocols are given. Finally we also present several interesting topics in future study on AQS protocols.

id: 1106.4429
title: Quantum dynamics in light-harvesting complexes: Beyond the single-exciton limit
authors: B. Cui, X. Y. Zhang, X. X. Yi
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4429
abstract: Primitive photosynthetic cells appear over three billion years prior to any other more complex life-forms, thus it is reasonable to assume that Nature has designed a photosynthetic mechanism using minimal resources but honed to perfection under the action of evolution. A number of different quantum models have been proposed to understand the high degree of efficient energy transport, most of them are limited to the scenario of single-exciton. Here we present a study on the dynamics in light-harvesting complexes beyond the single exciton limit, and show how this model describes the energy transfer in the Fenna-Matthew-Olson (FMO) complex. We find that the energy transfer efficiency above 90% under realistic conditions is achievable.

id: 1106.4437
title: Full control of spontaneous emission in confined Tamm plasmon structures
authors: O. Gazzano, S. Michaelis de Vasconcellos, K. Gauthron, C. Symonds, J. Bloch, P. Voisin, J. Bellessa, A. Lemaitre, P. Senellart
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4437
abstract: We demonstrate strong confinement of the optical field by depositing a micron sized metallic disk on a planar interferential mirror. Zero dimensional Tamm plasmon modes are evidenced both experimentally and theoretically, with a lateral confinement limited to the disk area and strong coupling to TE polarized fields. Single quantum dots deterministically coupled to these modes are shown to experience acceleration of their spontaneous emission when spectrally resonant with the mode. For quantum dots spectrally detuned from the confined Tamm Plasmon mode, an inhibition of spontaneous emission by a factor 40 is observed, a record value in the optical domain.

id: 1106.4481
title: Experimental non-classicality of an indivisible quantum system
authors: Radek Lapkiewicz, Peizhe Li, Christoph Schaeff, Nathan K. Langford, Sven Ramelow, Marcin Wiesniak, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, 2 tables
journal: Nature 474, 490 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4481
abstract: Quantum theory demands that, in contrast to classical physics, not all properties can be simultaneously well defined. The Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle is a manifestation of this fact. Another important corollary arises that there can be no joint probability distribution describing the outcomes of all possible measurements, allowing a quantum system to be classically understood. We provide the first experimental evidence that even for a single three-state system, a qutrit, no such classical model can exist that correctly describes the results of a simple set of pairwise compatible measurements. Not only is a single qutrit the simplest system in which such a contradiction is possible, but, even more importantly, the contradiction cannot result from entanglement, because such a system is indivisible, and it does not even allow the concept of entanglement between subsystems.

id: 1106.4488
title: Calculation of quantum discord for qubit-qudit or N qubits
authors: sai vinjanampathy, A. R. P. Rau
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 095303 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4488
abstract: Quantum discord, a kind of quantum correlation, is defined as the difference between quantum mutual information and classical correlation in a bipartite system. It has been discussed so far for small systems with only a few independent parameters. We extend here to a much broader class of states when the second party is of arbitrary dimension d, so long as the first, measured, party is a qubit. We present two formulae to calculate quantum discord, the first relating to the original entropic definition and the second to a recently proposed geometric distance measure which leads to an analytical formulation. The tracing over the qubit in the entropic calculation is reduced to a very simple prescription. And, when the d-dimensional system is a so-called X state, the density matrix having non-zero elements only along the diagonal and anti-diagonal so as to appear visually like the letter X, the entropic calculation can be carried out analytically. Such states of the full bipartite qubit-qudit system may be named "extended X states", whose density matrix is built of four block matrices, each visually appearing as an X. The optimization involved in the entropic calculation is generally over two parameters, reducing to one for many cases, and avoided altogether for an overwhelmingly large set of density matrices as our numerical investigations demonstrate. Our results also apply to states of a N-qubit system, where "extended X states" consist of (2^(N+2) - 1) states, larger in number than the (2^(N+1) - 1) of X states of N qubits. While these are still smaller than the total number (2^(2N) - 1) of states of N qubits, the number of parameters involved is nevertheless large. In the case of N = 2, they encompass the entire 15-dimensional parameter space, that is, the extended X states for N = 2 represent the full qubit-qubit system.

id: 1106.4496
title: Dynamics and extraction of quantum discord in a multipartite open system
authors: B. Bellomo, G. Compagno, R. Lo Franco, A. Ridolfo, S. Savasta
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, to be published in International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 9, 1665-1676 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4496
abstract: We consider a multipartite system consisting of two noninteracting qubits each embedded in a single-mode leaky cavity, in turn connected to an external bosonic reservoir. Initially, we take the two qubits in an entangled state while the cavities and the reservoirs have zero photons. We investigate, in this six-partite quantum system, the transfer of quantum discord from the qubits to the cavities and reservoirs. We show that this transfer occurs also when the cavities are not entangled. Moreover, we discuss how quantum discord can be extracted from the cavities and transferred to distant systems by traveling leaking photons, using the input-output theory.

id: 1106.4510
title: Nonlinear Boundaries in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Arthur Davidson
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4510
abstract: Based on empirical evidence, quantum systems appear to be strictly linear and gauge invariant. This work uses concise mathematics to show that quantum eigenvalue equations on a one dimensional ring can either be gauge invariant or have a linear boundary condition, but not both. Further analysis shows that non-linear boundaries for the ring restore gauge invariance but lead unexpectedly to eigenfunctions with a continuous eigenvalue spectrum, a discreet subset of which forms a Hilbert space with energy bands. This Hilbert space maintains the principle of superposition of eigenfunctions despite the nonlinearity. The momentum operator remains Hermitian. If physical reality requires gauge invariance, it would appear that quantum mechanics should incorporate these nonlinear boundary conditions.

id: 1106.4512
title: Storing light as a mechanical excitation in a silica optomechanical resonator
authors: Victor Fiore, Yong Yang, Mark Kuzyk, Russell Barbour, Lin Tian, Hailin Wang
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 133601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4512
abstract: We report the experimental demonstration of optomechanical light storage in a silica resonator. We use writing and readout laser pulses tuned to one mechanical frequency below an optical cavity resonance to control the coupling between the mechanical displacement and the optical field at the cavity resonance. The writing pulse maps a signal pulse at the cavity resonance to a mechanical excitation. The readout pulse later converts the mechanical excitation back to an optical pulse. The light storage lifetime is determined by the relatively long damping time of the mechanical excitation.

id: 1106.4537
title: Protecting a quantum state from environmental noise by an incompatible finite-time measurement
authors: Carlos Alexandre Brasil, Leonardo Andreta de Castro, Reginaldo de Jesus Napolitano
comments: REVISED VERSION: 37 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022112 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4537
abstract: We show that measurements of finite duration performed on an open two-state system can protect the initial state from a phase-noisy environment, provided the measured observable does not commute with the perturbing interaction. When the measured observable commutes with the environmental interaction, the finite-duration measurement accelerates the rate of decoherence induced by the phase noise. For the description of the measurement of an observable that is incompatible with the interaction between system and environment, we have found an approximate analytical expression, valid at zero temperature and weak coupling with the measuring device. We have tested the validity of the analytical predictions against an exact numerical approach, based on the superoperator-splitting method, that confirms the protection of the initial state of the system. When the coupling between the system and the measuring apparatus increases beyond the range of validity of the analytical approximation, the initial state is still protected by the finite-time measurement, according with the exact numerical calculations.

id: 1106.4603
title: Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics For Atomic Electronic Systems
authors: Thomas Markovich, Mason Biamonte, Donald J Kouri
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, Submitted to the Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4603
abstract: We employ our new approach to non-relativistic supersymmetric quantum mechanics (SUSY-QM), (J. Phys. Chem. A 114, 8202(2010)) for any number of dimensions and distinguishable particles, to treat the hydrogen atom in full three-dimensional detail. In contrast to the standard one-dimensional radial equation SUSY-QM treatment of the hydrogen atom, where the superpotential is a scalar, in a full three-dimensional treatment, it is a vector which applies regardless of the electron angular momentum. The original scalar Schrodinger Hamiltonian operator is factored into vector "charge" operators: Q and Q^{dagger}. Using these operators, the first sector Hamiltonian is written as H1 = Q^{\dagger} * Q. The second sector Hamiltonian is a tensor given by H2 = Q Q^{\dagger} and is isospectral with H1. The second sector ground state, psi^{(2)}_0, can be used to obtain the excited state wave functions of the first sector by application of the adjoint charge operator. Alternatively, Q applied to analytical, sector one excited states yield analytical results for the sector two vector eigenstates. Several of these are plotted for illustration. We then adapt the aufbau principle to show this approach can be applied to treat the helium atom.

id: 1106.4607
title: Feasible optical weak measurements of complementary observables via a single Hamiltonian
authors: Shengjun Wu, Marek ?ukowski
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 080403 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4607
abstract: A general formalism for joint weak measurements of a pair of complementary observables is given. The standard process of optical three-wave mixing in a nonlinear crystal (such as in parametric down-conversion) is suitable for such tasks. To obtain the weak value of a variable $A$ one performs weak measurements twice, with different initial states of the "meter" field. This seems to be a drawback, but as a compensation we get for free the weak value of a complementary variable $B$. The scheme is tunable and versatile: one has access to a continuous set of possible weak measurements of pair of observables. The scheme increases signal-to-noise ratio with respect to the case without postselection.

id: 1106.4615
title: Quantum key distribution with limited classical Bob
authors: Zhiwei Sun, Ruigang Du, Dongyang Long
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4615
abstract: Two QKD protocols with limited classical Bob who performs only limited classical operations (preparing a (fresh) qubit in the classical basis and send it or doing nothing) are presented and are proved completely robust. As limited classical Bob can deterministically choose the bits, we use the feature to construct a quantum secure direct communication protocol, which is the direct communication of secret messages without first producing a shared secret key.

id: 1106.4754
title: Bell inequalities for the simplest exclusivity graph
authors: Muhamad Sadiq, Piotr Badziag, Mohamed Bourennane, Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87 (2013) 012128
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4754
abstract: Which is the simplest logical structure for which there is quantum nonlocality? We show that there are only three bipartite Bell inequalities with quantum violation associated with the simplest graph of relationships of exclusivity with a quantum-classical gap. These are the most elementary logical Bell inequalities. We show that the quantum violation of some well-known Bell inequalities is related to them. We test the three Bell inequalities with pairs of polarization-entangled photons and report violations in good agreement with the quantum predictions. Unlike other experiments testing noncontextuality inequalities with pentagonal exclusivity, the ones reported here are free of the compatibility loophole.

id: 1106.4759
title: Comment on "A new exactly solvable quantum model in $N$ dimensions" [Phys. Lett. A 375(2011)1431, arXiv:1007.1335]
authors: B. L. Moreno Ley, Shi-Hai Dong
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4759
abstract: We pinpoint that the work about "a new exactly solvable quantum model in $N$ dimensions" by Ballesteros et al. [Phys. Lett. A {\bf 375} (2011) 1431, arXiv:1007.1335] is not a new exactly solvable quantum model since the flaw of the position-dependent mass Hamiltonian proposed by them makes it less valuable in physics.

id: 1106.4767
title: Quantum Arrival and Dwell Times via Idealised Clocks
authors: J.M.Yearsley, D.A.Downs, J.J.Halliwell, A.K.Hashagen
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 022109 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4767
abstract: A number of approaches to the problem of defining arrival and dwell time probabilities in quantum theory make use of idealised models of clocks. An interesting question is the extent to which the probabilities obtained in this way are related to standard semiclassical results. In this paper we explore this question using a reasonably general clock model, solved using path integral methods. We find that in the weak coupling regime where the energy of the clock is much less than the energy of the particle it is measuring, the probability for the clock pointer can be expressed in terms of the probability current in the case of arrival times, and the dwell time operator in the case of dwell times, the expected semiclassical results. In the regime of strong system-clock coupling, we find that the arrival time probability is proportional to the kinetic energy density, consistent with an earlier model involving a complex potential. We argue that, properly normalized, this may be the generically expected result in this regime. We show that these conclusions are largely independent of the form of the clock Hamiltonian.

id: 1106.4774
title: Complete set of operational measures for the characterization of 3-qubit entanglement
authors: J. I. de Vicente, T. Carle, C. Streitberger, B. Kraus
comments: 11 pages (including appendix), 1 figure; replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 060501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4774
abstract: We characterize the entanglement contained in a pure three-qubit state via operational entanglement measures. To this end we derive a new decomposition for arbitrary 3-qubit states which is characterized by five parameters (up to local unitary operations). We show that these parameters are uniquely determined by bipartite entanglement measures. These quantities measure on the one hand the entanglement required to generate the state and on the other hand the entanglement contained in the state and have a clear physical meaning. Moreover, we show that the classification of states obtained in this way is strongly related to the one obtained when considering general local operations and classical communication.

id: 1106.4800
title: Pointer States via Engineered Dissipation
authors: Kaveh Khodjasteh, Viatcheslav V. Dobrovitski, Lorenza Viola
comments: 22 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4800
abstract: Pointer states are long-lasting high-fidelity states in open quantum systems. We show how any pure state in a non-Markovian open quantum system can be made to behave as a pointer state by suitably engineering the coupling to the environment via open-loop periodic control. Engineered pointer states are constructed as approximate fixed points of the controlled open-system dynamics, in such a way that they are guaranteed to survive over a long time with a fidelity determined by the relative precision with which the dynamics is engineered. We provide quantitative minimum-fidelity bounds by identifying symmetry and ergodicity conditions that the decoherence-inducing perturbation must obey in the presence of control, and develop explicit pulse sequences for engineering any desired set of orthogonal states as pointer states. These general control protocols are validated through exact numerical simulations as well as semi-classical approximations in realistic single and two qubit dissipative systems. We also examine the role of control imperfections, and show that while pointer-state engineering protocols are highly robust in the presence of systematic pulse errors, the latter can also lead to unintended pointer-state generation in dynamical decoupling implementations, explaining the initial-state selectivity observed in recent experiments.

id: 1106.4805
title: Partial Bell-state analysis with parametric down conversion in the Wigner function formalism
authors: A. Casado, S. Guerra, J. Pl¨¢cido
comments: 
journal: Advances in Mathematical Physics, Volume 2010, Article ID: 501521
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4805
abstract: We apply the Wigner function formalism to partial Bell-state analysis using polarization entanglement produced in parametric down conversion. Two-photon statistics at a beam-splitter are reproduced by a wavelike description with zeropoint fluctuations of the electromagnetic field. In particular, the fermionic behaviour of two photons in the singlet state is explained from the invariance on the correlation properties of two light beams going through a balanced beam-splitter. Moreover, we show that a Bell-state measurement introduces some fundamental noise at the idle channels of the analyzers. As a consequence, the consideration of more independent sets of vacuum modes entering the crystal appears as a need for a complete Bell-state analysis.

id: 1106.4812
title: Quantum entanglement of bound particles under free center of mass dispersion
authors: Fernanda Pinheiro, A. F. R. de Toledo Piza
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. 85 065002, (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4812
abstract: On the basis of the full analytical solution of the overall unitary dynamics, the time evolution of entanglement is studied in a simple bipartite model system evolving unitarily from a pure initial state. The system consists of two particles in one spacial dimension bound by harmonic forces and having its free center of mass initially localized in space in a minimum uncertainty wave packet. The existence of such initial states in which the bound particles are not entangled is pointed out. The entanglement of the two particles is shown to be independent of the wavepacket mean momentum, and to increase monotonically in a time scale distinct from that of the spreading of the center of mass wavepacket.

id: 1106.4829
title: Perfect State Transfer in Two and Three Dimensional Structures
authors: Vahid Karimipour, Mahdi Sarmadi Rad, Marzieh Asoudeh
comments: 4 pages, minor improvements and clarifications
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 010302(Rapid Communications) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4829
abstract: We introduce a scheme for perfect state transfer in regular two and three dimensional structures. The interactions on the lattices are of XX spin type with uniform couplings. In two dimensions the structure is a hexagonal lattice and in three dimensions it consists of hexagonal planes joined to each other at arbitrary points. We will show that compared to other schemes, i) much less control is needed for routing, ii) the algebra of global control is quite simple, iii) the same kind of control can upload and download qubit states to or from built-in Read-Write (RW) heads. Pivotal use is made of a quantum switch which we introduce and call it Hadamard switch, since its operation depends on the existence of a Hadamard matrix in four dimensions.

id: 1106.4831
title: Quantum tests for the linearity and permutation invariance of Boolean functions
authors: Mark Hillery, Erika Andersson
comments: Replaced with published version
journal: Physical Review A 84, 062329 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4831
abstract: The goal in function property testing is to determine whether a black-box Boolean function has a certain property or is epsilon-far from having that property. The performance of the algorithm is judged by how many calls need to be made to the black box in order to determine, with high probability, which of the two alternatives is the case. Here we present two quantum algorithms, the first to determine whether the function is linear and the second to determine whether it is symmetric (invariant under permutations of the arguments). Both require O(epsilon^{-2/3}) calls to the oracle, which is better than known classical algorithms. In addition, in the case of linearity testing, if the function is linear, the quantum algorithm identifies which linear function it is. The linearity test combines the Bernstein-Vazirani algorithm and amplitude amplification, while the test to determine whether a function is symmetric uses projective measurements and amplitude amplification.

id: 1106.4850
title: Quantum nonlocality does not imply entanglement distillability
authors: Tamas Vertesi, Nicolas Brunner
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 030403 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4850
abstract: Entanglement and nonlocality are both fundamental aspects of quantum theory, and play a prominent role in quantum information science. The exact relation between entanglement and nonlocality is however still poorly understood. Here we make progress in this direction by showing that, contrary to what previous work suggested, quantum nonlocality does not imply entanglement distillability. Specifically, we present analytically a 3-qubit entangled state that is separable along any bipartition. This implies that no bipartite entanglement can be distilled from this state, which is thus fully bound entangled. Then we show that this state nevertheless violates a Bell inequality. Our result also disproves the multipartite version of a longstanding conjecture made by Asher Peres.

id: 1106.4878
title: Unitary application of the quantum error correction codes
authors: Xoaohua Wu, Bo You
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4878
abstract: From the set of operators for errors and its correction code, we introduce the so-called complete unitary transformation. It can be used for encoding while the inverse of it can be applied for correcting the errors of the encoded qubit. We show that this unitary protocol can be applied for any code which satisfies the quantum error correction condition.

id: 1106.4905
title: Local invariants for mixed qubit-qutrit states
authors: Vladimir Gerdt, Arsen Khvedelidze, Dimitar Mladenov, Yuri Palii
comments: 20 pages
journal: Zapiski POMI (J. Math. Sci.) v 387 (2011) pp 102-121
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4905
abstract: In the present paper few steps are undertaken towards the description of the qubit-qutrit pair - quantum bipartite system composed of two and three level subsystems. The computational difficulties with the construction of the local unitary polynomial invariants are discussed. Calculations of the Molien functions and Poincare series for the qubit-qubit and qubit-qutrit local unitary invariants are outlined and compared with the known results. The requirement of positive semi-definiteness of the density operator is formulated explicitly as a set of inequalities in five Casimir invariants of the algebra su(6).

id: 1106.4908
title: Comment on "Semiquantum secret sharing using entangled states"
authors: Jason Lin, Chun-Wei Yang, Chia-Wei Tsai, Tzonelih Hwang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4908
abstract: Recently, Li et al. [Phys. Rev. A, 82(2), 022303] presented two semi-quantum secret sharing (SQSS) protocols using GHZ-like states. The proposed schemes are rather practical because only the secret dealer requires to equip with advanced quantum devices such as quantum memory, whereas the other agents can merely perform classical operations to complete the secret sharing. However, this study points out that a security pitfall exists in the eavesdropping check phase of both schemes that could mount to an Intercept-resend attack and a Trojan horse attack on the two schemes, respectively, to disclose the other agent's shadow, and further to reveal the master key of the SQSS, which contradicts to the security requirement of a QSS. Fortunately, two possible solutions are proposed to avoid this security pitfall.

id: 1106.4916
title: Cavity sideband cooling of trapped molecules
authors: Markus Kowalewski, Giovanna Morigi, Pepijn W.H. Pinkse, Regina de Vivie-Riedle
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 033408 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4916
abstract: The efficiency of cavity sideband cooling of trapped molecules is theoretically investigated for the case where the IR transition between two rovibrational states is used as a cycling transition. The molecules are assumed to be trapped either by a radio-frequency or optical trapping potential, depending on whether they are charged or neutral, and confined inside a high-finesse optical resonator which enhances radiative emission into the cavity mode. Using realistic experimental parameters and COS as a representative molecular example, we show that in this setup cooling to the trap ground state is feasible.

id: 1106.4923
title: Optical Properties of Collective Excitations for Finite Chains of Trapped Atoms
authors: Hashem Zoubi, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 8 pages, 12 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 66, 292 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4923
abstract: Resonant dipole-dipole interaction modifies the energy and decay rate of electronic excitations for finite one dimensional chains of ultracold atoms in an optical lattice. We show that collective excited states of the atomic chain can be divided into dark and bright modes, where a superradiant mode with an enhanced collective effective dipole dominates the optical scattering. Studying the generic case of two chain segments of different length and position exhibits an interaction blockade and spatially structured light emission. Ultimately, an extended system of several interfering segments models a long chain with randomly distributed defects of vacant sites. The corresponding emission pattern provides a sensitive tool to study structural and dynamical properties of the system.

id: 1106.4936
title: Probing the BCS-BEC crossover with photons in a nonlinear optical fiber
authors: Mingxia Huo, Changsuk Noh, B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, Dimitris G. Angelakis
comments: 4 and bit pages, 4 figures, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 043840 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4936
abstract: We propose a scheme where strongly correlated photons generated inside a hollow-core one-dimensional fiber filled with two cold atomic species can be used to simulate the BCS-BEC crossover. We first show how stationary light-matter excitations (polaritons) in the system can realize an optically tunable two component Bose-Hubbard model, and then analyze the optical parameters regime necessary to generate an effective Fermi-Hubbard model of photons exhibiting Cooper pairing. The characteristic correlated phases of the system can be efficiently observed due to the {\it in situ} accessibility of the photon correlations with standard optical technology.

id: 1106.4958
title: Creating nuclear spin entanglement using an optical degree of freedom
authors: Marcus Schaffry, Brendon W. Lovett, Erik M. Gauger
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A, 84(3):032332, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4958
abstract: Molecular nanostructures are promising building blocks for future quantum technologies, provided methods of harnessing their multiple degrees of freedom can be identified and implemented. Due to low decoherence rates nuclear spins are considered ideal candidates for storing quantum information while optical excitations can give rise to fast and controllable interactions for information processing. A recent paper (Physical Review Letters \textbf{104} 200501) proposed a method for entangling two nuclear spins through their mutual coupling to a transient optically excited electron spin. Building on the same idea, we here present an extended and much more detailed theoretical framework, showing that this method is in fact applicable to a much wider class of molecular structures than previously discussed in the original proposal.

id: 1106.5005
title: Improved high-fidelity transport of trapped-ion qubits through a multi-dimensional array
authors: R.B. Blakestad, C. Ospelkaus, A.P. VanDevender, J.H. Wesenberg, M.J. Biercuk, D. Leibfried, D.J. Wineland
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5005
abstract: We have demonstrated transport of Be+ ions through a 2D Paul-trap array that incorporates an X-junction, while maintaining the ions near the motional ground-state of the confining potential well. We expand on the first report of the experiment [1], including a detailed discussion of how the transport potentials were calculated. Two main mechanisms that caused motional excitation during transport are explained, along with the methods used to mitigate such excitation. We reduced the motional excitation below the results in Ref. [1] by a factor of approximately 50. The effect of a mu-metal shield on qubit coherence is also reported. Finally, we examined a method for exchanging energy between multiple motional modes on the few-quanta level, which could be useful for cooling motional modes without directly accessing the modes with lasers. These results establish how trapped ions can be transported in a large-scale quantum processor with high fidelity.

id: 1106.5015
title: Temperature-independent Casimir-Polder forces in arbitrary geometries
authors: Simen ?. Ellingsen, Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Stefan Scheel
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 060501(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5015
abstract: We show that the Casimir-Polder potential of a particle in an energy eigenstate at nonretarded distance from a well-conducting body of arbitrary shape is independent of the environment temperature. This is true even when the thermal photon numbers at the relevant atomic transition energies are large. A compact expression is obtained for the temperature-independent potential, which can greatly simplify calculations in nontrivial geometries for experimentally relevant systems such as Rydberg atoms and polar molecules. We give criteria for the validity of our temperature-independent result. They are illustrated by numerical studies of a particle near a gold sphere or inside a gold cylindrical cavity.

id: 1106.5083
title: Universal Uncertainty Principle, Simultaneous Measurability, and Weak Values
authors: Masanao Ozawa
comments: 10 pages. Work presented at the 10th International Conference on Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computation (QCMC 2010), Brisbane, Australia, 19 July 2010 as one of award talks. Typos corrected
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1363, 53-62 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5083
abstract: In the conventional formulation, it is broadly accepted that simultaneous measurability and commutativity of observables are equivalent. However, several objections have been claimed that there are cases in which even nowhere commuting observables can be measured simultaneously. Here, we outline a new theory of simultaneous measurements based on a state-dependent formulation, in which nowhere commuting observables are shown to have simultaneous measurements in some states, so that the known objections to the conventional theory are theoretically justified. We also discuss new results on the relation between weak values and output probability distributions of simultaneous measurements.

id: 1106.5097
title: Quantum Information transmission
authors: Lei Wang, Jie-Hui Huang, Jonathan P. Dowling, Shi-Yao Zhu
comments: 8pages,2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5097
abstract: We present a scheme of quantum information transmission, which transmits the quantum information contained in a single qubit via the quantum correlation shared by two parties (a two-qubit channel), whose quantum discord is non-zero. We demonstrate that the quantum correlation, which may have no entanglement, is sufficient to transmit the information of a quantum state. When the correlation matrix of the two-qubit channel is of full rank (rank three), the information of the qubit in either a mixed state or a pure state can be transmitted. The quantum discord of a channel with rank larger than or equal to three is always non-zero. Therefore, non-zero quantum discord is also necessary for our quantum information transmission protocol.

id: 1106.5102
title: Time dependent neutrino billiards
authors: D.U.Matrasulov, Z.A.Sobirov, Sh.Ataev, H.Yusupov
comments: 
journal: "Complex Phenomena in Nanoscale Systems" pp 215-21, Springer, Dordrecht, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5102
abstract: Quantum dynamica of a massless Dirac particle in time-dependent 1D box and circular billiard with time-dependent radius is studied. An exact analytical wave functions and eigenvalues are obtained for the case of linear time-dependence of the boundary position.

id: 1106.5126
title: An Improved Tripartite Bell-type Inequality
authors: Fatemeh Shirdel, Hossein Movahhedian
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5126
abstract: So far, various Bell type inequalities have been introduced to test the local realism in tripartite systems. In this article we consider a tripartite system with two measurements in each side and two outputs for each measurement. Then we will introduce a new bell type inequality for this system and we show that this inequality is violated by quantum theory with a violation factor and amount of violation of 3.5 and 2.5 respectively, which exceed those of available inequalities in both cases. Also we will show that the white noise tolerance of this new Bell type expression is 0.5, which agrees with the maximum amount of white noise tolerance of available inequalities up to now.

id: 1106.5134
title: On the role of a priori knowledge in the optimization of quantum information processing
authors: Ming Zhang, Min Lin, S. G. Schirmer, Hong-Yi Dai, Zongtan Zhou, Dewen Hu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5134
abstract: This paper explores the role of a priori knowledge in the optimization of quantum information processing by investigating optimum unambiguous discrimination problems for both the qubit and qutrit states. In general, a priori knowledge in optimum unambiguous discrimination problems can be classed into two types: a priori knowledge of discriminated states themselves and a priori probabilities of preparing the states. It is clarified that whether a priori probabilities of preparing discriminated states are available or not, what type of discriminators one should design just depends on what kind of the classical knowledge of discriminated states. This is in contrast to the observation that choosing the parameters of discriminators not only relies on the a priori knowledge of discriminated states, but also depends on a priori probabilities of preparing the states. Two types of a priori knowledge can be utilized to improve optimum performance but play the different roles in the optimization from the view point of decision theory.

id: 1106.5196
title: Reexamination of the optimal Bayes cost in the binary decision problem
authors: Bernhard K. Meister
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5196
abstract: The problem of quantum state discrimination between two wave functions of a particle in a square well potential is considered. The optimal minimum-error probability is known to be given by the Helstrom bound. A new strategy is introduced by inserting an impenetrable barrier in the middle of the square well, which is either a nodal or non-nodal point of the wave function. The energy required to insert the barrier is dependent on the initial state. This enables the experimenter to gain additional information beyond the standard probing of the state envisaged by Helstrom and to improve the distinguishability of the states. It is shown that under some conditions the Helstrom bound can be violated, i.e. the state discrimination can be realized with a smaller error probability.

id: 1106.5210
title: Recursive Encoding and Decoding of Noiseless Subsystem and Decoherence Free Subspace
authors: Chi-Kwong Li, Mikio Nakahara, Yiu-Tung Poon, Nung-Sing Sze, Hiroyuki Tomita
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5210
abstract: When the environmental disturbace to a quantum system has a wavelength much larger than the system size, all qubits localized within a small area are under action of the same error operators. Noiseless subsystem and decoherence free subspace are known to correct such collective errors. We construct simple quantum circuits, which implement these collective error correction codes, for a small number $n$ of physical qubits. A single logical qubit is encoded with $n=3$ and $n=4$, while two logical qubits are encoded with $n=5$. The recursive relations among the subspaces employed in noiseless subsystem and decoherence free subspace play essential r\^oles in our implementation. The recursive relations also show that the number of gates required to encode $m$ logical qubits increases linearly in $m$.

id: 1106.5221
title: Quantum Field Effects in Stationary Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy
authors: Dmitri Yerchuck, Vyacheslav Stelmakh, Yauhen Yerchak, Alla Dovlatova
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0907.5484, arXiv:1407.1950 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5221
abstract: It is proved on the example of electron spin resonance (ESR) studies of anthracites, that by strong electron-photon and electron-phonon interactions the formation of the coherent system of the resonance phonons takes place. The acoustic quantum Rabi oscillations were observed for the first time in ESR-spectroscopy. Its Rabi frequency value on the first damping stage was found to be equal 920.6 kHz, being to be independent on the microwave power level in the range 20 - 6 dB [0 dB corresponds to 100 mW]. By the subsequent increase of the microwave power the stepwise transition to the phenomenon of nonlinear quantum Rabi oscillations, characterised by splitting of the oscillation group of lines into two subgroups with doubling of the total lines' number takes place. Linewidth of an individual oscillation line becomes approximately the twofold narrower, being to be equal the only to $0.004 \pm 0.001$ G. Along with the absorption process of EM-field energy the emission process was observed. It was found, that the emission process is the realization of the acoustic spin resonance, the source of acoustic wave power in which is the system of resonance phonons, accumulated in the samples by the registration with AFC. It has been found, that the lifetime of coherent state of a collective subsystem of resonance phonons in anthracites is very long and even by room temperature it is evaluated by the value exceeding 4.6 minutes. The model of new kinds of instantons was proposed. They are considered to be similar in the mathematical structure to Su-Schrieffer-Heeger solitons with "propagation" direction along time $t$-axis instead of space $z$-axis. The proof, that the superconductivity state in the anthracite samples studied is produced at the room temperature in ESR conditions in the accordance with the theory of the quantised acoustic field, has experimentally been obtained.

id: 1106.5233
title: Structural physical approximations and entanglement witnesses
authors: Bang-Hai Wang, Dong-Yang Long
comments: 7 pages, fixed some typos, thanks to the many comments received!
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062324 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5233
abstract: The structural physical approximation (SPA) to a positive map is considered to be one of the most important method to detect entanglement in the real physical world. We first show that an arbitrary entanglement witness (EW) $W$ can be constructed from a separable density matrix $\sigma$ in the form of $W=\sigma-c_{\sigma} I$, where $c_{\sigma}$ is a non-negative number and $I$ is the identity matrix. Following the general form of EWs from separable states, we show a sufficient condition and a sufficient and necessary condition in low dimensions of that SPAs to positive maps do not define entanglement-breaking channels. We show that either the SPA of an EW or the SPA of the partial transposition of the EW in low dimensions is an entanglement-breaking channel. We give sufficient conditions of violating the SPA conjecture [\emph{Phys. Rev. A}{\bf 78,} 062105 (2008)]. Our results indicate that the SPA conjecture is independent of whether or not positive maps are optimal.

id: 1106.5234
title: Localization of M-Particle Quantum Walks
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: To the authors knowledge, this paper appears to be the first to study the localization problem for a general M-Particle quantum walk. Will submit for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5234
abstract: We study the motion of M particles performing a quantum walk on the line. Under various conditions on the initial coin states for quantum walkers controlled by the Hadamard operator, we give theoretical criterion to observe the quantum walkers at an initial location with high probability.

id: 1106.5240
title: Many-Body Effects in a Model of Electromagnetically Induced Transparency
authors: Jose Reslen
comments: 5+ pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5240
abstract: We study the effect of inter-band interactions in the absorption profile of a semi-classical model describing electromagnetically induced transparency. We develop a consistent approach using a non-hermitian Hamiltonian to model particle decay. This allow us to characterize the system response for different number of particles so that the effect of particle-interaction on the transmission profile can be studied over a wide range of characteristic parameters.

id: 1106.5259
title: An efficient method to calculate excitation energy transfer in light harvesting systems. Application to the FMO complex
authors: G. Ritschel, J. Roden, W. T. Strunz, A. Eisfeld
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 13 113034 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5259
abstract: A master equation, derived from the non-Markovian quantum state diffusion (NMQSD), is used to calculate excitation energy transfer in the photosynthetic Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) pigment-protein complex at various temperatures. This approach allows us to treat spectral densities that contain explicitly the coupling to internal vibrational modes of the chromophores. Moreover, the method is very efficient, with the result that the transfer dynamics can be calculated within about one minute on a standard PC, making systematic investigations w.r.t. parameter variations tractable. After demonstrating that our approach is able to reproduce the results of the numerically exact hierarchical equations of motion (HEOM) approach, we show how the inclusion of vibrational modes influences the transfer.

id: 1106.5275
title: Lower Bounds for Ground States of Condensed Matter Systems
authors: Tillmann Baumgratz, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures, replaced with published version
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 023027 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5275
abstract: Standard variational methods tend to obtain upper bounds on the ground state energy of quantum many-body systems. Here we study a complementary method that determines lower bounds on the ground state energy in a systematic fashion, scales polynomially in the system size and gives direct access to correlation functions. This is achieved by relaxing the positivity constraint on the density matrix and replacing it by positivity constraints on moment matrices, thus yielding a semi-definite programme. Further, the number of free parameters in the optimization problem can be reduced dramatically under the assumption of translational invariance. A novel numerical approach, principally a combination of a projected gradient algorithm with Dykstra's algorithm, for solving the optimization problem in a memory-efficient manner is presented and a proof of convergence for this iterative method is given. Numerical experiments that determine lower bounds on the ground state energies for the Ising and Heisenberg Hamiltonians confirm that the approach can be applied to large systems, especially under the assumption of translational invariance.

id: 1106.5281
title: Angular correlations in the two--photon decay of helium--like heavy ions
authors: A.Surzhykov, A.Volotka, F.Fratini, J.P.Santos, P.Indelicato, G.Plunien, Th.St?hlker, S.Fritzsche
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 81, 042510 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5281
abstract: The two-photon decay of heavy, helium-like ions is investigated based on second-order perturbation theory and Dirac's relativistic equation. Special attention has been paid to the angular emission of the two photons, i.e., how the angular correlation function depends on the shell structure of the ions in their initial and final states. Moreover, the effects from the (electric and magnetic) non-dipole terms in the expansion of the electron-photon interaction are discussed. Detailed calculations have been carried out for the two-photon decay of the $1s2s \, ^1S_0$, $1s2s \, ^3S_1$ and $1s2p \, ^3P_0$ states of helium-like xenon Xe$^{52+}$, gold Au$^{77+}$ and uranium U$^{90+}$ ions.

id: 1106.5318
title: Security problem on arbitrated quantum signature schemes
authors: Jeong Woon Choi, Ku-Young Chang, Dowon Hong
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5318
abstract: Until now, there have been developed many arbitrated quantum signature schemes implemented with a help of a trusted third party. In order to guarantee the unconditional security, most of them take advantage of the optimal quantum one-time encryption method based on Pauli operators. However, we in this paper point out that the previous schemes only provides a security against total break and actually show that there exists a simple existential forgery attack to validly modify the transmitted pair of message and signature. In addition, we also provide a simple method to recover the security against the proposed attack.

id: 1106.5330
title: Statistical distribution of the local purity in a large quantum system
authors: A. De Pasquale, P. Facchi, V. Giovannetti, G. Parisi, S. Pascazio, A. Scardicchio
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 015308
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5330
abstract: The local purity of large many-body quantum systems can be studied by following a statistical mechanical approach based on a random matrix model. Restricting the analysis to the case of global pure states, this method proved to be successful and a full characterization of the statistical properties of the local purity was obtained by computing the partition function of the problem. Here we generalize these techniques to the case of global mixed states. Since the computation of the partition function is far more challenging than in the pure case, we focus on the computation of the first moments of the local purity. Finally, we establish a connection with the theory of twirling maps in quantum channels.

id: 1106.5376
title: Resonant Population Transfer in the Time-Dependent Quantum Elliptical Billiard
authors: F. Lenz, B. Liebchen, F.K. Diakonos, P. Schmelcher
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 103019 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5376
abstract: We analyze the quantum dynamics of the time-dependent elliptical billiard using the example of a certain breathing mode. A numerical method for the time-propagation of an arbitrary initial state is developed, based on a series of transformations thereby removing the time-dependence of the boundary conditions. The time-evolution of the energies of different initial states is studied. The maximal and minimal energy that is reached during the time-evolution shows a series of resonances as a function of the applied driving frequency. At these resonances, higher (or lower) lying states are periodically populated, leading to the observed change in energy. The resonances occur when the driving frequency or a multiple of it matches exactly the mean energetic difference between the two involved states. This picture is confirmed by a few-level Rabi-like model with periodic couplings, reproducing the key results of our numerical study.

id: 1106.5394
title: Optomechanical transducers for quantum information processing
authors: K. Stannigel, P. Rabl, A. S. S?rensen, M. D. Lukin, P. Zoller
comments: 26 pages, 8 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042341 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5394
abstract: We discuss the implementation of optical quantum networks where the interface between stationary and photonic qubits is realized by optomechanical transducers [K. Stannigel et al., PRL 105, 220501 (2010)]. This approach does not rely on the optical properties of the qubit and thereby enables optical quantum communication applications for a wide range of solid-state spin- and charge-based systems. We present an effective description of such networks for many qubits and give a derivation of a state transfer protocol for long-distance quantum communication. We also describe how to mediate local on-chip interactions by means of the optomechanical transducers that can be used for entangling gates. We finally discuss experimental systems for the realization of our proposal.

id: 1106.5398
title: The biaxial nonlinear crystal BiB3O6 as a polarization entangled photon source using non-collinear type-II parametric down-conversion
authors: A. Halevy, E. Megidish, L. Dovrat, H.S. Eisenberg, P. Becker, L. Bohat?
comments: 15 pages, 13 figures, published version
journal: Opt. Express 19, 20420 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5398
abstract: We describe the full characterization of the biaxial nonlinear crystal BiB3O6 (BiBO) as a polarization entangled photon source using non-collinear type-II parametric down-conversion. We consider the relevant parameters for crystal design, such as cutting angles, polarization of the photons, effective nonlinearity, spatial and temporal walk-offs, crystal thickness and the effect of the pump laser bandwidth. Experimental results showing entanglement generation with high rates and a comparison to the well investigated beta-BaB2O4 (BBO) crystal are presented as well. Changing the down-conversion crystal of a polarization entangled photon source from BBO to BiBO enhances the generation rate as if the pump power was increased by more than three times. Such an improvement is currently required for the generation of multiphoton entangled states.

id: 1106.5415
title: Non-equilibrium entangled steady state of two independent two-level systems
authors: S. Camalet
comments: 
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 84 467 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5415
abstract: We determine and study the steady state of two independent two-level systems weakly coupled to a stationary non-equilibrium environment. Whereas this bipartite state is necessarily uncorrelated if the splitting energies of the two-level systems are different from each other, it can be entangled if they are equal. For identical two-level systems interacting with two bosonic heat baths at different temperatures, we discuss the influence of the baths temperatures and coupling parameters on their entanglement. Geometric properties, such as the baths dimensionalities and the distance between the two-level systems, are relevant. A regime is found where the steady state is a statistical mixture of the product ground state and of the entangled singlet state with respective weights 2/3 and 1/3.

id: 1106.5447
title: The role of environmental correlations in the non-Markovian dynamics of a spin system
authors: Salvatore Lorenzo, Francesco Plastina, Mauro Paternostro
comments: 9 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032124 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5447
abstract: We put forward a framework to study the dynamics of a chain of interacting quantum particles affected by individual or collective multi-mode environment, focussing on the role played by the environmental quantum correlations over the evolution of the chain. The presence of entanglement in the state of the environmental system magnifies the non-Markovian nature of the chain's dynamics, giving rise to structures in figures of merit such as entanglement and purity that are not observed under a separable multi-mode environment. Our analysis can be relevant to problems tackling the open-system dynamics of biological complexes of strong current interest.

id: 1106.5458
title: Maximum Likelihood, Minimum Effort
authors: John A. Smolin, Jay M. Gambetta, Graeme Smith
comments: 4 pages, 5 pdf figures. Replaced with corrections and expanded figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 070502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5458
abstract: We provide an efficient method for computing the maximum likelihood mixed quantum state (with density matrix rho) given a set of measurement outcome in a complete orthonormal operator basis subject to Gaussian noise. Our method works by first changing basis yielding a candidate density matrix mu which may have nonphysical (negative) eigenvalues, and then finding the nearest physical state under the 2-norm. Our algorithm takes at worst O(d^4) for the basis change plus O(d^3) for finding rho where d is the dimension of the quantum state. In the special case where the measurement basis is strings of Pauli operators, the basis change takes only O(d^3) as well. The workhorse of the algorithm is a new linear-time method for finding the closest probability distribution (in Euclidean distance) to a set of real numbers summing to one.

id: 1106.5468
title: Quantum Blobs
authors: Maurice A. de Gosson
comments: Prepublication. Dedicated to Basil Hiley
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Symplectic Geometry (math.SG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5468
abstract: Quantum blobs are the smallest phase space units of phase space compatible with the uncertainty principle of quantum mechanics and having the symplectic group as group of symmetries. Quantum blobs are in a bijective correspondence with the squeezed coherent states from standard quantum mechanics, of which they are a phase space picture. This allows us to propose a substitute for phase space in quantum mechanics. We study the relationship between quantum blobs with a certain class of level sets defined by Fermi for the purpose of representing geometrically quantum states.

id: 1106.5654
title: Decoherence in an exactly solvable qubit model with initial qubit-environment correlations
authors: V. G. Morozov, S. Mathey, G. R?pke
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5654
abstract: We study a model of dephasing (decoherence) in a two-state quantum system (qubit) coupled to a bath of harmonic oscillators. An exact analytic solution for the reduced dynamics of a two-state system in this model has been obtained previously for factorizing initial states of the combined system. We show that the model admits exact solutions for a large class of correlated initial states which are typical in the theory of quantum measurements. We derive exact expressions for the off-diagonal elements of the qubit density matrix, which hold for an arbitrary strength of coupling between the qubit and the bath. The influence of initial correlations on decoherence is considered for different bath spectral densities. Time behavior of the qubit entropy in the decoherence process is discussed.

id: 1106.5664
title: Examining the dimensionality of genuine multipartite entanglement
authors: Christoph Spengler, Marcus Huber, Andreas Gabriel, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, v3 as published; Quantum Information Processing (2012)
journal: Quantum Inf. Process. 12, 269 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5664
abstract: Entanglement in high-dimensional many-body systems plays an increasingly vital role in the foundations and applications of quantum physics. In the present paper, we introduce a theoretical concept which allows to categorize multipartite states by the number of degrees of freedom being entangled. In this regard, we derive computable and experimentally friendly criteria for arbitrary multipartite qudit systems that enable to examine in how many degrees of freedom a mixed state is genuine multipartite entangled.

id: 1106.5669
title: Predissociation of Diatomic Molecules: An Analytically Solvable Model
authors: Aniruddha Chakraborty
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5669
abstract: A model consisting of a Harmonic Oscillator well and a linear potential, coupled by Dirac delta function, is solved. We find the exact analytical expressions for Green's function for this problem. This Green's functions are used to calculate the Raman excitation profile and electronic absorption spectrum.

id: 1106.5676
title: Coherent control and suppressed nuclear feedback of a single quantum dot hole qubit
authors: Kristiaan De Greve, Peter L. McMahon, David Press, Thaddeus D. Ladd, Dirk Bisping, Christian Schneider, Martin Kamp, Lukas Worschech, Sven Hoefling, Alfred Forchel, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; Supporting online material is attached at the end of the main paper and contains 7 figures
journal: Nature Phys. 7, 872-878 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5676
abstract: Future communication and computation technologies that exploit quantum information require robust and well-isolated qubits. Electron spins in III-V semiconductor quantum dots, while promising candidates, see their dynamics limited by undesirable hysteresis and decohering effects of the nuclear spin bath. Replacing electrons with holes should suppress the hyperfine interaction and consequently eliminate strong nuclear effects. Using picosecond optical pulses, we demonstrate coherent control of a single hole qubit and examine both free-induction and spin-echo decay. In moving from electrons to holes, we observe significantly reduced hyperfine interactions, evidenced by the reemergence of hysteresis-free dynamics, while obtaining similar coherence times, limited by non-nuclear mechanisms. These results demonstrate the potential of optically controlled, quantum dot hole qubits.

id: 1106.5707
title: Metric deformation and boundary value problems in 2D
authors: Subhasis Panda, Tapomoy Guha Sarkar, S Pratik Khastgir
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures, 1 table. (New figures showing the wave functions and energy levels added. Formalism applied to both Dirichlet and Neumann boundary conditions)
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 127 (2012) 57
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5707
abstract: A new analytical formulation is prescribed to solve the Helmholtz equation in 2D with arbitrary boundary. A suitable diffeomorphism is used to annul the asymmetries in the boundary by mapping it into an equivalent circle. This results in a modification of the metric in the interior of the region and manifests itself in the appearance of new source terms in the original homogeneous equation. The modified equation is then solved perturbatively. At each order the general solution is written in a closed form irrespective of boundary conditions. This method allows one to retain the simple form of the boundary condition at the cost of complicating the original equation. When compared with numerical results the formulation is seen to work reasonably well even for boundaries with large deviations from a circle. The Fourier representation of the boundary ensures the convergence of the perturbation series.

id: 1106.5712
title: Quantum Computing and Quantum Simulation with Group-II Atoms
authors: Andrew J. Daley
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, review for special issue of "Quantum Information Processing" on "Quantum Information with Neutral Particles"
journal: Quantum Information Processing 10, 865-884 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5712
abstract: Recent experimental progress in controlling neutral group-II atoms for optical clocks, and in the production of degenerate gases with group-II atoms has given rise to novel opportunities to address challenges in quantum computing and quantum simulation. In these systems, it is possible to encode qubits in nuclear spin states, which are decoupled from the electronic state in the $^1$S$_0$ ground state and the long-lived $^3$P$_0$ metastable state on the clock transition. This leads to quantum computing scenarios where qubits are stored in long lived nuclear spin states, while electronic states can be accessed independently, for cooling of the atoms, as well as manipulation and readout of the qubits. The high nuclear spin in some fermionic isotopes also offers opportunities for the encoding of multiple qubits on a single atom, as well as providing an opportunity for studying many-body physics in systems with a high spin symmetry. Here we review recent experimental and theoretical progress in these areas, and summarise the advantages and challenges for quantum computing and quantum simulation with group-II atoms.

id: 1106.5713
title: Two-particle bosonic-fermionic quantum walk via 3D integrated photonics
authors: Linda Sansoni, Fabio Sciarrino, Giuseppe Vallone, Paolo Mataloni, Andrea Crespi, Roberta Ramponi, Roberto Osellame
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures + supplementary information
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 010502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5713
abstract: Quantum walk represents one of the most promising resources for the simulation of physical quantum systems, and has also emerged as an alternative to the standard circuit model for quantum computing. Up to now the experimental implementations have been restricted to single particle quantum walk, while very recently the quantum walks of two identical photons have been reported. Here, for the first time, we investigate how the particle statistics, either bosonic or fermionic, influences a two-particle discrete quantum walk. Such experiment has been realized by adopting two-photon entangled states and integrated photonic circuits. The polarization entanglement was exploited to simulate the bunching-antibunching feature of non interacting bosons and fermions. To this scope a novel three-dimensional geometry for the waveguide circuit is introduced, which allows accurate polarization independent behaviour, maintaining a remarkable control on both phase and balancement.

id: 1106.5717
title: Finite-temperature nonlinear dynamics in cavity QED: A Thermofield Dynamics Approach
authors: D.U.Matrasulov, T.Ruzmetov, D.M.Otajanov, P.K.Khabibullaev, A.A.Saidov, F.C.Khanna
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A 373 (2009) 238-242
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5717
abstract: Heath-bath effects in the dynamics of atom + cavity system are studied. The temperature effects are explored using thermofield dynamics formalism. It is found that the dynamics of the system is sensitive to small changes in the temperature and the thermal effects lead to increasing instabilities by causing transitions from regular to chaotic motion.

id: 1106.5738
title: All-optical switching of photonic entanglement
authors: Matthew A. Hall, Joseph B. Altepeter, Prem Kumar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5738
abstract: Future quantum optical networks will require the ability to route entangled photons at high speeds, with minimal loss and added in-band noise, and---most importantly---without disturbing the photons' quantum state. Here we present an all-optical switch which fulfills these requirements and characterize its performance at the single photon level. It exhibits a 200-ps switching window, 120:1 contrast, 1.5-dB loss, and induces no measurable degradation in the switched photons' entangled-state fidelity (< 0.002). As a proof-of-principle demonstration of its capability, we use the switch to demultiplex a single quantum channel from a dual-channel, time-division-multiplexed entangled photon stream. Furthermore, because this type of switch couples the temporal and spatial degrees of freedom, it provides an important new tool with which to encode multiple-qubit quantum states on a single photon.

id: 1106.5752
title: Quantum Brownian motion of multipartite systems and their entanglement dynamics
authors: C. H. Fleming, Albert Roura, B. L. Hu
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5752
abstract: We solve the model of N quantum Brownian oscillators linearly coupled to an environment of quantum oscillators at finite temperature, with no extra assumptions about the structure of the system-environment coupling. Using a compact phase-space formalism, we give a rather quick and direct derivation of the master equation and its solutions for general spectral functions and arbitrary temperatures. Since our framework is intrinsically nonperturbative, we are able to analyze the entanglement dynamics of two oscillators coupled to a common scalar field in previously unexplored regimes, such as off resonance and strong coupling.

id: 1106.5756
title: Multipartite entanglement detection from correlation tensors
authors: Julio I. de Vicente, Marcus Huber
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures; references added; replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062306 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5756
abstract: We introduce a general framework for detecting genuine multipartite entanglement and non full-separability in multipartite quantum systems of arbitrary dimensions based on correlation tensors. Regarding genuine multipartite entanglement our conditions are comparable to previous approaches in the case of qubits while they show particular strength in the relatively unexplored case of higher dimensional systems. In the case of non-full separability our conditions prove to be advantageous in situations where more than two-body correlations are relevant, where most previous conditions turned out to be weak. Moreover, they allow for the detection of fully bound entangled states. Finally, we also discuss experimentally-friendly ways of implementing our conditions, which are based on directly measurable quantities.

id: 1106.5873
title: Gate Fidelities, Quantum Broadcasting, and Assessing Experimental Realization
authors: Hyang-Tag Lim, Young-Sik Ra, Yong-Su Kim, Yoon-Ho Kim, Joonwoo Bae
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5873
abstract: We relate gate fidelities of experimentally realized quantum operations to the broadcasting property of their ideal operations, and show that the more parties a given quantum operation can broadcast to, the higher gate fidelities of its experimental realization are in general. This is shown by establishing the correspondence between two operational quantities, quantum state shareability and quantum broadcasting. This suggests that, to assess an experimental realization using gate fidelities, the worst case of realization such as noisy operations should be taken into account and then compared to obtained gate fidelities. In addition, based on the correspondence, we also translate results in quantum state shareability to their counterparts in quantum operations.

id: 1106.5875
title: Hamiltonian complexity
authors: Tobias J. Osborne
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5875
abstract: In recent years we've seen the birth of a new field known as hamiltonian complexity lying at the crossroads between computer science and theoretical physics. Hamiltonian complexity is directly concerned with the question: how hard is it to simulate a physical system? Here I review the foundational results, guiding problems, and future directions of this emergent field.

id: 1106.5883
title: Minimum-error discrimination between two sets of similarity-transformed quantum states
authors: M. A. Jafarizadeh, Y. Mazhari Khiavi, Y. Akbari Kourbolagh
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5883
abstract: Using the necessary and su?cient conditions, minimum error discrimination among two sets of similarity transformed equiprobable quantum qudit states is investigated. In the case that the unitary operators are generating sets of two irreducible repre- sentations, the optimal set of measurements and the corresponding maximum success probability of discrimination are determined in closed form. In the case of reducible representations, there exists no closed-form formula in general, but the procedure can be applied in each case accordingly. Finally, we give the maximum success probability of optimal discrimination for some important examples of mixed quantum states, such as qubit states together with three special cases and generalized Bloch sphere m-qubit states.

id: 1106.5905
title: Novel Bound States Treatment of the Two Dimensional Schrodinger Equation with Pseudocentral Plus Multiparameter Noncentral Potential
authors: Metin Aktas
comments: Published, 16 pages
journal: J. Math. Chem.49:1831-1842, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5905
abstract: By converting the rectangular basis potential V(x,y) into the form as V(r)+V(r, phi) described by the pseudo central plus noncentral potential, particular solutions of the two dimensional Schrodinger equation in plane-polar coordinates have been carried out through the analytic approaching technique of the Nikiforov and Uvarov (NUT). Both the exact bound state energy spectra and the corresponding bound state wavefunctions of the complete system are determined explicitly and in closed forms. Our presented results are identical to those of the previous works and they may also be useful for investigation and analysis of structural characteristics in a variety of quantum systems

id: 1106.5963
title: Mapping the local density of optical states of a photonic crystal with single quantum dots
authors: Qin Wang, S?ren Stobbe, Peter Lodahl
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5963
abstract: We use single self-assembled InGaAs quantum dots as internal probes to map the local density of optical states of photonic crystal membranes. The employed technique separates contributions from non-radiative recombination and spin-flip processes by properly accounting for the role of the exciton fine structure. We observe inhibition factors as high as 55 and compare our results to local density of optical states calculations available from the literature, thereby establishing a quantitative understanding of photon emission in photonic crystal membranes.

id: 1106.5966
title: Extension of Berezin-Lieb Inequalities
authors: John R. Klauder, Bo-Sture K. Skagerstam
comments: 18 pages, contribution to a volume edited by J.J. Benedetto, The Norbert Wiener Center for Harmonic Analysis and Applications, University of Maryland
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5966
abstract: The Berezin-Lieb inequalities provide upper and lower bounds for a partition function based on phase space integrals that involve the Glauber-Sudarshan and Husimi representations, respectively. Generalizations of these representations have recently been introduced by the present authors, and in this article, we extend the use of these new representations to develop numerous analogs of the Berezin-Lieb inequalities that may offer improved bounds. Several examples illustrate the use of the new inequalities. Although motivated by problems in quantum mechanics, these results may also find applications in time-frequency analysis, a valuable cross fertilization that has been profitably used at various times in the past.

id: 1106.5970
title: Generation of modal and path-entangled photons using a domain-engineered integrated optical waveguide device
authors: Jasleen Lugani, Sankalpa Ghosh, K. Thyagarajan
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physical Review A 83, 062333 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5970
abstract: Integrated optical devices are expected to play a promising role in the field of quantum information science and technology. In this paper, we propose a scheme for the generation of nondegenerate, copolarised, modal, and path- entangled photons using a directional coupler and an asymmetric Y-coupler geometry in type 0 phase-matched domain engineered lithium niobate(LN) waveguide. The nonlinearity in LN is tailored in such a way that quasi phase matching conditions for two different spontaneous parametric down conversion processes are obeyed simultaneously, leading to a modal and path-entangled state at the output. Assuming typical values of various parameters, we show, through numerical simulations, that an almost maximally entangled state is achievable over a wide range of waveguide parameters. For the degenerate case, the scheme gives a NOON state for N = 2. The generated entangled photon pairs should have potential applications in quantum information schemes and also in quantum metrology. By appropriate domain engineering and component designing, the idea can be further extended to generate hyperentangled and two-photon multipath-entangled states, which may have further applications in quantum computation protocols.

id: 1106.5994
title: An explanation of interference effects in the double slit experiment: Classical trajectories plus ballistic diffusion caused by zero-point fluctuations
authors: Gerhard Groessing, Siegfried Fussy, Johannes Mesa Pascasio, Herbert Schwabl
comments: 26 pages, 6 figures; accepted version to be published in Annals of Physics (2012)
journal: Ann. Phys. 327, 2 (2012), 421-437
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5994
abstract: A classical explanation of interference effects in the double slit experiment is proposed. We claim that for every single "particle" a thermal context can be defined, which reflects its embedding within boundary conditions as given by the totality of arrangements in an experimental apparatus. To account for this context, we introduce a "path excitation field", which derives from the thermodynamics of the zero-point vacuum and which represents all possible paths a "particle" can take via thermal path fluctuations. The intensity distribution on a screen behind a double slit is calculated, as well as the corresponding trajectories and the probability density current. The trajectories are shown to obey a "no crossing" rule with respect to the central line, i.e., between the two slits and orthogonal to their connecting line. This agrees with the Bohmian interpretation, but appears here without the necessity of invoking the quantum potential.

id: 1106.5999
title: Decoherence of a quantum gyroscope
authors: Olivier Landon-Cardinal, Richard MacKenzie
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022333 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5999
abstract: We study the behavior of a quantum gyroscope, that is, a quantum system which singles out a direction in space in order to measure certain properties of incoming particles such as the orientation of their spins. We show that repeated Heisenberg interactions of the gyroscope with several incoming spin-1/2 particles provides a simple model of decoherence which exhibits both relaxation and dephasing. Focusing on the semiclassical limit, we derive equations of motion for the evolution of a coherent state and investigate the evolution of a superposition of such states. While a coherent state evolves on a timescale given by the classical ratio of the angular momentum of the gyroscope to that of the incoming particles, dephasing acts on a much shorter timescale that depends only on the angular difference of the states in the superposition.

id: 1106.6026
title: Topological Order at Non-zero Temperature
authors: M. B. Hastings
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure; added appendix describing toy example and also showing triviality of three dimensional toric code at T>0
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 210501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6026
abstract: We propose a definition for topological order at nonzero temperature in analogy to the usual zero temperature definition that a state is topologically ordered, or "nontrivial", if it cannot be transformed into a product state (or a state close to a product state) using a local (or approximately local) quantum circuit. We prove that any two dimensional Hamiltonian which is a sum of commuting local terms is not topologically ordered at $T>0$. We show that such trivial states cannot be used to store quantum information using certain stringlike operators. This definition is not too restrictive, however, as the four dimensional toric code does have a nontrivial phase at nonzero temperature.

id: 1106.6034
title: Integrability in time-dependent systems with one degree of freedom
authors: R. M. Angelo, E. I. Duzzioni, A. D. Ribeiro
comments: extended version; title changed; 10 pages; 4 figures; accepted in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 055101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6034
abstract: The notion of integrability is discussed for classical nonautonomous systems with one degree of freedom. The analysis is focused on models which are linearly spanned by finite Lie algebras. By constructing the autonomous extension of the time-dependent Hamiltonian we prove the existence of two invariants in involution which are shown to obey the criterion of functional independence. The implication of this result is that chaotic motion cannot exist in these systems. In addition, if the invariant manifold is compact, then the system is Liouville integrable. As an application, we discuss regimes of integrability in models of dynamical tunneling and parametric resonance, and in the dynamics of two-level systems under generic classical fields. A corresponding quantum algebraic structure is shown to exist which satisfies analog conditions of Liouville integrability and reproduces the classical dynamics in an appropriate limit within the Weyl-Wigner formalism. The quantum analog is then conjectured to be integrable as well.

id: 1106.6095
title: All Entangled Quantum States Are Nonlocal
authors: Francesco Buscemi
comments: 4+2 pages. Final version published in PRL. The related APS Physics Viewpoint can be found at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 200401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6095
abstract: Departing from the usual paradigm of local operations and classical communication adopted in entanglement theory, here we study the interconversion of quantum states by means of local operations and shared randomness. A set of necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of such a transformation between two given quantum states is given in terms of the payoff they yield in a suitable class of nonlocal games. It is shown that, as a consequence of our result, such a class of nonlocal games is able to witness quantum entanglement, however weak, and reveal nonlocality in any entangled quantum state. An example illustrating this fact is provided.

id: 1106.6105
title: Classification of general n-qubit states under stochastic local operations and classical communication in terms of the rank of coefficient matrix
authors: Xiangrong Li, Dafa Li
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 180502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6105
abstract: We solve the entanglement classification under stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC) for general n-qubit states. For two arbitrary pure n-qubit states connected via local operations, we establish an equation between the two coefficient matrices associated with the states. The rank of the coefficient matrix is preserved under SLOCC and gives rise to a simple way of partitioning all the pure states of n qubits into different families of entanglement classes, as exemplified here. When applied to the symmetric states, this approach reveals that all the Dicke states |l,n> with l=1, ..., [n/2] are inequivalent under SLOCC.

id: 1106.6123
title: Further developments for the auxiliary field method
authors: C. Semay, F. Buisseret, B. Silvestre-Brac
comments: New improved presentation
journal: Journal of Physical Mathematics, Vol. 3 (2011), Article ID P111101, 8 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6123
abstract: The auxiliary field method is a technique to obtain approximate closed formulae for the solutions of both nonrelativistic and semirelativistic eigenequations in quantum mechanics. For a many-body Hamiltonian describing identical particles, it is shown that the approximate eigenvalues can be written as the sum of the kinetic operator evaluated at a mean momentum $p_0$ and of the potential energy computed at a mean distance $r_0$. The quantities $p_0$ and $r_0$ are linked by a simple relation depending on the quantum numbers of the state considered and are determined by an equation which is linked to the generalized virial theorem. The (anti)variational character of the method is discussed, as well as its connection with the perturbation theory. For a nonrelativistic kinematics, general results are obtained for the structure of critical coupling constants for potentials with a finite number of bound states.

id: 1106.6160
title: The Universal Arrow of Time II: Quantum mechanics case
authors: Oleg Kupervasser
comments: 42 pages in Enlish and in Russian
journal: Electronic Journal of Theoretical Physics, Volume 10, Issue 29 (July 2013), p. 39
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6160
abstract: This paper is a natural continuation of our previous paper arXiv:1011.4173 . We illustrated earlier that in classical Hamilton mechanics, for overwhelming majority of real chaotic macroscopic systems, alignment of their thermodynamic time arrows occurs because of their low interaction. This fact and impossibility to observe entropy decrease at introspection explain the second law of thermodynamics. The situation in quantum mechanics is even a little bit easier: all closed systems of finite volume are periodic or nearly periodic. The proof in quantum mechanics is in many respects similar to the proof in classical Hamilton mechanics - it also uses small interaction between subsystems and impossibility to observe entropy decrease at introspection. However, there are special cases which were not found in the classical mechanics. In these cases one microstate corresponds to a set of possible macrostates (more precisely, their quantum superposition). Consideration of this property with use of decoherence theory and taking into account thermodynamic time arrows will introduce new outcomes in quantum mechanics. It allows to resolve basic paradoxes of quantum mechanics: (a) to explain the paradox of wave packet reduction at measurements when an observer is included in the system (introspection) (paradox of the Schrodinger cat); (b) to explain unobservability of superposition of macroscopic states by an external observer in real experiments (paradox of Wigner's friend); (c) to prove full equivalence of multi-world and Copenhagen interpretations of quantum mechanics; (d) to explain deviations from the exponential law at decay of particles and pass from one energy level to another (paradox of a kettle which will never begin to boil).

id: 1106.6170
title: Information-disturbance tradeoff in sending Direction information via antiparallel quantum spin
authors: ShengLi Zhang, XuBo Zou, ChuanFeng Li, ChenHui Jin, GuangCan Guo
comments: 
journal: Journal of Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, 235301 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6170
abstract: For sending unknown direction information, antiparallel spins contains more direction information than parallel spins(Gisin and Popescu, 1999, \textit{Phys. Rev. Lett.} 83, 432).In this paper, the optimal information-disturbance tradeoff bound for antiparallel spins is derived. The quantum measurements which attain the optimal tradeoff bound are obtained. This result can be of practical relevance for posing some general limits on Eve's eavesdropping process. Finally, we also present a comparison between the bound for antiparallel spins and the bound for parallel spins.

id: 1106.6171
title: Quantum superposition principle and generation of ultrashort optical pulses
authors: Gevorg Muradyan, Atom Zh. Muradyan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6171
abstract: We discuss the propagation of laser radiation through a medium of quantum prepared {\Lambda}-type atoms in order to enhance the insight into the physics of QS-PT generator suggested in Phys. Rev. A 80, 035801 (2009). We obtain analytical results which give a qualitatively corerct description of the outcoming series of ultrashort optical pulses and show that for the case of alkali vapor medium QS-PT generation may be implemented under ordinary experimental conditions.

id: 1106.6205
title: Macroscopic Bell States and the Higher-Order Degree of Polarization
authors: Timur Sh. Iskhakov, Ivan N. Agafonov, Maria V. Chekhova, Georgy O. Rytikov, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6205
abstract: We study polarization properties of the macroscopic analogues of two-photon Bell states. The effect of hidden polarization, i.e., polarization in the second (and higher) orders in the intensity is observed for the triplet states while the singlet one is demonstrated to be nearly unpolarized at least up to the fourth order. The arbitrary-order degree of polarization is introduced and applied to the macroscopic Bell states.

id: 1106.6219
title: Rigorous Comparison of Gravimetry Employing Atom Interferometers and the Measurement of Gravitational Time Dilation
authors: C. S. Unnikrishnan, George T. Gillies
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6219
abstract: We present a gravitationally rigorous and clear answer, in the negative, to the question whether gravimetry with atom interferometers is equivalent to the the measurement of the relative gravitational time dilation of two clocks separated in space. Though matter and light waves, quantum states and oscillator clocks are quantum synonymous through the Planck-Einstein-de Broglie relations and the equivalence principle, there are crucial differences in the context of tests of gravitation theories.

id: 1106.6222
title: Relativistic quantum mechanics with trapped ions
authors: L. Lamata, J. Casanova, R. Gerritsma, C. F. Roos, J. J. Garcia-Ripoll, E. Solano
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J.Phys.13:095003,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6222
abstract: We consider the quantum simulation of relativistic quantum mechanics, as described by the Dirac equation and classical potentials, in trapped-ion systems. We concentrate on three problems of growing complexity. First, we study the bidimensional relativistic scattering of single Dirac particles by a linear potential. Furthermore, we explore the case of a Dirac particle in a magnetic field and its topological properties. Finally, we analyze the problem of two Dirac particles that are coupled by a controllable and confining potential. The latter interaction may be useful to study important phenomena as the confinement and asymptotic freedom of quarks.

id: 1106.6255
title: Various correlations in a Heisenberg XXZ spin chain both in thermal equilibrium and under the intrinsic decoherence
authors: Jiang-Tao Cai, Ahmad Abliz, Shu-Shen Li
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6255
abstract: In this paper we discuss various correlations measured by the concurrence (C), classical correlation (CC), quantum discord (QD), and geometric measure of discord (GMD) in a two-qubit Heisenberg XXZ spin chain in the presence of external magnetic field and Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (DM) anisotropic antisymmetric interaction. Based on the analytically derived expressions for the correlations for the cases of thermal equilibrium and the inclusion of intrinsic decoherence, we discuss and compare the effects of various system parameters on the correlations in different cases. The results show that the anisotropy Jz is considerably crucial for the correlations in thermal equilibrium at zero temperature limit but ineffective under the consideration of the intrinsic decoherence, and these quantities decrease as temperature T rises on the whole. Besides, J turned out to be constructive, but B be detrimental in the manipulation and control of various quantities both in thermal equilibrium and under the intrinsic decoherence which can be avoided by tuning other system parameters, while D is constructive in thermal equilibrium, but destructive in the case of intrinsic decoherence in general. In addition, for the initial state $|\Psi_1(0) > = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} (|01 > + |10 >)$, all the correlations except the CC, exhibit a damping oscillation to a stable value larger than zero following the time, while for the initial state $|\Psi_2(0) > = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}} (|00 > + |11 >)$, all the correlations monotonously decrease, but CC still remains maximum. Moreover, there is not a definite ordering of these quantities in thermal equilibrium, whereas there is a descending order of the CC, C, GMD and QD under the intrinsic decoherence with a nonnull B when the initial state is $|\Psi_2(0) >$.

id: 1106.6292
title: Highly Efficient Source for Indistinguishable Photons of Controlled Shape
authors: Peter Nisbet, Jerome Dilley, Axel Kuhn
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6292
abstract: We demonstrate a straightforward implementation of a push-button like single-photon source which is based on a strongly coupled atom-cavity system. The device operates intermittently for periods of up to 100 microseconds, with single-photon repetition rates of 1.0 MHz and an efficiency of 60 %. Atoms are loaded into the cavity using an atomic fountain, with the upper turning point near the cavity's mode centre. This ensures long interaction times without any disturbances induced by trapping potentials. The latter is the key to reaching deterministic efficiencies as high as obtained in probabalistic photon-heralding schemes. The price to pay is the random loading of atoms into the cavity and the resulting intermittency. However, for all practical purposes, this has a negligible impact.

id: 1106.6334
title: A Model for Non-Cancellation of Quantum Electric Field Fluctuations
authors: Victor Parkinson, L. H. Ford
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062102 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6334
abstract: A localized charged particle oscillating near a reflecting boundary is considered as a model for non-cancellation of vacuum fluctuations. Although the mean velocity of the particle is sinusoidal, the velocity variance produced by vacuum fluctuation can either grow or decrease linearly in time, depending upon the product of the oscillation frequency and the distance to the boundary. This amounts to heating or cooling, arising from non-cancellation of electric field fluctuations, which are otherwise anticorrelated in time. Similar non-cancellations arise in quantum field effects iN time-dependent curved spacetimes. We give some estimates of the magnitude of the effect, and discuss its potential observability. We also compare the effects of vacuum fluctuations with the shot noise due to emission of a finite number of photons. We find that the two effects can be comparable in magnitude, but have distinct characteristics, and hence could be distinguished in an experiment.

id: 1106.6347
title: Quantum Algorithms for One-Dimensional Infrastructures
authors: Pradeep Sarvepalli, Pawel Wocjan
comments: LaTeX, 34 pages. Revised the presentation. Minor changes in abstract, introduction, sections 3 and 4
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6347
abstract: Infrastructures are group-like objects that make their appearance in arithmetic geometry in the study of computational problems related to number fields and function fields over finite fields. The most prominent computational tasks of infrastructures are the computation of the circumference of the infrastructure and the generalized discrete logarithms. Both these problems are not known to have efficient classical algorithms for an arbitrary infrastructure. Our main contributions are polynomial time quantum algorithms for one-dimensional infrastructures that satisfy certain conditions. For instance, these conditions are always fulfilled for infrastructures obtained from number fields and function fields, both of unit rank one. Since quadratic number fields give rise to such infrastructures, this algorithm can be used to solve Pell's equation and the principal ideal problem. In this sense we generalize Hallgren's quantum algorithms for quadratic number fields, while also providing a polynomial speedup over them. Our more general approach shows that these quantum algorithms can also be applied to infrastructures obtained from complex cubic and totally complex quartic number fields. Our improved way of analyzing the performance makes it possible to show that these algorithms succeed with constant probability independent of the problem size. In contrast, the lower bound on the success probability due to Hallgren decreases as the fourth power of the logarithm of the circumference. Our analysis also shows that fewer qubits are required. We also contribute to the study of infrastructures, and show how to compute efficiently within infrastructures.

id: 1106.0006
title: Supersolid phase transitions for hardcore bosons on a triangular lattice
authors: Xue-Feng Zhang, Raoul Dillenschneider, Yue Yu, Sebastian Eggert
comments: Accepted version. 6 pages, 5 figures. The latest pdf-file can be found at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 174515 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0006
abstract: Hard-core bosons on a triangular lattice with nearest neighbor repulsion are a prototypical example of a system with supersolid behavior on a lattice. We show that in this model the physical origin of the supersolid phase can be understood quantitatively and analytically by constructing quasiparticle excitations of defects that are moving on an ordered background. The location of the solid to supersolid phase transition line is predicted from the effective model for both positive and negative (frustrated) hopping parameters. For positive hopping parameters the calculations agree very accurately with numerical Quantum Monte Carlo simulations. The numerical results indicate that the supersolid to superfluid transition is first order.

id: 1106.0019
title: Discrete Quantum Processes
authors: Stan Gudder
comments: 29 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0019
abstract: A discrete quantum process is defined as a sequence of local states $\rho_t$, $t=0,1,2,...$, satisfying certain conditions on an $L_2$ Hilbert space $H$. If $\rho =\lim\rho_t$ exists, then $\rho$ is called a global state for the system. In important cases, the global state does not exist and we must then work with the local states. In a natural way, the local states generate a sequence of quantum measures which in turn define a single quantum measure $\mu$ on the algebra of cylinder sets $\cscript$. We consider the problem of extending $\mu$ to other physically relevant sets in a systematic way. To this end we show that $\mu$ can be properly extended to a quantum measure $\mutilde$ on a "quadratic algebra" containing $\cscript$. We also show that a random variable $f$ can be "quantized" to form a self-adjoint operator $\fhat$ on $H$. We then employ $\fhat$ to define a quantum integral $\int fd\mutilde$. Various examples are given

id: 1106.0129
title: Molecular spectroscopy for ground-state transfer of ultracold RbCs molecules
authors: Markus Debatin, Tetsu Takekoshi, Raffael Rameshan, Lukas Reichs?llner, Francesca Ferlaino, Rudolf Grimm, Romain Vexiau, Nadia Bouloufa, Olivier Dulieu, Hanns-Christoph Naegerl
comments: Submitted to PCCP themed issue: Physics and Chemistry of Cold Molecules
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0129
abstract: We perform one- and two-photon high resolution spectroscopy on ultracold samples of RbCs Feshbach molecules with the aim to identify a suitable route for efficient ground-state transfer in the quantum-gas regime to produce quantum gases of dipolar RbCs ground-state molecules. One-photon loss spectroscopy allows us to probe deeply bound rovibrational levels of the mixed excited (A1{\Sigma}+ - b3{\Pi}0) 0+ molecular states. Two-photon dark state spectroscopy connects the initial Feshbach state to the rovibronic ground state. We determine the binding energy of the lowest rovibrational level |v"=0,J"=0> of the X1{\Sigma}+ ground state to be DX 0 = 3811.5755(16) 1/cm, a 300-fold improvement in accuracy with respect to previous data. We are now in the position to perform stimulated two-photon Raman transfer to the rovibronic ground state.

id: 1106.0185
title: Spinless bosons embedded in a vector Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau oscillator
authors: L.B. Castro, A.S. de Castro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0185
abstract: Some properties of minimal and nonminimal vector interactions in the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau (DKP) formalism are discussed. The conservation of the total angular momentum for spherically symmetric nonminimal potentials is derived from its commutation properties with each term of the DKP equation and the proper boundary conditions on the spinors are imposed. It is shown that the space component of the nonminimal vector potential plays a crucial role for the confinement of bosons. The exact solutions for the vector DKP oscillator (nonminimal vector coupling with a linear potential which exhibits an equally spaced energy spectrum in the weak-coupling limit) for spin-0 bosons are presented in a closed form and it is shown that the spectrum exhibits an accidental degeneracy.

id: 1106.0265
title: Coherent strong-field control of multiple states by a single chirped femtosecond laser pulse
authors: M Krug, T Bayer, M Wollenhaupt, C Sarpe-Tudoran, T Baumert, S S Ivanov, N V Vitanov
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 11 105051 (2009)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0265
abstract: We present a joint experimental and theoretical study on strong-field photo-ionization of sodium atoms using chirped femtosecond laser pulses. By tuning the chirp parameter, selectivity among the population in the highly excited states 5p, 6p, 7p and 5f, 6f is achieved. Different excitation pathways enabling control are identified by simultaneous ionization and measurement of photoelectron angular distributions employing the velocity map imaging technique. Free electron wave packets at an energy of around 1 eV are observed. These photoelectrons originate from two channels. The predominant 2+1+1 Resonance Enhanced Multi-Photon Ionization (REMPI) proceeds via the strongly driven two-photon transition $4s\leftarrow\leftarrow3s$, and subsequent ionization from the states 5p, 6p and 7p whereas the second pathway involves 3+1 REMPI via the states 5f and 6f. In addition, electron wave packets from two-photon ionization of the non-resonant transiently populated state 3p are observed close to the ionization threshold. A mainly qualitative five-state model for the predominant excitation channel is studied theoretically to provide insights into the physical mechanisms at play. Our analysis shows that by tuning the chirp parameter the dynamics is effectively controlled by dynamic Stark-shifts and level crossings. In particular, we show that under the experimental conditions the passage through an uncommon three-state "bow-tie" level crossing allows the preparation of coherent superposition states.

id: 1106.0276
title: Full counting statistics of energy fluctuations in a driven quantum resonator
authors: Aashish A. Clerk
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043824 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0276
abstract: We consider the statistics of time-integrated energy fluctuations of a driven bosonic resonator (as measured by a QND detector), using the standard Keldysh prescription to define higher moments. We find that due to an effective cascading of fluctuations, these statistics are surprisingly non-classical: the low-temperature, quantum probability distribution is not equivalent to the high-temperature classical distribution evaluated at some effective temperature. Moreover, for a sufficiently large drive detuning and low temperatures, the Keldysh-ordered quasi-probability distribution characterizing these fluctuations fails to be positive-definite; this is similar to the full counting statistics of charge in superconducting systems. We argue that this indicates a kind of non-classical behaviour akin to that tested by Leggett-Garg inequalities.

id: 1106.0324
title: Global and local condensate and superfluid fraction of a few hard core bosons in a cubic optical lattice plus external harmonic confinement
authors: Asaad R. Sakhel
comments: The tables in the previous withdrawn version (v2) have been corrected and the article updated. This is the final version which has been submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0324
abstract: We explore the global and local condensate and superfluid (SF) fractions in a system of a few hard core (HC) bosons (N=8 and N=40) trapped inside a combined harmonic optical cubic lattice (CHOCL) at T=0 K. The condensate fraction (CF) is computed for individual lattice wells by separating the one-body density matrix (OBDM) of the whole system into components at the various lattice sites. Then each "lattice-site" component is diagonalized to find its eigenvalues. The eigenvalues are obtained by a method presented earlier [Dubois and Glyde, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 63}, 023602 (2001)]. The effects of interference between the condensates in the lattice wells on the CF in one well is also investigated. The SF fraction (SFF) is calculated for N=40 by using the diffusion formula of Pollock and Ceperley [Pollock and Ceperley, Phys. Rev. B {\bf 36}, 8343 (1987)]. Our chief result is an opposing behavior of the global CF and SFF with increasing lattice wave vector $k$. In addition, the CF in a lattice well is enhanced by the interference with its neighbor wells beyond the result when the interference is neglected. The global SF is depleted with a rise of the repulsion between the bosons, yet at very strong interaction superfluidity is still present. The global CF remains almost constant with increasing HC repulsion. A reduction in the lattice dimension, i.e. an increase in the lattice wave vector, increases the local CF in each lattice well, but reduces the corresponding local SFF. At large HC repulsion, a coexisting SF-(vacuum)MI phase is established.

id: 1106.0326
title: Resonantly Enhanced Tunneling and Transport of Ultracold Atoms on Tilted Optical Lattices
authors: Chester P. Rubbo, Salvatore R. Manmana, Brandon M. Peden, Murray J. Holland, Ana Maria Rey
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 033638 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0326
abstract: We investigate the resonantly enhanced tunneling dynamics of ultracold bosons loaded on a tilted 1-D optical lattice, which can be used to simulate a chain of Ising spins and associated quantum phase transitions. The center of mass motion after a sudden tilt both at commensurate and incommensurate fillings is obtained via analytic, time-dependent exact diagonalization and density matrix renormalization group methods (adaptive t-DMRG). We identify a maximum in the amplitude of the center of mass oscillations at the quantum critical point of the effective spin system. For the dynamics of incommensurate systems, which cannot be mapped to a spin model, we develop an analytical approach in which the time evolution is obtained by projecting onto resonant families of small clusters. We compare the results of this approach at low fillings to the exact time evolution and find good agreement even at filling factors as large as 2/3. Using this projection onto small clusters, we propose a controllable transport scheme applicable in the context of Atomtronic devices on optical lattices (`slinky scheme').

id: 1106.0410
title: Density Wave -Supersolid and Mott Insulator-Superfluid transition in presence of an artificial gauge field : a strong coupling perturbation approach
authors: Rashi Sachdeva, Sankalpa Ghosh
comments: 18 latexed two column pages including appendix, 9 .eps figures Figure positioning readjusted and one reference added
journal: Physical Review A 85, 013642 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0410
abstract: We study the effect of an artificial gauge field on the zero temperature phase diagram of extended Bose Hubbard model, that describes ultra cold atoms in optical lattices with long range interaction using strong coupling perturbation theory . We determine analytically the effect of the artificial gauge field on the density wave - supersolid (DW-SS) and the the Mott insulator-superfluid (MI -SF) transition boundary . The momentum distribution at these two transition boundaries is also calculated in this approach. It is shown that such momentum distribution which can be observed in time of flight measurement, reveals the symmetry of the gauge potential through the formation of magnetic Brillouin zone and clearly distinguishes between the DW-SS and MI-SF boundary. We also point out that in symmetric gauge the momentum distribution structure at these transition boundaries bears distinctive signatures of vortices in supersolid and superfluid phases.

id: 1106.0411
title: Quantum-Like Uncertain Conditionals for Text Analysis
authors: Alvaro Francisco Huertas-Rosero, C. J. van Rijsbergen
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures. To be published in the proceedings of Quantum Interaction 2011
journal: 
subjects: Computation and Language (cs.CL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0411
abstract: Simple representations of documents based on the occurrences of terms are ubiquitous in areas like Information Retrieval, and also frequent in Natural Language Processing. In this work we propose a logical-probabilistic approach to the analysis of natural language text based in the concept of Uncertain Conditional, on top of a formulation of lexical measurements inspired in the theoretical concept of ideal quantum measurements. The proposed concept can be used for generating topic-specific representations of text, aiming to match in a simple way the perception of a user with a pre-established idea of what the usage of terms in the text should be. A simple example is developed with two versions of a text in two languages, showing how regularities in the use of terms are detected and easily represented.

id: 1106.0517
title: Experimental and Atomistic Theoretical Study of Degree of Polarization from Multi-layer InAs/GaAs Quantum Dots
authors: Muhammad Usman, Tomoya Inoue, Yukihiro Harda, Gerhard Klimeck, Takashi Kita
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, and 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev B 84, 115321 (2011)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0517
abstract: Recent experimental measurements, without any theoretical guidance, showed that isotropic polarization response can be achieved by increasing the number of QD layers in a QD stack. Here we analyse the polarization response of multi-layer quantum dot stacks containing up to nine quantum dot layers by linearly polarized PL measurements and by carrying out a systematic set of multi-million atom simulations. The atomistic modeling and simulations allow us to include correct symmetry properties in the calculations of the optical spectra: a factor critical to explain the experimental evidence. The values of the degree of polarization (DOP) calculated from our model follows the trends of the experimental data. We also present detailed physical insight by examining strain profiles, band edges diagrams and wave function plots. Multi-directional PL measurements and calculations of the DOP reveal a unique property of InAs quantum dot stacks that the TE response is anisotropic in the plane of the stacks. Therefore a single value of the DOP is not sufficient to fully characterize the polarization response. We explain this anisotropy of the TE-modes by orientation of hole wave functions along the [-110] direction. Our results provide a new insight that isotropic polarization response measured in the experimental PL spectra is due to two factors: (i) TM[001]-mode contributions increase due to enhanced intermixing of HH and LH bands, and (ii) TE[110]-mode contributions reduce significantly due to hole wave function alignment along the [-110] direction. We also present optical spectra for various geometry configurations of quantum dot stacks to provide a guide to experimentalists for the design of multi-layer QD stacks for optical devices. Our results predict that the QD stacks with identical layers will exhibit lower values of the DOP than the stacks with non-identical layers.

id: 1106.0555
title: Microscopic Properties of Quantum Annealing -- Application to Fully Frustrated Ising Systems
authors: Shu Tanaka
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, revised version will appear in proceedings of Kinki University Quantum Computing Series: "Symposium on Quantum Information and Quantum Computing (2011)"
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0555
abstract: In this paper we show quantum fluctuation effect of fully frustrated Ising spin systems. Quantum annealing has been expected to be an efficient method to find ground state of optimization problems. However it is not clear when to use the quantum annealing. In order to clarify when the quantum annealing works well, we have to study microscopic properties of quantum annealing. In fully frustrated Ising spin systems, there are macroscopically degenerated ground states. When we apply quantum annealing to fully frustrated systems, we cannot obtain each ground state with the same probability. This nature is consistent with "order by disorder" which is well-known mechanism in frustrated systems.

id: 1106.0610
title: Comment on : A Proposal to Measure Photon-Photon Scattering
authors: Denis Bernard
comments: 1 page. v2 : corrected misprint in eq. numbering
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0610
abstract: I comment on a recent preprint "A Proposal to Measure Photon-Photon Scattering" that appeared recently as arXiv:1106.0465v1 [hep-ph].

id: 1106.0702
title: Less is Different: Emergence and Reduction Reconciled
authors: Jeremy Butterfield
comments: 75 pp
journal: Foundations of Physics: Volume 41, Issue 6 (2011), Page 1065-1135 (70 pages)
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0702
abstract: This is a companion to another paper. Together they rebut two widespread philosophical doctrines about emergence. The first, and main, doctrine is that emergence is incompatible with reduction. The second is that emergence is supervenience; or more exactly, supervenience without reduction. In the other paper, I develop these rebuttals in general terms, emphasising the second rebuttal. Here I discuss the situation in physics, emphasising the first rebuttal. I focus on limiting relations between theories and illustrate my claims with four examples, each of them a model or a framework for modelling, from well-established mathematics or physics. I take emergence as behaviour that is novel and robust relative to some comparison class. I take reduction as, essentially, deduction. The main idea of my first rebuttal will be to perform the deduction after taking a limit of some parameter. Thus my first main claim will be that in my four examples (and many others), we can deduce a novel and robust behaviour, by taking the limit, N goes to infinity, of a parameter N. But on the other hand, this does not show that that the infinite limit is "physically real", as some authors have alleged. For my second main claim is that in these same examples, there is a weaker, yet still vivid, novel and robust behaviour that occurs before we get to the limit, i.e. for finite N. And it is this weaker behaviour which is physically real. My examples are: the method of arbitrary functions (in probability theory); fractals (in geometry); superselection for infinite systems (in quantum theory); and phase transitions for infinite systems (in statistical mechanics).

id: 1106.0704
title: Emergence, Reduction and Supervenience: a Varied Landscape
authors: Jeremy Butterfield
comments: 43 pp
journal: Foundations of Physics: Volume 41, Issue 6 (2011), Page 920-960 (40 pages)
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0704
abstract: This is one of two papers about emergence, reduction and supervenience. It expounds these notions and analyses the general relations between them. The companion paper analyses the situation in physics, especially limiting relations between physical theories. I shall take emergence as behaviour that is novel and robust relative to some comparison class. I shall take reduction as deduction using appropriate auxiliary definitions. And I shall take supervenience as a weakening of reduction, viz. to allow infinitely long definitions. The overall claim of this paper will be that emergence is logically independent both of reduction and of supervenience. In particular, one can have emergence with reduction, as well as without it; and emergence without supervenience, as well as with it. Of the subsidiary claims, the four main ones (each shared with some other authors) are: (i): I defend the traditional Nagelian conception of reduction (Section 3); (ii): I deny that the multiple realizability argument causes trouble for reductions, or "reductionism" (Section 4); (iii): I stress the collapse of supervenience into deduction via Beth's theorem (Section 5.1); (iv): I adapt some examples already in the literature to show supervenience without emergence and vice versa (Section 5.2).

id: 1106.0734
title: Generating functions for canonical systems of fermions
authors: Jean-Christophe Pain, Franck Gilleron, Quentin Porcherot
comments: submitted to Physical Review E
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0734
abstract: The method proposed by Pratt to derive recursion relations for systems of degenerate fermions [Phys. Rev. Lett. 84, 4255 (2000), arXiv:nucl-th/9905055] relies on diagrammatic techniques. This efficient formalism assumes no explicit two-body interactions, makes possible the inclusion of conservation laws and requires low computational time. In this brief report, we show that such recursion relations can be obtained from generating functions, without any restriction as concerns the number of conservation laws (e.g. total energy or angular momentum).

id: 1106.0739
title: Highly covariant quantum lattice gas model of the Dirac equation
authors: Jeffrey Yepez
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; 66 ABW review on 01 Dec 2010: Ref. No. RVB10.015-198, Case No. 66ABW-2010-1430
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0739
abstract: We revisit the quantum lattice gas model of a spinor quantum field theory-the smallest scale particle dynamics is partitioned into unitary collide and stream operations. The construction is covariant (on all scales down to a small length {\ell} and small time {\tau} = c {\ell}) with respect to Lorentz transformations. The mass m and momentum p of the modeled Dirac particle depend on {\ell} according to newfound relations m = mo cos (2{\pi}{\ell}/{\lambda}) and p = (h/2{\pi}{\ell}) sin(2{\pi}{\ell}/{\lambda}), respectively, where {\lambda} is the Compton wavelength of the modeled particle. These relations represent departures from a relativistically invariant mass and the de Broglie relation-when taken as quantifying numerical errors the model is physically accurate when {\ell} {\ll} {\lambda}. Calculating the vacuum energy in the special case of a massless spinor field, we find that it vanishes (or can have a small positive value) for a sufficiently large wave number cutoff. This is a marked departure from the usual behavior of such a massless field.

id: 1106.0801
title: Dynamical critical exponent of the Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard model
authors: M. Hohenadler, M. Aichhorn, S. Schmidt, L. Pollet
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. To appear as a Rapid Communication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 041608(R) (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0801
abstract: An array of high-Q electromagnetic resonators coupled to qubits gives rise to the Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard model describing a superfluid to Mott insulator transition of lattice polaritons. From mean-field and strong coupling expansions, the critical properties of the model are expected to be identical to the scalar Bose-Hubbard model. A recent Monte Carlo study of the superfluid density on the square lattice suggested that this does not hold for the fixed-density transition through the Mott lobe tip. Instead, mean-field behavior with a dynamical critical exponent z=2 was found. We perform large-scale quantum Monte Carlo simulations to investigate the critical behavior of the superfluid density and the compressibility. We find z=1 at the tip of the insulating lobe. Hence the transition falls in the 3D XY universality class, analogous to the Bose-Hubbard model.

id: 1106.0802
title: Tunneling Time of Bose-Einstein Condensates on Real Time Stochastic Approach
authors: K.Kobayashi, M.Inoue, Y.Nakamura, K.Honda, Y.Yamanaka
comments: 8 page, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0802
abstract: We study tunneling processes of Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) on the real time stochastic approach and reveal some properties of their tunneling time. An important result is that the tunneling time decreases as the repulsive interatomic interaction becomes stronger. Furthermore, the tunneling time in a strong interaction region is not much affected by the potential height and is represented by an almost constant function. We also obtain the other related times such as the hesitating and interaction ones and investigate their dependence on the interaction strength. Finally, we calculate the mean arrival time of BEC wave packet and show the large displacement of its peak position.

id: 1106.0829
title: Relaxation and frequency shifts induced by quasiparticles in superconducting qubits
authors: G. Catelani, R. J. Schoelkopf, M. H. Devoret, L. I. Glazman
comments: 25 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 064517 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0829
abstract: As low-loss non-linear elements, Josephson junctions are the building blocks of superconducting qubits. The interaction of the qubit degree of freedom with the quasiparticles tunneling through the junction represent an intrinsic relaxation mechanism. We develop a general theory for the qubit decay rate induced by quasiparticles, and we study its dependence on the magnetic flux used to tune the qubit properties in devices such as the phase and flux qubits, the split transmon, and the fluxonium. Our estimates for the decay rate apply to both thermal equilibrium and non-equilibrium quasiparticles. We propose measuring the rate in a split transmon to obtain information on the possible non-equilibrium quasiparticle distribution. We also derive expressions for the shift in qubit frequency in the presence of quasiparticles.

id: 1106.0901
title: Quantum entanglement and quantum phase transition in the XY model with staggered Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction
authors: Fu-Wu Ma, Xiang-Mu Kong
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review A 84, 042302 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0901
abstract: We study the quantum entanglement and quantum phase transition (QPT) of the anisotropic spin-1/2 XY model with staggered Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (DM) interaction by means of quantum renormalization group method. The scaling of coupling constants and the critical points of the system are obtained. It is found that when the number of renormalization group iterations tends to infinity, the system exhibit a QPT between the spin-fluid and N\'eel phases which corresponds with two saturated values of the concurrence for a given value of the strength of DM interaction. The DM interaction can enhance the entanglement and influence the QPT of the system. To gain further insight, the first derivative of the entanglement exhibit a nonanalytic behavior at the critical point and it directly associates with the divergence of the correlation length. This shows that the correlation length exponent is closely related to the critical exponent, i.e., the scaling behaviors of the system.

id: 1106.0916
title: Discarded weight and entanglement spectra in the Numerical Renormalization Group
authors: Andreas Weichselbaum
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 125130 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0916
abstract: A quantitative criterion to prove and analyze convergence within the numerical renormalization group (NRG) is introduced. By tracing out a few further NRG shells, the resulting reduced density matrices carry relevant information on numerical accuracy as well as entanglement. Their spectra can thus be analyzed twofold. The smallest eigenvalues provide a sensitive estimate of how much weight is discarded in the low energy description of later iterations. As such, the discarded weight is a clear indicator of the accuracy of a specific NRG calculation. In particular, it indicates in a site-specific manner whether sufficiently many states have been kept within a single NRG run. The largest eigenvalues of the reduced density matrices, on the other hand, lend themselves to a straightforward analysis in terms of entanglement spectra, which can be combined into entanglement flow diagrams. The latter show strong similarities with the well-known standard energy flow diagram of the NRG, supporting the prevalent usage of entanglement spectra to characterize different physical regimes.

id: 1106.1048
title: Static spectroscopy of a dense superfluid
authors: Sophie Villerot, Bernard Castaing, Laurent Chevillard
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, extended version, published in J. Low Temp. Phys
journal: J. Low Temp. Phys. 169, 1 (2012)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1048
abstract: Dense Bose superfluids, as HeII, differ from dilute ones by the existence of a roton minimum in their excitation spectrum. It is known that this roton minimum is qualitatively responsible for density oscillations close to any singularity, such as vortex cores, or close to solid boundaries. We show that the period of these oscillations, and their exponential decrease with the distance to the singularity, are fully determined by the position and the width of the roton minimum. Only an overall amplitude factor and a phase shift are shown to depend on the details of the interaction potential. Reciprocally, it allows for determining the characteristics of this roton minimum from static "observations" of a disturbed ground state, in cases where the dynamics is not easily accessible. We focus on the vortex example. Our analysis further shows why the energy of these oscillations is negligible compared to the kinetic energy, which limits their influence on the vortex dynamics, except for high curvatures.

id: 1106.1083
title: The su(2)_¦Á Hahn oscillator and a discrete Hahn-Fourier transform
authors: E.I. Jafarov, N.I. Stoilova, J. Van der Jeugt
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 355205 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1083
abstract: We define the quadratic algebra su(2)_{\alpha} which is a one-parameter deformation of the Lie algebra su(2) extended by a parity operator. The odd-dimensional representations of su(2) (with representation label j, a positive integer) can be extended to representations of su(2)_{\alpha}. We investigate a model of the finite one-dimensional harmonic oscillator based upon this algebra su(2)_{\alpha}. It turns out that in this model the spectrum of the position and momentum operator can be computed explicitly, and that the corresponding (discrete) wavefunctions can be determined in terms of Hahn polynomials. The operation mapping position wavefunctions into momentum wavefunctions is studied, and this so-called discrete Hahn-Fourier transform is computed explicitly. The matrix of this discrete Hahn-Fourier transform has many interesting properties, similar to those of the traditional discrete Fourier transform.

id: 1106.1124
title: In search of continuity: thoughts of an epistemic empiricist
authors: Ian T. Durham
comments: 10 pages, awarded Fourth Prize in the 2011 FQXi Essay contest, "Is Reality Digital or Analog?"
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1124
abstract: Is the universe digital or analog? In this essay I argue that both classical and quantum physics include limits that prevent us from definitively answering that question. That quantum physics does so is no surprise. That classical physics does so is rather unexpected. In fact, I argue that classical physics is itself really nothing more than a convenient approximation. Either way, it turns out that our knowledge of the universe is discrete and so it is extraordinarily difficult, perhaps even impossible, to determine the underlying continuity of the universe itself.

id: 1106.1155
title: Koopmans' theorem in statistical Hartree-Fock theory
authors: Jean-Christophe Pain
comments: submitted to J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1155
abstract: In this short paper, the validity of Koopmans' theorem in the Hartree-Fock theory at non-zero temperature (Hartree-Fock statistical theory) is investigated. It is shown that Koopmans' theorem does not apply in the grand-canonical ensemble, due to a missing contribution to the energy proportional to the interaction between two electrons belonging to the same orbital. Hartree-Fock statistical theory has also been applied in the canonical ensemble [Blenski et al., Phys. Rev. E 55, R4889 (1997)] for the purpose of photo-absorption calculations. In that case, the Hartree-Fock self-consistent-field equations are derived in the super-configuration approximation. It is shown that Koopmans' theorem does not hold in the canonical ensemble, but that a restricted version of the theorem can be obtained, by assuming that a particular quantity multiplying the interaction matrix element in the expression of the energy does not change during the removal of an electron.

id: 1106.1247
title: Exposed faces for decomposable positive linear maps arising from completely positive maps
authors: Hyun-Suk Choi, Seung-Hyeok Kye
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1247
abstract: Let $D$ be a space of $2\times n$ matrices. Then the face of the cone of all completely positive maps from $M_2$ into $M_n$ given by $D$ is an exposed face of the bigger cone of all decomposable positive linear maps if and only if the set of all rank one matrices in $D$ forms a subspace of $D$ together with zero and $D^\perp$ is spanned by rank one matrices.

id: 1106.1272
title: Coupling of polaritons to vibrational modes of ultracold atoms in an optical lattice
authors: Hashem Zoubi, Helmut Ritsch
comments: 5 Pages, 4 Figures
journal: Physica E 42, 416 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1272
abstract: The coupling of internal electronic excitations to vibrational modes of the external motion of ultracold atoms in an optical lattice is studied here in using a perturbation expansion in small atomic displacements. In the Mott insulator case with one atom per site, the resonance dipole-dipole coupling between neighboring sites can induce emission and absorption of vibrational quanta. Within a cavity in the strong exciton-photon coupling regime such coupling results in polariton-vibration interactions, which create a significant thermalization mechanism for polaritons toward their minimum energy, and leading to motional heating of the lattice atoms.

id: 1106.1279
title: Higher-order photon correlations in pulsed photonic crystal nanolasers
authors: David Elvira, Xavier Hachair, V. Verma, Remy Braive, Gregoire Beaudoin, Isabelle Robert-Philip, Isabelle Sagnes, Burm Baek, Sae Woo Nam, Eric A. Dauler, Izo Abram, Martin J. Stevens, Alexios Beveratos
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1279
abstract: We report on the higher-order photon correlations of a high-$\beta$ nanolaser under pulsed excitation at room temperature. Using a multiplexed four-element superconducting single photon detector we measured g$^{(n)}(\vec{0})$ with $n$=2,3,4. All orders of correlation display partially chaotic statistics, even at four times the threshold excitation power. We show that this departure from coherence and Poisson statistics is due to the quantum fluctuations associated with the small number of dipoles and photons involved in the lasing process.

id: 1106.1338
title: Nonlinear properties and stabilities of polaritonic crystals beyond the low-excitation-density limit
authors: E. S. Sedov, A. P. Alodjants, S. M. Arakelian, Y. Y. Lin, R.-K. Lee
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 013813 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1338
abstract: Coherent properties of a two dimensional spatially periodic structure - polaritonic crystal (PolC) formed by trapped two-level atoms in an optical cavity array interacting with a light field, are analyzed. By considering the wave function overlapping both for photonic and atomic states, a cubic-quintic complex nonlinear Schrodinger equation (CNLSE) is derived for the dynamics of coupled atom-light states - wave function of low branch (LB) polaritons, associated with PolC in the continuous limit. The variational approach predicts that a stable ground state wave function of PolC exists but is accompanied by an oscillating width. For a negative scattering length, the wave function collapses in the presence of a small quintic nonlinearity appear due to a three body polariton interaction. Studying non-equilibrium (dissipative) dynamics of polaritons with adiabatic approximation we have shown that the collapse of PolC wave function can be prevented even in the presence of small decaying of a number of polariton particles.

id: 1106.1358
title: Eigenvalue equation for a 1--D Hamilton function in deformation quantization
authors: Jaromir Tosiek
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 376 (2012), 2023-2031
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1358
abstract: The eigenvalue equation has been found for a Hamilton function in a form independent of the choice of a potential. This paper proposes a modified Fedosov construction on a flat symplectic manifold. Necessary and sufficient conditions for solutions of an eigenvalue equation to be Wigner functions of pure states are presented. The 1--D harmonic oscillator eigenvalue equation in the coordinates time and energy is solved. A perturbation theory based on the variables time and energy is elaborated.

id: 1106.1365
title: Walther Bothe and Bruno Rossi: the birth and development of coincidence methods in cosmic-ray physics
authors: Luisa Bonolis
comments: To be published in American Journal of Physics; 50 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1365
abstract: Theoretical and experimental developments in the 1920s that accompanied the birth of coincidence methods, as well as later crucial applications during the 1930s and 1940s are presented. In 1924 Walther Bothe and Hans Geiger applied a coincidence method to the study of Compton scattering with Geiger needle counters. Their experiment confirmed the existence of radiation quanta and established the validity of conservation principles in elementary processes. At the end of the 1920s, Bothe and Werner Kolh\"orster coupled the coincidence technique with the new Geiger-M\"uller counter to study cosmic rays, marking the start of cosmic-ray research as a branch of physics. The coincidence method was further refined by Bruno Rossi, who developed a vacuum-tube device capable of registering the simultaneous occurrence of electrical pulses from any number of counters with a tenfold improvement in time resolution. The electronic coincidence circuit bearing Rossi's name was instrumental in his research on the corpuscular nature and the properties of cosmic radiation during the early 1930s, a period characterized by a lively debate between Millikan and followers of the corpuscular interpretation. The Rossi coincidence circuit was also at the core of the counter-controlled cloud chamber developed by Patrick Blackett and Giuseppe Occhialini, and became one of the important ingredients of particle and nuclear physics. During the late 1930s and 1940s, coincidences, anti-coincidences and delayed coincidences played a crucial role in a series of experiments on the decay of the muon, which inaugurated the current era of particle physics. PACS numbers: 96.50.S-, 84.30.-r, 96.50.S-, 95.85.Ry, 29.40.-n, 13.35.Bv, 45.20.dh, 12.20.-m, 91.25.-r, 29.40.Cs, 13.20.-v, 14.60.Ef, 14.60.Cd, 78.70.Bj, 20.00.00, 95.00.00, 01.60.+q, 01.85.+f, 01.65.+g

id: 1106.1371
title: Decoherence of Coupled Quantum Oscillators: Going Beyond the Caldeira-Leggett Approximation
authors: Bj?rn Bartels
comments: LaTex, 17 pages, 7 figures; abstract changed, minor corrections in section 2, section 4 corrected and supplemented
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1371
abstract: We calculate the reduced density matrix for a system of coupled harmonic oscillators in a bosonic heat bath using the Born-Markov approximation and show that the expectation values of position and momentum evolve like classical quantities. We consider the cases where every oscillator is coupled to its own reservoir and where all oscillators are coupled to the same heat bath, pointing out the differences between these two models. In particular, for systems coupled to a common reservoir, we present an uncommon dissipation mechanism, which disappears, when the dynamics of the system are gouverned by the low frequency modes of the environment (Caldeira-Leggett limit). We also address the interesting phenomenon of reservoir-induced interactions.

id: 1106.1529
title: Dynamical Casimir-Polder atom-surface interaction
authors: G.V.Dedkov, A.A.Kyasov
comments: 21 pages,11 figures, 1 table; improved version of previous paper; submitted to Surface Science
journal: Surface Sci. 606(2012)46
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1529
abstract: We have calculated dynamical Casimir-Polder interaction force between a moving ground state atom and a flat polarizable surface. The velocity of an atom can be close to the velocity of light. The material properties are taken into account using a single oscillator model of the atomic dynamic polarizability and the Drude dielectric function of a metal substrate. The limit cases of nonrelativistic velocities and an ideal metal substrate are also considered. We have found specific dependence of the calculated forces on the velocity (energy), distance and material properties.

id: 1106.1597
title: Convergence of the Neumann series for the Schrodinger equation and general Volterra equations in Banach spaces
authors: Fernando D. Mera
comments: 23 pages; major revisions
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1597
abstract: The objective of the article is to treat the Schr\"{o}dinger equation in parallel with a standard treatment of the heat equation. In the mathematics literature, the heat equation initial value problem is converted into a Volterra integral equation of the second kind, and then the Picard algorithm is used to find the exact solution of the integral equation. The Poisson Integral theorem shows that the Poisson integral formula with the Schrodinger kernel holds in the Abel summable sense. Furthermore, the Source integral theorem provides the solution of the initial value problem for the nonhomogeneous Schrodinger equation. Folland's proof of the Generalized Young's inequality is used as a model for the proof of the L^p lemma. Basically the Generalized Young's theorem is in a more general form where the functions take values in an arbitrary Banach space. The L^1, L^p and the L^\infty lemmas are inductively applied to the proofs of their respective Volterra theorems in order to prove that the Neumman series converge with respect to the topology L^p(I;B}, where I is a finite time interval, B is an arbitrary Banach space, and 1 =< p =< \infty. The Picard method of successive approximations is to be used to construct an approximate solution which should approach the exact solution as n->\infty. To prove convergence, Volterra kernels are introduced in arbitrary Banach spaces. The Volterra theorems are proved and applied in order to show that the Neumann series for the Hilbert-Schmidt kernel and the unitary kernel converge to the exact Green function.

id: 1106.1628
title: Adiabatic Preparation of a Heisenberg Antiferromagnet Using an Optical Superlattice
authors: Michael Lubasch, Valentin Murg, Ulrich Schneider, J. Ignacio Cirac, Mari-Carmen Ba?uls
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures + Supplementary Material (5 pages, 6 figures), published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 165301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1628
abstract: We analyze the possibility to prepare a Heisenberg antiferromagnet with cold fermions in optical lattices, starting from a band insulator and adiabatically changing the lattice potential. The numerical simulation of the dynamics in 1D allows us to identify the conditions for success, and to study the influence that the presence of holes in the initial state may have on the protocol. We also extend our results to two-dimensional systems.

id: 1106.1636
title: A Sequence of Relaxations Constraining Hidden Variable Models
authors: Greg Ver Steeg, Aram Galstyan
comments: UAI 2011 Best Paper Runner-Up; Proceedings of the 27th Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI 2011)
journal: 
subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Machine Learning (stat.ML)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1636
abstract: Many widely studied graphical models with latent variables lead to nontrivial constraints on the distribution of the observed variables. Inspired by the Bell inequalities in quantum mechanics, we refer to any linear inequality whose violation rules out some latent variable model as a "hidden variable test" for that model. Our main contribution is to introduce a sequence of relaxations which provides progressively tighter hidden variable tests. We demonstrate applicability to mixtures of sequences of i.i.d. variables, Bell inequalities, and homophily models in social networks. For the last, we demonstrate that our method provides a test that is able to rule out latent homophily as the sole explanation for correlations on a real social network that are known to be due to influence.

id: 1106.1644
title: Tunable Superfluidity and Quantum Magnetism with Ultracold Polar Molecules
authors: Alexey V. Gorshkov, Salvatore R. Manmana, Gang Chen, Jun Ye, Eugene Demler, Mikhail D. Lukin, Ana Maria Rey
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 115301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1644
abstract: By selecting two dressed rotational states of ultracold polar molecules in an optical lattice, we obtain a highly tunable generalization of the t-J model, which we refer to as the t-J-V-W model. In addition to XXZ spin exchange, the model features density-density interactions and novel density-spin interactions; all interactions are dipolar. We show that full control of all interaction parameters in both magnitude and sign can be achieved independently of each other and of the tunneling. As a first step towards demonstrating the potential of the system, we apply the density matrix renormalization group method (DMRG) to obtain the 1D phase diagram of the simplest experimentally realizable case. Specifically, we show that the tunability and the long-range nature of the interactions in the t-J-V-W model enable enhanced superfluidity. Finally, we show that Bloch oscillations in a tilted lattice can be used to probe the phase diagram experimentally.

id: 1106.1654
title: Phonitons as a sound-based analogue of cavity quantum electrodynamics
authors: O. O. Soykal, Rusko Ruskov, Charles Tahan
comments: Published PRL version. Note that the previous arXiv version has more commentary, figures, etc. Also see this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 235502 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1654
abstract: A quantum mechanical superposition of a long-lived, localized phonon and a matter excitation is described. We identify a realization in strained silicon: a low-lying donor transition (P or Li) driven solely by acoustic phonons at wavelengths where high-Q phonon cavities can be built. This phonon-matter resonance is shown to enter the strongly coupled regime where the "vacuum" Rabi frequency exceeds the spontaneous phonon emission into non-cavity modes, phonon leakage from the cavity, and phonon anharmonicity and scattering. We introduce a micropillar distributed Bragg reflector Si/Ge cavity, where Q=10^5-10^6 and mode volumes V<=25*lambda^3 are reachable. These results indicate that single or many-body devices based on these systems are experimentally realizable.

id: 1106.1655
title: Quantum Magnetism with Polar Alkali Dimers
authors: Alexey V. Gorshkov, Salvatore R. Manmana, Gang Chen, Eugene Demler, Mikhail D. Lukin, Ana Maria Rey
comments: 24 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 033619 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1655
abstract: We show that dipolar interactions between ultracold polar alkali dimers in optical lattices can be used to realize a highly tunable generalization of the t-J model, which we refer to as the t-J-V-W model. The model features long-range spin-spin interactions J_z and J_perp of XXZ type, long-range density-density interaction V, and long-range density-spin interaction W, all of which can be controlled in both magnitude and sign independently of each other and of the tunneling t. The "spin" is encoded in the rotational degree of freedom of the molecules, while the interactions are controlled by applied static electric and continuous-wave microwave fields. Furthermore, we show that nuclear spins of the molecules can be used to implement an additional (orbital) degree of freedom that is coupled to the original rotational degree of freedom in a tunable way. The presented system is expected to exhibit exotic physics and to provide insights into strongly correlated phenomena in condensed matter systems. Realistic experimental imperfections are discussed.

id: 1106.1686
title: Erlangen Programme at Large: An Overview
authors: Vladimir V. Kisil
comments: 77 pages, AMS-LaTeX, 12 figures (29 EPS graphic files); v2: section on QM was extended
journal: 
subjects: Complex Variables (math.CV); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1686
abstract: This is an overview of Erlangen Programme at Large. Study of objects and properties, which are invariant under a group action, is very fruitful far beyond the traditional geometry. In this paper we demonstrate this on the example of the group SL(2,R). Starting from the conformal geometry we develop analytic functions and apply these to functional calculus. Finally we link this to quantum mechanics and conclude by a list of open problems. Keywords: Special linear group, Hardy space, Clifford algebra, elliptic, parabolic, hyperbolic, complex numbers, dual numbers, double numbers, split-complex numbers, Cauchy-Riemann-Dirac operator, M\"obius transformations, functional calculus, spectrum, quantum mechanics, non-commutative geometry

id: 1106.1718
title: Spectroscopy of dipolar fermions in 2D pancakes and 3D lattices
authors: Kaden R. A. Hazzard, Alexey V. Gorshkov, Ana Maria Rey
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 033608 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1718
abstract: Motivated by ongoing measurements at JILA, we calculate the recoil-free spectra of dipolar interacting fermions, for example ultracold heteronuclear molecules, in a one-dimensional lattice of two-dimensional pancakes, spectroscopically probing transitions between different internal (e.g., rotational) states. We additionally incorporate p-wave interactions and losses, which are important for reactive molecules such as KRb. Moreover, we consider other sources of spectral broadening: interaction-induced quasiparticle lifetimes and the different polarizabilities of the different rotational states used for the spectroscopy. Although our main focus is molecules, some of the calculations are also useful for optical lattice atomic clocks. For example, understanding the p-wave shifts between identical fermions and small dipolar interactions coming from the excited clock state are necessary to reach future precision goals. Finally, we consider the spectra in a deep 3D lattice and show how they give a great deal of information about static correlation functions, including \textit{all} the moments of the density correlations between nearby sites. The range of correlations measurable depends on spectroscopic resolution and the dipole moment.

id: 1106.1775
title: Hamiltonian of mean force for damped quantum systems
authors: Stefanie Hilt, Benedikt Thomas, Eric Lutz
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1775
abstract: We consider a quantum system linearly coupled to a reservoir of harmonic oscillators. For finite coupling strengths, the stationary distribution of the damped system is not of the Gibbs form, in contrast to standard thermodynamics. With the help of the quantum Hamiltonian of mean force, we quantify this deviation exactly for a harmonic oscillator and provide approximations in the limit of high and low temperatures, and weak and strong couplings. Moreover, in the semiclassical regime, we use the quantum Smoluchowski equation to obtain results valid for any potential. We, finally, give a physical interpretation of the deviation in terms of the initial system-reservoir coupling.

id: 1106.1782
title: Transport across nanogaps using semiclassically consistent boundary conditions
authors: Debabrata Biswas, Pradeep Baraila, Raghwendra Kumar
comments: 4 pages, 4 ps figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1782
abstract: Charge particle transport across nanogaps is studied theoretically within the Schrodinger-Poisson mean field framework and the existence of limiting current investigated. It is shown that the choice of a first order WKB wavefunction as the transmitted wave leads to self consistent boundary conditions and gives results that are significantly different in the non-classical regime from those obtained using a plane transmitted wave. At zero injection energies, the quantum limiting current density, J_c, is found to obey the local scaling law J_c ~ (V_g)^alpha/(D)^{5-2alpha} with the gap separation D and voltage V_g. The exponent alpha > 1.1 with alpha --> 3/2 in the classical regime of small de Broglie wavelengths. These results are consistent with recent experiments using nanogaps most of which are found to be in a parameter regime where classical space charge limited scaling holds away from the emission dominated regime.

id: 1106.1791
title: A Characterization of Entropy in Terms of Information Loss
authors: John C. Baez, Tobias Fritz, Tom Leinster
comments: 11 pages LaTeX, minor revision
journal: Entropy 2011, 13(11), 1945-1957
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1791
abstract: There are numerous characterizations of Shannon entropy and Tsallis entropy as measures of information obeying certain properties. Using work by Faddeev and Furuichi, we derive a very simple characterization. Instead of focusing on the entropy of a probability measure on a finite set, this characterization focuses on the `information loss', or change in entropy, associated with a measure-preserving function. Information loss is a special case of conditional entropy: namely, it is the entropy of a random variable conditioned on some function of that variable. We show that Shannon entropy gives the only concept of information loss that is functorial, convex-linear and continuous. This characterization naturally generalizes to Tsallis entropy as well.

id: 1106.1806
title: Time-Reversal Symmetry in Non-Hermitian Systems
authors: Masatoshi Sato, Kazuki Hasebe, Kenta Esaki, Mahito Kohmoto
comments: 40 pages, 2 figures; typos fixed, references added
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 127 (2012), 937-974
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1806
abstract: For ordinary hermitian Hamiltonians, the states show the Kramers degeneracy when the system has a half-odd-integer spin and the time reversal operator obeys \Theta^2=-1, but no such a degeneracy exists when \Theta^2=+1. Here we point out that for non-hermitian systems, there exists a degeneracy similar to Kramers even when \Theta^2=+1. It is found that the new degeneracy follows from the mathematical structure of split-quaternion, instead of quaternion from which the Kramers degeneracy follows in the usual hermitian cases. Furthermore, we also show that particle/hole symmetry gives rise to a pair of states with opposite energies on the basis of the split quaternion in a class of non-hermitian Hamiltonians. As concrete examples, we examine in detail NxN Hamiltonians with N=2 and 4 which are non-hermitian generalizations of spin 1/2 Hamiltonian and quadrupole Hamiltonian of spin 3/2, respectively.

id: 1106.1873
title: Casimir effect in de Sitter spacetime
authors: A.A. Saharian
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, talk presented at the 8th Alexander Friedmann International Seminar on Gravitation and Cosmology, 30 May - 03 June, 2011, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A 26 (2011) 3833
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1873
abstract: The vacuum expectation value of the energy-momentum tensor and the Casimir forces are investigated for a massive scalar field with an arbitrary curvature coupling parameter in the geometry of two parallel plates, on the background of de Sitter spacetime. The field is prepared in the Bunch--Davies vacuum state and is constrained to satisfy Robin boundary conditions on the plates. The vacuum energy-momentum tensor is non-diagonal, with the off-diagonal component corresponding to the energy flux along the direction normal to the plates. It is shown that the curvature of the background spacetime decisively influences the behavior of the Casimir forces at separations larger than the curvature radius of de Sitter spacetime. In dependence of the curvature coupling parameter and the mass of the field, two different regimes are realized, which exhibit monotonic or oscillatory behavior of the forces. The decay of the Casimir force at large plate separation is shown to be power-law, with independence of the value of the field mass.

id: 1106.1905
title: A note on the Hamiltonian of the real scalar field
authors: De-Chang Dai
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1905
abstract: We address the question of ambiguity in defining a Hamiltonian for a scalar field. We point out that the Hamiltonian for a real Klein-Gordon scalar field must be consistent with the energy density obtained from the Schrodinger equation in the non-relativistic regime. To achieve this we had to add some surface terms (total divergencies) to the standard Hamiltonian, which in general will not change the equations of motion, but will redefine energy. As an additional requirement, a Hamiltonian must be able to reproduce the equations of motion directly from Hamilton's equations defined by the principle of the least action. We find that the standard Hamiltonian does not always do so and that the proposed Hamiltonian provides a good non-relativistic limit. This is a hint that something as simple as the Hamiltonian of the real Klein-Gordon scalar field has to be treated carefully. We had illustrated our discussion with an explicit example of the kink solution.

id: 1106.1990
title: Higher-order SUSY, exactly solvable potentials, and exceptional orthogonal polynomials
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 14 pages, no figure, published version
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A 26 (2011) 1843-1852
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1990
abstract: Exactly solvable rationally-extended radial oscillator potentials, whose wavefunctions can be expressed in terms of Laguerre-type exceptional orthogonal polynomials, are constructed in the framework of $k$th-order supersymmetric quantum mechanics, with special emphasis on $k=2$. It is shown that for $\mu=1$, 2, and 3, there exist exactly $\mu$ distinct potentials of $\mu$th type and associated families of exceptional orthogonal polynomials, where $\mu$ denotes the degree of the polynomial $g_{\mu}$ arising in the denominator of the potentials.

id: 1106.2051
title: Long-range interactions between ultracold atoms and molecules including atomic spin-orbit
authors: Maxence Lepers, Olivier Dulieu
comments: Submitted to Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., special issue on cold molecules
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2051
abstract: We investigate theoretically the long-range electrostatic interactions between a ground-state homonuclear alkali-metal dimer and an excited alkali-metal atom taking into account its fine-structure. The interaction involves the combination of first-order quadrupole-quadrupole and second-order dipole-dipole effects. Depending on the considered species, the atomic spin-orbit may be comparable to the atom-molecule electrostatic energy and to the dimer rotational structure. Here we extend our general description in the framework of the second-order degenerate perturbation theory [M. Lepers and O. Dulieu, Eur. Phys. J. D, 2011] to various regimes induced by the magnitude of the atomic spin-orbit. A complex dynamics of the atom-molecule may take place at large distances, which may have consequences for the search for an universal model of ultracold inelastic collisions as proposed for instance in [Z. Idziaszek and P. S. Julienne, Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{104}, 113202 (2010)].

id: 1106.2060
title: Mechanical systems in the quantum regime
authors: Menno Poot, Herre S. J. van der Zant
comments: To appear in Phys. Rep
journal: Physics Reports 511 (5) 273-335 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2060
abstract: Mechanical systems are ideal candidates for studying quantumbehavior of macroscopic objects. To this end, a mechanical resonator has to be cooled to its ground state and its position has to be measured with great accuracy. Currently, various routes to reach these goals are being explored. In this review, we discuss different techniques for sensitive position detection and we give an overview of the cooling techniques that are being employed. The latter include sideband cooling and active feedback cooling. The basic concepts that are important when measuring on mechanical systems with high accuracy and/or at very low temperatures, such as thermal and quantum noise, linear response theory, and backaction, are explained. From this, the quantum limit on linear position detection is obtained and the sensitivities that have been achieved in recent opto and nanoelectromechanical experiments are compared to this limit. The mechanical resonators that are used in the experiments range from meter-sized gravitational wave detectors to nanomechanical systems that can only be read out using mesoscopic devices such as single-electron transistors or superconducting quantum interference devices. A special class of nanomechanical systems are bottom-up fabricated carbon-based devices, which have very high frequencies and yet a large zero-point motion, making them ideal for reaching the quantum regime. The mechanics of some of the different mechanical systems at the nanoscale is studied. We conclude this review with an outlook of how state-of-the-art mechanical resonators can be improved to study quantum {\it mechanics}.

id: 1106.2102
title: Layers of Cold Dipolar Molecules in the Harmonic Approximation
authors: J. R. Armstrong, N. T. Zinner, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen
comments: 17 pages, 20 figures, accepted version
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 66, 85 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2102
abstract: We consider the N-body problem in a layered geometry containing cold polar molecules with dipole moments that are polarized perpendicular to the layers. A harmonic approximation is used to simplify the hamiltonian and bound state properties of the two-body inter-layer dipolar potential are used to adjust this effective interaction. To model the intra-layer repulsion of the polar molecules, we introduce a repulsive inter-molecule potential that can be parametrically varied. Single chains containing one molecule in each layer, as well as multi-chain structures in many layers are discussed and their energies and radii determined. We extract the normal modes of the various systems as measures of their volatility and eventually of instability, and compare our findings to the excitations in crystals. We find modes that can be classified as either chains vibrating in phase or as layers vibrating against each other. The former correspond to acoustic and the latter to optical phonons. Instabilities can occur for large intra-layer repulsion and produce diverging amplitudes of molecules in the outer layers. Lastly, we consider experimentally relevant regimes to observe the structures.

id: 1106.2178
title: Consistency of certain constitutive relations with quantum electromagnetism
authors: S. A. R. Horsley
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 063822 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2178
abstract: Recent work by Philbin [1] has provided a Lagrangian theory that establishes a general method for the canonical quantization of the electromagnetic field in any dispersive, lossy, linear dielectric. Working from this theory, we extend the Lagrangian description to reciprocal and non- reciprocal magnetoelectric (bi-anisotropic) media, showing that some versions of the constitutive relations are inconsistent with a real Lagrangian, and hence with quantization. This amounts to a restriction on the magnitude of the magnetoelectric coupling. Moreover from the point of view of quantization, moving media are shown to be fundamentally different from stationary magnetoelectrics, despite the formal similarity in the constitutive relations.

id: 1106.2236
title: Compatibility of symmetric quantization and general covariance in the Dirac equation in a curved space
authors: A. D. Alhaidari, A. Jellal
comments: In this version: Additional 10 lines below Eq. (9); Corrections to Eq. (17) and Eqs. (18a-18c); Correction of text below Eq. (19); Changes in the last 7 lines of Sec. III
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2236
abstract: By requiring unambiguous symmetric quantization leading to the Dirac equation in a curved space, we obtain a special representation of the spin connections in terms of the Dirac gamma matrices and their space-time derivatives. We also require that squaring the equation gives the Klein-Gordon equation in a curved space in its canonical from (without first order derivatives and with no spinor components coupling). This requirement results in matrix operator algebra for the Dirac gamma matrices that involves a universal curvature constant. We obtain exact solutions of the Dirac and Klein-Gordon equations in 1+1 space-time for a given static metric.

id: 1106.2239
title: Relativistic quantum theory of high harmonic generation on atoms/ions by strong laser fields
authors: H.K. Avetissian, A.G. Markossian, G.F. Mkrtchian
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures, Conference: Photons, Atoms, and Qubits 2007 (PAQ07, paper 47)
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2239
abstract: High-order harmonic generation (HHG) by hydrogenlike atoms/ions in the uniform periodic electric field, formed by the two linearly polarized counterpropagating laser beams of relativistic intensities, is studied. The relativistic quantum theory of HHG in such fields, at which the impeding factor of relativistic magnetic drift of a strong wave can be eliminated, is presented arising from the Dirac equation. Specifically, a scheme of HHG in underdense plasma with the copropagating ultraintense laser and fast ion beams is proposed.

id: 1106.2241
title: Precision tests of General Relativity with Matter Waves
authors: Michael A. Hohensee, Holger Mueller
comments: Conference Proceedings for talk given in January, 2011 at the Winter Colloquium on the Physics of Quantum Electronics. Submitted to the Journal of Modern Optics
journal: J. Mod. Opt., v58, 2021-2027, 2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2241
abstract: We review the physics of atoms and clocks in weakly curved spacetime, and how each may be used to test the Einstein Equivalence Principle (EEP) in the context of the minimal Standard Model Extension (mSME). We find that conventional clocks and matter-wave interferometers are sensitive to the same kinds of EEP-violating physics. We show that the analogy between matter-waves and clocks remains true for systems beyond the semiclassical limit. We quantitatively compare the experimentally observable signals for EEP violation in matter-wave experiments. We find that comparisons of $^{6}$Li and $^{7}$Li are particularly sensitive to such anomalies. Tests involving unstable isotopes, for which matter-wave interferometers are well suited, may further improve the sensitivity of EEP tests.

id: 1106.2249
title: Harmonics generation and intense terahertz radiation from polar molecules at multiphoton resonant excitation in laser fields
authors: H.K. Avetissian, B.R. Avchyan, G.F. Mkrtchian
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2249
abstract: The coherent radiation spectrum of two-level polar molecules with UV transition is studied at the multiphoton resonant excitation by a moderately strong laser field. The spectrum corresponding to harmonic generation and low-frequency radiation is investigated both analytically and numerically. Specifically, a mechanism for generation of intense smoothly tunable terahertz radiation by two-level molecular configurations (with dynamic Stark shifts) possessing permanent dipole moments, is considered.

id: 1106.2258
title: Is the Consequence of Superluminal Signalling to Physics Absolute Motion through an Ether?
authors: R.O. Cornwall
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2258
abstract: In an earlier paper the author expounded an interferometer scheme to communicate classical data over an entangled quantum channel. We return to this concept to show that the laws of Quantum Mechanics are not violated and that the device is able to affect the statistical blend of the quantum states (and that this can be detected) but not the statistics - i.e. the physics of observables. The ideas of superluminal information transfer, discussed in the previous paper, are taken forward to develop a notion of absolute space, time and motion with relativistic effects ascribed to motion through an absolute reference frame - as the logical consequences dictate, permeated with a material causing the 'relativistic' effects. The reciprocal nature of the Lorentz Transform is shown to fail under superluminal signalling - one frame will be absolutely time dilated and length contacted; thus a full 'Ether Transformation' (though this cannot be a group) and a velocity addition law are derived, the Twin's Paradox is reconsidered. It would seem, in Special Relativity at least, that the phenomenological effects of motion are placed in an absolute, logical, materialistic setting, rather than a confusing relative one that, perhaps, allows no further inspection of just 'what it is' causing the effects. The author then discusses whether this programme can be carried forward into General Relativity with the space-time distortions ascribable to changes in the properties of the ether but on the whole describable in 3-space.

id: 1106.2330
title: Universality class of quantum criticality in the two-dimensional Hubbard model at intermediate temperatures ($t^2/U\ll T\ll t$)
authors: Kaden R. A. Hazzard, Ana Maria Rey, Richard T. Scalettar
comments: Main text: 4 pages, 2 figures (6 panels). Supplementary info.: 2 pages, 3 figures (7 panels)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 035110 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2330
abstract: We show that the dilute Fermi gas quantum critical universality class quantitatively describes the Mott/metal crossover of the two-dimensional Hubbard model for temperatures somewhat less than (roughly half) the tunneling but much greater than (roughly twice) the superexchange energy. We calculate the observables expected to be universal near the transition --- density and compressibility --- with numerically exact determinantal quantum Monte Carlo. We find they are universal functions of the chemical potential. Despite arising from the strongly correlated regime of the Hubbard model, these functions are given by the weakly interacting, dilute Fermi gas model. These observables and their derivatives are the only expected universal static observables of this universality class, which we also confirm by verifying there is no scaling collapse of the kinetic energy, fraction of doubly occupied sites, and nearest neighbor spin correlations. Our work resolves the universality class of the intermediate temperature Mott/metal crossover, which had alternatively been proposed to be described by more exotic theories. However, in the presence of a Zeeman magnetic field, we find that interplay of spin with itinerant charge can lead to physics beyond the dilute Fermi gas universality class.

id: 1106.2359
title: Quantum Dynamics of a Nanomagnet driven by Spin-Polarized Current
authors: Yong Wang, L.J. Sham
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 092403 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2359
abstract: A quantum theory of magnetization dynamics of a nanomagnet as a sequence of scatterings of each electron spin with the macrospin state of the magnetization results in each encounter a probability distribution of the magnetization recoil state associated with each outgoing state of the electron. The quantum trajectory of the magnetization contains the average motion tending in the large spin limit to the semi-classical results of spin transfer torque and the fluctuations giving rise to a quantum magnetization noise and an additional noise traceable to the current noise.

id: 1106.2371
title: Quantum dynamics of hard-core bosons in tilted bichromatic optical lattices
authors: Xiaoming Cai, Shu Chen, Yupeng Wang
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 033605 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2371
abstract: We study the dynamics of strongly repulsive Bose gas in tilted or driven bichromatic optical lattices. Using the Bose-Fermi mapping and exact numerical method, we calculate the reduced single-particle density matrices, and study the dynamics of density profile, momentum distribution and condensate fraction. We show the oscillating and breathing mode of dynamics, and depletion of condensate for short time dynamics. For long time dynamics, we clearly show the reconstruction of system at integer multiples of Bloch-Zener time. We also show how to achieve clear Bloch oscillation and Landau-Zener tunnelling for many-particle systems.

id: 1106.2428
title: On the classification of Hermitian self-dual additive codes over GF(9)
authors: Lars Eirik Danielsen
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory 58(8), pp. 5500-5511, 2012
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2428
abstract: Additive codes over GF(9) that are self-dual with respect to the Hermitian trace inner product have a natural application in quantum information theory, where they correspond to ternary quantum error-correcting codes. However, these codes have so far received far less interest from coding theorists than self-dual additive codes over GF(4), which correspond to binary quantum codes. Self-dual additive codes over GF(9) have been classified up to length 8, and in this paper we extend the complete classification to codes of length 9 and 10. The classification is obtained by using a new algorithm that combines two graph representations of self-dual additive codes. The search space is first reduced by the fact that every code can be mapped to a weighted graph, and a different graph is then introduced that transforms the problem of code equivalence into a problem of graph isomorphism. By an extension technique, we are able to classify all optimal codes of length 11 and 12. There are 56,005,876 (11,3^11,5) codes and 6493 (12,3^12,6) codes. We also find the smallest codes with trivial automorphism group.

id: 1106.2463
title: Magic-wavelength optical traps for Rydberg atoms
authors: S. Zhang, F. Robicheaux, M. Saffman
comments: 8 figures, appendix added, title modified
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043408 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2463
abstract: We propose blue-detuned optical traps that are suitable for trapping of both ground state and Rydberg excited atoms. Addition of a background compensation field or suitable choice of the trap geometry provides a magic trapping condition for ground and Rydberg atoms at the trap center. Deviations from the magic condition at finite temperature are calculated. Designs that achieve less than 200 kHz differential trap shift between Cs ground and 125s Rydberg states for 10 {\mu}K Cs atoms are presented. Consideration of the trapping potential and photoionization rates

id: 1106.2485
title: Optical Force on Two-level Atoms by Few-cycle Pulsed Gaussian Laser field beyond the Rotating Wave Approximation
authors: Parvendra Kumar, Amarendra K. Sarma
comments: 
journal: Physical Rev. A Vol. 84, p.043402(2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2485
abstract: We report a study on light force on a beam of neutral two-level atoms superimposed upon a few-cycle pulsed Gaussian laser field under both resonant and off-resonant condition. The phenomena of focusing, defocusing and steering of the neutral atoms in the laser field is analysed by solving the optical Bloch equation beyond the rotating wave approximation and the force equation self-consistently .We find that two-level atoms in an atomic beam could be focused and defocused for large, positively and negatively detuned interaction even in the regime of extreme nonlinear optics. The so-called optical potential may be used for stable trapping of the neutral two-level atoms for large positively detuned interaction. This work successfully reproduces some of the features reported in recent experimental and theoretical works.

id: 1106.2488
title: B?cklund--Darboux transformations of traslationally shape-invariant potentials
authors: Arturo Ramos
comments: Withdrawn because of existence of a completely different version, with different title
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2488
abstract: Article withdrawn

id: 1106.2523
title: Quantum superposition of a single microwave photon in two different "colour" states
authors: Eva Zakka-Bajjani, Fran?ois Nguyen, Minhyea Lee, Leila R. Vale, Raymond W. Simmonds, Jos¨¦ Aumentado
comments: 21 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2523
abstract: The ability to coherently couple arbitrary harmonic oscillators in a fully-controlled way is an important tool to process quantum information. Coupling between quantum harmonic oscillators has previously been demonstrated in several physical systems by use of a two-level system as a mediating element. Direct interaction at the quantum level has only recently been realized by use of resonant coupling between trapped ions. Here we implement a tunable direct coupling between the microwave harmonics of a superconducting resonator by use of parametric frequency conversion. We accomplish this by coupling the mode currents of two harmonics through a superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) and modulating its flux at the difference (~ 7 GHz) of the harmonic frequencies. We deterministically prepare a single-photon Fock state and coherently manipulate it between multiple modes, effectively controlling it in a superposition of two different "colours". This parametric interaction can be described as a beam-splitter-like operation that couples different frequency modes. As such, it could be used to implement linear optical quantum computing protocols on-chip.

id: 1106.2530
title: Quantum Finite Automata and Probabilistic Reversible Automata: R-trivial Idempotent Languages
authors: Marats Golovkins, Maksim Kravtsev, Vasilijs Kravcevs
comments: 30 pages, 3 figures
journal: MFCS 2011, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 6907, pp. 351-363, 2011
subjects: Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2530
abstract: We study the recognition of R-trivial idempotent (R1) languages by various models of "decide-and-halt" quantum finite automata (QFA) and probabilistic reversible automata (DH-PRA). We introduce bistochastic QFA (MM-BQFA), a model which generalizes both Nayak's enhanced QFA and DH-PRA. We apply tools from algebraic automata theory and systems of linear inequalities to give a complete characterization of R1 languages recognized by all these models. We also find that "forbidden constructions" known so far do not include all of the languages that cannot be recognized by measure-many QFA.

id: 1106.2549
title: Non-adiabatic Effects in the Braiding of Non-Abelian Anyons in Topological Superconductors
authors: Meng Cheng, Victor Galitski, Sankar Das Sarma
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 104529 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2549
abstract: Qubits in topological quantum computation are built from non-Abelian anyons. Adiabatic braiding of anyons is exploited as topologically protected logical gate operations. Thus, the adiabaticity upon which the notion of quantum statistics is defined, plays a fundamental role in defining the non-Abelian anyons. We study the non-adiabatic effects in braidings of Ising-type anyons, namely Majorana fermions in topological superconductors, using the formalism of time-dependent Bogoliubov-de Gennes equations. Using this formalism, we consider non-adiabatic corrections to non-Abelian statistics from: (1) tunneling splitting of anyons imposing an additional dynamical phase to the transformation of ground states; (2) transitions to excited states that are potentially destructive to non-Abelian statistics since the non-local fermion occupation can be spoiled by such processes. However, if the bound states are localized and being braided together with the anyons, non-Abelian statistics can be recovered once the definition of Majorana operators is appropriately generalized taking into account the fermion parity in these states. On the other hand, if the excited states are extended over the whole system and form a continuum, the notion of local fermion parity no longer holds. We then quantitatively characterize the errors introduced in this situation.

id: 1106.2582
title: Stimulated optomechanical excitation of surface acoustic waves in a microdevice
authors: Gaurav Bahl, John Zehnpfennig, Matthew Tomes, Tal Carmon
comments: 
journal: Nature Communications, 2:403
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2582
abstract: Stimulated Brillouin interaction between sound and light, known to be the strongest optical nonlinearity common to all amorphous and crystalline dielectrics, has been widely studied in fibers and bulk materials but rarely in optical microresonators. The possibility of experimentally extending this principle to excite mechanical resonances in photonic microsystems, for sensing and frequency reference applications, has remained largely unexplored. The challenge lies in the fact that microresonators inherently have large free spectral range, while the phase matching considerations for the Brillouin process require optical modes of nearby frequencies but with different wavevectors. We rely on high-order transverse optical modes to relax this limitation. Here we report on the experimental excitation of mechanical resonances ranging from 49 to 1400 MHz by using forward Brillouin scattering. These natural mechanical resonances are excited in ~100 um silica microspheres, and are of a surface-acoustic whispering-gallery type.

id: 1106.2655
title: Dissipative spin dynamics near a quantum critical point: Numerical Renormalization Group and Majorana diagrammatics
authors: Serge Florens, Axel Freyn, Davide Venturelli, Rajesh Narayanan
comments: 19 pages, 19 figures. Minor changes in V2
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 155110 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2655
abstract: We provide an extensive study of the sub-ohmic spin-boson model with power law density of states J(\omega)=\omega^s (with 0<s<1), focusing on the equilibrium dynamics of the three possible spin components, from very weak dissipation to the quantum critical regime. Two complementary methods, the bosonic Numerical Renormalization Group (NRG) and Majorana diagrammatics, are used to explore the physical properties in a wide range of parameters. We show that the bosonic self-energy is the crucial ingredient for the description of critical fluctuations, but that many-body vertex corrections need to be incorporated as well in order to obtain quantitative agreement of the diagrammatics with the numerical simulations. Our results suggest that the out-of-equilibrium dynamics in dissipative models beyond the Bloch-Redfield regime should be reconsidered in the long-time limit. Regarding also the spin-boson Hamiltonian as a toy model of quantum criticality, some of the insights gained here may be relevant for field theories of electrons coupled to bosons in higher dimensions.

id: 1106.2684
title: QIS-XML: An Extensible Markup Language for Quantum Information Science
authors: Pascal Heus, Richard Gomez
comments: 83 pages, 58 figures
journal: 
subjects: Software Engineering (cs.SE); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Programming Languages (cs.PL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2684
abstract: This Master thesis examines issues of interoperability and integration between the Classic Information Science (CIS) and Quantum Information Science (QIS). It provides a short introduction to the Extensible Markup Language (XML) and proceeds to describe the development steps that have lead to a prototype XML specification for quantum computing (QIS-XML). QIS-XML is a proposed framework, based on the widely used standard (XML) to describe, visualize, exchange and process quantum gates and quantum circuits. It also provides a potential approach to a generic programming language for quantum computers through the concept of XML driven compilers. Examples are provided for the description of commonly used quantum gates and circuits, accompanied with tools to visualize them in standard web browsers. An algorithmic example is also presented, performing a simple addition operation with quantum circuits and running the program on a quantum computer simulator. Overall, this initial effort demonstrates how XML technologies could be at the core of the architecture for describing and programming quantum computers. By leveraging a widely accepted standard, QIS-XML also builds a bridge between classic and quantum IT, which could foster the acceptance of QIS by the ICT community and facilitate the understanding of quantum technology by IT experts. This would support the consolidation of Classic Information Science and Quantum Information Science into a Complete Information Science, a challenge that could be referred to as the "Information Science Grand Unification Challenge".

id: 1106.2689
title: Superadiabatic theory for Cooper pair pumping under decoherence
authors: Juha Salmilehto, Mikko M?tt?nen
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 174507 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2689
abstract: We introduce a method where successive coordinate transformations are applied to decrease the error in the adiabatic master equation resulting from truncation in the local adiabatic parameter. Our method reduces the nonphysical behaviour stemming from the lack of complete positivity. The strong environment-induced relaxation at high Cooper pair pumping frequencies leads to adiabatic ground-state pumping only in the lowest-order approximation. We illustrate the robustness of the frequency where the adiabaticity breaks down using the high-order theory and show the emergence of an optimal environmental coupling strength, for which ideal pumping is preserved for the highest frequency. Finally, we study the effect of quantum interference on the pumped current and give an estimate for the relaxation rate of an experimentally measured system.

id: 1106.2727
title: Stochastic Processes, Slaves and Supersymmetry
authors: I.T. Drummond, R.R. Horgan
comments: Latex source, 43 pages, 5 figures and 4 tables
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2727
abstract: We extend the work of Tanase-Nicola and Kurchan on the structure of diffusion processes and the associated supersymmetry algebra by examining the responses of a simple statistical system to external disturbances of various kinds. We consider both the stochastic differential equations (SDEs) for the process and the associated diffusion equation. The influence of the disturbances can be understood by augmenting the original SDE with an equation for {\it slave variables}. The evolution of the slave variables describes the behaviour of line elements carried along in the stochastic flow. These line elements together with the associated surface and volume elements constructed from them provide the basis of the supersymmetry properties of the theory. For ease of visualisation, and in order to emphasise a helpful electromagnetic analogy, we work in three dimensions. The results are all generalisable to higher dimensions and can be specialised to one and two dimensions. The electromagnetic analogy is a useful starting point for calculating asymptotic results at low temperature that can be compared with direct numerical evaluations. We also examine the problems that arise in a direct numerical simulation of the stochastic equation together with the slave equations. We pay special attention to the dependence of the slave variable statistics on temperature. We identify in specific models the critical temperature below which the slave variable distribution ceases to have a variance and consider the effect on estimates of susceptibilities.

id: 1106.2730
title: Electric field compensation and sensing with a single ion in a planar trap
authors: Sankaranarayanan Selvarajan, Nikos Daniilidis, S?nke M?ller, Rob Clark, Frank Ziesel, Kilian Singer, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler, Hartmut H?ffner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2730
abstract: We use a single ion as an movable electric field sensor with accuracies on the order of a few V/m. For this, we compensate undesired static electric fields in a planar RF trap and characterize the static fields over an extended region along the trap axis. We observe a strong buildup of stray charges around the loading region on the trap resulting in an electric field of up to 1.3 kV/m at the ion position. We also find that the profile of the stray field remains constant over a time span of a few months.

id: 1106.3029
title: A Universe Programmed with Strings of Qubits
authors: Philip Gibbs
comments: 9 pages, a fourth prize winner in the 2011 FQXi essay contest "Is Reality Digital or Analog?"
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3029
abstract: It has been suggested that reality works like a quantum computer, but such claims are just words if they are not backed up by sound mathematics. In pursuit of the fundamental equations I look to string theory where physicists led by Mike Duff have noticed useful connections between the quantum gravity of black holes and quantum information theory. By building on my earlier work on universal symmetry in string theory and using links between elliptic curves and hyperdeterminants, I find intriguing clues that these connections may be deep as well as useful. Ultimately any theory of the foundations of physics must explain why there are four forces and three generations of fermions. In string theory this would be a consequence of the choice of vacua. If a consistent formulation of string theory constructed from quantum bits can be found, it may be possible to understand the vast landscape of possibilities better and reverse engineer the program that codes our universe.

id: 1106.3201
title: Accuracy of transfer matrix approaches for solving the effective mass Schr?dinger equation
authors: Christian Jirauschek
comments: 
journal: IEEE J. Quantum Electron. 45, 1059-1067 (2009)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3201
abstract: The accuracy of different transfer matrix approaches, widely used to solve the stationary effective mass Schr\"{o}dinger equation for arbitrary one-dimensional potentials, is investigated analytically and numerically. Both the case of a constant and a position dependent effective mass are considered. Comparisons with a finite difference method are also performed. Based on analytical model potentials as well as self-consistent Schr\"{o}dinger-Poisson simulations of a heterostructure device, it is shown that a symmetrized transfer matrix approach yields a similar accuracy as the Airy function method at a significantly reduced numerical cost, moreover avoiding the numerical problems associated with Airy functions.

id: 1106.3365
title: Tunable multi-photon Rabi oscillations in an electronic spin system
authors: S. Bertaina, N. Groll, L. Chen, I. Chiorescu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B, vol 84, 134433 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3365
abstract: We report on multi-photon Rabi oscillations and controlled tuning of a multi-level system at room temperature (S=5/2 for Mn2+:MgO) in and out of a quasi-harmonic level configuration. The anisotropy is much smaller than the Zeeman splittings, such as the six level scheme shows only a small deviation from an equidistant diagram. This allows us to tune the spin dynamics by either compensating the cubic anisotropy with a precise static field orientation, or by microwave field intensity. Using the rotating frame approximation, the experiments are very well explained by both an analytical model and a generalized numerical model. The calculated multi-photon Rabi frequencies are in excellent agreement with the experimental data.

id: 1106.3372
title: Linear entropy in quantum phase space
authors: Laura E. C. Rosales-Z¨¢rate, P. D. Drummond
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures. To be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042114 (2011)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3372
abstract: We calculate the quantum Renyi entropy in a phase space representation for either fermions or bosons. This can also be used to calculate purity and fidelity, or the entanglement between two systems. We show that it is possible to calculate the entropy from sampled phase space distributions in normally ordered representations, although this is not possible for all quantum states. We give an example of the use of this method in an exactly soluble thermal case. The quantum entropy cannot be calculated at all using sampling methods in classical symmetric (Wigner) or antinormally ordered (Husimi) phase spaces, due to inner product divergences. The preferred method is to use generalized Gaussian phase space methods, which utilize a distribution over stochastic Green's functions. We illustrate this approach by calculating the reduced entropy and entanglement of bosonic or fermionic modes coupled to a time-evolving, non-Markovian reservoir.

id: 1106.3379
title: Controlling Excitations Inversion of a Cooper Pair Box Interacting with a Nanomechanical Resonator
authors: C. Valverde, A.T. Avelar, B. Baseia
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3379
abstract: We investigate the action of time dependent detunings upon the excitation inversion of a Cooper pair box interacting with a nanomechanical resonator. The method employs the Jaynes-Cummings model with damping, assuming different decay rates of the Cooper pair box and various fixed and t-dependent detunings. It is shown that while the presence of damping plus constant detunings destroy the collapse/revival effects, convenient choices of time dependent detunings allow one to reconstruct such events in a perfect way. It is also shown that the mean excitation of the nanomechanical resonator is more robust against damping of the Cooper pair box for convenient values of t-dependent detunings.

id: 1106.3387
title: Scaling properties of induced density of chiral and non-chiral Dirac fermions in magnetic fields
authors: P. S. Park, S. C. Kim, S. -R. Eric Yang
comments: Phys. Rev. B 84 085405 (2011)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3387
abstract: We find that a repulsive potential of graphene in the presence of a magnetic field has bound states that are peaked inside the barrier with tails extending over \ell(N + 1), where \ell and N are the magnetic length and Landau level(LL) index. We have investigated how these bound states affect scaling properties of the induced density of filled Landau levels of massless Dirac fermions. For chiral fermions we find, in strong coupling regime, that the density inside the repulsive potential can be greater than the value in the absence of the potential while in the weak coupling regime we find negative induced density. Similar results hold also for non-chiral fermions. As one moves from weak to strong coupling regimes the effective coupling constant between the potential and electrons becomes more repulsive, and then it changes sign and becomes attractive. Different power-laws of induced density are found for chiral and non-chiral fermions.

id: 1106.3412
title: Testing the Gravitational Redshift with Atomic Gravimeters?
authors: Peter Wolf, Luc Blanchet, Christian J. Bord¨¦, Serge Reynaud, Christophe Salomon, Claude Cohen-Tannoudji
comments: Contribution to the proceedings of the joint European Time and Frequency Forum and IEEE Frequency Control Symposium, 2011. Summary of the extensive paper arXiv:1012.1194, Class. Quant. Grav. 28, 145017, (2011)
journal: European Time and Frequency Forum (IEEE, 2011) p.1012-1016
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3412
abstract: Atom interferometers allow the measurement of the acceleration of freely falling atoms with respect to an experimental platform at rest on Earth's surface. Such experiments have been used to test the universality of free fall by comparing the acceleration of the atoms to that of a classical freely falling object. In a recent paper, M\"uller, Peters and Chu [Nature {\bf 463}, 926-929 (2010)] argued that atom interferometers also provide a very accurate test of the gravitational redshift (or universality of clock rates). Considering the atom as a clock operating at the Compton frequency associated with the rest mass, they claimed that the interferometer measures the gravitational redshift between the atom-clocks in the two paths of the interferometer at different values of gravitational potentials. In the present paper we analyze this claim in the frame of general relativity and of different alternative theories, and conclude that the interpretation of atom interferometers as testing the gravitational redshift at the Compton frequency is unsound. The present work is a summary of our extensive paper [Wolf et al., arXiv:1012.1194, Class. Quant. Grav. 28, 145017, (2011)], to which the reader is referred for more details.

id: 1106.3419
title: Entanglement spectra of coupled S=1/2 spin chains in a ladder geometry
authors: Andreas M. L?uchli, John Schliemann
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 054403 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3419
abstract: We study the entanglement spectrum of spin-1/2 XXZ ladders both analytically and numerically. Our analytical approach is based on perturbation theory starting either from the limit of strong rung coupling, or from the opposite case of dominant coupling along the legs. In the former case we find to leading order that the entanglement Hamiltonian is also of nearest-neighbor XXZ form although with an in general renormalized anisotropy. For the cases of XX and isotropic Heisenberg ladders no such renormalization takes place. In the Heisenberg case the second order correction to the entanglement Hamiltonian consists of a renormalization of the nearest neighbor coupling plus an unfrustrated next nearest neighbor coupling. In the opposite regime of strong coupling along the legs, we point out an interesting connection of the entanglement spectrum to the Lehmann representation of single chain spectral functions of operators appearing in the physical Hamiltonian coupling the two chains.

id: 1106.3501
title: Carrier-envelope phase sensitive inversion in two-level systems
authors: Christian Jirauschek, Lingze Duan, Oliver D. M¨¹cke, Franz X. K?rtner, Martin Wegener, Uwe Morgner
comments: 
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 22, 2065-2075 (2005)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3501
abstract: We theoretically study the carrier-envelope phase dependent inversion generated in a two-level system by excitation with a few-cycle pulse. Based on the invariance of the inversion under time reversal of the exciting field, parameters are introduced to characterize the phase sensitivity of the induced inversion. Linear and nonlinear phase effects are numerically studied for rectangular and sinc-shaped pulses. Furthermore, analytical results are obtained in the limits of weak fields as well as strong dephasing, and by nearly degenerate perturbation theory for sinusoidal excitation. The results show that the phase sensitive inversion in the ideal two-level system is a promising route for constructing carrier-envelope phase detectors.

id: 1106.3518
title: Coherent control of three-spin states in a triple quantum dot
authors: L. Gaudreau, G. Granger, A. Kam, G. C. Aers, S. A. Studenikin, P. Zawadzki, M. Pioro-Ladri¨¨re, Z. R. Wasilewski, A. S. Sachrajda
comments: 12 pages, 13 figures, and 2 tables
journal: Nature Physics 8, 54 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3518
abstract: Spin qubits involving individual spins in single quantum dots or coupled spins in double quantum dots have emerged as potential building blocks for quantum information processing applications. It has been suggested that triple quantum dots may provide additional tools and functionalities. These include the encoding of information to either obtain protection from decoherence or to permit all-electrical operation, efficient spin busing across a quantum circuit, and to enable quantum error correction utilizing the three-spin Greenberger-Horn-Zeilinger quantum state. Towards these goals we demonstrate for the first time coherent manipulation between two interacting three-spin states. We employ the Landau-Zener-St\"uckelberg approach for creating and manipulating coherent superpositions of quantum states. We confirm that we are able to maintain coherence when decreasing the exchange coupling of one spin with another while simultaneously increasing its coupling with the third. Such control of pairwise exchange is a requirement of most spin qubit architectures but has not been previously demonstrated.

id: 1106.3538
title: Orientation-to-alignment conversion and spin squeezing
authors: S. M. Rochester, M. P. Ledbetter, T. Zigdon, A. D. Wilson-Gordon, D. Budker
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3538
abstract: The relationship between orientation-to-alignment conversion (a form of atomic polarization evolution induced by an electric field) and the phenomenon of spin squeezing is demonstrated. A "stretched" state of an atom or molecule with maximum angular-momentum projection along the quantization axis possesses orientation and is a quantum-mechanical minimum-uncertainty state, where the product of the equal uncertainties of the angular-momentum projections on two orthogonal directions transverse to the quantization axis is the minimum allowed by the uncertainty relation. Application of an electric field for a short time induces orientation-to-alignment conversion and produces a spin-squeezed state, in which the quantum state essentially remains a minimum-uncertainty state, but the uncertainties of the angular-momentum projections on the orthogonal directions are unequal. This property can be visualized using the angular-momentum probability surfaces, where the radius of the surface is given by the probability of measuring the maximum angular-momentum projection in that direction. Brief remarks are also given concerning collective-spin squeezing and quantum nondemolition measurements.

id: 1106.3650
title: Impurity transport through a strongly interacting bosonic quantum gas
authors: T. H. Johnson, S. R. Clark, M. Bruderer, D. Jaksch
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 023617 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3650
abstract: Using near-exact numerical simulations we study the propagation of an impurity through a one-dimensional Bose lattice gas for varying bosonic interaction strengths and filling factors at zero temperature. The impurity is coupled to the Bose gas and confined to a separate tilted lattice. The precise nature of the transport of the impurity is specific to the excitation spectrum of the Bose gas which allows one to measure properties of the Bose gas non-destructively, in principle, by observing the impurity; here we focus on the spatial and momentum distributions of the impurity as well as its reduced density matrix. For instance we show it is possible to determine whether the Bose gas is commensurately filled as well as the bandwidth and gap in its excitation spectrum. Moreover, we show that the impurity acts as a witness to the cross-over of its environment from the weakly to the strongly interacting regime, i.e., from a superfluid to a Mott insulator or Tonks-Girardeau lattice gas and the effects on the impurity in both of these strongly-interacting regimes are clearly distinguishable. Finally, we find that the spatial coherence of the impurity is related to its propagation through the Bose gas, giving an experimentally controllable example of noise-enhanced quantum transport.

id: 1106.3729
title: Large-deviation analysis for counting statistics in mesoscopic transports
authors: Jun Li, Yu Liu, Jing Ping, Shu-Shen Li, Xin-Qi Li, YiJing Yan
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 115319 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3729
abstract: We present an efficient approach, based on a number-conditioned master equation, for large-deviation analysis in mesoscopic transports. Beyond the conventional full-counting-statistics study, the large-deviation approach encodes complete information of both the typical trajectories and the rare ones, in terms of revealing a continuous change of the dynamical phase in trajectory space. The approach is illustrated with two examples: (i) transport through a single quantum dot, where we reveal the inhomogeneous distribution of trajectories in general case and find a particular scale invariance point in trajectory statistics; and (ii) transport through a double dots, where we find a dynamical phase transition between two distinct phases induced by the Coulomb correlation and quantum interference.

id: 1106.3757
title: Unstable particles in non-relativistic quantum mechanics?
authors: H. Hernandez-Coronado
comments: Prepared for the proceedings of VIII DGFM-SMF Workshop
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. October 14, 2011 Volume 1396, pp. 145-150 VIII Workshop of the Gravitation and Mathematical Physics Division of the Mexican Physical Society
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3757
abstract: The Schroedinger equation is up-to-a-phase invariant under the Galilei group. This phase leads to the Bargmann's superselection rule, which forbids the existence of the superposition of states with different masses and implies that unstable particles cannot be described consistently in non-relativistic quantum mechanics. In this paper we claim that Bargmann's rule neglects physical effects and that a proper description of non-relativistic quantum mechanics requires to take into account this phase through the Extended Galilei group and the definition of its action on spacetime coordinates.

id: 1106.3788
title: Microscopic analysis of the microscopic reversibility in quantum systems
authors: Tatsuro Kawamoto
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3788
abstract: We investigate the robustness of the microscopic reversibility in open quantum systems which is discussed by Monnai [arXiv:1106.1982 (2011)]. We derive an exact relation between the forward transition probability and the reversed transition probability in the case of a general measurement basis. We show that the microscopic reversibility acquires some corrections in general and discuss the physical meaning of the corrections. Under certain processes, some of the correction terms vanish and we numerically confirmed that the remaining correction term becomes negligible; the microscopic reversibility almost holds even when the local system cannot be regarded as macroscopic.

id: 1106.3800
title: Symmetric Rotating Wave Approximation for the Generalized Single-Mode Spin-Boson System
authors: Victor V. Albert, Gregory D. Scholes, Paul Brumer
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042110 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3800
abstract: The single-mode spin-boson model exhibits behavior not included in the rotating wave approximation (RWA) in the ultra and deep-strong coupling regimes, where counter-rotating contributions become important. We introduce a symmetric rotating wave approximation that treats rotating and counter-rotating terms equally, preserves the invariances of the Hamiltonian with respect to its parameters, and reproduces several qualitative features of the spin-boson spectrum not present in the original rotating wave approximation both off-resonance and at deep strong coupling. The symmetric rotating wave approximation allows for the treatment of certain ultra and deep-strong coupling regimes with similar accuracy and mathematical simplicity as does the RWA in the weak coupling regime. Additionally, we symmetrize the generalized form of the rotating wave approximation to obtain the same qualitative correspondence with the addition of improved quantitative agreement with the exact numerical results. The method is readily extended to higher accuracy if needed. Finally, we introduce the two-photon parity operator for the two-photon Rabi Hamiltonian and obtain its generalized symmetric rotating wave approximation. The existence of this operator reveals a parity symmetry similar to that in the Rabi Hamiltonian as well as another symmetry that is unique to the two-photon case, providing insight into the mathematical structure of the two-photon spectrum, significantly simplifying the numerics, and revealing some interesting dynamical properties.

id: 1106.3856
title: Entanglement Efficiencies in PT-Symmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: Christian Zielinski, Qing-hai Wang
comments: Published version with improved figures, 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.51:2648-2655,2012
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3856
abstract: The degree of entanglement is determined for an arbitrary state of a broad class of PT-symmetric bipartite composite systems. Subsequently we quantify the rate with which entangled states are generated and show that this rate can be characterized by a small set of parameters. These relations allow one in principle to improve the ability of these systems to entangle states. It is also noticed that many relations resemble corresponding ones in conventional quantum mechanics.

id: 1106.3862
title: On Kinds of Indiscernibility in Logic and Metaphysics
authors: Adam Caulton, Jeremy Butterfield
comments: 55 pages, 21 figures. Forthcoming, after an Appendectomy, in the British Journal for the Philosophy of Science
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3862
abstract: Using the Hilbert-Bernays account as a spring-board, we first define four ways in which two objects can be discerned from one another, using the non-logical vocabulary of the language concerned. (These definitions are based on definitions made by Quine and Saunders.) Because of our use of the Hilbert-Bernays account, these definitions are in terms of the syntax of the language. But we also relate our definitions to the idea of permutations on the domain of quantification, and their being symmetries. These relations turn out to be subtle---some natural conjectures about them are false. We will see in particular that the idea of symmetry meshes with a species of indiscernibility that we will call `absolute indiscernibility'. We then report all the logical implications between our four kinds of discernibility. We use these four kinds as a resource for stating four metaphysical theses about identity. Three of these theses articulate two traditional philosophical themes: viz. the principle of the identity of indiscernibles (which will come in two versions), and haecceitism. The fourth is recent. Its most notable feature is that it makes diversity (i.e. non-identity) weaker than what we will call individuality (being an individual): two objects can be distinct but not individuals. For this reason, it has been advocated both for quantum particles and for spacetime points. Finally, we locate this fourth metaphysical thesis in a broader position, which we call structuralism. We conclude with a discussion of the semantics suitable for a structuralist, with particular reference to physical theories as well as elementary model theory.

id: 1106.3965
title: Controlled coupling of spin-resolved quantum Hall edge states
authors: Biswajit Karmakar, Davide Venturelli, Luca Chirolli, Fabio Taddei, Vittorio Giovannetti, Rosario Fazio, Stefano Roddaro, Giorgio Biasiol, Lucia Sorba, Vittorio Pellegrini, Fabio Beltram
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 236804 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3965
abstract: Topologically-protected edge states are dissipationless conducting surface states immune to impurity scattering and geometrical defects that occur in electronic systems characterized by a bulk insulating gap. One example can be found in a two-dimensional electron gas (2DEG) under high magnetic field in the quantum Hall regime. Based on the coherent control of the coupling between these protected states, several theoretical proposals for the implementation of information processing architectures were proposed. Here we introduce and experimentally demonstrate a new method that allows us to controllably couple co-propagating spin-resolved edge states of a QH insulator. The scheme exploits a spatially-periodic in-plane magnetic field that is created by an array of Cobalt nano-magnets placed at the boundary of the 2DEG. A maximum charge/spin transfer of about 28% is achieved at 250 mK. This result may open the way to the realization of scalable quantum-information architectures exploiting the spin degree of freedom of topologically-protected states.

id: 1106.3982
title: Quantum Computing via The Bethe Ansatz
authors: Yong Zhang
comments: 6 pages. Comments welcome
journal: Quantum Inf Process (2012) 11:585-590
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3982
abstract: We recognize quantum circuit model of computation as factorisable scattering model and propose that a quantum computer is associated with a quantum many-body system solved by the Bethe ansatz. As an typical example to support our perspectives on quantum computation, we study quantum computing in one-dimensional nonrelativistic system with delta-function interaction, where the two-body scattering matrix satisfies the factorisation equation (the quantum Yang--Baxter equation) and acts as a parametric two-body quantum gate. We conclude by comparing quantum computing via the factorisable scattering with topological quantum computing.

id: 1106.3996
title: Does the speed of light depend upon the vacuum ?
authors: M. Urban, F. Couchot, X. Sarazin
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3996
abstract: We propose a quantum model for the vacuum filled of virtual particle pairs. The main originality of this model is to define a density and a life-time of the virtual particles. Compared to the usual QED $(p,E)$ framework, we add here the $(x,t)$ space time parameters. We show how $\epsilon_0$ and $\mu_0$ originate from the polarization and the magnetization of these virtual pairs when the vacuum is stressed by an electrostatic or magnetostatic field respectively. We obtain numerical values very close to the measured values. The exact equalities constraint the free parameters of our vacuum model. Then we show that if we simply model the propagation of a photon in vacuum as a succession of transient captures with virtual pairs, we can derive a finite velocity of the photon with a magnitude close to the measured speed of light $c$. Again this is the occasion to adjust better our vacuum model. Since the transit time of a photon is a statistical process we expect it to be fluctuating and this translates into a fluctuation of $c$ which, if measured, would bring another piece of information on the vacuum. When submitted to a stress the vacuum may change and this will induce a variation in the electromagnetic constants. We show this to be the case around a gravitational mass. It gives a physical interpretation of a varying vacuum refractive index equivalent to the curved space-time in General Relativity. The known measurements of the deflection of light by a mass, the Shapiro delay and the gravitational redshift do bring constraints on the way inertial masses should depend upon the vacuum. At last some experimental predictions are proposed.

id: 1106.4063
title: Verification of Quantum Programs
authors: Mingsheng Ying, Nengkun Yu, Yuan Feng, Runyao Duan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4063
abstract: This paper develops verification methodology for quantum programs, and the contribution of the paper is two-fold: 1. Sharir, Pnueli and Hart [SIAM J. Comput. 13(1984)292-314] presented a general method for proving properties of probabilistic programs, in which a probabilistic program is modeled by a Markov chain and an assertion on the output distribution is extended into an invariant assertion on all intermediate distributions. Their method is essentially a probabilistic generalization of the classical Floyd inductive assertion method. In this paper, we consider quantum programs modeled by quantum Markov chains which are defined by super-operators. It is shown that the Sharir-Pnueli-Hart method can be elegantly generalized to quantum programs by exploiting the Schr\"odinger-Heisenberg duality between quantum states and observables. In particular, a completeness theorem for the Sharir-Pnueli-Hart verification method of quantum programs is established. 2. As indicated by the completeness theorem, the Sharir-Pnueli-Hart method is in principle effective for verifying all properties of quantum programs that can be expressed in terms of Hermitian operators (observables). But it is not feasible for many practical applications because of the complicated calculation involved in the verification. For the case of finite-dimensional state spaces, we find a method for verification of quantum programs much simpler than the Sharir-Pnueli-Hart method by employing the matrix representation of super-operators and Jordan decomposition of matrices. In particular, this method enables us to compute easily the average running time and even to analyze some interesting long-run behaviors of quantum programs in a finite-dimensional state space.

id: 1106.4078
title: Universal nonequilibrium quantum dynamics in imaginary time
authors: C. De Grandi, A. Polkovnikov, A. W. Sandvik
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. Expanded, final published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 224303 (2011)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4078
abstract: We propose a method to study dynamical response of a quantum system by evolving it with an imaginary-time dependent Hamiltonian. The leading non-adiabatic response of the system driven to a quantum-critical point is universal and characterized by the same exponents in real and imaginary time. For a linear quench protocol, the fidelity susceptibility and the geometric tensor naturally emerge in the response functions. Beyond linear response, we extend the finite-size scaling theory of quantum phase transitions to non-equilibrium setups. This allows, e.g., for studies of quantum phase transitions in systems of fixed finite size by monitoring expectation values as a function of the quench velocity. Non-equilibrium imaginary-time dynamics is also amenable to quantum Monte Carlo (QMC) simulations, with a scheme that we introduce here and apply to quenches of the transverse-field Ising model to quantum-critical points in one and two dimensions. The QMC method is generic and can be applied to a wide range of models and non-equilibrium setups.

id: 1106.4163
title: Dynamical bifurcation as a semiclassical counterpart of a quantum phase transition
authors: Pierfrancesco Buonsante, Vittorio Penna, Alessandro Vezzani
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; a few changes made in the layout of equations; improved visibility of some figures; added some references and endnotes
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 84, 061601 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4163
abstract: We illustrate how dynamical transitions in nonlinear semiclassical models can be recognized as phase transitions in the corresponding -- inherently linear -- quantum model, where, in a Statistical Mechanics framework, the thermodynamic limit is realized by letting the particle population go to infinity at fixed size. We focus on lattice bosons described by the Bose-Hubbard (BH) model and Discrete Self-Trapping (DST) equations at the quantum and semiclassical level, respectively. After showing that the gaussianity of the quantum ground states is broken at the phase transition, we evaluate finite populations effects introducing a suitable scaling hypothesis; we work out the exact value of the critical exponents and we provide numerical evidences confirming our hypothesis. Our analytical results rely on a general scheme obtained from a large-population expansion of the eigenvalue equation of the BH model. In this approach the DST equations resurface as solutions of the zeroth-order problem.

id: 1106.4171
title: Haag duality and the distal split property for cones in the toric code
authors: Pieter Naaijkens
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures, v2: extended introduction
journal: Lett. Math. Phys. 101 (2012), 341-354
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4171
abstract: We prove that Haag duality holds for cones in the toric code model. That is, for a cone Lambda, the algebra R_Lambda of observables localized in Lambda and the algebra R_{Lambda^c} of observables localized in the complement Lambda^c generate each other's commutant as von Neumann algebras. Moreover, we show that the distal split property holds: if Lambda_1 \subset Lambda_2 are two cones whose boundaries are well separated, there is a Type I factor N such that R_{Lambda_1} \subset N \subset R_{Lambda_2}. We demonstrate this by explicitly constructing N.

id: 1106.4206
title: Semiclassical approach to fidelity amplitude
authors: Ignacio Garc¨ªa-Mata, Ra¨²l O. Vallejos, Diego A. Wisniacki
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures. Version closest to published version
journal: New J. Phys. 13 (2011) 103040
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4206
abstract: The fidelity amplitude is a quantity of paramount importance in echo type experiments. We use semiclassical theory to study the average fidelity amplitude for quantum chaotic systems under external perturbation. We explain analytically two extreme cases: the random dynamics limit --attained approximately by strongly chaotic systems-- and the random perturbation limit, which shows a Lyapunov decay. Numerical simulations help us bridge the gap between both extreme cases.

id: 1106.4402
title: Supersymmetry identifies molecular Stark states whose eigenproperties can be obtained analytically
authors: Mikhail Lemeshko, Mustafa Mustafa, Sabre Kais, Bretislav Friedrich
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 063036 (2011)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4402
abstract: We made use of supersymmetric (SUSY) quantum mechanics to find a condition under which the Stark effect problem for a polar and polarizable closed-shell diatomic molecule subject to collinear electrostatic and nonresonant radiative fields becomes exactly solvable. The condition, $\Delta \omega = \frac{\omega^2}{4 (m+1)^2}$, connects values of the dimensionless parameters $\omega$ and $\Delta \omega$ that characterize the strengths of the permanent and induced dipole interactions of the molecule with the respective fields. The exact solutions are obtained for the $|\tilde{J}=m,m;\omega,\Delta \omega>$ family of "stretched" states. The field-free and strong-field limits of the combined-fields problem were found to exhibit supersymmetry and shape-invariance, which is indeed the reason why they are analytically solvable. By making use of the analytic form of the $|\tilde{J}=m,m;\omega,\Delta \omega>$ wavefunctions, we obtained simple formulae for the expectation values of the space-fixed electric dipole moment, the alignment cosine, the angular momentum squared, and derived a "sum rule" which combines the above expectation values into a formula for the eigenenergy. The analytic expressions for the characteristics of the strongly oriented and aligned states provide a direct access to the values of the interaction parameters required for creating such states in the laboratory.

id: 1106.4403
title: Logic circuits from zero forcing
authors: Daniel Burgarth, Vittorio Giovannetti, Leslie Hogben, Simone Severini, Michael Young
comments: 5 pages, 10 EPS figures
journal: 
subjects: Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4403
abstract: We design logic circuits based on the notion of zero forcing on graphs; each gate of the circuits is a gadget in which zero forcing is performed. We show that such circuits can evaluate every monotone Boolean function. By using two vertices to encode each logical bit, we obtain universal computation. We also highlight a phenomenon of "back forcing" as a property of each function. Such a phenomenon occurs in a circuit when the input of gates which have been already used at a given time step is further modified by a computation actually performed at a later stage. Finally, we point out that zero forcing can be also used to implement reversible computation. The model introduced here provides a potentially new tool in the analysis of Boolean functions, with particular attention to monotonicity.

id: 1106.4444
title: Amplifying single impurities immersed in a gas of ultra cold atoms
authors: B. Olmos, W. Li, S. Hofferberth, I. Lesanovsky
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 041607(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4444
abstract: We present a method for amplifying a single or scattered impurities immersed in a background gas of ultra cold atoms so that they can be optically imaged and spatially resolved. Our approach relies on a Raman transfer between two stable atomic hyperfine states that is conditioned on the presence of an impurity atom. The amplification is based on the strong interaction among atoms excited to Rydberg states. We perform a detailed analytical study of the performance of the proposed scheme with particular emphasis on the influence of many-body effects.

id: 1106.4476
title: Time scaling with efficient time-propagation techniques for atoms and molecules in pulsed radiation fields
authors: Aliou Hamido, Johannes Eiglsperger, Javier Madro?ero, Francisca Mota-Furtado, Patrick O'Mahony, Ana Laura Frapiccini, Bernard Piraux
comments: 26 pages, 9 figures, to be published in Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 84, 013422 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4476
abstract: We present an ab initio approach to solve the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation to treat electron and photon impact multiple ionization of atoms or molecules. It combines the already known time scaled coordinate method with a new high order time propagator based on a predictor-corrector scheme. In order to exploit in an optimal way the main advantage of the time scaled coordinate method namely that the scaled wave packet stays confined and evolves smoothly towards a stationary state the modulus square of which being directly proportional to the electron energy spectra in each ionization channel, we show that the scaled bound states should be subtracted from the total scaled wave packet. In addition, our detailed investigations suggest that multi-resolution techniques like for instance, wavelets are the most appropriate ones to represent spatially the scaled wave packet. The approach is illustrated in the case of the interaction of an one-dimensional model atom as well as atomic hydrogen with a strong oscillating field.

id: 1106.4483
title: Resonant invisibility with finite range interacting fermions
authors: Jean-Pierre Nguenang, Sergej Flach, Ramaz Khomeriki
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4483
abstract: We study the eigenstates of two opposite spin fermions on a one-dimensional lattice with finite range interaction. The eigenstates are projected onto the set of Fock eigenstates of the noninteracting case. We find antiresonances for symmetric eigenstates, which eliminate the interaction between two symmetric Fock states when satisfying a corresponding selection rule.

id: 1106.4617
title: Electron loss of fast heavy projectiles in collision with neutral targets
authors: V. I. Matveev, S. V. Ryabchenko, D. U. Matrasulov, Kh. Yu. Rakhimov, S. Fritzsche, Th. St?hlker
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 042710 (8) (2009)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4617
abstract: The multiple electron loss of heavy projectiles in fast ion-atom collisions has been studied in the framework of the sudden perturbation approximation. Especially, a model is developed to calculate the cross sections for the loss of any number of electrons from the projectile ion, including the ionization of a single electron and up to the complete stripping of the projectile. For a given collision system, that is specified by the (type and charge state of the) projectile and target as well as the collision energy, in fact, the experimental cross sections for just three final states of the projectile are required by this model in order to predict the loss of any number, $N$, of electrons for the same collision system, or for any similar system that differs only in the energy or the initial charge state of the projectile ion. The model is simple and can be utilized for both, the projectile and target ionization, and without that large computer resources are requested. Detailed computation have been carried out for the multiple electron loss of Xe$^{18+}$ and U$^{6+,\, 10+,\, 28+}$ projectiles in collision with neutral Ar and Ne gas targets.

id: 1106.4672
title: Landau quantization effects in ultracold atom-ion collisions
authors: Andrea Simoni, Jean-Michel Launay
comments: 21 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phy. 44, 235201 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4672
abstract: We study ultracold atom-ion collisions in the presence of an external magnetic field. At low collision energy the field can drastically modify the translational motion of the ion, which follows quantized cyclotron orbits. We present a rigorous theoretical approach for the calculation of quantum scattering amplitudes in these conditions. Collisions in different magnetic field regimes, identified by the size of the cyclotron radius with respect to the range of the interaction potential, are investigated. Our results are important in cases where use of a magnetic field to control the atom-ion collision dynamics is envisioned.

id: 1106.4746
title: Eigenvalue Problem in Two Dimensions for an Irregular Boundary II: Neumann Condition
authors: S. Panda, S. Chakraborty, S.P. Khastgir
comments: 26 pages, 12 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Plus (2011) 126: 62
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4746
abstract: We formulate a systematic elegant perturbative scheme for determining the eigenvalues of the Helmholtz equation (\bigtriangledown^{2} + k^{2}){\psi} = 0 in two dimensions when the normal derivative of {\psi} vanishes on an irregular closed curve. Unique feature of this method, unlike other perturbation schemes, is that it does not require a separate formalism to treat degeneracies. Degenerate states are handled equally elegantly as the non-degenerate ones. A real parameter, extracted from the parameters defining the irregular boundary, serves as a perturbation parameter in this scheme as opposed to earlier schemes where the perturbation parameter is an artificial one. The efficacy of the proposed scheme is gauged by calculating the eigenvalues for elliptical and supercircular boundaries and comparing with the results obtained numerically. We also present a simple and interesting semi-empirical formula, determining the eigenspectrum of the 2D Helmholtz equation with the Dirichlet or the Neumann condition for a supercircular boundary. A comparison of the eigenspectrum for several low-lying modes obtained by employing the formula with the corresponding numerical estimates shows good agreement for a wide range of the supercircular exponent.

id: 1106.4750
title: Surface optomechanics: Calculating optically excited acoustical whispering gallery modes in microspheres
authors: John Zehnpfennig, Gaurav Bahl, Matthew Tomes, Tal Carmon
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, 1 table; journal paper - Optics Express, Accepted for pub. as of 20 Jun 2011
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4750
abstract: Stimulated Brillouin scattering recently allowed experimental excitation of surface acoustic resonances in micro-devices, enabling vibration at rates in the range of 50 MHz to 12 GHz. The experimental availability of such mechanical whispering gallery modes in photonic-MEMS raises questions on their structure and spectral distribution. Here we calculate the form and frequency of such vibrational surface whispering gallery modes, revealing diverse types of surface vibrations including longitudinal, transverse, and Rayleigh-type deformations. We parametrically investigate these various modes by changing their orders in the azimuthal, radial, and polar directions to reveal different vibrational structures including mechanical resonances that are localized near the interface with the environment where they can sense changes in the surroundings.

id: 1106.4752
title: 2D symmetry protected topological orders and their protected gapless edge excitations
authors: Xie Chen, Zheng-Xin Liu, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 15 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 235141 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4752
abstract: Topological insulators in free fermion systems have been well characterized and classified. However, it is not clear in strongly interacting boson or fermion systems what symmetry protected topological orders exist. In this paper, we present a model in a 2D interacting spin system with nontrivial on-site $Z_2$ symmetry protected topological order. The order is nontrivial because we can prove that the 1D system on the boundary must be gapless if the symmetry is not broken, which generalizes the gaplessness of Wess-Zumino-Witten model for Lie symmetry groups to any discrete symmetry groups. The construction of this model is related to a nontrivial 3-cocycle of the $Z_2$ group and can be generalized to any symmetry group. It potentially leads to a complete classification of symmetry protected topological orders in interacting boson and fermion systems of any dimension. Specifically, this exactly solvable model has a unique gapped ground state on any closed manifold and gapless excitations on the boundary if $Z_2$ symmetry is not broken. We prove the latter by developing the tool of matrix product unitary operator to study the nonlocal symmetry transformation on the boundary and revealing the nontrivial 3-cocycle structure of this transformation. Similar ideas are used to construct a 2D fermionic model with on-site $Z_2$ symmetry protected topological order.

id: 1106.4772
title: Symmetry protected topological orders and the group cohomology of their symmetry group
authors: Xie Chen, Zheng-Cheng Gu, Zheng-Xin Liu, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 55 pages, 42 figures, RevTeX4-1, included some new references
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 155114 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4772
abstract: Symmetry protected topological (SPT) phases are gapped short-range-entangled quantum phases with a symmetry G. They can all be smoothly connected to the same trivial product state if we break the symmetry. The Haldane phase of spin-1 chain is the first example of SPT phase which is protected by SO(3) spin rotation symmetry. The topological insulator is another exam- ple of SPT phase which is protected by U(1) and time reversal symmetries. It has been shown that free fermion SPT phases can be systematically described by the K-theory. In this paper, we show that interacting bosonic SPT phases can be systematically described by group cohomology theory: distinct d-dimensional bosonic SPT phases with on-site symmetry G (which may contain anti-unitary time reversal symmetry) can be labeled by the elements in H^{1+d}[G, U_T(1)] - the Borel (1 + d)-group-cohomology classes of G over the G-module U_T(1). The boundary excitations of the non-trivial SPT phases are gapless or degenerate. Even more generally, we find that the different bosonic symmetry breaking short-range-entangled phases are labeled by the following three mathematical objects: (G_H, G_{\Psi}, H^{1+d}[G_{\Psi}, U_T(1)], where G_H is the symmetry group of the Hamiltonian and G_{\Psi} the symmetry group of the ground states.

id: 1106.4792
title: Temperature-Dependent Behavior of Confined Many-electron Systems in the Hartree-Fock Approximation
authors: Travis Sjostrom, Frank E. Harris, S.B. Trickey
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev. B 85, 045125 (2012)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4792
abstract: Many-electron systems at substantial finite temperatures and densities present a major challenge to density functional theory. Very little is known about the free-energy behavior over the temperature range of interest, for example, in the study of warm dense matter. As a result, it is difficult to assess the validity of proposed approximate free-energy density functionals. Here we address, at least in part, this need for detailed results on well-characterized systems for purposes of testing and calibration of proposed approximate functionals. We present results on a comparatively simple, well-defined, but computationally feasible model, namely thermally occupied Hartree-Fock states for eight one-electron atoms at arbitrary positions in a hard-walled box. We discuss the main technical tasks (defining a suitable basis and evaluation of the required matrix elements) and discuss the physics which emerges from the calculations.

id: 1106.4794
title: Noise and microresonance of critical current in Josephson junction induced by Kondo trap states
authors: Mohammad H. Ansari, Frank K. Wilhelm
comments: 19 pages, 9 figures, proposed experiments, added 2 references
journal: Physics Review B. 84, 235102 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4794
abstract: We analyze the impact of trap states in the oxide layer of a superconducting tunnel junctions, on the fluctuation of the Josephson critical current, thus on coherence in superconducting qubits. Two mechanisms are usually considered: the current blockage due to repulsion at the occupied trap states, and the noise from electrons hopping across a trap. We extend previous studies of noninteracting traps to the case where the traps have on-site electron repulsion inside one ballistic channel. The repulsion not only allows the appropriate temperature dependence of 1/f noise, but also is a control to the coupling between the computational qubit and the spurious two-level systems inside the oxide dielectric. We use second order perturbation theory which allows to obtain analytical formulae for the interacting bound states and spectral weights, limited to small and intermediate repulsions. Remarkably, it still reproduces the main features of the model as identified from the Numerical Renormalization Group. We present analytical formulations for the subgap bound state energies, the singlet-doublet phase boundary, and the spectral weights. We show that interactions can reverse the supercurrent across the trap. We finally work out the spectrum of junction resonators for qubits in the presence of on-site repulsive electrons and analyze its dependence on microscopic parameters that may be controlled by fabrication.

id: 1106.4838
title: A quantum-dynamical theory for nonlinear optical interactions in graphene
authors: Zheshen Zhang, Paul L. Voss
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4838
abstract: We use a quantum-dynamical model to investigate the optical response of graphene under low excitation power. Ultrafast carrier relaxation processes, which play an important role for understanding the optical response of graphene, are included phenomenologically into the model. We obtain analytical solutions for the linear and third-order nonlinear optical response of graphene, and four-wave mixing in particular. This theory shows agreement with recently reported experimental data on linear complex optical conductivity and four-wave mixing, providing evidence for ultrafast quantum-dephasing times of approximately 1 fs.

id: 1106.4892
title: Valley pair qubits in double quantum dots of gapped graphene
authors: G. Y. Wu, N.-Y. Lue, L. Chang
comments: 47 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4892
abstract: The rise of graphene opens a new door to qubit implementation, as discussed in the recent proposal of valley pair qubits in double quantum dots of gapped graphene (Wu et al., arXiv: 1104.0443 [cond-mat.mes-hall]). The work here presents the comprehensive theory underlying the proposal. It discusses the interaction of electrons with external magnetic and electric fields in such structures. Specifically, it examines a strong, unique mechanism, i.e., the analogue of the 1st-order relativistic effect in gapped graphene. This mechanism is state mixing free and allows, together with the electrically tunable exchange coupling, a fast, all-electric manipulation of qubits via electric gates, in the time scale of ns. The work also looks into the issue of fault tolerance in a typical case, yielding at 10oK a long qubit coherence time (~O(ms)).

id: 1106.4906
title: Numerical Computation of Dynamically Important Excited States of Many-Body Systems
authors: Mateusz Lacki, Dominique Delande, Jakub Zakrzewski
comments: Expanded version (12pp. 13 figures)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4906
abstract: We present an extension of the time-dependent Density Matrix Renormalization Group (t-DMRG), also known as Time Evolving Block Decimation algorithm (TEBD), allowing for the computation of dynamically important excited states of one-dimensional many-body systems. We show its practical use for analyzing the dynamical properties and excitations of the Bose-Hubbard model describing ultracold atoms loaded in an optical lattice from a Bose-Einstein condensate. This allows for a deeper understanding of nonadiabaticity in experimental realizations of insulating phases.

id: 1106.4953
title: Convergence of repeated quantum non-demolition measurements and wave function collapse
authors: Michel Bauer, Denis Bernard
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A84, 044103 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4953
abstract: Motivated by recent experiments on quantum trapped fields, we give a rigorous proof that repeated indirect quantum non-demolition (QND) measurements converge to the collapse of the wave function as predicted by the postulates of quantum mechanics for direct measurements. We also relate the rate of convergence toward the collapsed wave function to the relative entropy of each indirect measurement, a result which makes contact with information theory.

id: 1106.4966
title: Solving condensed-matter ground-state problems by semidefinite relaxations
authors: Thomas Barthel, Robert H¨¹bener
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures; original title "Approaching condensed matter ground states from below"; improved numerics, added references; published version, including appendices
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 200404 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4966
abstract: We present a new generic approach to the condensed-matter ground-state problem which is complementary to variational techniques and works directly in the thermodynamic limit. Relaxing the ground-state problem, we obtain semidefinite programs (SDP). These can be solved efficiently, yielding strict lower bounds to the ground-state energy and approximations to the few-particle Green's functions. As the method is applicable for all particle statistics, it represents in particular a novel route for the study of strongly correlated fermionic and frustrated spin systems in D>1 spatial dimensions. It is demonstrated for the XXZ model and the Hubbard model of spinless fermions. The results are compared against exact solutions, quantum Monte Carlo, and Anderson bounds, showing the competitiveness of the SDP method.

id: 1106.5011
title: Electron-positron pairs production in a macroscopic charged core
authors: Remo Ruffini, She-Sheng Xue
comments: 14 pages 2 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. B 696 (2011) 416-412
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5011
abstract: Classical and semi-classical energy states of relativistic electrons bounded by a massive and charged core with the charge-mass-radio Q/M and macroscopic radius R_c are discussed. We show that the energies of semi-classical (bound) states can be much smaller than the negative electron mass-energy (-mc^2), and energy-level crossing to negative energy continuum occurs. Electron-positron pair production takes place by quantum tunneling, if these bound states are not occupied. Electrons fill into these bound states and positrons go to infinity. We explicitly calculate the rate of pair-production, and compare it with the rates of electron-positron production by the Sauter-Euler-Heisenberg-Schwinger in a constant electric field. In addition, the pair-production rate for the electro-gravitational balance ratio Q/M = 10^{-19} is much larger than the pair-production rate due to the Hawking processes.

id: 1106.5013
title: On the application of radio frequency voltages to ion traps via helical resonators
authors: J.D. Siverns, L.R. Simkins, S. Weidt, W.K. Hensinger
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics B 106, 327 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5013
abstract: Ions confined using a Paul trap require a stable, high voltage and low noise radio frequency (RF) potential. We present a guide for the design and construction of a helical coil resonator for a desired frequency that maximises the quality factor for a set of experimental constraints. We provide an in-depth analysis of the system formed from a shielded helical coil and an ion trap by treating the system as a lumped element model. This allows us to predict the resonant frequency and quality factor in terms of the physical parameters of the resonator and the properties of the ion trap. We also compare theoretical predictions with experimental data for different resonators, and predict the voltage applied to the ion trap as a function of the Q-factor, input power and the properties of the resonant circuit.

id: 1106.5017
title: From Quantum $A_N$ (Calogero) to $H_4$ (Rational) Model
authors: Alexander V. Turbiner
comments: dedicated to Willard Miller; 20 pages
journal: SIGMA 7 (2011), 071
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5017
abstract: A brief and incomplete review of known integrable and (quasi)-exactly-solvable quantum models with rational (meromorphic in Cartesian coordinates) potentials is given. All of them are characterized by (i) a discrete symmetry of the Hamiltonian, (ii) a number of polynomial eigenfunctions, (iii) a factorization property for eigenfunctions, and admit (iv) the separation of the radial coordinate and, hence, the existence of the 2nd order integral, (v) an algebraic form in invariants of a discrete symmetry group (in space of orbits).

id: 1106.5077
title: Graded Hopf Maps and Fuzzy Superspheres
authors: Kazuki Hasebe
comments: 56 pages, no figures, two tables, references added, minor corrections, to appear in NPB
journal: Nucl.Phys. B 853 (2011) 777-827
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5077
abstract: We argue supersymmetric generalizations of fuzzy two- and four-spheres based on the unitary-orthosymplectic algebras, $uosp(N|2)$ and $uosp(N|4)$, respectively. Supersymmetric version of Schwinger construction is applied to derive graded fully symmetric representation for fuzzy superspheres. As a classical counterpart of fuzzy superspheres, graded versions of 1st and 2nd Hopf maps are introduced, and their basic geometrical structures are studied. It is shown that fuzzy superspheres are represented as a "superposition" of fuzzy superspheres with lower supersymmetries. We also investigate algebraic structures of fuzzy two- and four-superspheres to identify $su(2|N)$ and $su(4|N)$ as their enhanced algebraic structures, respectively. Evaluation of correlation functions manifests such enhanced structure as quantum fluctuations of fuzzy supersphere.

id: 1106.5091
title: Detecting non-Abelian statistics of Majorana fermions in quantum nanowire networks
authors: Zheng-Yuan Xue
comments: V1, accepted for publication at JETP Letters; v2, typos corrected
journal: JETP Letters 94, 213 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5091
abstract: We propose a scheme in semiconducting quantum nanowires structure to demonstrate the non-Abelian statistics for Majorana fermions in terms of braid group. The Majorana fermions are localized at the endpoints of semiconducting wires, which are deposited on an \emph{s}-wave superconductor. The non-Abelian nature of Majorana fermion is manifested by the fact that the output of the different applied orders of two operations, constructed by the braid group elements, are different. In particular, the difference can be unambiguously imprinted on the quantum states of a superconducting flux qubit.

id: 1106.5219
title: Quantum versus classical counting in nonMarkovian master equations
authors: Clive Emary, Ramon Aguado
comments: 12 pages; 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 085425 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5219
abstract: We discuss the description of full counting statistics in quantum transport with a nonMarkovian master equation. We focus on differences arising from whether charge is considered as a classical or a quantum degree of freedom. These differences manifest themselves in the inhomogeneous term of the master equation which describes initial correlations. We describe the influence on current and in particular, the finite-frequency shotnoise. We illustrate these ideas by studying transport through a quantum dot and give results that include both sequential and cotunneling processes. Importantly, the noise spectra derived from the classical description are essentially frequency-independent and all quantum noise effects are absent. These effects are fully recovered when charge is considered as a quantum degree of freedom.

id: 1106.5228
title: Spinning-particle model for the Dirac equation and the relativistic Zitterbewegung
authors: A. A. Deriglazov
comments: 6 pages, misprints corrected
journal: Phys. Lett. A 376 (2012) 309-313
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5228
abstract: We construct the relativistic particle model without Grassmann variables which meets the following requirements. A) Canonical quantization of the model implies the Dirac equation. B) The variable which experiences {\it Zitterbewegung}, represents a gauge non-invariant variable in our model. Hence our particle does not experiences the undesirable {\it Zitterbewegung}. C) In the nonrelativistic limit spin is described by three-vector, as it could be expected.

id: 1106.5237
title: The Heine-Stieltjes correspondence and the polynomial approach to the standard pairing problem
authors: Feng Pan, Xin Guan, Mingxia Xie, Lina Bao, J. P. Draayer
comments: ReVTeX, 4 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5237
abstract: A new approach for solving the Bethe ansatz (Gaudin-Richardson) equations of the standard pairing problem is established based on the Heine-Stieltjes correspondence. For $k$ pairs of valence nucleons on $n$ different single-particle levels, it is found that solutions of the Bethe ansatz equations can be obtained from one (k+1)x(k+1) and one (n-1)x(k+1) matrices, which are associated with the extended Heine-Stieltjes and Van Vleck polynomials, respectively. Since the coefficients in these polynomials are free from divergence with variations in contrast to the original Bethe ansatz equations, the approach thus provides with a new efficient and systematic way to solve the problem, which, by extension, can also be used to solve a large class of Gaudin-type quantum many-body problems and to establish a new efficient angular momentum projection method for multi-particle systems.

id: 1106.5248
title: Semi-classical theory for quantum quenches in finite transverse Ising chains
authors: Heiko Rieger, Ferenc Igl¨®i
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 165117 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5248
abstract: We present a quantitative semi-classical theory for the non-equilibrium dynamics of transverse Ising chains after quantum quenches, in particular sudden changes of the transverse field strength. We obtain accurate predictions for the quench dependent relaxation times and correlation lengths, and also about the recurrence times and quasiperiodicity of time dependent correlations in finite systems with open or periodic boundary conditions. We compare the quantiative predictions of our semi-classical theory (local magnetization, equal time bulk-bulk and surface-to-bulk correlations, and bulk autocorrelations) with the results from exact free fermion calculations and discuss the range of applicability of the semi-classical theory and possible generaliztaions and extensions.

id: 1106.5378
title: Phase transitions and entanglement properties in spin-1 Heisenberg clusters with single-ion anisotropy
authors: V S Abgaryan, N S Ananikian, L N Ananikyan, A N Kocharian
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scr. 83 (2011) 055702
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5378
abstract: The incipient quantum phase transitions of relevance to nonzero fluctuations and entanglement in Heisenberg clusters are studied in this paper by exploiting negativity as a measure in bipartite and frustrated spin-1 anisotropic Heisenberg clusters with bilinear-biquadratic exchange, single-ion anisotropy and magnetic field. Using the exact diagonalization technique, it is shown that quantum critical points signaled by qualitative changes in behavior of magnetization and particle number are ultimately related to microscopic entanglement and collective excitations. The plateaus and peaks in spin and particle susceptibilities define the conditions for a high/low-density quantum entanglement and various ordered phases with different spin (particle) concentrations.

id: 1106.5443
title: Interaction enhanced imaging of individual atoms embedded in dense atomic gases
authors: G. G¨¹nter, M. Robert-de-Saint-Vincent, H. Schempp, C. S. Hofmann, S. Whitlock, M. Weidem¨¹ller
comments: 5 pages plus supplementary material
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5443
abstract: We propose a new all-optical method to image individual atoms within dense atomic gases. The scheme exploits interaction induced shifts on highly polarizable excited states, which can be spatially resolved via an electromagnetically induced transparency resonance. We focus in particular on imaging strongly interacting many-body states of Rydberg atoms embedded in an ultracold gas of ground state atoms. Using a realistic model we show that it is possible to image individual impurity atoms with enhanced sensitivity and high resolution despite photon shot noise and atomic density fluctuations. This new imaging scheme is ideally suited to equilibrium and dynamical studies of complex many-body phenomena involving strongly interacting atoms. As an example we study blockade effects and correlations in the distribution of Rydberg atoms optically excited from a dense gas.

id: 1106.5557
title: Quantum chaos: an introduction via chains of interacting spins-1/2
authors: Aviva Gubin, Lea F. Santos
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Am. J. Phys. 80, 246 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5557
abstract: We introduce aspects of quantum chaos by analyzing the eigenvalues and the eigenstates of quantum many-body systems. The properties of quantum systems whose classical counterparts are chaotic differ from those whose classical counterparts are not chaotic. The spectrum of the first exhibits repulsion of the energy levels. This is one of the main signatures of quantum chaos. We show how level repulsion develops in one-dimensional systems of interacting spins 1/2 which are devoid of random elements and involve only two-body interactions. In addition to the statistics of the eigenvalues, we analyze how the structure of the eigenstates may indicate chaos. The programs used to obtain the data are available online.

id: 1106.5558
title: Fermionic Casimir effect with helix boundary condition
authors: Xiang-hua Zhai, Xin-zhou Li, Chao-Jun Feng
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, published in Eur. Phys. J. C
journal: Eur.Phys.J.C71:1654,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5558
abstract: In this paper, we consider the fermionic Casimir effect under a new type of space-time topology using the concept of quotient topology. The relation between the new topology and that in Ref. \cite{Feng,Zhai3} is something like that between a M\"obius strip and a cylindric. We obtain the exact results of the Casimir energy and force for the massless and massive Dirac fields in the ($D+1$)-dimensional space-time. For both massless and massive cases, there is a $Z_2$ symmetry for the Casimir energy. To see the effect of the mass, we compare the result with that of the massless one and we found that the Casimir force approaches the result of the force in the massless case when the mass tends to zero and vanishes when the mass tends to infinity.

id: 1106.5616
title: Difference Boltzmann Equation
authors: Alexandr A. Klyukanov
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5616
abstract: Difference Boltzmann Equation is derived in a plane wavelets representation with account of two-particle correlations. It is shown that the set of plane wavelet orthonormal functions is complete. The set of ket vectors is used as the second quantization basis allowing introducing the positively definite distribution function. It is obtained that inhomogeneous system is described by numbers of particles at quantized positions with quantized momenta. Difference Boltzmann Equation transforms into the classical Boltzmann Equation in the limit, where distribution function varies little in and

id: 1106.5660
title: Review of the Topos Approach to Quantum Theory
authors: Cecilia Flori
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5660
abstract: Topos theory has been suggested by D\"oring and Isham as an alternative mathematical structure with which to formulate physical theories. In particular, the topos approach suggests a radical new way of thinking about what a theory of physics is and what its conceptual framework looks like. The motivation of using topos theory to express quantum theory lies in the desire to overcome certain interpretational problems inherent in the standard formulation of the theory. In particular, the topos reformulation of quantum theory overcomes the instrumentalist/Copenhagen interpretation thereby rendering the theory more realist. In the process one ends up with a multivalued/intuitionistic logic rather than a Boolean logic. In this article we shall review some of these developments.

id: 1106.5772
title: A New Estimate on the Two-Dimensional Indirect Coulomb Energy
authors: Rafael D. Benguria, Pablo Gallegos, Matej Tusek
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5772
abstract: We prove a new lower bound on the indirect Coulomb energy in two dimensional quantum mechanics in terms of the single particle density of the system. The new universal lower bound is an alternative to the Lieb--Solovej--Yngvason bound with a smaller constant, C=(4/3)^{3/2}\sqrt{5 \pi -1} \approx 5.90 < C_{LSY}= 192\sqrt{2 \pi} \approx 481.27, which also involves an additive gradient energy term of the single particle density.

id: 1106.5854
title: Explaining the observed long coherence effects by 2D photon echo experiments in photosynthetic EET : Two-Component Phonon Spectrum model
authors: Navinder Singh, V. M. Kenkre, R. E. Amritkar
comments: 5 pages and 14 figures; This paper has been withdrawn by the authors
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5854
abstract: We propose a simple stochastic model which successfully explains the long coherence effects observed in photosynthetic Excitation Energy Transport (EET) by 2D photon echo experiments of G. S. Engel et. al. (Nature, {\bf 446} 782, (2007)). Our Two-Component Phonon Spectrum (TCPS) model is based upon the division of phonon degrees of freedom into a systematic component which is treated through polaron transformation and a stochastic component which is treated through dynamical disorder. This model successfully explains the observed long coherence upto $ \sim 600 fsec$ in EET experiments.

id: 1106.5911
title: Non-Markovian Second-Order Quantum Master Equation and Its Markovian Limit: Electronic Energy Transfer in Model Photosynthetic Systems
authors: Navinder Singh, Paul Brumer
comments: 24 pages and 38 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5911
abstract: A direct numerical algorithm for solving the time-nonlocal non-Markovian master equation in the second Born approximation is introduced and the range of utility of this approximation, and of the Markov approximation, is analyzed for the traditional dimer system that models excitation energy transfer in photosynthesis. Specifically, the coupled integro-differential equations for the reduced density matrix are solved by an efficient auxiliary function method in both the energy and site representations. In addition to giving exact results to this order, the approach allows us to computationally assess the range of the reorganization energy and decay rates of the phonon auto-correlation function for which the Markovian Redfield theory and the second order approximation is valid. For example, the use of Redfield theory for $\lambda> 10 \textrm{cm}^{-1}$ in systems like Fenna-Mathews-Olson (FMO) type systems is shown to be in error. In addition, analytic inequalities are obtained for the regime of validity of the Markov approximation in cases of weak and strong resonance coupling, allowing for a quick determination of the utility of the Markovian dynamics in parameter regions. Finally, results for the evolution of states in a dimer system, with and without initial coherence, are compared in order to assess the role of initial coherences.

id: 1106.5942
title: Characterizations of categories of commutative C*-subalgebras
authors: Chris Heunen
comments: 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Operator Algebras (math.OA); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5942
abstract: We aim to characterize the category of injective *-homomorphisms between commutative C*-subalgebras of a given C*-algebra A. We reduce this problem to finding a weakly terminal commutative subalgebra of A, and solve the latter for various C*-algebras, including all commutative ones and all type I von Neumann algebras. This addresses a natural generalization of the Mackey-Piron programme: which lattices are those of closed subspaces of Hilbert space? We also discuss the way this categorified generalization differs from the original question.

id: 1106.5965
title: Schwinger effect in inhomogeneous electric fields
authors: Florian Hebenstreit
comments: PhD thesis, 121 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5965
abstract: The vacuum of quantum electrodynamics is unstable against the formation of many-body states in the presence of an external electric field, manifesting itself as the creation of electron-positron pairs (Schwinger effect). This effect has been a long-standing but still unobserved prediction as the generation of the required field strengths has not been feasible so far. However, due to the advent of a new generation of high-intensity laser systems such as the European XFEL or the Extreme Light Infrastructure (ELI), this effect might eventually become observable within the next decades. Based on the equal-time Wigner formalism, various aspects of the Schwinger effect in electric fields showing both temporal and spatial variations are investigated. Regarding the Schwinger effect in time-dependent electric fields, analytic expressions for the equal-time Wigner function in the presence of a static as well as a pulsed electric field are derived. Moreover, the pair creation process in the presence of a pulsed electric field with sub-cycle structure, which acts as a model for a realistic laser pulse, is examined. Finally, an ab initio simulation of the Schwinger effect in a simple space- and time-dependent electric field is performed for the first time, allowing for the calculation of the time evolution of various observables like the charge density, the particle number density or the number of created particles.

id: 1106.6143
title: Detailed study of dissipative quantum dynamics of K-2 attached to helium nanodroplets
authors: Martin Schlesinger, Walter. T. Strunz
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys 14, 013029 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6143
abstract: We thoroughly investigate vibrational quantum dynamics of dimers attached to He droplets motivated by recent measurements with K-2 [1]. For those femtosecond pump-probe experiments, crucial observed features are not reproduced by gas phase calculations but agreement is found using a description based on dissipative quantum dynamics, as briefly shown in [2]. Here we present a detailed study of the influence of possible effects induced by the droplet. The helium droplet causes electronic decoherence, shifts of potential surfaces, and relaxation of wave packets in attached dimers. Moreover, a realistic description of (stochastic) desorption of dimers off the droplet needs to be taken into account. Step by step we include and study the importance of these effects in our full quantum calculation. This allows us to reproduce and explain all major experimental findings. We find that desorption is fast and occurs already within 2-10 ps after electronic excitation. A further finding is that slow vibrational motion in the ground state can be considered frictionless.

id: 1106.6150
title: Quantum effects in energy and charge transfer in an artificial photosynthetic complex
authors: Pulak Kumar Ghosh, Anatoly Yu. Smirnov, Franco Nori
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 134, 244103 (2011)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6150
abstract: We investigate the quantum dynamics of energy and charge transfer in a wheel-shaped artificial photosynthetic antenna-reaction center complex.This complex consists of six light-harvesting chromophores and an electron-acceptor fullerene. To describe quantum effects on a femtosecond time scale, we derive the set of exact non-Markovian equations for the Heisenberg operators of this photosynthetic complex in contact with a Gaussian heat bath. With these equations we can analyze the regime of strong system-bath interactions, where reorganization energies are of the order of the intersite exciton couplings. We show that the energy of the initially-excited antenna chromophores is efficiently funneled to the porphyrin-fullerene reaction center, where a charge-separated state is set up in a few picoseconds, with a quantum yield of the order of 95%. In the single-exciton regime, with one antenna chromophore being initially excited, we observe quantum beatings of energy between two resonant antenna chromophores with a decoherence time of $\sim$ 100 fs. We also analyze the double-exciton regime, when two porphyrin molecules involved in the reaction center are initially excited. In this regime we obtain pronounced quantum oscillations of the charge on the fullerene molecule with a decoherence time of about 20 fs (at liquid nitrogen temperatures). These results show a way to directly detect quantum effects in artificial photosynthetic systems.

id: 1106.6175
title: Particle self-bunching in the Schwinger effect in spacetime-dependent electric fields
authors: Florian Hebenstreit, Reinhard Alkofer, Holger Gies
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. Minor changes and typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 180403 (2011)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6175
abstract: Non-perturbative electron-positron pair creation (Schwinger effect) is studied based on the equal-time Wigner formalism in 1+1 dimensions. An ab initio calculation of the Schwinger effect in the presence of a simple space- and time-dependent electric field pulse is performed for the first time, allowing for the calculation of the time evolution of observable quantities such as the charge density, the particle number density or the total number of created particles. We predict a new self-bunching effect of charges in phase space due to the spatial and temporal structure of the pulse.

id: 1106.6179
title: Phase diagram of Landau-Zener phenomena in coupled one-dimensional Bose quantum fluids
authors: Santiago F. Caballero-Benitez, Rosario Paredes
comments: 15 pages, submitted to Phys. Rev. A (new version)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 023605 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6179
abstract: We study stationary and dynamical properties of the many-body Landau-Zener dynamics of a Bose quantum fluid confined in two coupled one-dimensional chains, using a many-body generalization recently reported [Y.-A. Chen et al.], within the decoupling approximation and the one-level band scheme. The energy spectrum evidences the structure of the avoided level crossings as a function of the on-site inter particle interaction strength. On the dynamical side, a phase diagram of the transfer efficiency across ground-state and inverse sweeps is presented. A totally different scenario with respect to the original single-particle Landau-Zener scheme is found for ground-state sweeps, in which a breakdown of the adiabatic region emerges as the sweep rate decreases. On the contrary, the transfer efficiency across inverse sweeps reveals consistent results with the single-particle Landau-Zener predictions. In the strong coupling regime, we find that there is a critical value of the on-site interaction for which the transfer of particles starts to vanish independently of the sweep rate. Our results are in qualitative agreement with those of the experimental counterpart.

id: 1106.6181
title: On the Generalized Correspondence Principle
authors: Joseph Manjavidze
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6181
abstract: It is noted that quantum theory includes the correspondence principle which is independent of the value of quantum corrections. Some consequences of this generalized correspondence principle are considered. For example, it is discussed how the symmetry constraints can be taken into account.

id: 1106.6248
title: Short baseline neutrino oscillations: when entanglement suppresses coherence
authors: Daniel Boyanovsky
comments: 29 pages, 6 figures, revised MiniBooNE estimates, matches published version
journal: Physical Review D 84, 065001 (2011)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6248
abstract: For neutrino oscillations to take place the entangled quantum state of a neutrino and a charged lepton produced via charged current interactions must be disentangled. Implementing a non-perturbative Wigner-Weisskopf method we obtain the correct \emph{entangled} quantum state of neutrinos and charged leptons from the (two-body) decay of a parent particle. The source lifetime and disentanglement length scale lead to a suppression of the oscillation probabilities in short-baseline experiments. The suppression is determined by $\pi\, L_s/L_{osc}$ where $L_s$ is the \emph{smallest} of the decay length of the parent particle or the disentanglement length scale. For $L_s \geq L_{osc}$ coherence and oscillations are suppressed. These effects are more prominent in \emph{short base line experiments} and at low neutrino energy. We obtain the corrections to the appearance and disappearance probabilities modified by both the lifetime of the source and the disentanglement scale and discuss their implications for accelerator and reactor experiments. These effects imply that fits to the experimental data based on the usual quantum mechanical formulation \emph{underestimate} $\sin^2(2\theta)$ and $\delta m^2$, and are more dramatic for $\delta m^2\simeq \,\mathrm{eV}^2$, the mass range for new generations of sterile neutrinos that could explain the short-baseline anomalies.

id: 1106.6275
title: Interaction-induced stabilization of circular Rydberg atoms
authors: Bernd Hezel, Michael Mayle, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 063402 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6275
abstract: We discuss a candidate solution for the controlled trapping and manipulation of two individual Rydberg atoms by means of a magnetic Ioffe-Pritchard trap that is superimposed by a constant electric field. In such a trap Rydberg atoms experience a permanent electric dipole moment that can be of the order of several hundred Debye. The interplay of electric dipolar repulsion and three dimensional magnetic confinement leads to a well controllable equilibrium configuration with tunable trap frequency and atomic distance. We thoroughly investigate the trapping potentials and analyze the interaction-induced stabilization of two such trapped Rydberg atoms. Possible limitations and collapse scenarios are discussed.

id: 1106.6295
title: Condensed Fraction of an Atomic Bose Gas Induced by Critical Correlations
authors: Robert P. Smith, Naaman Tammuz, Robert L. D. Campbell, Markus Holzmann, Zoran Hadzibabic
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 190403 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6295
abstract: We study the condensed fraction of a harmonically-trapped atomic Bose gas at the critical point predicted by mean-field (MF) theory. The non-zero condensed fraction $f_0$ is induced by critical correlations which increase the transition temperature $T_c$ above $\T_c^{MF}$. Unlike the $T_c$ shift in a trapped gas, $f_0$ is sensitive only to the critical behaviour in the quasi-uniform part of the cloud near the trap centre. To leading order in the interaction parameter $a/\lambda_0$, where $a$ is the s-wave scattering length and $\lambda_0$ the thermal wavelength, we expect a universal scaling $f_0 \propto (a/\lambda_0)^4$. We experimentally verify this scaling using a Feshbach resonance to tune $a/\lambda_0$. Further, using the local density approximation, we compare our measurements with the universal result obtained from Monte-Carlo simulations for a uniform system, and find excellent quantitative agreement.

id: 1106.6329
title: Theory of superfluidity and drag force in the one-dimensional Bose gas
authors: Alexander Yu. Cherny, Jean-Sebastien Caux, Joachim Brand
comments: 17 pages, 12 figures, mini-review prepared for the special issue of Frontiers of Physics "Recent Progresses on Quantum Dynamics of Ultracold Atoms and Future Quantum Technologies", edited by Profs. Lee, Ueda, and Drummond
journal: Frontiers of Physics 7, 54 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6329
abstract: The one-dimensional Bose gas is an unusual superfluid. In contrast to higher spatial dimensions, the existence of non-classical rotational inertia is not directly linked to the dissipationless motion of infinitesimal impurities. Recently, experimental tests with ultracold atoms have begun and quantitative predictions for the drag force experienced by moving obstacles have become available. This topical review discusses the drag force obtained from linear response theory in relation to Landau's criterion of superfluidity. Based upon improved analytical and numerical understanding of the dynamical structure factor, results for different obstacle potentials are obtained, including single impurities, optical lattices and random potentials generated from speckle patterns. The dynamical breakdown of superfluidity in random potentials is discussed in relation to Anderson localization and the predicted superfluid-insulator transition in these systems.

id: 1106.6351
title: Scattering theory of topological insulators and superconductors
authors: I. C. Fulga, F. Hassler, A. R. Akhmerov
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, 1 table, 3 ancilla videos. v2: updated figures and references. v3: added appendix (published version). v4: fixed typos, updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 165409 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6351
abstract: The topological invariant of a topological insulator (or superconductor) is given by the number of symmetry-protected edge states present at the Fermi level. Despite this fact, established expressions for the topological invariant require knowledge of all states below the Fermi energy. Here, we propose a way to calculate the topological invariant employing solely its scattering matrix at the Fermi level without knowledge of the full spectrum. Since the approach based on scattering matrices requires much less information than the Hamiltonian-based approaches (surface versus bulk), it is numerically more efficient. In particular, is better-suited for studying disordered systems. Moreover, it directly connects the topological invariant to transport properties potentially providing a new way to probe topological phases.

id: 1106.5754
title: Cooperative resonance linewidth narrowing in a planar metamaterial
authors: S. D. Jenkins, J. Ruostekoski
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures, to appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 103003
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5754
abstract: We theoretically analyze the experimental observations of a spectral line collapse in a metamaterial array of asymmetric split ring resonators [Fedotov et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 223901 (2010)]. We show that the ensemble of closely-spaced resonators exhibits cooperative response, explaining the observed system-size dependent narrowing of the transmission resonance linewidth. We further show that this cooperative narrowing depends sensitively on the lattice spacing and that significantly stronger narrowing could be achieved in media with suppressed ohmic losses.

id: 1106.5945
title: Quantum-classical correspondence for a dc-biased cavity resonator--Cooper-pair transistor system
authors: Miles Blencowe, Andrew Armour, Alex Rimberg
comments: To appear in "Fluctuating Nonlinear Oscillators", Edited by Mark Dykman (Oxford University Press)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5945
abstract: We investigate the quantum versus classical dynamics of a microwave cavity-coupled-Cooper pair transistor (CPT) system, where an applied dc bias causes the system to self-oscillate via the ac Josephson effect. Varying the dc bias allows the self-oscillation frequency to be tuned. An unusual feature of the system design is that the dc bias does not significantly affect the high quality factor of the cavity mode to which the CPT predominantly couples. The CPT-cavity mode system has a mechanical analogue involving a driven coupled pendulum-oscillator system. The corresponding, nonlinear classical dynamical equations exhibit chaotic, as well as aperiodic motions depending on the initial conditions and the nature and strengths of the damping/noise forces. The quantum master equation exhibits such phenomena as dynamical tunneling and the generation of non-classical states from initial classical states. Obviating the need for an external ac-drive line, which typically is harder to noise filter than a dc bias line, the self-oscillating system described here has considerable promise for demonstrating macroscopic quantum dynamical behavior.

id: 1106.4670
title: Probing the power of an electronic Maxwell Demon
authors: Gernot Schaller, Clive Emary, Gerold Kiesslich, Tobias Brandes
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, more details added, to appear in PRB
journal: Physical Review B 84 085418 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4670
abstract: We suggest that a single-electron transistor continuously monitored by a quantum point contact may function as a Maxwell demon when closed-loop feedback operations are applied as time-dependent modifications of the tunneling rates across its junctions. The device may induce a current across the single-electron transistor even when no bias voltage or thermal gradient is applied. For different feedback schemes, we derive effective master equations and compare the induced feedback current and its fluctuations as well as the generated power. Provided that tunneling rates can be modified without changing the transistor level, the device may be implemented with current technology.

id: 1106.0639
title: Classical Noncommutative Electrodynamics with External Source
authors: T. C. Adorno, D. M. Gitman, A. E. Shabad, D. V. Vassilevich
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.D84:065003,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0639
abstract: In a $U(1)_{\star}$-noncommutative (NC) gauge field theory we extend the Seiberg-Witten (SW) map to include the (gauge-invariance-violating) external current and formulate - to the first order in the NC parameter - gauge-covariant classical field equations. We find solutions to these equations in the vacuum and in an external magnetic field, when the 4-current is a static electric charge of a finite size $a$, restricted from below by the elementary length. We impose extra boundary conditions, which we use to rule out all singularities, $1/r$ included, from the solutions. The static charge proves to be a magnetic dipole, with its magnetic moment being inversely proportional to its size $a$. The external magnetic field modifies the long-range Coulomb field and some electromagnetic form-factors. We also analyze the ambiguity in the SW map and show that at least to the order studied here it is equivalent to the ambiguity of adding a homogeneous solution to the current-conservation equation.

id: 1106.4164
title: Noncommutative spectral geometry, algebra doubling and the seeds of quantization
authors: Mairi Sakellariadou, Antonio Stabile, Giuseppe Vitiello
comments: 12 pages; amended version to match publication in PRD
journal: Physical Review D Vol.84, No.4, p. 045026 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4164
abstract: A physical interpretation of the two-sheeted space, the most fundamental ingredient of noncommutative spectral geometry proposed by Connes as an approach to unification, is presented. It is shown that the doubling of the algebra is related to dissipation and to the gauge structure of the theory, the gauge field acting as a reservoir for the matter field. In a regime of completely deterministic dynamics, dissipation appears to play a key role in the quantization of the theory, according to 't Hooft's conjecture. It is thus argued that the noncommutative spectral geometry classical construction carries implicit in its feature of the doubling of the algebra the seeds of quantization.

id: 1106.4902
title: Sharp asymptotics for Toeplitz determinants, fluctuations and the gaussian free field on a Riemann surface
authors: Robert J. Berman
comments: v1: 15 pages, v2: 21 pages, added new Bergman kernel asymptotics with exponentially small error terms
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Complex Variables (math.CV); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4902
abstract: We consider canonical determinantal random point processes with N particles on a compact Riemann surface X defined with respect to the constant curvature metric. In the higher genus (hyperbolic) cases these point processes may be defined in terms of automorphic forms. We establish strong exponential concentration of measure type properties involving Dirichlet norms of linear statistics. This gives an optimal Central Limit Theorem (CLT), saying that the fluctuations of the corresponding empirical measures converge, in the large N limt, towards the Laplacian of the Gaussian free field on X in the strongest possible sense. The CLT is also shown to be equivalent to a new sharp strong Szeg\"o type theorem for Toeplitz determinants in this context. One of the ingredients in the proofs are new Bergman kernel asymptotics providing exponentially small error terms in a constant curvature setting.

id: 1106.1974
title: Probing spacetime noncommutative constant via charged astrophysical black hole lensing
authors: Chikun Ding, Jiliang Jing
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures, 4 tables, to appear in JHEP
journal: JHEP10(2011)052
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1974
abstract: We study the influence of the spacetime noncommutative parameter on the strong field gravitational lensing in the noncommutative Reissner-Nordstr\"{o}m black-hole spacetime. Supposing that the gravitational field of the supermassive central object of the Galaxy is described by this metric, we estimate the numerical values of the coefficients and observables for strong gravitational lensing. Our results show that with the increase of the parameter $\sqrt{\vartheta}$, the observables $\theta_{\infty}$ and $r_m$ decrease, while $s$ increases. Our results also show that i) if $\sqrt{\vartheta}$ is strong, the observables are close to those of the noncommutative Schwarzschild black hole lensing; ii) if $\sqrt{\vartheta}$ is weak, the observables are close to those of the commutative Reissner-Nordstr\"{o}m black hole lensing; iii) the detectable scope of $\vartheta$ in a noncommutative Reissner-Nordstr\"{o}m black hole lensing is $0.12\leq\sqrt{\vartheta}\leq0.26$, which is wider than that in a noncommutative Schwarzschild black hole lensing, $0.18\leq\sqrt{\vartheta}\leq0.26$. This may offer a way to probe the spacetime noncommutative constant $\vartheta$ by the astronomical instruments in the future.

id: 1106.1530
title: Dynamics of confined Levy flights in terms of (Levy) semigroups
authors: Piotr Garbaczewski, Vladimir Stephanovich
comments: New title, abstract, figures, a number of text amendments
journal: Acta Phys. Pol. B 43, (2012), 977-997
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.1530
abstract: The master equation for a probability density function (pdf) driven by L\'{e}vy noise, if conditioned to conform with the principle of detailed balance, admits a transformation to a contractive strongly continuous semigroup dynamics. Given a priori a functional form of the semigroup potential, we address the ground-state reconstruction problem for generic L\'{e}vy-stable semigroups, for {\em all} values of the stability index $\mu \in (0,2)$. That is known to resolve an invariant pdf for confined L\'{e}vy flights (e.g. the former jump-type process). Jeopardies of the procedure are discussed, with a focus on: (i) when an invariant pdf actually is an asymptotic one, (ii) subtleties of the pdf $\mu $-dependence in the vicinity and sharply {\em at} the boundaries 0 and 2 of the stability interval, where jump-type scenarios cease to be valid.

id: 1106.3933
title: Universality of the Three-Body Parameter for Efimov States in Ultracold Cesium
authors: M. Berninger, A. Zenesini, B. Huang, W. Harm, H.-C. N?gerl, F. Ferlaino, R. Grimm, P. S. Julienne, J. M. Hutson
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 120401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3933
abstract: We report on the observation of triatomic Efimov resonances in an ultracold gas of cesium atoms. Exploiting the wide tunability of interactions resulting from three broad Feshbach resonances in the same spin channel, we measure magnetic-field dependent three-body recombination loss. The positions of the loss resonances yield corresponding values for the three-body parameter, which in universal few-body physics is required to describe three-body phenomena and in particular to fix the spectrum of Efimov states. Our observations show a robust universal behavior with a three-body parameter that stays essentially constant.

id: 1106.0822
title: Dipole-dipole interaction and polarization mode in BEC
authors: P. A. Andreev, L. S. Kuzmenkov
comments: 8 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0822
abstract: We propose the construction of a set of quantum hydrodynamics equations for the Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) where atoms have electric dipole moment (EDM). The contribution of the dipole-dipole interactions (DDI) to the Euler equation is estimated. Quantum equations for the evolution of medium polarization are constructed for the first time. The mathematical method we developed allows studying the effects of interactions on the evolution of polarization. The developed method may be applied to various physical systems in which dynamics is affected by DDI. A problem of elementary excitations in BEC, either affected or not affected by the uniform external electric field, is addressed using our method. We show that the evolution of polarization in BEC leads to the formation of a novel type of elementary excitations. Also, we consider the process of wave generation in polarized BEC by means of monoenergetic beam of neutral polarized particles. We compute the possibilities of the generation of Bogoliubov's modes and polarization modes by the dipole beam.

id: 1106.0004
title: Non-Abelian statistics versus the Witten anomaly
authors: John McGreevy, Brian Swingle
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures; v2: added refs, minor corrections, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 84, 065019 (2011)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.0004
abstract: This paper is motivated by prospects for non-Abelian statistics of deconfined particle-like objects in 3+1 dimensions, realized as solitons with localized Majorana zeromodes. To this end, we study the fermionic collective coordinates of magnetic monopoles in 3+1 dimensional spontaneously-broken SU(2) gauge theories with various spectra of fermions. We argue that a single Majorana zeromode of the monopole is not compatible with cancellation of the Witten SU(2) anomaly. We also compare this approach with other attempts to realize deconfined non-Abelian objects in 3+1 dimensions.

id: 1106.3350
title: Predicted signatures of the intrinsic spin Hall effect in closed systems
authors: Manuel Valin-Rodriguez
comments: accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 266801 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.3350
abstract: We study a two-dimensional electron system in the presence of spin-orbit interaction. It is shown analytically that the spin-orbit interaction acts as a transversal effective electric field, whose orientation depends on the sign of the $\hat{z}$-axis spin projection. This effect doesn't require any driving external field and is inherent to the spin-orbit interactions present in semiconductor materials. Therefore, it should manifest in both closed and open systems. It is proposed an experiment to observe the intrinsic spin Hall effect in the far infrared absorption of an asymmetric semiconductor nanostructure.

id: 1106.4968
title: Neutrino diffraction induced by many body interaction
authors: Kenzo Ishikawa, Yutaka Tobita
comments: 11 pages, 2 figure. effect of pion's life-time added, new figures added, presentation improved
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4968
abstract: The neutrino produced in the pion decay reveals a new diffraction phenomenon due to many-body interactions in an intermediate time region when wave functions of the parent and daughters overlap. Because of diffraction, the probability to detect the neutrino involves a large finite-size correction that depends on the neutrino mass, $m_{\nu}$ and energy, $E_{\nu}$, the speed of light, $c$, and the distance $L$ between the positions of the initial pion and final neutrino, ${m_{\nu}^2c^4 L}/{(2E_{\nu}\hbar)}$. The correction vanishes for the charged leptons and is finite for the neutrino at a macroscopic distance, $L$, of near-detector regions in ground experiments. A new method for determining the absolute neutrino mass is proposed.

id: 1106.5206
title: Thermalization and Quantum Correlations in Exactly Solvable Models
authors: Miguel A. Cazalilla, A. Iucci, Ming-Chiang Chung
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures. Expanded in response to Referee criticism
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 011133 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5206
abstract: The generalized Gibbs ensemble introduced for describing few body correlations in exactly solvable systems following a quantum quench is related to the nonergodic way in which operators sample, in the limit of infinite time after the quench, the quantum correlations present in the initial state. The nonergodicity of the correlations is thus shown \emph{analytically} to imply the equivalence with the generalized Gibbs ensemble for quantum Ising and XX spin chains as well as for the Luttinger model the thermodynamic limit, and for a broad class of initial states and correlation functions of both local and nonlocal operators.

id: 1106.6017
title: The effect of extreme confinement on the nonlinear-optical response of quantum wires
authors: Shoresh Shafei, Mark G. Kuzyk
comments: 
journal: J. Nonl. Opt. Phys. Mat. 20, 427 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.6017
abstract: This work focuses on understanding the nonlinear-optical response of a 1-D quantum wire embedded in 2-D space when quantum-size effects in the transverse direction are minimized using an extremely weighted delta function potential. Our aim is to establish the fundamental basis for understanding the effect of geometry on the nonlinear-optical response of quantum loops that are formed into a network of quantum wires. Using the concept of leaky quantum wires, it is shown that in the limit of full confinement, the sum rules are obeyed when the transverse infinite-energy continuum states are included. While the continuum states associated with the transverse wavefunction do not contribute to the nonlinear optical response, they are essential to preserving the validity of the sum rules. This work is a building block for future studies of nonlinear-optical enhancement of quantum graphs (which include loops and bent wires) based on their geometry. These properties are important in quantum mechanical modeling of any response function of quantum-confined systems, including the nonlinear-optical response of any system in which there is confinement in at leat one dimension, such as nanowires, which provide confinement in two dimensions.

id: 1106.4639
title: Dirac-Kahler equations on curved spacetimes
authors: Ion I. Cotaescu
comments: 14 pages no figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.4639
abstract: A Lagrangian theory giving rise to a version of the Dirac-Kahler equations on curved backgrounds is considered. The principal pieces are the general fields which have values in the algebra of the Dirac matrices and satisfy a Dirac-type equation. Their components are scalar, pseudo-scalar, vector, axial-vector fields and fields strength which satisfy an irreducible systems of first-order Dirac-Kahler equations having remarkable gauge and duality properties similar to those of the flat case. The vector and axial-vector fields are the physical potentials giving rise to the field strength while the scalar fields play an auxiliary role and can be eliminated by fixing a suitable gauge. The chiral components of the field strength are either self-dual or anti self-dual with respect to the Hodge duality.

