id: 1107.0093
title: One-step error correction for multipartite polarization entanglement
authors: Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 062316 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0093
abstract: We present two economical one-step error-correction protocols for multipartite polarization-entangled systems in a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state. One uses spatial entanglement to correct errors in the polarization entanglement of an N-photon system, resorting to linear optical elements. The other uses frequency entanglement to correct errors in the polarization entanglement of an N-photon system. The parties in quantum communication can obtain a maximally entangled state from each N-photon system transmitted with one step in these two protocols, and both of their success probabilities are 100%, in principle. That is, they both work in a deterministic way, and they do not largely consume the less-entangled photon systems, which is far different from conventional multipartite entanglement purification schemes. These features may make these two protocols more useful for practical applications in long-distance quantum communication.

id: 1107.0110
title: Non-Markovian dynamics of system-reservoir entanglement
authors: Francesco Plastina, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 
journal: Int. J. Quant. Info. 9, 1725 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0110
abstract: Using an exact approach, we study the dynamics of entanglement between two qubits coupled to independent reservoirs and between the two, initially disentangled, reservoirs. We also describe the transfer of bipartite entanglement from the two-qubits to their respective reservoirs focussing on the case of two atoms inside two different leaky cavities with a specific attention to the role of the detuning. We present a scheme to prepare the cavity fields in a maximally entangled state, without direct interaction between the cavities, by exploiting the initial qubits entanglement. We discuss a deterministic protocol, working in the presence of cavity losses, for the generation of a W-state of one qubit and two cavity fields and we describe a probabilistic scheme to entangle one of the atoms with the reservoir (cavity field) of the other atom.

id: 1107.0178
title: Photon production from the vacuum close to the super-radiant transition: When Casimir meets Kibble-Zurek
authors: Giovanni Vacanti, Stefano Pugnetti, Nicolas Didier, Mauro Paternostro, G. Massimo Palma, Rosario Fazio, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 4+1 pages, major changes in the second part of the paper. To appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 093603 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0178
abstract: The dynamical Casimir effect (DCE) predicts the generation of photons from the vacuum due to the parametric amplification of the quantum fluctuation of an electromagnetic field\cite{casimir1,casimir2}. The verification of such effect is still elusive in optical systems due to the very demanding requirements of its experimental implementation. This typically requires very fast changes of the boundary conditions of the problem, such as the high-frequency driving of the positions of the mirrors of a cavity accommodating the field. Here, we show that an ensemble of two-level atoms collectively coupled to the electromagnetic field of a cavity (thus embodying the quantum Dicke model\cite{dicke}), driven at low frequencies and close to a quantum phase transition, stimulates the production of photons from the vacuum. This paves the way to an effective simulation of the DCE through a mechanism that has recently found an outstanding experimental demonstration\cite{esslinger}. The spectral properties of the emitted radiation reflect the critical nature of the system and allow us to link the detection of DCE to the Kibble-Zurek mechanism for the production of defects when crossing a continuous phase transition\cite{KZ1,KZ2}. We illustrate the features of our proposal by addressing a simple cavity quantum-electrodynamics (cQED) setting of immediate experimental realisation.

id: 1107.0181
title: Quantum simulation of the hexagonal Kitaev model with trapped ions
authors: Roman Schmied, Janus H. Wesenberg, Dietrich Leibfried
comments: 24 pages, 7 figures. v2: simplified the derivation of (28) without changing conclusions; minor edits. v3: minor edits
journal: New Journal of Physics 13 (2011) 115011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0181
abstract: We present a detailed study of quantum simulations of coupled spin systems in surface-electrode ion-trap arrays, and illustrate our findings with a proposed implementation of the hexagonal Kitaev model [A. Kitaev, Annals of Physics 321,2 (2006)]. The effective (pseudo)spin interactions making up such quantum simulators are found to be proportional to the dipole-dipole interaction between the trapped ions, and are mediated by motion which can be driven by state-dependent forces. The precise forms of the trapping potentials and the interactions are derived in the presence of a surface electrode and a cover electrode. These results are the starting point to derive an optimized surface-electrode geometry for trapping ions in the desired honeycomb lattice of Kitaev's model, where we design the dipole-dipole interactions in a way that allows for coupling all three bond types of the model simultaneously, without the need for time discretization. Finally we propose a simple wire structure that can be incorporated in a microfabricated chip to generate localized state-dependent forces which drive the couplings prescribed by this particular model; such a wire structure should be adaptable to many other situations.

id: 1107.0198
title: A resonance mechanism of efficient energy transfer mediated by Fenna-Matthews-Olson complex
authors: Robert Alicki, Wies\law Miklaszewski
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 136, 134103 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0198
abstract: The Wigner-Weisskopf-type model developed in [R. Alicki and F. Giraldi, J. Phys. B {\bf 44}, 154020 (2011)] is applied to the biological process of energy transfer from a large peripheral light harvesting antenna to the reaction center. This process is mediated by the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) photosynthetic complex with a remarkably high efficiency. The proposed model provides a simple resonance mechanism of this phenomenon employing exciton coherent motion and described by analytical formulas. A coupling to the vibrational environment is a necessary component of this mechanism as well as a fine tuning of the FMO complex Hamiltonian. The role of the relatively strong coupling to the energy sink in achieving the resonance condition and the absence of heating of the vibrational environment are emphasized.

id: 1107.0206
title: Entanglement transfer between bipartite systems
authors: Smail Bougouffa, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: 3 figures. Oral talk presented in CEWQO 18, Madrid 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0206
abstract: The problem of a controlled transfer of an entanglement initially encoded into two two-level atoms that are successively sent through two single-mode cavities is investigated. The atoms and the cavity modes form a four qubit system and we demonstrate under which conditions the initial entanglement encoded into the atoms can be completely transferred to other pairs of qubits. We find that in the case of a nonzero detuning between the atomic transition frequencies and the cavity mode frequencies, no complete transfer of the initial entanglement is possible to any of the other pairs of qubits. In the case of exact resonance and equal coupling strengths of the atoms to the cavity modes, an initial maximally entangled state of the atoms can be completely transferred to the cavity modes. The complete transfer of the entanglement is restricted to the cavity modes only with the transfer to the other pairs being limited to up to 50%. We have found that the complete transfer of an initial entanglement to other pairs of qubits may take place if the initial state is not the maximally entangled state and the atoms couple to the cavity modes with unequal strengths. Depending on the ratio between the coupling strengths, the optimal entanglement can be created between the atoms and one of the cavity modes.

id: 1107.0237
title: Team Decision Problems with Classical and Quantum Signals
authors: Adam Brandenburger, Pierfrancesco La Mura
comments: 18 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0237
abstract: We study team decision problems where communication is not possible, but coordination among team members can be realized via signals in a shared environment. We consider a variety of decision problems that differ in what team members know about one another's actions and knowledge. For each type of decision problem, we investigate how different assumptions on the available signals affect team performance. Specifically, we consider the cases of perfectly correlated, i.i.d., and exchangeable classical signals, as well as the case of quantum signals. We find that, whereas in perfect-recall trees (Kuhn [1950], [1953]) no type of signal improves performance, in imperfect-recall trees quantum signals may bring an improvement. Isbell [1957] proved that in non-Kuhn trees, classical i.i.d. signals may improve performance. We show that further improvement may be possible by use of classical exchangeable or quantum signals. We include an example of the effect of quantum signals in the context of high-frequency trading.

id: 1107.0249
title: Optimized hierarchical equations of motion for Drude dissipation
authors: Jin-Jin Ding, Jian Xu, Jie Hu, Rui-Xue Xu, YiJing Yan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0249
abstract: The hierarchical equations of motion theory for Drude dissipation is optimized, with a convenient convergence criterion proposed in advance of numerical propagations. The theoretical construction is on basis of a Pad\'{e} spectrum decomposition that has been qualified to be the best sum-over-poles scheme for quantum distribution function. The resulting hierarchical dynamics under the {\em apriori} convergence criterion are exemplified with a benchmark spin-boson system, and also the transient absorption and two-dimensional spectroscopy of a model exciton dimer system.

id: 1107.0263
title: Monitoring stimulated emission at the single photon level in one-dimensional atoms
authors: D. Valente, S. Portolan, G. Nogues, J. P. Poizat, M. Richard, J. M. G¨¦rard, M. F. Santos, A. Auff¨¨ves
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Improved introduction; Comments added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 023811 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0263
abstract: We theoretically investigate signatures of stimulated emission at the single photon level for a two-level atom interacting with a one-dimensional light field. We consider the transient regime where the atom is initially excited, and the steady state regime where the atom is continuously driven with an external pump. The influence of pure dephasing is studied, clearly showing that these effects can be evidenced with state of the art solid state devices. We finally propose a scheme to demonstrate the stimulation of one optical transition by monitoring another one, in three-level one-dimensional atoms.

id: 1107.0276
title: Thermal noise of whispering gallery resonators
authors: Akobuije Chijioke, Qun-Feng Chen, Alexander Yu. Nevsky, Stephan Schiller
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0276
abstract: By direct application of the fluctuation-dissipation theorem, we numerically calculate the fundamental dimensional fluctuations of crystalline CaF2 whispering gallery resonators in the case of structural damping, and the limit that this noise imposes on the frequency stability of such resonators at both room and cryogenic temperatures. We analyze elasto-optic noise - the effect of Brownian dimensional fluctuation on frequency via the strain-dependence of the refractive index - a noise term that has so far not been considered for whispering-gallery resonators. We find that dimensional fluctuation sets a lower limit of 1E-16 to the Allan deviation for a 10-millimeter-radius sphere at 5 K, predominantly via induced fluctuation of the refractive index.

id: 1107.0302
title: Reproducing entanglement through local classical resources with no communication
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, extends the results of arXiv:1105.1134. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0302
abstract: Entanglement is one of the most intriguing features of quantum mechanics. It gives rise to peculiar correlations which cannot be reproduced by a large class of alternative theories, the so-called hidden-variable models, that use parameters in addition to the wave-function. This incompatibility was quantified through the celebrated Bell inequalities, and more recently through new inequalities due to Leggett. Experiments confirm the predictions of quantum mechanics. However, this does not imply that quantum mechanics is the ultimate theory, unsusceptible of improvement, nor that quantum mechanics is essentially non-local. The theories ruled out by Bell and Leggett inequalities are required to satisfy some hypotheses, none of which is implied by locality alone. By dropping one or more hypotheses, it is possible not only to violate said inequalities, but to reproduce the quantum mechanical predictions altogether. So far, the models proposed were only mathematical constructs. In this paper we provide a classical realization of two of these models, using local classical resources, without recurring to any type of communication among the involved parties. The resources consist in two baseballs, two bats, and a number of synchronized watches. Our results demonstrate the possibility of reproducing the quantum mechanical correlations, and even creating stronger correlations which provide the maximum violation of the Bell inequality, beyond the Cirel'son bound for quantum mechanics.

id: 1107.0321
title: Component mixers and a hardness result for counterfeiting quantum money
authors: Andrew Lutomirski
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0321
abstract: In this paper we give the first proof that, under reasonable assumptions, a problem related to counterfeiting quantum money from knots [Farhi et al. 2010] is hard. Along the way, we introduce the concept of a component mixer, define three new classical query problems and associated complexity classes related to graph isomorphism and group membership, and conjecture an oracle separating QCMA from QMA.

id: 1107.0322
title: The Physical Basis for Long-lived Electronic Coherence in Photosynthetic Light Harvesting Systems
authors: Leonardo A. Pachon, Paul Brumer
comments: 5 figures; J. Phys. Chem. Lett. (2011)
journal: J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2, 2728 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0322
abstract: The physical basis for observed long-lived electronic coherence in photosynthetic light-harvesting systems is identified using an analytically soluble model. Three physical features are found to be responsible for their long coherence lifetimes: i) the small energy gap between excitonic states, ii) the small ratio of the energy gap to the coupling between excitonic states, and iii) the fact that the molecular characteristics place the system in an effective low temperature regime, even at ambient conditions. Using this approach, we obtain decoherence times for a dimer model with FMO parameters of $\approx$ 160 fs at 77 K and $\approx$ 80 fs at 277 K. As such, significant oscillations are found to persist for 600 fs and 300 fs, respectively, in accord with the experiment and with previous computations. Similar good agreement is found for PC645 at room temperature, with oscillations persisting for 400 fs. The analytic expressions obtained provide direct insight into the parameter dependence of the decoherence time scales.

id: 1107.0341
title: Effective Classical Hamiltonian from Perturbatively Defined Path Integral
authors: Michael Bachmann
comments: 10 pages, Contribution to the Festschrift "Fluctuating Paths and Fields" on the occasion of Hagen Kleinert's 60th birthday, 2001
journal: in: Fluctuating Paths and Fields, Eds. W. Janke, A. Pelster, H.-J. Schmidt, and M. Bachmann (World Scientific, Singapore, 2001), pp. 57-68
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0341
abstract: Introducing a perturbative definition, phase space path integrals can be calculated without slicing. This leads to a short-time expansion of the quantum-mechanical path amplitude, or a high-temperature expansion of the unnormalized density matrix, respectively. We use the proposed formalism to calculate the effective classical Hamiltonian for the harmonic oscillator.

id: 1107.0354
title: Fidelity of states in infinite dimensional quantum systems
authors: Jinchuan Hou, Xiaofei Qi
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0354
abstract: In this paper we discuss the fidelity of states in infinite dimensional systems, give an elementary proof of the infinite dimensional version of Uhlmann's theorem, and then, apply it to generalize several properties of the fidelity from finite dimensional case to infinite dimensional case. Some of them are somewhat different from those for finite dimensional case.

id: 1107.0355
title: Detecting quantum correlations by means of local noncommutativity
authors: Yu Guo, Jinchuan Hou
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0355
abstract: Quantum correlation is a key to our understanding of quantum physics. In particular, it is essential for the powerful applications to quantum information and quantum computation. There exist quantum correlations beyond entanglement, such as quantum discord (QD) and measurement-induced nonlocality (MiN) [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{106}, 120401(2011)]. In [Phys. Rev. A \textbf{77}, 022113(2008)], a subclass of PPT states so-called strong positive partial transposition (SPPT) states was introduced and it was conjectured there that SPPT states are separable. However, it was illustrated with examples in [Phys. Rev. A \textbf{81}, 064101(2010)] that this conjecture is not true. Viewing the original SPPT as SPPT up to part B, in the present paper, we define SPPT state up to part A and B respectively and present a separable class of SPPT states, that is the super SPPT (SSPPT) states, in terms of local commutativity. In addition, classical-quantum (CQ) states and nullity of MiN are characterized via local commutativity. Based on CQ states, the geometric measure of quantum discord (GMQD) for infinite-dimensional case is proposed. Consequently, we highlight the relation among MiN, QD(GMQD), SSPPT and separability through a unified approach for both finite- and infinite-dimensional systems: zero MiN implies zero QD(GMQD), zero QD(GMQD) signals SSPPT and SSPPT guarantees separability, but the converses are not valid.

id: 1107.0372
title: Spontaneous two photon emission from a single quantum dot
authors: Y. Ota, S. Iwamoto, N. Kumagai, Y. Arakawa
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0372
abstract: Spontaneous two photon emission from a solid-state single quantum emitter is observed. We investigated photoluminescence from the neutral biexciton in a single semiconductor quantum dot coupled with a high Q photonic crystal nanocavity. When the cavity is resonant to the half energy of the biexciton, the strong vacuum field in the cavity inspires the biexciton to simultaneously emit two photons into the mode, resulting in clear emission enhancement of the mode. Meanwhile, suppression was observed of other single photon emission from the biexciton, as the two photon emission process becomes faster than the others at the resonance.

id: 1107.0432
title: An exact solution for the Casimir force in a spherically symmetric medium
authors: Ulf Leonhardt, William M. R. Simpson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0432
abstract: We calculated the force of the quantum vacuum, the Casimir force, in a spherically symmetric medium, Maxwell's fish eye, surrounded by a perfect mirror and derived an exact analytic solution. Our solution questions the idea that the Casimir force of a spherical mirror is repulsive - we found an attractive force that diverges at the mirror.

id: 1107.0445
title: Back-action effects in an all-optical model of dynamical Casimir emission
authors: I. Carusotto, S. De Liberato, D. Gerace, C. Ciuti
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0445
abstract: We report a theoretical study of the optical properties of a three-level emitter embedded in an optical cavity including the non-rotating wave terms of the light-matter interaction Hamiltonian. Rabi oscillations induced by a continuous wave drive laser are responsible for a periodic time-modulation of the effective cavity resonance, which results in a significant dynamical Casimir emission. A clear signature of the back-action effect of the dynamical Casimir emission onto the drive laser is visible as a sizable suppression of its absorption.

id: 1107.0453
title: Reversibility conditions for quantum operations
authors: Anna Jencova
comments: 27 pages, version accepted in Rev. Math. Phys. Proof of Lemma 9 changed, some explanations added, typos corrected
journal: Rev. Math. Phys. 24 (2012) 1250016
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0453
abstract: We give a list of equivalent conditions for reversibility of the adjoint of a unital Schwarz map with respect to a set of quantum states. A large class of such conditions is given by preservation of distinguishability measures: f-divergences, L_1 -distance, quantum Chernoff and Hoeffding distances; here we summarize and extend the known results. Moreover, we prove a number of conditions in terms of the properties of a quantum Radon-Nikodym derivative and factorization of states in the given set. Finally, we show that reversibility is equivalent with preservation of a large class of quantum Fisher informations and \chi^2-divergences.

id: 1107.0505
title: Optimal decomposable witnesses without the spanning property
authors: Remigiusz Augusiak, Gniewomir Sarbicki, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 11 pages, published version, title modified, some references added, other minor improvements
journal: Physical Review A 84, 052323 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0505
abstract: One of the unsolved problems in the characterization of the optimal entanglement witnesses is the existence of optimal witnesses acting on bipartite Hilbert spaces H_{m,n}=C^m\otimes C^n such that the product vectors obeying <e,f|W|e,f>=0 do not span H_{m,n}. So far, the only known examples of such witnesses were found among indecomposable witnesses, one of them being the witness corresponding to the Choi map. However, it remains an open question whether decomposable witnesses exist without the property of spanning. Here we answer this question affirmatively, providing systematic examples of such witnesses. Then, we generalize some of the recently obtained results on the characterization of 2\otimes n optimal decomposable witnesses [R. Augusiak et al., J. Phys. A 44, 212001 (2011)] to finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces H_{m,n} with m,n\geq 3.

id: 1107.0507
title: Time- and frequency-domain polariton interference
authors: G. T. Campbell, M. Hosseini, B. M. Sparkes, P. K. Lam, B. C. Buchler
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: 2012 New J. Phys. 14 033022
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0507
abstract: We present experimental observations of interference between an atomic spin coherence and an optical field in a {\Lambda}-type gradient echo memory. The interference is mediated by a strong classical field that couples a weak probe field to the atomic coherence through a resonant Raman transition. Interference can be observed between a prepared spin coherence and another propagating optical field, or between multiple {\Lambda} transitions driving a single spin coherence. In principle, the interference in each scheme can yield a near unity visibility.

id: 1107.0514
title: Demonstration of a Controlled-Phase Gate for Continuous-Variable One-Way Quantum Computation
authors: Ryuji Ukai, Shota Yokoyama, Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Peter van Loock, Akira Furusawa
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 107, 250501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0514
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a controlled-phase gate for continuous variables in a fully measurement-based fashion. In our scheme, the two independent input states of the gate, encoded in two optical modes, are teleported into a four-mode Gaussian cluster state. As a result, one of the entanglement links present in the initial cluster state appears in the two unmeasured output modes as the corresponding entangling gate acting on the input states. The genuine quantum character of this gate becomes manifest and is verified through the presence of entanglement at the output for a product two-mode coherent input state. By combining our controlled-phase gate with the recently reported module for universal single-mode Gaussian operations [R. Ukai et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 240504 (2011)], it is possible to implement universal Gaussian operations on arbitrary multi-mode quantum optical states in form of a fully measurement-based one-way quantum computation.

id: 1107.0525
title: Effects of thermal motion on electromagnetically induced absorption
authors: E. Tilchin, O. Firstenberg, A. D. Wilson-Gordon
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 053812(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0525
abstract: We describe the effect of thermal motion and buffer-gas collisions on a four-level closed N system interacting with strong pump(s) and a weak probe. This is the simplest system that experiences electromagnetically induced absorption (EIA) due to transfer of coherence via spontaneous emission from the excited to ground state. We investigate the influence of Doppler broadening, velocity-changing collisions (VCC), and phase-changing collisions (PCC) with a buffer gas on the EIA spectrum of optically active atoms. In addition to exact expressions, we present an approximate solution for the probe absorption spectrum, which provides physical insight into the behavior of the EIA peak due to VCC, PCC, and wave-vector difference between the pump and probe beams. VCC are shown to produce a wide pedestal at the base of the EIA peak, which is scarcely affected by the pump-probe angular deviation, whereas the sharp central EIA peak becomes weaker and broader due to the residual Doppler-Dicke effect. Using diffusion-like equations for the atomic coherences and populations, we construct a spatial-frequency filter for a spatially structured probe beam and show that Ramsey narrowing of the EIA peak is obtained for beams of finite width.

id: 1107.0526
title: Optical homodyne tomography with polynomial series expansion
authors: Hugo Benichi, Akira Furusawa
comments: v3: 3 typos were corrected in some mathematical expressions. v2: Many typos corrected. Added a paragraph on distance to target state in Sec. IV
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032104 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0526
abstract: We present and demonstrate a method for optical homodyne tomography based on the inverse Radon transform. Different from the usual filtered back-projection algorithm, this method uses an appropriate polynomial series to expand the Wigner function and the marginal distribution and discretize Fourier space. We show that this technique solves most technical difficulties encountered with kernel deconvolution based methods and reconstructs overall better and smoother Wigner functions. We also give estimators of the reconstruction errors for both methods and show improvement in noise handling properties and resilience to statistical errors.

id: 1107.0536
title: Complex joint probabilities as expressions of determinism in quantum mechanics
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 12 pages, including 1 figure, updated introduction includes references to the historical background of complex joint probabilities and to related work by Lars M. Johansen
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 043031 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0536
abstract: The density operator of a quantum state can be represented as a complex joint probability of any two observables whose eigenstates have non-zero mutual overlap. Transformations to a new basis set are then expressed in terms of complex conditional probabilities that describe the fundamental relation between precise statements about the three different observables. Since such transformations merely change the representation of the quantum state, these conditional probabilities provide a state-independent definition of the deterministic relation between the outcomes of different quantum measurements. In this paper, it is shown how classical reality emerges as an approximation to the fundamental laws of quantum determinism expressed by complex conditional probabilities. The quantum mechanical origin of phase spaces and trajectories is identified and implications for the interpretation of quantum measurements are considered. It is argued that the transformation laws of quantum determinism provide a fundamental description of the measurement dependence of empirical reality.

id: 1107.0546
title: Directed percolation effects emerging from superadditivity of quantum networks
authors: L. Czekaj, R. W. Chhajlany, P. Horodecki
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0546
abstract: Entanglement indcued non--additivity of classical communication capacity in networks consisting of quantum channels is considered. Communication lattices consisiting of butterfly-type entanglement breaking channels augmented, with some probability, by identity channels are analyzed. The capacity superadditivity in the network is manifested in directed correlated bond percolation which we consider in two flavours: simply directed and randomly oriented. The obtained percolation properties show that high capacity information transfer sets in much faster in the regime of superadditive communication capacity than otherwise possible. As a byproduct, this sheds light on a new type of entanglement based quantum capacity percolation phenomenon.

id: 1107.0548
title: On the statistical description of classical open systems with integer variables by the Lindblad equation
authors: E. D. Vol
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0548
abstract: We propose the consistent statistical approach to consider a wide class of classical open systems whose states are specified by a set of positive integers(occupation numbers).Such systems are often encountered in physics, chemistry, ecology, economics and other sciences.Our statistical method based on ideas of quantum theory of open systems takes into account both discreteness of the system variables and their time fluctuations - two effects which are ignored in usual mean field dynamical approach.The method let one to calculate the distribution function and (or)all moments of the system of interest at any instant.As descriptive examples illustrating the effectiveness of the method we consider some simple models:one relating to nonlinear mechanics,and others taken from population biology .In all this examples the results obtained by the method for large occupation numbers coincide with results of purely dynamical approach but for small numbers interesting differences and new effects arise.The possible observable effects connected with discreteness and fluctuations in such systems are discussed.

id: 1107.0568
title: Lecture Notes in Statistical Mechanics and Mesoscopics
authors: Doron Cohen
comments: 121 pages with some figures, improved version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0568
abstract: These are the lecture notes for quantum and statistical mechanics courses that are given by DC at Ben-Gurion University. They are complementary to "Lecture Notes in Quantum Mechanics" [arXiv: quant-ph/0605180]. Some additional topics are covered, including: introduction to master equations; non-equilibrium processes; fluctuation theorems; linear response theory; adiabatic transport; the Kubo formalism; and the scattering approach to mesoscopics.

id: 1107.0589
title: Concise and Tight Security Analysis of the Bennett-Brassard 1984 Protocol with Finite Key Lengths
authors: Masahito Hayashi, Toyohiro Tsurumaru
comments: 40 pages, 4 figures, revised arguments on security, and detailed explanaions on how to use theoretical results
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 093014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0589
abstract: We present a tight security analysis of the Bennett-Brassard 1984 protocol taking into account the finite size effect of key distillation, and achieving unconditional security. We begin by presenting a concise analysis utilizing the normal approximation of the hypergeometric function. Then next we show that a similarly tight bound can also be obtained by a rigorous argument without relying on any approximation. In particular, for the convenience of experimentalists who wish to evaluate the security of their QKD systems, we also give explicit procedures of our key distillation, and also show how to calculate the secret key rate and the security parameter from a given set of experimental parameters. Besides the exact values of key rates and security parameters, we also present how to obtain their rough estimates using the normal approximation.

id: 1107.0609
title: Schrodinger cat states prepared by Bloch oscillation in a spin-dependent optical lattice
authors: B. J. Wu, J. M. Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures; slightly modified
journal: Sci. China-Phys. Mech. Astron., 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0609
abstract: We propose to use Bloch oscillation of ultra-cold atoms in a spin-dependent optical lattice to prepare schrodinger cat states. Depending on its internal state, an atom feels different periodic potentials and thus has different energy band structures for its center-of-mass motion. Consequently, under the same gravity force, the wave packets associated with different internal states perform Bloch oscillation of different amplitudes in space and in particular they can be macroscopically displaced with respect to each other. In this way, a cat state can be prepared.

id: 1107.0619
title: Dissipative dynamics of a spin system with three-body interaction
authors: Diego de Falco, Dario Tamascelli
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0619
abstract: In this note we explicitly solve the Lindblad equation for a system of three spins with a three-body interaction, coupled to the environment by bath operators that inject or absorb spin carriers. We exemplify the properties of this solution in the context of a simple instance of Feynman's quantum computer in which a two-qubit program line is executed, applying the $\sqrt{NOT}$ primitive to a one-qubit register.

id: 1107.0624
title: Infinitely many constrained inequalities for the von Neumann entropy
authors: Josh Cadney, Noah Linden, Andreas Winter
comments: 11 pages
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 58, 3657 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0624
abstract: We exhibit infinitely many new, constrained inequalities for the von Neumann entropy, and show that they are independent of each other and the known inequalities obeyed by the von Neumann entropy (basically strong subadditivity). The new inequalities were proved originally by Makarychev et al. [Commun. Inf. Syst., 2(2):147-166, 2002] for the Shannon entropy, using properties of probability distributions. Our approach extends the proof of the inequalities to the quantum domain, and includes their independence for the quantum and also the classical cases.

id: 1107.0636
title: The Bragg regime of the two-particle Kapitza-Dirac effect
authors: Pedro Sancho
comments: 
journal: JPB 44 (2011) 145002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0636
abstract: We analyze the Bragg regime of the two-particle Kapitza-Dirac arrangement, completing the basic theory of this effect. We provide a detailed evaluation of the detection probabilities for multi-mode states, showing that a complete description must include the interaction time in addition to the usual dimensionless parameter w. The arrangement can be used as a massive two-particle beam splitter. In this respect, we present a comparison with Hong-Ou-Mandel-type experiments in quantum optics. The analysis reveals the presence of dips for massive bosons and a differentiated behavior of distinguishable and identical particles in an unexplored scenario. We suggest that the arrangement can provide the basis for symmetrization verification schemes.

id: 1107.0686
title: Optomechanical cooling of levitated spheres with doubly-resonant fields
authors: G. A. T. Pender, P. F. Barker, Florian Marquardt, James Millen, T. S. Monteiro
comments: 8 Pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 021802(2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0686
abstract: Optomechanical cooling of levitated dielectric particles represents a promising new approach in the quest to cool small mechanical resonators towards their quantum ground state. We investigate two-mode cooling of levitated nanospheres in a self-trapping regime. We identify a rich structure of split sidebands (by a mechanism unrelated to usual strong-coupling effects) and strong cooling even when one mode is blue detuned. We show the best regimes occur when both optical fields cooperatively cool and trap the nanosphere, where cooling rates are over an order of magnitude faster compared to corresponding single-sideband cooling rates.

id: 1107.0734
title: Consistent treatment of coherent and incoherent energy transfer dynamics using a variational master equation
authors: Dara P. S. McCutcheon, Ahsan Nazir
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, comments welcome. Published version, minor changes to text, references added
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 135, 114501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0734
abstract: We investigate the energy transfer dynamics in a donor-acceptor model by developing a time-local master equation technique based on a variational transformation of the underlying Hamiltonian. The variational transformation allows a minimisation of the Hamiltonian perturbation term dependent on the system parameters, and consequently results in a versatile master equation valid over a range of system-bath coupling strengths, temperatures, and environmental spectral densities. While our formalism reduces to the well-known Redfield, Foerster and polaron forms in the appropriate limits, in general it is not equivalent to perturbing in either the system-environment or donor-acceptor coupling strengths, and hence can provide reliable results between these limits as well. Moreover, we show how to include the effects of both environmental correlations and non-equilibrium preparations within the formalism.

id: 1107.0737
title: Reconstructing Bohr's Reply to EPR in Algebraic Quantum Theory
authors: Masanao Ozawa, Yuichiro Kitajima
comments: 13 pages, Latex
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0737
abstract: Halvorson and Clifton have given a mathematical reconstruction of Bohr's reply to Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen (EPR), and argued that this reply is dictated by the two requirements of classicality and objectivity for the description of experimental data, by proving consistency between their objectivity requirement and a contextualized version of the EPR reality criterion which had been introduced by Howard in his earlier analysis of Bohr's reply. In the present paper, we generalize the above consistency theorem, with a rather elementary proof, to a general formulation of EPR states applicable to both non-relativistic quantum mechanics and algebraic quantum field theory; and we clarify the elements of reality in EPR states in terms of Bohr's requirements of classicality and objectivity, in a general formulation of algebraic quantum theory.

id: 1107.0740
title: An intuitive proof of the data processing inequality
authors: Normand J. Beaudry, Renato Renner
comments: 10 pages
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. Vol. 12, No. 5&6, 0432-0441, (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0740
abstract: The data processing inequality (DPI) is a fundamental feature of information theory. Informally it states that you cannot increase the information content of a quantum system by acting on it with a local physical operation. When the smooth min-entropy is used as the relevant information measure, then the DPI follows immediately from the definition of the entropy. The DPI for the von Neumann entropy is then obtained by specializing the DPI for the smooth min-entropy by using the quantum asymptotic equipartition property (QAEP). We provide a new, simplified proof of the QAEP and therefore obtain a self-contained proof of the DPI for the von Neumann entropy.

id: 1107.0790
title: The two limits of the Schr?dinger equation in the semi-classical approximation: discerned and non-discerned particles in classical mechanics
authors: Michel Gondran, Alexandre Gondran
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: Foundations of Physics and Probability (FPP6), V\"aj\"o : Sweden (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0790
abstract: We study, in the semi-classical approximation, the convergence of the quantum density and the quantum action, solutions to the Madelung equations, when the Planck constant h tends to 0. We find two different solutions which depend to the initial density . In the first case where the initial quantum density is a classical density rho_0(x), the quantum density and the quantum action converge to a classical action and a classical density which satisfy the statistical Hamilton-Jacobi equations. These are the equations of a set of classical particles whose initial positions are known only by the density rho_0(x). In the second case where initial density

id: 1107.0794
title: An introduction to quantum annealing
authors: Diego de Falco, Dario Tamascelli
comments: 
journal: RAIRO-Theor. Inf. Appl. 45 (2011) 99-116
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0794
abstract: Quantum Annealing, or Quantum Stochastic Optimization, is a classical randomized algorithm which provides good heuristics for the solution of hard optimization problems. The algorithm, suggested by the behaviour of quantum systems, is an example of proficuous cross contamination between classical and quantum computer science. In this survey paper we illustrate how hard combinatorial problems are tackled by quantum computation and present some examples of the heuristics provided by Quantum Annealing. We also present preliminary results about the application of quantum dissipation (as an alternative to Imaginary Time Evolution) to the task of driving a quantum system toward its state of lowest energy.

id: 1107.0822
title: Experimental demonstration of a Hadamard gate for coherent state qubits
authors: Anders Tipsmark, Ruifang Dong, Amine Laghaout, Petr Marek, Miroslav Jezek, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 84, 050301(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0822
abstract: We discuss and experimentally demonstrate a probabilistic Hadamard gate for coherent state qubits. The scheme is based on linear optical components, non-classical resources and the joint projective action of a photon counter and a homodyne detector. We experimentally characterize the gate for the coherent states of the computational basis by full tomographic reconstruction of the transformed output states. Based on the parameters of the experiment we simulate the fidelity for all coherent state qubits on the Bloch sphere.

id: 1107.0833
title: Quantum Axiomatics: Topological and Classical Properties of State Property Systems
authors: Diederik Aerts, Bart D'Hooghe, Mark Sioen
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, 50, pp. 3635-3645, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0833
abstract: The definition of 'classical state', and how it was used in earlier work to prove a decomposition theorem internally in the language of State Property Systems, presupposes as an additional datum an orthocomplementation on the property lattice of a physical system. In this paper we argue on the basis of the epsilon-model on the Poincare sphere that a notion of 'topologicity' for states can be seen as an alternative (operationally foundable) classicality notion in the absence of an orthocomplementation, and compare it to the known and operationally founded concept of classicality.

id: 1107.0856
title: Time Dependent Variational Principle and Coherent State Orbits for a Trapped Ion
authors: Bogdan M. Mihalcea
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0856
abstract: Spectral properties of the Hamiltonian function which characterizes a trapped ion are investigated. In order to study semiclassical dynamics of trapped ions, coherent state orbits are introduced as sub-manifolds of the quantum state space, with the K\"ahler structure induced by the transition probability. The time dependent variational principle (TDVP) is applied on coherent states' orbits. The Hamilton equations of motion on K\"ahler manifolds of the type of classical phase spaces naturally arise. The associated classical Hamiltonian is obtained from the expected values on symplectic coherent states of the quantum Hamiltonian. Spectral information is thus coded within the phase portrait. We deal with the bosonic realization of the Lie algebra of the SU(1,1) group, which we particularize for the case of an ion confined in a combined, Paul and Penning trap. This formalism can be applied to Hamiltonians which are nonlinear in the infinitesimal generators of a dynamical symmetry group, such as the case of ions confined in electrodynamic traps. Discrete quasienergy spectra are obtained and the corresponding quasienergy states are explicitly realized as coherent states parameterized by the stable solutions of the corresponding classical equations of motion. A correspondence between quantum and classical stability domains is thus established, using the Husimi representation.

id: 1107.0888
title: Experimental Realization of Optimal Noise Estimation for a General Pauli Channel
authors: A.Chiuri, V. Rosati, G. Vallone, S. P¨¢dua, H. Imai, S. Giacomini, C. Macchiavello, P. Mataloni
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 253602 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0888
abstract: We present the experimental realization of the optimal estimation protocol for a Pauli noisy channel. The method is based on the generation of 2-qubit Bell states and the introduction of quantum noise in a controlled way on one of the state subsystems. The efficiency of the optimal estimation, achieved by a Bell measurement, is shown to outperform quantum process tomography.

id: 1107.0890
title: Experiment design and parameter estimation of Pauli channels using convex optimization
authors: G. Ball¨®, K. M. Hangos
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0890
abstract: A unified framework is proposed in this paper for parameter estimation using convex optimization and experiment design applying convex maximization for Pauli channels, that can be extended to generalized Pauli channels, too. In the case of known channel directions, an affine parametrization of the Choi matrix turns the LS parameter estimation into a convex optimization problem also for the generalized Pauli channels. A simple iterative algorithm for estimating the channel directions is also given for qubit Pauli channels. The experiment design was performed by maximizing the trace of the Fisher information matrix of the output quantum system to find optimal input state and measurement POVM for the channel estimation. For the known channel direction case it was found that the optimal input state should be pure and the optimal measurement POVM is extremal. It was also shown that both the input state and the POVM elements in the optimal configuration should be parallel to the channel directions in the qubit Pauli channel case. The proposed methods and algorithms are illustrated by simple numerical examples.

id: 1107.0895
title: Adaptive Bayesian Quantum Tomography
authors: Ferenc Husz¨¢r, Neil M. T. Houlsby
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, updated references, clarified exposition
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Applications (stat.AP)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0895
abstract: In this letter we revisit the problem of optimal design of quantum tomographic experiments. In contrast to previous approaches where an optimal set of measurements is decided in advance of the experiment, we allow for measurements to be adaptively and efficiently re-optimised depending on data collected so far. We develop an adaptive statistical framework based on Bayesian inference and Shannon's information, and demonstrate a ten-fold reduction in the total number of measurements required as compared to non-adaptive methods, including mutually unbiased bases.

id: 1107.0905
title: Fluctuations assisted stationary entanglement in driven quantum systems
authors: Dimitris G. Angelakis, Stefano Mancini
comments: 6 pages, including an appendix, 5 figures
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B, Vol. 27, Nos. 1-3 (2013) 1345037
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0905
abstract: We analyze the possible quantum correlations between two coupled dimer systems in the presence of independent losses and driven by a fluctuating field. For the case of the interaction being of a Heisenberg exchange type, we first analytically show the possibility for robust stationary entanglement for realistic values of the dissipation rates and then analyze its robustness as a function of the noise to signal ratio of the pump. We find that for a common fluctuating driving field, a stochastic resonance effect appears as function of the ratio between field strength and noise strength. The effect disappears in the case of uncorrelated or separate pumps. Our result is general and could be applied to different quantum systems ranging from electron spins in solid state, to ions trap technologies and cold atom set ups.

id: 1107.0934
title: Origin of the quantum speed-up
authors: Giuseppe Castagnoli
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure. Corrected a misleading typing error at point III) of Section 3: "Do the same with B" replaced by "Do the same with V"; minor distributed text improvements. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1101.4359
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0934
abstract: Bob chooses a function from a set of functions and gives Alice the black box that computes it. Alice is to find a characteristic of the function through function evaluations. In the quantum case, the number of function evaluations can be smaller than the minimum classically possible. The fundamental reason for this violation of a classical limit is not known. We trace it back to a disambiguation of the principle that measuring an observable determines one of its eigenvalues. Representing Bob's choice of the label of the function as the unitary transformation of a random quantum measurement outcome shows that: (i) finding the characteristic of the function on the part of Alice is a by-product of reconstructing Bob's choice and (ii) because of the quantum correlation between choice and reconstruction, one cannot tell whether Bob's choice is determined by the action of Bob (initial measurement and successive unitary transformation) or that of Alice (further unitary transformation and final measurement). Postulating that the determination shares evenly between the two actions, in a uniform superposition of all the possible ways of sharing, implies that quantum algorithms are superpositions of histories in each of which Alice knows in advance one of the possible halves of Bob's choice. Performing, in each history, only the function evaluations required to classically reconstruct Bob's choice given the advanced knowledge of half of it yields the quantum speed-up. In all the cases examined, this goes along with interleaving function evaluations with non-computational unitary transformations that each time maximize the amount of information about Bob's choice acquired by Alice with function evaluation.

id: 1107.0994
title: Role of quantum discord in quantum communication
authors: Vaibhav Madhok, Animesh Datta
comments: To be published in Springer's Lecture Notes in Computer Science as proceedings of The sixth Conference on the Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication and Cryptography (TQC,2011) under the title `Quantum discord in quantum information theory - From strong subadditivity to the Mother protocol'
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0994
abstract: Positivity of quantum discord is shown to be equivalent to the strong sub additivity of the Von-Nuemann entropy. This leads to a connection between the mother protocol of quantum information theory [A. Abeyesinghe, I. Devetak, P. Hayden, and A. Winter, Proc. R. Soc. A 465, 2537, (2009)] and quantum discord. We exploit this to show that quantum discord is a measure coherence in the performance of the mother protocol. Since the mother protocol is a unification of an important class of problems (those that are bipartite, unidirectional and memoryless), we show quantum discord to be a measure of coherence in these protocols. Our work generalizes an earlier operational interpretation of quantum discord provided in terms of quantum state merging [V. Madhok and A. Datta, Phys. Rev. A 83, 032323, (2011)].

id: 1107.1007
title: Comments on "Disproof of Bell's theorem"
authors: Florin Moldoveanu
comments: See Version 2 note in the abstract
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1007
abstract: In a series of very interesting papers [1-7], Joy Christian constructed a counterexample to Bell's theorem. This counterexample does not have the same assumptions as the original Bell's theorem, and therefore it does not represent a genuine disproof in a strict mathematical sense. However, assuming the physical relevance of the new assumptions, the counterexample is shown to be a contextual hidden variable theory. If Bell's theorem's importance is to rule out contextual hidden variable theories obeying relativistic locality, then Joy Christian's counterexample achieves its aim. If however contextual hidden variables theories are not considered genuine physically theories and Bell's theorem's importance stems from its ability to be experimentally confirmed, then Joy Christian's counterexample does not diminish the importance of Bell's theorem. The implications of Joy Christian's counterexample are discussed in the context of information theory. Version 2 note: Subsequent analysis disproved the mathematical consistency of Joy Christian's model. This paper was based on the assumption of the mathematical validity of the model. Except for the addition of this note, the content of this paper was not modified in any other way.

id: 1107.1023
title: Existence of product vectors and their partial conjugates in a pair of spaces
authors: Young-Hoon Kiem, Seung-Hyeok Kye, Jungseob Lee
comments: 15 pages, to correct a technical problem in V2
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 122201 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1023
abstract: Let $D$ and $E$ be subspaces of the tensor product of the $m$ and $n$ dimensional complex spaces, with codimensions $k$ and \ell$, respectively. We show that if $k+\ell<m+n-2$ then there must exist a product vector in $D$ whose partial conjugate lies in $E$. If $k+\ell >m+n-2$ then there may not exist such a product vector. If $k+\ell=m+n-2$ then both cases may occur depending on $k$ and $\ell$.

id: 1107.1032
title: Entanglement generation by interaction with semiclassical radiation
authors: Amir Leshem, Omri Gat
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1032
abstract: We address a fundamental issue in quantum mechanics and quantum information theory, the generation of an entangled pair of qubits that interact solely through a third, semiclassical degree of freedom, in the framework of cavity quantum electrodynamics. We show that finite, though not maximal, entanglement is obtainable in the classical limit, at the price of a diverging effective interaction time. The optimal atomic entanglement derives from a trade-off between the atomic entanglement in a sub-wave packet and the purity of the atomic state. Decoherence by photon loss sets an upper limit on the degree of excitation of the cavity mode, beyond which the achievable entanglement decreases as the inverse mean photon number to the sixth power.

id: 1107.1083
title: Unsharp Values, Domains and Topoi
authors: Andreas Doering, Rui Soares Barbosa
comments: 32 pages, no figures; to appear in Proceedings of Quantum Field Theory and Gravity, Regensburg (2010)
journal: In Quantum Field Theory and Gravity: Conceptual and Mathematical Advances in the Search for a Unified Framework, eds. F. Finster et al., Birkhaeuser, Basel, 65--96 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1083
abstract: The so-called topos approach provides a radical reformulation of quantum theory. Structurally, quantum theory in the topos formulation is very similar to classical physics. There is a state object, analogous to the state space of a classical system, and a quantity-value object, generalising the real numbers. Physical quantities are maps from the state object to the quantity-value object -- hence the `values' of physical quantities are not just real numbers in this formalism. Rather, they are families of real intervals, interpreted as `unsharp values'. We will motivate and explain these aspects of the topos approach and show that the structure of the quantity-value object can be analysed using tools from domain theory, a branch of order theory that originated in theoretical computer science. Moreover, the base category of the topos associated with a quantum system turns out to be a domain if the underlying von Neumann algebra is a matrix algebra. For general algebras, the base category still is a highly structured poset. This gives a connection between the topos approach, noncommutative operator algebras and domain theory. In an outlook, we present some early ideas on how domains may become useful in the search for new models of (quantum) space and space-time.

id: 1107.1090
title: An asymptotic theory of cloning of classical state families
authors: Keiji Matsumoto
comments: minor revisions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1090
abstract: Cloning, or approximate cloning, is one of basic operations in quantum information processing. In this paper, we deal with cloning of classical states, or probability distribution in asymptotic setting. We study the quality of the approximate (n,rn)-clone, with n being very large and r being constant. The result turns out to be \parallel N(0,r1)-N(0,1)\paralell_1, where N({\mu},{\Sigma}) is the Gaussian distribution with mean {\mu} and covariance {\Sigma}. Notablly, this value does not depend on the the family of porbability distributions to be cloned. The key of the argument is use of local asymptotic normality: If the curve {\theta}\rightarrow P_{{\theta}} is sufficiently smooth in {\theta}, then, the behavior of P_{{\theta}'}^{\otimes n} where {\theta}'-{\theta}=o(\surd(1/n)), is approximated by Gaussian shift. Using this, we reduce the general case to Gaussian shift model.

id: 1107.1105
title: Quantum entanglement between electronic and vibrational degrees of freedom in molecules
authors: Laura K. McKemmish, Ross H. McKenzie, Noel S. Hush, Jeffrey R. Reimers
comments: 
journal: Journal of Chemical Physics 135, 244110 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1105
abstract: We consider the quantum entanglement of the electronic and vibrational degrees of freedom in molecules with a tendency towards double welled potentials using model coupled harmonic diabatic potential-energy surfaces. The von Neumann entropy of the reduced density matrix is used to quantify the electron-vibration entanglement for the lowest two vibronic wavefunctions in such a bipartite system. Significant entanglement is found only in the region in which the ground vibronic state contains a density profile that is bimodal (i.e., contains two separate local minima). However, in this region two distinct types of entanglement are found: (1) entanglement that arises purely from the degeneracy of energy levels in the two potential wells and which is destroyed by slight asymmetry, and (2) entanglement that involves strongly interacting states in each well that is relatively insensitive to asymmetry. These two distinct regions are termed fragile degeneracy-induced entanglement and persistent entanglement, respectively. Six classic molecular systems describable by two diabatic states are considered: ammonia, benzene, semibullvalene, pyridine excited triplet states, the Creutz-Taube ion, and the radical cation of the "special pair" of chlorophylls involved in photosynthesis. These chemically diverse systems are all treated using the same general formalism and the nature of the entanglement that they embody is elucidated.

id: 1107.1190
title: Optimal Quantum States for Image Sensing in Loss
authors: Ranjith Nair, Brent J. Yen
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. The supplementary material is provided as an appendix. The content is the same as the published version
journal: Phys Rev Lett 107, 193602 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1190
abstract: We consider a general image sensing framework that includes many quantum sensing problems by an appropriate choice of image set, prior probabilities, and cost function. For any such problem, in the presence of loss and a signal energy constraint, we show that a pure input state of light with the signal modes in a mixture of number states minimizes the cost among all ancilla-assisted parallel strategies. Lossy binary phase discrimination with a peak photon number constraint and general lossless image sensing are considered as examples.

id: 1107.1294
title: Mechanical squeezing via parametric amplification and weak measurement
authors: Alex Szorkovszky, Andrew C. Doherty, Glen I. Harris, Warwick P. Bowen
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1294
abstract: Nonlinear forces allow motion of a mechanical oscillator to be squeezed below the zero-point motion. Of existing methods, mechanical parametric amplification is relatively accessible, but previously thought to be limited to 3dB of squeezing in the steady state. We consider the effect of applying continuous weak measurement and feedback to this system. If the parametric drive is optimally detuned from resonance, correlations between the quadratures of motion allow unlimited steady-state squeezing. Compared to back-action evasion, we demonstrate that the measurement strength, temperature and efficiency requirements for quantum squeezing are significantly relaxed.

id: 1107.1306
title: Duality violation from a grating
authors: Daniel Mirell, Stuart Mirell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1306
abstract: Diffraction orders in the continuous wave regime generated by a Ronchi transmission grating in a standard threshold configuration are shown theoretically to violate quantum duality for a locally real representation. The phenomenon superficially resembles Rayleigh anomalies but is notably distinguished from those anomalies by a prediction of probability non-conservation. This prediction is experimentally tested with a 633 nm laser beam at normal incidence on gratings giving that threshold condition for the \pm 3rd order pair. Transient intersection of the Oth order with an independent 633 nm laser beam demonstrates a duality-violating probability non-conservation in good agreement with the theoretical prediction.

id: 1107.1315
title: Non-adiabatic optomechanical Hamiltonian of a moving dielectric membrane in a cavity
authors: H. K. Cheung, C. K. Law
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 023812 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1315
abstract: We formulate a non-relativistic Hamiltonian in order to describe the interaction between a moving dielectric membrane and radiation pressure. Such a Hamiltonian is derived without making use of the single-mode adiabatic approximation, and hence it enables us to incorporate multi-mode effects in cavity optomechanics. By performing second quantization, we show how a set of generalized Fock states can be constructed to represent quantum states of the membrane and cavity field. In addition, we discuss examples showing how photon scattering among different cavity modes would modify the interaction strengths and the mechanical frequency of the membrane.

id: 1107.1347
title: Sequential, successive, and simultaneous decoders for entanglement-assisted classical communication
authors: Shen Chen Xu, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 33 pages, 2 figures; v2 contains a proof of the quantum simultaneous decoding conjecture for two-sender quantum multiple access channels; v3 shows how to recover the known unassisted and assisted quantum communication regions with a coherent quantum simultaneous decoder
journal: Quantum Information Processing, vol. 12, no. 1, pp. 641-683 (January 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1347
abstract: Bennett et al. showed that allowing shared entanglement between a sender and receiver before communication begins dramatically simplifies the theory of quantum channels, and these results suggest that it would be worthwhile to study other scenarios for entanglement-assisted classical communication. In this vein, the present paper makes several contributions to the theory of entanglement-assisted classical communication. First, we rephrase the Giovannetti-Lloyd-Maccone sequential decoding argument as a more general "packing lemma" and show that it gives an alternate way of achieving the entanglement-assisted classical capacity. Next, we show that a similar sequential decoder can achieve the Hsieh-Devetak-Winter region for entanglement-assisted classical communication over a multiple access channel. Third, we prove the existence of a quantum simultaneous decoder for entanglement-assisted classical communication over a multiple access channel with two senders. This result implies a solution of the quantum simultaneous decoding conjecture for unassisted classical communication over quantum multiple access channels with two senders, but the three-sender case still remains open (Sen recently and independently solved this unassisted two-sender case with a different technique). We then leverage this result to recover the known regions for unassisted and assisted quantum communication over a quantum multiple access channel, though our proof exploits a coherent quantum simultaneous decoder. Finally, we determine an achievable rate region for communication over an entanglement-assisted bosonic multiple access channel and compare it with the Yen-Shapiro outer bound for unassisted communication over the same channel.

id: 1107.1353
title: Quantum Nature of Light Measured With a Single Detector
authors: Gesine A. Steudle, Stefan Schietinger, David H?ckel, Sander N. Dorenbos, Valery Zwiller, Oliver Benson
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1353
abstract: We realized the most fundamental quantum optical experiment to prove the non-classical character of light: Only a single quantum emitter and a single superconducting nanowire detector were used. A particular appeal of our experiment is its elegance and simplicity. Yet its results unambiguously enforce a quantum theory for light. Previous experiments relied on more complex setups, such as the Hanbury-Brown-Twiss configuration, where a beam splitter directs light to two photodetectors, giving the false impression that the beam splitter is required. Our work results in a major simplification of the widely used photon-correlation techniques with applications ranging from quantum information processing to single-molecule detection.

id: 1107.1372
title: Symmetric mixed states of $n$ qubits: local unitary stabilizers and entanglement classes
authors: David W. Lyons, Scott N. Walck
comments: 10 pages, 1 table, title change and minor clarifications for published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 84:042340, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1372
abstract: We classify, up to local unitary equivalence, local unitary stabilizer Lie algebras for symmetric mixed states into six classes. These include the stabilizer types of the Werner states, the GHZ state and its generalizations, and Dicke states. For all but the zero algebra, we classify entanglement types (local unitary equivalence classes) of symmetric mixed states that have those stabilizers. We make use of the identification of symmetric density matrices with polynomials in three variables with real coefficients and apply the representation theory of SO(3) on this space of polynomials.

id: 1107.1397
title: Solitons in Maximally Entangled Two Qubit Phase Space
authors: Oktay Pashaev, Zeynep Nilhan Gurkan
comments: 24 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1397
abstract: Motivated by M\"obius transformation for symmetrical points under the generalized circle in complex plane, the system of symmetrical spin coherent states corresponding to antipodal qubit states is introduced. It implies the maximally entangled spin coherent states basis, which in the limiting cases reduces to the Bell basis. A specific property of our symmetric image coherent states is that they never become unentangled for any value of $\psi$ from complex plane. By the reduced density matrix and the concurrence determinant methods, it is shown that our basis is maximally entangled. In addition we find that the average of spin operators in these states vanish, as it must be according to another, operational definition of completely entangled states. Universal one qubit and two qubit gates in this new basis are calculated and time evolution of these states for some spin systems is derived. We find that the average energy for XYZ model in two qubit case (Q symbol of H) shows regular finite energy localized structure with characteristic extremum points, and appears as a soliton in maximally entangled two qubit phase space. Generalizations to three and higher qubit states are discussed.

id: 1107.1406
title: Gaussification and entanglement distillation of continuous variable systems: a unifying picture
authors: Earl T. Campbell, Jens Eisert
comments: 4 + 4 pages, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 020501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1406
abstract: Distillation of entanglement using only Gaussian operations is an important primitive in quantum communication, quantum repeater architectures, and distributed quantum computing. Existing distillation protocols for continuous degrees of freedom are only known to converge to a Gaussian state when measurements yield precisely the vacuum outcome. In sharp contrast, non-Gaussian states can be deterministically converted into Gaussian states while preserving their second moments, albeit by usually reducing their degree of entanglement. In this work - based on a novel instance of a non-commutative central limit theorem - we introduce a picture general enough to encompass the known protocols leading to Gaussian states, and new classes of protocols including multipartite distillation. This gives the experimental option of balancing the merits of success probability against entanglement produced.

id: 1107.1455
title: Semi-Loss-Tolerant Strong Coin Flipping Protocol Using EPR Pairs
authors: Jia-Jun Ma, Fen-Zhuo Guo, Qian Yang, Yan-Bing Li, Qiao-Yan Wen
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure; Quantum Info. Comput. (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1455
abstract: In this paper, we present a quantum strong coin flipping protocol. In this protocol, an EPR pair and a quantum memory storage are made use of, and losses in the quantum communication channel and quantum memory storage are all analyzed. We obtain the bias in the fair scenario as a function of $p$, where $p$ is the probability that the particle in Bob's quantum memory storage is lost, which means our bias varies as the degree of losses in the quantum memory storage changes. Therefore we call our protocol semi-loss-tolerant. We also show that the bias decreases with decreasing $p$. When $p$ approaches 0, the bias approaches 0.3536, which is less than that of all the previous loss-tolerant protocols. Details of both parties' optimal cheating strategies are also given and analyzed. What's more, experimental feasibility is discussed and demonstrated. Compared with previous qubit-based loss-tolerant SCF protocols, we introduce the EPR pair to keep our protocol loss-tolerant while trying to push down the bias. In addition, a quantum memory storage is used and the losses in it has been taken into account. We obtain the bias in the fair scenario as a function of $p$, where $p$ is the probability that the particle in Bob's quantum memory storage is lost, which means our bias varies as the degree of losses in the quantum memory storage changes. We also show that the bias decreases with decreasing $p$. When $p$ approaches 0, the bias approaches 0.3536, which is less than that of all the previous loss-tolerant protocols. Details of both parties' optimal cheating strategies are also given and analyzed. Besides, experimental feasibility is discussed and demonstrated.

id: 1107.1459
title: Homotopy and Path Integrals
authors: Fumika Suzuki
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1459
abstract: This is an introductory review of the connection between homotopy theory and path integrals, mainly focus on works done by Schulman [23] that he compared path integral on SO(3) and its universal covering space SU(2), DeWitt and Laidlaw [15] that they proved the theorem to the case of path integrals on the multiply-connected topological spaces. Also, we discuss the application of the theorem in Aharonov-Bohm effect given by [20,24]. An informal introduction to homotopy theory is provided for readers who are not familiar with the theory.

id: 1107.1461
title: Entangling capabilities of Symmetric two qubit gates
authors: Swarnamala Sirsi, Veena Adiga, Subramanya Hegde
comments: 12 pages
journal: Pramana Vol 83, No 2, 279-287(2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1461
abstract: Our work addresses the problem of generating maximally entangled two spin-1/2 (qubit) symmetric states using NMR, NQR, Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick Hamiltonians. Time evolution of such Hamiltonians provides various logic gates which can be used for quantum processing tasks. Pairs of spin-1/2's have modeled a wide range of problems in physics. Here we are interested in two spin-1/2 symmetric states which belong to a subspace spanned by the angular momentum basis {|j = 1, {\mu}>; {\mu} = +1, 0,-1}. Our technique relies on the decomposition of a Hamiltonian in terms of SU(3) generators. In this context, we define a set of linearly independent, traceless, Hermitian operators which provides an alternate set of SU(n) generators. These matrices are constructed out of angular momentum operators Jx,Jy,Jz. We construct and study the properties of perfect entanglers acting on a symmetric subspace i.e., spin-1 operators that can generate maximally entangled states from some suitably chosen initial separable states in terms of their entangling power.

id: 1107.1521
title: Quantum Electromagnetic Fluctuations in Inhomogeneous Dielectric Media
authors: Shin-itiro Goto, Robin W. Tucker, Timothy J. Walton
comments: 7 pages, appeared in Proceedings of SPIE Conference on Quantum Optics (2011)
journal: Proc. SPIE 8072, 80720O (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1521
abstract: A new mathematical and computational technique for calculating quantum vacuum expectation values of energy and momentum densities associated with electromagnetic fields in bounded domains containing inhomogeneous media is discussed. This technique is illustrated by calculating the mode contributions to the difference in the vacuum force expectation between opposite ends of an inhomogeneous dielectric non-dispersive medium confined to a perfectly conducting rigid box.

id: 1107.1591
title: Attosecond control of electrons emitted from a nanoscale metal tip
authors: Michael Kr¨¹ger, Markus Schenk, Peter Hommelhoff
comments: Final manuscript version submitted to Nature
journal: Nature 475, 78-81 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1591
abstract: Attosecond science is based on steering of electrons with the electric field of well-controlled femtosecond laser pulses. It has led to, for example, the generation of XUV light pulses with a duration in the sub-100-attosecond regime, to the measurement of intra-molecular dynamics by diffraction of an electron taken from the molecule under scrutiny, and to novel ultrafast electron holography. All these effects have been observed with atoms or molecules in the gas phase. Although predicted to occur, a strong light-phase sensitivity of electrons liberated by few-cycle laser pulses from solids has hitherto been elusive. Here we show a carrier-envelope (C-E) phase-dependent current modulation of up to 100% recorded in spectra of electrons laser-emitted from a nanometric tungsten tip. Controlled by the C-E phase, electrons originate from either one or two sub-500as long instances within the 6-fs laser pulse, leading to the presence or absence of spectral interference. We also show that coherent elastic re-scattering of liberated electrons takes place at the metal surface. Due to field enhancement at the tip, a simple laser oscillator suffices to reach the required peak electric field strengths, allowing attosecond science experiments to be performed at the 100-Megahertz repetition rate level and rendering complex amplified laser systems dispensable. Practically, this work represents a simple, exquisitely sensitive C-E phase sensor device, which can be shrunk in volume down to ~ 1cm3. The results indicate that the above-mentioned novel attosecond science techniques developed with and for atoms and molecules can also be employed with solids. In particular, we foresee sub-femtosecond (sub-) nanometre probing of (collective) electron dynamics, such as plasmon polaritons, in solid-state systems ranging in size from mesoscopic solids via clusters to single protruding atoms.

id: 1107.1597
title: Dilution and resonance enhanced repulsion in non-equilibrium fluctuation forces
authors: Giuseppe Bimonte, Thorsten Emig, Matthias Kruger, Mehran Kardar
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042503 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1597
abstract: In equilibrium, forces induced by fluctuations of the electromagnetic field between electrically polarizable objects (microscopic or macroscopic) in vacuum are always attractive. The force may, however, become repulsive for microscopic particles coupled to thermal baths with different temperatures. We demonstrate that this non-equilibrium repulsion can be realized also between macroscopic objects, as planar slabs, if they are kept at different temperatures. It is shown that repulsion can be enhanced by (i) tuning of material resonances in the thermal region, and by (ii) reducing the dielectric contrast due to "dilution". This can lead to stable equilibrium positions. We discuss the realization of these effects for aerogels, yielding repulsion down to sub-micron distances at realistic porosities.

id: 1107.1611
title: Quantum Phase Transitions and Heat Capacity in a two-atoms Bose-Hubbard Model
authors: B. Leggio, A. Napoli, A. Messina
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1611
abstract: We show that a two-atoms Bose-Hubbard model exhibits three different phases in the behavior of thermal entanglement in its parameter space. These phases are demonstrated to be traceable back to the existence of quantum phase transitions in the same system. Significant similarities between the behaviors of thermal entanglement and heat capacity in the parameter space are brought to light thus allowing to interpret the occurrence and the meaning of all these three phases.

id: 1107.1649
title: Low phase noise diode laser oscillator for 1S-2S spectroscopy in atomic hydrogen
authors: N.Kolachevsky, J.Alnis, C.G.Parthey, A.Matveev, R.Landig, T.W.Haensch
comments: 3 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Letters 36, 4299 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1649
abstract: We report on a low-noise diode laser oscillator at 972 nm actively stabilized to an ultra-stable vibrationally- and thermally compensated reference cavity. To increase the fraction of laser power in the carrier we designed a 20 cm long external cavity diode laser with an intra-cavity electro-optical modulator. The fractional power in the carrier reaches 99.9% which corresponds to a rms phase noise of $\phi^2_\textrm{rms}=1\,\textrm{mrad}^2$ in 10\,MHz bandwidth. Using this oscillator we recorded 1S-2S spectra in atomic hydrogen and have not observed any significant loss of the excitation efficiency due to phase noise multiplication in the three consecutive 2-photon processes.

id: 1107.1664
title: Percolation of secret correlations in a network
authors: Anthony Leverrier, Raul Garcia-Patron
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032329 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1664
abstract: In this work, we explore the analogy between entanglement and secret classical correlations in the context of large networks, more precisely the question of percolation of secret correlations in a network. It is known that entanglement percolation in quantum networks can display a highly nontrivial behavior depending on the topology of the network and on the presence of entanglement between the nodes. Here we show that this behavior, thought to be of a genuine quantum nature, also occurs in a classical context.

id: 1107.1678
title: de Broglie waves as the "Bridge of Becoming" between quantum theory and relativity
authors: R. E. Kastner
comments: Forthcoming in Foundations of Science; reference added to recent work of Dolce
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1678
abstract: It is hypothesized that de Broglie's 'matter waves' provide a dynamical basis for Minkowski spacetime in an antisubstantivalist or relational account. The relativity of simultaneity is seen as an effect of the de Broglie oscillation together with a basic relativity postulate, while the dispersion relation from finite rest mass gives rise to the differentiation of spatial and temporal axes. Thus spacetime is seen as not fundamental, but rather as emergent from the quantum level. A result by Solov'ev which demonstrates that time is not an applicable concept at the quantum level is adduced in support of this claim. Finally, it is noted that de Broglie waves can be seen as the "bridge of becoming" discussed by Elitzur and Dolev (2005).

id: 1107.1732
title: Distance between quantum states in presence of initial qubit-environment correlations: a comparative study
authors: Jerzy Dajka, Jerzy \Luczka, Peter H?nggi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032120 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1732
abstract: The time evolution of the trace distance between two states of an open quantum system may increase due to initial system-environment correlations, thus exhibiting a breakdown of distance contractivity of the reduced dynamics. We analyze how the time evolution of the distance depends on the chosen distance measure. Here we elucidate the behavior of the trace distance, the Hilbert- Schmidt distance, the Bures distance, the Hellinger distance and the quantum Jensen-Shannon divergence for two system-environment setups, namely a qubit bi-linearly coupled to an infinite and a finite size environment with the latter composed of harmonic oscillators.

id: 1107.1747
title: Entanglement-based perturbation theory for highly anisotropic Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Alexandre B. Tacla, Carlton M. Caves
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1747
abstract: We investigate the emergence of three-dimensional behavior in a reduced-dimension Bose-Einstein condensate trapped by a highly anisotropic potential. We handle the problem analytically by performing a perturbative Schmidt decomposition of the condensate wave function between the tightly confined (transverse) direction(s) and the loosely confined (longitudinal) direction(s). The perturbation theory is valid when the nonlinear scattering energy is small compared to the transverse energy scales. Our approach provides a straightforward way, first, to derive corrections to the transverse and longitudinal wave functions of the reduced-dimension approximation and, second, to calculate the amount of entanglement that arises between the transverse and longitudinal spatial directions. Numerical integration of the three-dimensional Gross-Pitaevskii equation for different cigar-shaped potentials and experimentally accessible parameters reveals good agreement with our analytical model even for relatively high nonlinearities. In particular, we show that even for such stronger nonlinearities the entanglement remains remarkably small, which allows the condensate to be well described by a product wave function that corresponds to a single Schmidt term.

id: 1107.1759
title: Analysis technique for exceptional points in open quantum systems and QPT analogy for the appearance of irreversibility
authors: Savannah Garmon, Ingrid Rotter, Naomichi Hatano, Dvira Segal
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 51, 3636 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1759
abstract: We propose an analysis technique for the exceptional points (EPs) occurring in the discrete spectrum of open quantum systems (OQS), using a semi-infinite chain coupled to an endpoint impurity as a prototype. We outline our method to locate the EPs in OQS, further obtaining an eigenvalue expansion in the vicinity of the EPs that gives rise to characteristic exponents. We also report the precise number of EPs occurring in an OQS with a continuum described by a quadratic dispersion curve. In particular, the number of EPs occurring in a bare discrete Hamiltonian of dimension $n_\textrm{D}$ is given by $n_\textrm{D} (n_\textrm{D} - 1)$; if this discrete Hamiltonian is then coupled to continuum (or continua) to form an OQS, the interaction with the continuum generally produces an enlarged discrete solution space that includes a greater number of EPs, specifically $2^{n_\textrm{C}} (n_\textrm{C} + n_\textrm{D}) [2^{n_\textrm{C}} (n_\textrm{C} + n_\textrm{D}) - 1] $, in which $n_\textrm{C}$ is the number of (non-degenerate) continua to which the discrete sector is attached. Finally, we offer a heuristic quantum phase transition analogy for the emergence of the resonance (giving rise to irreversibility via exponential decay) in which the decay width plays the role of the order parameter; the associated critical exponent is then determined by the above eigenvalue expansion.

id: 1107.1761
title: Tripartite Entanglement in Qudit Stabilizer States and Application in Quantum Error Correction
authors: Shiang Yong Looi, Robert B. Griffiths
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052306 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1761
abstract: Consider a stabilizer state on $n$ qudits, each of dimension $D$ with $D$ being a prime or a squarefree integer, divided into three mutually disjoint sets or parts. Generalizing a result of Bravyi et al. [J. Math. Phys. \textbf{47}, 062106 (2006)] for qubits (D=2), we show that up to local unitaries on the three parts the state can be written as a tensor product of unentangled single-qudit states, maximally entangled EPR pairs, and tripartite GHZ states. We employ this result to obtain a complete characterization of the properties of a class of channels associated with stabilizer error-correcting codes, along with their complementary channels.

id: 1107.1770
title: The cryptohermitian smeared-coordinate representation of wave functions
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 13. pp, 3 figs
journal: Physics Letters A 375 (2011), pp. 3176-3183
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1770
abstract: The one-dimensional real line of coordinates is replaced, for simplification or approximation purposes, by an N-plet of the so called Gauss-Hermite grid points. These grid points are interpreted as the eigenvalues of a tridiagonal matrix $\mathfrak{q}_0$ which proves rather complicated. Via the "zeroth" Dyson-map $\Omega_0$ the "operator of position" $\mathfrak{q}_0$ is then further simplified into an isospectral matrix $Q_0$ which is found optimal for the purpose. As long as the latter matrix appears non-Hermitian it is not an observable in the manifestly "false" Hilbert space ${\cal H}^{(F)}:=\mathbb{R}^N$. For this reason the optimal operator $Q_0$ is assigned the family of its isospectral avatars $\mathfrak{h}_\alpha$, $\alpha=(0,)\,1,2,...$. They are, by construction, selfadjoint in the respective $\alpha-$dependent image Hilbert spaces ${\cal H}^{(P)}_\alpha$ obtained from ${\cal H}^{(F)}$ by the respective "new" Dyson maps $\Omega_\alpha$. In the ultimate step of simplification, the inner product in the F-superscripted space is redefined in an {\it ad hoc}, $\alpha-$dependent manner. The resulting "simplest", S-superscripted representations ${\cal H}^{(S)}_\alpha$ of the eligible physical Hilbert spaces of states (offering different dynamics) then emerge as, by construction, unitary equivalent to the (i.e., indistinguishable from the) respective awkward, P-superscripted and $\alpha-$subscripted physical Hilbert spaces.

id: 1107.1781
title: The quantum computational speed of a single Cooper Pair box
authors: A.-S.F.Obada, D.A.M.Abo-Kahla, N. Metwally, M. Abdel-Aty
comments: Accepted, Physica E:doi:10.1016/j.physe.2011.06.013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1781
abstract: The speed of computations is investigated by means of the orthogonality speed for a charged qubit interacting with a single cavity field prepared initially in a Fock state or Binomial state. We observe that the rate of the computational speed is related to the number of photons inside the cavity. Moreover, we show that the qubit-field coupling plays an opposite role, where the speed of computations is decreased as the coupling is increased. We suggest using the number of photons in the field as a control parameter to improve the speed of computations.

id: 1107.1803
title: Precision Measurements on a Tunable Mott Insulator of Ultracold Atoms
authors: M. J. Mark, E. Haller, K. Lauber, J. G. Danzl, A. J. Daley, H.-C. N?gerl
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 175301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1803
abstract: We perform precision measurements on a Mott-insulator quantum state of ultracold atoms with tunable interactions. We probe the dependence of the superfluid-to-Mott-insulator transition on the interaction strength and explore the limits of the standard Bose-Hubbard model description. By tuning the on-site interaction energies to values comparable to the interband separation, we are able to quantitatively measure number-dependent shifts in the excitation spectrum caused by effective multi-body interactions.

id: 1107.1852
title: Entanglement generation between unstable optically active qubits without photodetectors
authors: Yuichiro Matsuzaki, Paolo Solinas, Mikko M?tt?nen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1852
abstract: We propose a robust deterministic scheme to generate entanglement at high fidelity without the need of photodetectors even for quantum bits, qubits, with extremely poor optically active states. Our protocol employs stimulated Raman adiabatic passage for population transfer without actually exciting the system. Furthermore, it is found to be effective even if the environmental decoherence rate is of the same order of magnitude as the atom--photon coupling frequency. Our scheme holds potential to solve entanglement generation problems, e.g., in distributed quantum computing.

id: 1107.1934
title: Two-Photon Scattering by a Cavity-Coupled Two-Level Emitter in a One-Dimensional Waveguide
authors: Zhongling Ji, Shaoyan Gao
comments: 12 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1934
abstract: We show that two-photon transport can be modulated by a two-level emitter coupled to a cavity in a one-dimensional waveguide. In the ordinary case, the transmitted light has a wider frequency spectrum than the situation without the cavity because it is reflected and scattered many times. But when the two photons are resonant with the cavity resonance reflection frequency, the frequency spectrum of the transmitted light becomes narrower than that without the cavity. This means that properly tuning the cavity resonance frequency can improve the photon-photon interaction. In addition, we show that the two-photon intensity correlation functions are nearly opposite to each other at the two sides of the emitter transition frequency rather than be the same, which is exactly the Fano resonance line shape for two photons. Such an effect is important for lowering the power threshold in optical bistable devices and for sensing applications. When the emitter transition frequency equals to the cavity resonance frequency for a high-Q cavity, our results agree with the recent experiments and theories.

id: 1107.1940
title: Multi-query quantum sums
authors: David A. Meyer, James Pommersheim
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure; presented at TQC 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1940
abstract: PARITY is the problem of determining the parity of a string $f$ of $n$ bits given access to an oracle that responds to a query $x\in\{0,1,...,n-1\}$ with the $x^{\rm th}$ bit of the string, $f(x)$. Classically, $n$ queries are required to succeed with probability greater than 1/2 (assuming equal prior probabilities for all length $n$ bitstrings), but only $\lceil n/2\rceil$ quantum queries suffice to determine the parity with probability 1. We consider a generalization to strings $f$ of $n$ elements of $\Z_k$ and the problem of determining $\sum f(x)$. By constructing an explicit algorithm, we show that $n-r$ ($n\ge r\in\N$) entangled quantum queries suffice to compute the sum correctly with worst case probability $\min\{\lfloor n/r\rfloor/k,1\}$. This quantum algorithm utilizes the $n-r$ queries sequentially and adaptively, like Grover's algorithm, but in a different way that is not amplitude amplification.

id: 1107.2005
title: Orthogonal measurements are {\it almost} sufficient for quantum discord of two qubits
authors: Fernando Galve, Gianluca Giorgi, Roberta Zambrini
comments: EPL 96, 40005 (2011)
journal: EPL 96, 40005 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2005
abstract: The common use in literature of orthogonal measurements in obtaining quantum discord for two-qubit states is discussed and compared with more general measurements. We prove the optimality of orthogonal measurements for rank 2 states. While for rank 3 and 4 mixed states they are not optimal, we present strong numerical evidence showing that they give the correct quantum discord up to minimal corrections. Based on the connection, through purification with an ancilla, between discord and entanglement of formation (EoF), we give a tight upper bound for the EoF of a $2\otimes N$ mixed state of rank 2, given by an optimal decomposition of 2 elements. We also provide an alternative way to compute the quantum discord for two qubits based on the Bloch vectors of the state.

id: 1107.2068
title: Quantum tomography in position and momentum space
authors: J. Casanova, C. E. Lopez, J. J. Garcia-Ripoll, C. F. Roos, E. Solano
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. To be published in EPJD
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D. 66, 222 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2068
abstract: We introduce a method of quantum tomography for a continuous variable system in position and momentum space. We consider a single two-level probe interacting with a quantum harmonic oscillator by means of a class of Hamiltonians, linear in position and momentum variables, during a tunable time span. We study two cases: the reconstruction of the wavefunctions of pure states and the direct measurement of the density matrix of mixed states. We show that our method can be applied to several physical systems where high quantum control can be experimentally achieved.

id: 1107.2078
title: Preparation of Subradiant States using Local Qubit Control in Circuit QED
authors: S. Filipp, A. F. van Loo, M. Baur, L. Steffen, A. Wallraff
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev A. 84, 061805(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2078
abstract: Transitions between quantum states by photon absorption or emission are intimately related to symmetries of the system which lead to selection rules and the formation of dark states. In a circuit quantum electrodynamics setup, in which two resonant superconducting qubits are coupled through an on-chip cavity and driven via the common cavity field, one single-excitation state remains dark. Here, we demonstrate that this dark state can be excited using local phase control of individual qubit drives to change the symmetry of the driving field. We observe that the dark state decay via spontaneous emission into the cavity is suppressed, a characteristic signature of subradiance. This local control technique could be used to prepare and study highly correlated quantum states of cavity-coupled qubits.

id: 1107.2138
title: Understanding quantum measurement from the solution of dynamical models
authors: Armen E. Allahverdyan, Roger Balian, Theo M. Nieuwenhuizen
comments: Minor changes, matches published version. 201 pages Latex, 377 references, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rep. 525 (2013) 1-166
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2138
abstract: The quantum measurement problem, understanding why a unique outcome is obtained in each individual experiment, is tackled by solving models. After an introduction we review the many dynamical models proposed over the years. A flexible and rather realistic model is introduced, describing the measurement of the $z$-component of a spin through interaction with a magnetic memory simulated by a Curie--Weiss magnet, including $N \gg1$ spins weakly coupled to a phonon bath. Initially prepared in a metastable paramagnetic state, it may transit to its up or down ferromagnetic state, triggered by its coupling with the tested spin, so that its magnetization acts as a pointer. A detailed solution of the dynamical equations is worked out. Conditions are found, which ensure that the process satisfies the features of ideal measurements. Various imperfections are discussed, as well as attempts of incompatible measurements. The first steps consist in the solution of the Hamiltonian dynamics for the spin-apparatus density matrix $D(t)$. On a longer time scale, the trend towards equilibrium of the magnet produces a final state $D(t_{\rm f})$ that involves correlations between the system and the indications of the pointer, thus ensuring registration. A difficulty lies in a quantum ambiguity: There exist many incompatible decompositions of the density matrix $\scriptD(t_{\rm f})$. This difficulty is overcome by dynamics due to suitable interactions within the apparatus. Any subset of runs thus reaches over a brief delay a stable state which satisfies the same hierarchic property as in classical probability theory. Standard quantum statistical mechanics alone appears sufficient to explain the occurrence of a unique answer in each run. Finally, pedagogical exercises are proposed while the statistical interpretation is promoted for teaching. [Abridged]

id: 1107.2148
title: An introduction to reliable quantum computation
authors: Panos Aliferis
comments: 34 pages, 25 jpeg figures, uses cupbook.sty and fncychap.sty; chapter 5 in "Quantum Error Correction," edited by Daniel A. Lidar and Todd A. Brun, (Cambridge University Press, 2013)
journal: In "Quantum Error Correction", edited by Daniel A. Lidar and Todd A. Brun, (Cambridge University Press, 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2148
abstract: This is an introduction to software methods of quantum fault tolerance. Broadly speaking, these methods describe strategies for using the noisy hardware components of a quantum computer to perform computations while continually monitoring and actively correcting the hardware faults. We discuss parallels and differences with similar methods for ordinary digital computation, we discuss some of the noise models used in designing and analyzing noisy quantum circuits, and we sketch the logic of some of the central results in this area of research.

id: 1107.2186
title: Correlation preserving map between bipartite states and temporal evolutions
authors: Shmuel Marcovitch, Benni Reznik
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2186
abstract: The Hilbert space formalism of quantum theory manifests a map between bipartite states and time evolutions, known as Jamiolkowski isomorphism. We extend this map in a physical setting to prove the equality of spatial correlations in bipartite systems and temporal correlations in local systems. We show that these correlations can be observed using weak measurements. This result has several practical and conceptual implications such as manifestation of state independent decoherence, the correspondence between Bell and Leggett-Garg inequalities, multipartite systems, the statistical properties of evolutions in large systems, and computational gain, in evaluation of spatial correlations in large systems.

id: 1107.2189
title: Hidden Symmetry Subgroup Problems
authors: Thomas Decker, G¨¢bor Ivanyos, Miklos Santha, Pawel Wocjan
comments: 21 pages, slightly improved and slightly extended version
journal: SIAM Journal on Computing 42:5 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2189
abstract: We advocate a new approach of addressing hidden structure problems and finding efficient quantum algorithms. We introduce and investigate the Hidden Symmetry Subgroup Problem (HSSP), which is a generalization of the well-studied Hidden Subgroup Problem (HSP). Given a group acting on a set and an oracle whose level sets define a partition of the set, the task is to recover the subgroup of symmetries of this partition inside the group. The HSSP provides a unifying framework that, besides the HSP, encompasses a wide range of algebraic oracle problems, including quadratic hidden polynomial problems. While the HSSP can have provably exponential quantum query complexity, we obtain efficient quantum algorithms for various interesting cases. To achieve this, we present a general method for reducing the HSSP to the HSP, which works efficiently in several cases related to symmetries of polynomials. The HSSP therefore connects in a rather surprising way certain hidden polynomial problems with the HSP. Using this connection, we obtain the first efficient quantum algorithm for the hidden polynomial problem for multivariate quadratic polynomials over fields of constant characteristic. We also apply the new methods to polynomial function graph problems and present an efficient quantum procedure for constant degree multivariate polynomials over any field. This result improves in several ways the currently known algorithms.

id: 1107.2225
title: Back-action ground state cooling of a micromechanical membrane via intensity-dependent interaction
authors: Sh. Barzanjeh, M. H. Naderi, M. Soltanolkotabi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 023803 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2225
abstract: We propose a theoretical scheme to show the possibility of achieving the quantum ground state cooling of a vibrating micromechanical membrane inside a high finesse optical cavity by back-action cooling approach. The scheme is based on an intensity-dependent coupling of the membrane to the intracavity radiation pressure field. We find the exact expression for the position and momentum variances of the membrane by solving the linearized quantum Langevin equations in the steady-state, conditioned by the Routh-Hurwitz criterion. We show that by varying the Lamb-Dicke parameter and the membrane's reflectivity one can effectively control the mean number of excitations of vibration of the membrane and also cool down the system to micro-Kelvin temperatures.

id: 1107.2246
title: Quantum discord of two-qubit rank-two states
authors: Mingjun Shi, Wei Yang, Fengjian Jiang, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures, revised version
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 44, 415304 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2246
abstract: Among various definitions of quantum correlations, quantum discord has attracted considerable attention. To find analytical expression of quantum discord is an intractable task. In this paper, we discuss thoroughly the case of two-qubit rank-two states. An analytical expression for the quantum discord is obtained by means of Koashi-Winter relation. A geometric picture is demonstrated by means of quantum steering ellipsoid. We point out that in this case the optimal measurement is indeed the von Neumann measurement, which is usually used in the study of quantum discord. However, for some two-qubit states with the rank larger than two, we find that three-element POVM measurement is more optimal. It means that more careful attention should be paid in the discussion of quantum discord.

id: 1107.2255
title: A complete set of multidimensional Bell inequalities
authors: Fran?ois Arnault
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure. Plain TeX file This version 2 adds Section 7 about violations. Section 8 (the case d=3) and bibliography have been extended accordingly
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2255
abstract: We give a multidimensional generalisation of the complete set of Bell-correlation inequalities given by Werner and Wolf, and by Zukowski and Brukner, for the two-dimensional case. Our construction applies for the n parties, two-observables case, where each observable is d-valued. The d^{d^n} inequalities obtained involve homogeneous polynomials. They define the facets of a polytope in a complex vector space of dimension d^n. We also show that these inequalities are violated by Quantum Mechanics. We exhibit examples in the three-dimensional case.

id: 1107.2271
title: Extended Representations of Observables and States for a Noncontextual Reinterpretation of QM
authors: Claudio Garola, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 17 pages, standard latex. Extensively revised version
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, 45 (2012) 075303 (13pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2271
abstract: A crucial and problematical feature of quantum mechanics (QM) is nonobjectivity of properties. The ESR model restores objectivity reinterpreting quantum probabilities as conditional on detection and embodying the mathematical formalism of QM into a broader noncontextual (hence local) framework. We propose here an improved presentation of the ESR model containing a more complete mathematical representation of the basic entities of the model. We also extend the model to mixtures showing that the mathematical representations of proper mixtures does not coincide with the mathematical representation of mixtures provided by QM, while the representation of improper mixtures does. This feature of the ESR model entails that some interpretative problems raising in QM when dealing with mixtures are avoided. From an empirical point of view the predictions of the ESR model depend on some parameters which may be such that they are very close to the predictions of QM in most cases. But the nonstandard representation of proper mixtures allows us to propose the scheme of an experiment that could check whether the predictions of QM or the predictions of the ESR model are correct.

id: 1107.2274
title: Hyperfine characterization and coherence lifetime extension in Pr3+:La2(WO4)3
authors: Marko Lovri?, Philipp Glasenapp, Dieter Suter, Biagio Tumino, Alban Ferrier, Philippe Goldner, Mahmood Sabooni, Lars Rippe, Stefan Kr?ll
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 104417 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2274
abstract: Rare-earth ions in dielectric crystals are interesting candidates for storing quantum states of photons. A limiting factor on the optical density and thus the conversion efficiency is the distortion introduced in the crystal by doping elements of one type into a crystal matrix of another type. Here, we investigate the system Pr3+:La2(WO4)3, where the similarity of the ionic radii of Pr and La minimizes distortions due to doping. We characterize the praseodymium hyperfine interaction of the ground state (3H4) and one excited state (1D2) and determine the spin Hamiltonian parameters by numerical analysis of Raman-heterodyne spectra, which were collected for a range of static external magnetic field strengths and orientations. On the basis of a crystal field analysis, we discuss the physical origin of the experimentally determined quadrupole and Zeeman tensor characteristics. We show the potential for quantum memory applications by measuring the spin coherence lifetime in a magnetic field that is chosen such that additional magnetic fields do not shift the transition frequency in first order. Experimental results demonstrate a spin coherence lifetime of 158 ms - almost three orders of magnitude longer than in zero field.

id: 1107.2290
title: Casimir-Polder energy level shifts of an out-of-equilibrium particle near a microsphere
authors: Simen ?. Ellingsen, Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Stefan Scheel
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, accepted for Phys. Rev. A
journal: Physical Review A 85, 022503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2290
abstract: Rydberg atoms and beams of ultracold polar molecules have become highly useful experimental tools in recent years. There is therefore a need for accessible calculations of interaction potentials between such particles and nearby surfaces and structures, bearing in mind that the particles are far out of thermal equilibrium with their environment and that their interaction is predominantly non-retarded. Based on a new perturbative expansion with respect to the inverse speed of light and the inverse conductivity, we derive a simple, closed-form expression for the interaction potential (i.e., the particle energy level shifts) of a particle and a metallic sphere that is is accurate at better than 1% level for typical experimental set-ups at room temperature and above, and off by no more than a few percent at any temperature including zero. Our result illuminates the influence of retardation and imperfect conductivity and the interplay of these effects with geometry. The method developed for the present study may be applied to other, more complex geometries.

id: 1107.2365
title: On some special cases of the Entropy Photon-Number Inequality
authors: Smarajit Das, Naresh Sharma, Siddharth Muthukrishnan
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: Proceedings of Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication, and Cryptography (TQC), Tokyo, Japan, May 2012, vol. 7582, Lecture Notes in Computer Science
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2365
abstract: We show that the Entropy Photon-Number Inequality (EPnI) holds where one of the input states is the vacuum state and for several candidates of the other input state that includes the cases when the state has the eigenvectors as the number states and either has only two non-zero eigenvalues or has arbitrary number of non-zero eigenvalues but is a high entropy state. We also discuss the conditions, which if satisfied, would lead to an extension of these results.

id: 1107.2409
title: Improving entanglement concentration of Gaussian states by local displacements
authors: Jaromir Fiurasek
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, REVTeX4, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2409
abstract: We investigate entanglement concentration of continuous-variable Gaussian states by local single-photon subtractions combined with local Gaussian operations. We first analyze the local squeezing-enhanced entanglement concentration protocol proposed very recently by Zhang and van Loock [e-print: arXiv:1103.4500 (2011)] and discuss the mechanism by which local squeezing before photon subtraction helps to increase the entanglement of the output state of the protocol. We next show that a similar entanglement improvement can be achieved by using local coherent displacements instead of single-mode squeezing.

id: 1107.2412
title: Improved accuracy of the NPL-CsF2 primary frequency standard: evaluation of distributed cavity phase and microwave lensing frequency shifts
authors: Ruoxin Li, Kurt Gibble, Krzysztof Szymaniec
comments: 
journal: Metrologia 48, 283-289 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2412
abstract: We evaluate the distributed cavity phase and microwave lensing frequency shifts, which were the two largest sources of uncertainty for the NPL-CsF2 cesium fountain clock. We report measurements that confirm a detailed theoretical model of the microwave cavity fields and the frequency shifts of the clock that they produce. The model and measurements significantly reduce the distributed cavity phase uncertainty to $1.1 \times 10^{-16}$. We derive the microwave lensing frequency shift for a cylindrical cavity with circular apertures. An analytic result with reasonable approximations is given, in addition to a full calculation that indicates a shift of $6.2 \times 10^{-17}$. The measurements and theoretical models we report, along with improved evaluations of collisional and microwave leakage induced frequency shifts, reduce the frequency uncertainty of the NPL-CsF2 standard to $2.3 \times 10^{-16}$, nearly a factor of two lower than its most recent complete evaluation.

id: 1107.2438
title: The algebra of local unitary invariants of identical particles
authors: Peter Vrana
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2438
abstract: We investigate the properties of the inverse limit of the algebras of local unitary invariant polynomials of quantum systems containing various types of fermionic and/or bosonic particles as the dimensions of the single particle state spaces tend to infinity. We show that the resulting algebras are free and present a combinatorial description of an algebraically independent generating set in terms of graphs. These generating sets can be interpreted as minimal sets of polynomial entanglement measures distinguishing between states showing different nonclassical behaviour.

id: 1107.2459
title: Improving the security of arbitrated quantum signature protocols
authors: Zhiwei Sun, Ruigang Du, Dongyang Long
comments: 6 pages, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2459
abstract: Arbitrated quantum signatures (AQS), for signing quantum message, have been proposed. It was claimed that the AQS schemes could guarantee unconditional security. However, in this paper, we show that all the presented AQS protocols are insecure if quantum one-time pad encryption is used where the signer Alice can always successfully acquire Bob's secret key and disavow any of her signatures. The detailed attack strategies and security analysis are described. Furthermore, the original version of the protocols is revised and accordingly the security of the AQS protocols are improved. And meanwhile we present a method to against Alice's disavowal proposed by Gao et al. (arXiv:1106.4398v1).

id: 1107.2501
title: Multichannel Effects near Confinement-Induced Resonances in Harmonic Waveguides
authors: Vladimir S. Melezhik, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 6 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.A84, 042712(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2501
abstract: We analyze the impact of multichannel scattering in harmonic waveguides on the positions and widths of confinement-induced resonances for both isotropic and anisotropic transversal confinement. Multichannel scattering amplitudes and transmission coefficients are calculated and used to characterize the resonant behaviour of atomic collisions with varying anisotropy. A mechanism is established which leads to a splitting of the confinement-induced resonance in the presence of anisotropy.

id: 1107.2533
title: Increasing Average Fidelity by Using Non-Maximally Entangled Resource in Teleportation of Superposed Coherent States
authors: Hari Prakash, Manoj K Mishra
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2533
abstract: We consider the problem of teleporting superposed coherent state using non-maximally entangled coherent state as quantum channel and study the effect of entanglement over quality of teleportation. We show that if maximally entangled coherent state (MECS) used by Van Enk and Hirota [Phys. Rev. A 64, 022313 (2001)] and by H Prakash et al. [Phys. Rev. A 75, 044305 (2007)] is replaced by a particular non-maximally entangled coherent state (NMECS), average fidelity of quantum teleportation increases appreciably at small coherent amplitudes. Since it is very challenging to produce superposed coherent states of large coherent amplitudes, the particular NMECS appear to be a good quantum channel for teleportation at small coherent amplitudes for practical implementation.

id: 1107.2607
title: Shaping an Itinerant Quantum Field by Dissipation
authors: Diego Porras, Juan Jos¨¦ Garc¨ªa-Ripoll
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 043602 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2607
abstract: We show that inducing sidebands in the emission of a single emitter into a one dimensional waveguide, together with a dissipative re-pumping process, a photon field is cooled down to a squeezed vacuum. Our method does not require to be in the strong coupling regime, works with a continuum of propagating field modes and it may lead to sources of tunable multimode squeezed light in circuit QED systems.

id: 1107.2617
title: Electron-Mediated Nuclear-Spin Interactions Between Distant NV Centers
authors: A. Bermudez, F. Jelezko, M. B. Plenio, A. Retzker
comments: replaced with published verion
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 150503 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2617
abstract: We propose a scheme enabling controlled quantum coherent interactions between separated nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond in the presence of strong magnetic fluctuations. The proposed scheme couples nuclear qubits employing the magnetic dipole-dipole interaction between the electron spins and, crucially, benefits from the suppression of the effect of environmental magnetic field fluctuations thanks to a strong microwave driving. This scheme provides a basic building block for a full-scale quantum information processor or quantum simulator based on solid-state technology.

id: 1107.2632
title: A quantum computation architecture using optical tweezers
authors: Christof Weitenberg, Stefan Kuhr, Klaus M?lmer, Jacob F. Sherson
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032322 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2632
abstract: We present a complete architecture for scalable quantum computation with ultracold atoms in optical lattices using optical tweezers focused to the size of a lattice spacing. We discuss three different two-qubit gates based on local collisional interactions. The gates between arbitrary qubits require the transport of atoms to neighboring sites. We numerically optimize the non-adiabatic transport of the atoms through the lattice and the intensity ramps of the optical tweezer in order to maximize the gate fidelities. We find overall gate times of a few 100 us, while keeping the error probability due to vibrational excitations and spontaneous scattering below 10^3. The requirements on the positioning error and intensity noise of the optical tweezer and the magnetic field stability are analyzed and we show that atoms in optical lattices could meet the requirements for fault-tolerant scalable quantum computing.

id: 1107.2667
title: Semiclassical Wigner distribution for two-mode entangled state
authors: K. Dechoum, M. D. Hahn, R. O. Vallejos, A. Z. Khoury
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures. arXiv admin note: this contains the content of arXiv:0906.5316
journal: Physical Review A 81, 043834 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2667
abstract: We derive the steady state solution of the Fokker-Planck equation that describes the dynamics of the nondegenerate optical parametric oscillator in the truncated Wigner representation of the density operator. We assume that the pump mode is strongly damped, which permits its adiabatic elimination. When the elimination is correctly executed, the resulting stochastic equations contain multiplicative noise terms, and do not admit a potential solution. However, we develop an heuristic scheme leading to a satisfactory steady-state solution. This provides a clear view of the intracavity two-mode entangled state valid in all operating regimes of the OPO. A nongaussian distribution is obtained for the above threshold solution.

id: 1107.2671
title: Cauchy-Schwarz characterization of tripartite quantum correlations in an optical parametric oscillator
authors: K. Dechoum, W. S. Marques, A. Z. Khoury
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 83, 063843 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2671
abstract: We analyze the three-mode correlation properties of the electromagnetic field in a optical parametric oscillator below threshold. We employ a perturbative expansion of the It\^o equations derived from the positive-P representation of the density matrix. Using the generalized Cauchy-Schwarz inequality, we investigate the genuine quantum nature of the triple correlations between the interacting fields, since in this case continuous variable entanglement is not detected by the van Loock-Furusawa criterion [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 67}, 052315 (2003)]. Although not being a necessary condition, these triple correlations are a sufficient evidence of tripartite entanglement. Of course, our characterization of the quantum correlations is applicable to non-Gaussian states, which we show to be the case of the optical parametric oscillator below threshold, provided nonlinear quantum fluctuations are properly taken into account.

id: 1107.2697
title: Non-perturbative gadget for topological quantum codes
authors: Samuel A. Ocko, Beni Yoshida
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures, PRL Accepted
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 250502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2697
abstract: Many-body entangled systems, in particular topologically ordered spin systems proposed as resources for quantum information processing tasks, often involve highly non-local interaction terms. While one may approximate such systems through two-body interactions perturbatively, these approaches have a number of drawbacks in practice. Here, we propose a scheme to simulate many-body spin Hamiltonians with two-body Hamiltonians non-perturbatively. Unlike previous approaches, our Hamiltonians are not only exactly solvable with exact ground state degeneracy, but also support completely localized quasi-particle excitations, which are ideal for quantum information processing tasks. Our construction is limited to simulating the toric code and quantum double models, but generalizations to other non-local spin Hamiltonians may be possible.

id: 1107.2707
title: Structure of 2D Topological Stabilizer Codes
authors: H. Bombin
comments: 54 pages, 11 figures, version accepted in journal, improved presentation and results
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 327, 387-432 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2707
abstract: We provide a detailed study of the general structure of two-dimensional topological stabilizer quantum error correcting codes, including subsystem codes. Under the sole assumption of translational invariance, we show that all such codes can be understood in terms of the homology of string operators that carry a certain topological charge. In the case of subspace codes, we prove that two codes are equivalent under a suitable set of local transformations if and only they have equivalent topological charges. Our approach emphasizes local properties of the codes over global ones.

id: 1107.2720
title: One parameter family of indecomposable optimal entanglement witnesses arising from generalized Choi maps
authors: Kil-Chan Ha, Seung-Hyeok Kye
comments: 3 pages
journal: Physical Review A, 84/2 (2011) 024302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2720
abstract: In the recent paper [Chru\'{s}ci\'{n}ski and Wudarski, arXiv:1105.4821], it was conjectured that the entanglement witnesses arising from some generalized Choi maps are optimal. We show that this conjecture is true. Furthermore, we show that they provide a one parameter family of indecomposable optimal entanglement witnesses.

id: 1107.2742
title: Curve crossing induced dissociation : An analytically solvable model
authors: Aniruddha Chakraborty
comments: arXiv admin note: repeats content from arXiv:quant-ph/0409041 and arXiv:1101.3183
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2742
abstract: In our earlier papers we have proposed an analytically solvable model for the two state curve crossing problem which assumes the coupling to be a Dirac delta function. It is used to calculate the effect of curve crossing on electronic absorption spectrum and Resonance Raman excitation profile for the case of harmonic potentials. In this paper we have extended our model to deal with the curve crossing induced dissociation cases. Our method is used in this paper to calculate the effect of curve crossing induced dissociation on electronic absorption spectrum and Resonance Raman excitation profile. In this paper, a model consisting of a Harmonic oscillator and a Morse oscillator, coupled by Dirac delta function, is solved.

id: 1107.2746
title: Decoherence Suppression by Cavity Optomechanical Cooling
authors: Eyal Buks
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2746
abstract: We consider a cavity optomechanical cooling configuration consisting of a mechanical resonator (denoted as resonator b) and an electromagnetic resonator (denoted as resonator a), which are coupled in such a way that the effective resonance frequency of resonator a depends linearly on the displacement of resonator b. We study whether back-reaction effects in such a configuration can be efficiently employed for suppression of decoherence. To that end, we consider the case where the mechanical resonator is prepared in a superposition of two coherent states and evaluate the rate of decoherence. We find that no significant suppression of decoherence is achievable when resonator a is assumed to have a linear response. On the other hand, when resonator a exhibits Kerr nonlinearity and/or nonlinear damping the decoherence rate can be made much smaller than the equilibrium value provided that the parameters that characterize these nonlinearities can be tuned close to some specified optimum values.

id: 1107.2747
title: Optimising number resolving photo-detectors using classical post-processing
authors: Peter P. Rohde
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2747
abstract: Many present day quantum optics experiments, particularly in optical quantum information processing, rely on number-resolving photo-detection as a basic building block. In this paper we demonstrate that a simple classical optimisation technique can sometimes be employed to post-process the detector signature and improve the confidence of the measurement outcome in the presence of photon-number errors such as loss or dark-counts. While the regime in which this technique is applicable is rather restrictive, and will likely not be very useful for the large-scale quantum information processing applications of the future, the ideas presented might be employed in some present-day experiments where photo-detectors are typically very poor.

id: 1107.2749
title: Single-photon heat conduction in electrical circuits
authors: P. J. Jones, J. A. M. Huhtam?ki, K. Y. Tan, M. M?tt?nen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2749
abstract: We study photonic heat conduction between two resistors coupled weakly to a single superconducting microwave cavity. At low enough temperature, the dominating part of the heat exchanged between the resistors is transmitted by single-photon excitations of the fundamental mode of the cavity. This manifestation of single-photon heat conduction should be experimentally observable with the current state of the art. Our scheme can possibly be utilized in remote interference-free temperature control of electric components and environment engineering for superconducting qubits coupled to cavities.

id: 1107.2754
title: Randomness vs Non Locality and Entanglement
authors: Antonio Acin, Serge Massar, Stefano Pironio
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 100402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2754
abstract: According to quantum theory, the outcomes obtained by measuring an entangled state necessarily exhibit some randomness if they violate a Bell inequality. In particular, a maximal violation of the CHSH inequality guarantees that 1.23 bits of randomness are generated by the measurements. However, by performing measurements with binary outcomes on two subsystems one could in principle generate up to two bits of randomness. We show that correlations that violate arbitrarily little the CHSH inequality or states with arbitrarily little entanglement can be used to certify that close to the maximum of two bits of randomness are produced. Our results show that non-locality, entanglement, and the amount of randomness that can be certified in a Bell-type experiment are inequivalent quantities. From a practical point of view, they imply that device-independent quantum key distribution with optimal key generation rate is possible using almost-local correlations and that device-independent randomness generation with optimal rate is possible with almost-local correlations and with almost-unentangled states.

id: 1107.2771
title: Enhancing quantum entanglement for continuous variables by a coherent superposition of photon subtraction and addition
authors: Su-Yong Lee, Se-Wan Ji, Ho-Joon Kim, Hyunchul Nha
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 012302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2771
abstract: We investigate how the entanglement properties of a two-mode state can be improved by performing a coherent superposition operation of photon subtraction and addition, proposed by Lee and Nha [Phys. Rev. A 82, 053812 (2010)], on each mode. We show that the degree of entanglement, the EPR-type correlation, and the performance of quantum teleportation can be all enhanced for the output state when the coherent operation is applied to a two-mode squeezed state. The effects of the coherent operation are more prominent than those of the mere photon subtraction and the addition particularly in the small squeezing regime, whereas the optimal operation becomes the photon subtraction in the large-squeezing regime.

id: 1107.2821
title: Storage and Adiabatic Cooling of Polar Molecules in a Microstructured Trap
authors: B.G.U. Englert, M. Mielenz, C. Sommer, J. Bayerl, M. Motsch, P.W.H. Pinkse, G. Rempe, M. Zeppenfeld
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 107, 263003 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2821
abstract: We present a versatile electric trap for the exploration of a wide range of quantum phenomena in the interaction between polar molecules. The trap combines tunable fields, homogeneous over most of the trap volume, with steep gradient fields at the trap boundary. An initial sample of up to 10^8 CH3F molecules is trapped for as long as 60 seconds, with a 1/e storage time of 12 seconds. Adiabatic cooling down to 120 mK is achieved by slowly expanding the trap volume. The trap combines all ingredients for opto-electrical cooling, which, together with the extraordinarily long storage times, brings field-controlled quantum-mechanical collision and reaction experiments within reach.

id: 1107.2828
title: Heralded amplification for precision measurements with spin ensembles
authors: Nicolas Brunner, Eugene S. Polzik, Christoph Simon
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 041804 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2828
abstract: We propose a simple heralded amplification scheme for small rotations of the collective spin of an ensemble of particles. Our protocol makes use of two basic primitives for quantum memories, namely partial mapping of light onto an ensemble, and conversion of a collective spin excitation into light. The proposed scheme should be realizable with current technology, with potential applications to atomic clocks and magnetometry.

id: 1107.2851
title: Consistency of a Causal Theory of Radiative Reaction with the Optical Theorem
authors: F. Intravaia, R. Behunin, P. W. Milonni, G. W. Ford, R. F. O'Connell
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 035801 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2851
abstract: The Abraham-Lorentz-Dirac equation for a point electron, while suffering from runaway solutions and an acausal response to external forces, is compatible with the optical theorem. We show that a theory of radiative reaction that allows for a finite charge distribution is not only causal and free of runaway solutions, but is also consistent with the optical theorem and the standard formula for the Rayleigh scattering cross section.

id: 1107.2883
title: Amplitude control of quantum interference
authors: W. J. Mullin, F. Lalo?
comments: 4 pages; 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2883
abstract: Usually, the oscillations of interference effects are controlled by relative phases. We show that varying the amplitudes of quantum waves, for instance by changing the reflectivity of beam splitters, can also lead to quantum oscillations and even to Bell violations of local realism. We first study theoretically a generalization of the Hong-Ou-Mandel experiment to arbitrary source numbers and beam splitter transmittivity. We then consider a Bell type experiment with two independent sources, and find strong violations of local realism for arbitrarily large source number $N$; for small $N$, one operator measures essentially the relative phase of the sources and the other their intensities. Since, experimentally, one can measure the parity of the number of atoms in an optical lattice more easily than the number itself, we assume that the detectors measure parity.

id: 1107.2884
title: Coherent control of two nuclear spins using the anisotropic hyperfine interaction
authors: Yingjie Zhang, Colm A. Ryan, Raymond Laflamme, Jonathan Baugh
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures (main text) + 3 pages, 2 figures (supplementary material)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 170503 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2884
abstract: We demonstrate coherent control of two nuclear spins mediated by the magnetic resonance of a hyperfine-coupled electron spin. This control is used to create a double nuclear coherence in one of the two electron spin manifolds, starting from an initial thermal state, in direct analogy to the creation of an entangled (Bell) state from an initially pure unentangled state. We identify challenges and potential solutions to obtaining experimental gate fidelities useful for quantum information processing in this type of system.

id: 1107.2889
title: Transport properties of a boundary-driven one-dimensional gas of spinless fermions
authors: Marko Znidaric, Bojan Zunkovic, Tomaz Prosen
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 84, 051115 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2889
abstract: We analytically study a system of spinless fermions driven at the boundary with an oscillating chemical potential. Various transport regimes can be observed: at zero driving frequency the particle current through the system is independent of the system's length; at the phase-transition frequency, being equal to the bandwidth, the current decays as n^{-alpha} with the chain length n, alpha being either 2 or 3; below the transition the scaling of the current is n^{-1/2}, indicating anomalous transport, while it is exponentially small exp{(-n/2xi)} above the transition. Therefore, by a simple change of frequency of the a.c. driving one can vary transport from ballistic, anomalous, to insulating.

id: 1107.2908
title: CTC assisted PR box type correlation can lead to signaling
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty, Tanumoy Pramanik, Arun K Pati, Pankaj Agrawal
comments: 6 pages, 4 tables, Accepted in Quantum Information and Computation
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 14, No. 13, 14 (2014) 1251
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2908
abstract: It is known that there exist non-local correlations that respect no-signaling criterion, but violate Bell-type inequalities more than quantum-mechanical correlations. Such super quantum correlations were introduced as the Popescu-Rohrlich (PR) box. We consider such non-local boxes with two/three inputs and two/three outputs. We show that these super quantum correlations can lead to signaling when at least one of the input bit has access to a word line along a closed time-like curve.

id: 1107.2939
title: Longer-Baseline Telescopes Using Quantum Repeaters
authors: Daniel Gottesman, Thomas Jennewein, Sarah Croke
comments: 10 pages, v2 improved clarity
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 070503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2939
abstract: We present an approach to building interferometric telescopes using ideas of quantum information. Current optical interferometers have limited baseline lengths, and thus limited resolution, because of noise and loss of signal due to the transmission of photons between the telescopes. The technology of quantum repeaters has the potential to eliminate this limit, allowing in principle interferometers with arbitrarily long baselines.

id: 1107.2945
title: Path integral approach to the full Dicke model with dipole-dipole interaction
authors: M. Aparicio Alcalde, J. Stephany, N. F. Svaiter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2945
abstract: We consider the full Dicke spin-boson model composed by a single bosonic mode and an ensemble of $N$ identical two-level atoms with different couplings for the resonant and anti-resonant interaction terms, and incorporate a dipole-dipole interaction between the atoms. Assuming that the system is in thermal equilibrium with a reservoir at temperature $\beta^{-1}$, we compute the free energy in the thermodynamic limit $N\rightarrow\infty$ in the saddle-point approximation to the path integral and determine the critical temperature for the superradiant phase transition. In the zero temperature limit, we recover the critical coupling of the quantum phase transition, presented in the literature.

id: 1107.2956
title: Ultrafast photon-photon interaction in a strongly coupled quantum dot-cavity system
authors: Dirk Englund, Arka Majumdar, Michal Bajcsy, Andrei Faraon, Pierre Petroff, Jelena vuckovic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2956
abstract: We study dynamics of the interaction between two weak light beams mediated by a strongly coupled quantum dot-photonic crystal cavity system. First, we perform all optical switching of a weak continuous-wave signal with a pulsed control beam, and then perform switching between two pulsed beams (40ps pulses) at the single photon level. Our results show that the quantum dot-nanocavity system creates strong, controllable interactions at the single photon level.

id: 1107.2958
title: Symmetric geometric measure and dynamics of quantum discord
authors: Mingjun Shi, Fengjian Jiang, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2958
abstract: A symmetric measure of quantum correlation based on the Hilbert-Schmidt distance is presented in this paper. For two-qubit states, we simplify considerably the optimization procedure so that numerical evaluation can be performed efficiently. Analytical expressions for the quantum correlation are attained for some special states. We further investigate the dynamics of quantum correlation of the system qubits in the presence of independent dissipative environments. Several nontrivial aspects are demonstrated. We find that the quantum correlation can increase even if the system state is suffering dissipative noise. Sudden changes occur, even twice, in the time evolution of quantum correlation. There is certain correspondence between the evolution of quantum correlation in the systems and that in the environments, and the quantum correlation in the systems will be transferred into the environments completely and asymptotically.

id: 1107.2965
title: Hitting Time of Quantum Walks with Perturbation
authors: Chen-Fu Chiang, Guillermo Gomez
comments: 9 pages
journal: Quantum Information Processing (Feb. 9), pp.~1-12, Springer, (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2965
abstract: The hitting time is the required minimum time for a Markov chain-based walk (classical or quantum) to reach a target state in the state space. We investigate the effect of the perturbation on the hitting time of a quantum walk. We obtain an upper bound for the perturbed quantum walk hitting time by applying Szegedy's work and the perturbation bounds with Weyl's perturbation theorem on classical matrix. Based on the definition of quantum hitting time given in MNRS algorithm, we further compute the delayed perturbed hitting time (DPHT) and delayed perturbed quantum hitting time (DPQHT). We show that the upper bound for DPQHT is actually greater than the difference between the square root of the upper bound for a perturbed random walk and the square root of the lower bound for a random walk.

id: 1107.2973
title: Quantum Master Equation and Filter for Systems Driven by Fields in a Single Photon State
authors: J.E. Gough, M.R. James, H.I. Nurdin
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures. Accepted for publication in the joint 50th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC) and European Control Conference (ECC), 2011 (this http URL)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2973
abstract: The aim of this paper is to determine quantum master and filter equations for systems coupled to continuous-mode single photon fields. The system and field are described using a quantum stochastic unitary model, where the continuous-mode single photon state for the field is determined by a wavepacket pulse shape. The master equation is derived from this model and is given in terms of a system of coupled equations. The output field carries information about the system from the scattered photon, and is continuously monitored. The quantum filter is determined with the aid of an embedding of the system into a larger system, and is given by a system of coupled stochastic differential equations. An example is provided to illustrate the main results.

id: 1107.2974
title: Quantum Filtering for Systems Driven by Fields in Single Photon States and Superposition of Coherent States using Non-Markovian Embeddings
authors: J.E. Gough, M.R. James, H.I. Nurdin
comments: 28 pages, 1 figure. Submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2974
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to determine quantum master and filter equations for systems coupled to fields in certain non-classical continuous-mode states. Specifically, we consider two types of field states (i) single photon states, and (ii) superpositions of coherent states. The system and field are described using a quantum stochastic unitary model. Master equations are derived from this model and are given in terms of systems of coupled equations. The output field carries information about the system, and is continuously monitored. The quantum filters are determined with the aid of an embedding of the system into a larger non-Markovian system, and are given by a system of coupled stochastic differential equations.

id: 1107.2976
title: Quantum Filtering (Quantum Trajectories) for Systems Driven by Fields in Single Photon States and Superposition of Coherent States
authors: J.E. Gough, M.R. James, H.I. Nurdin, Joshua Combes
comments: To appear in Physical Review A, 2012
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 043819 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2976
abstract: We derive the stochastic master equations, that is to say, quantum filters, and master equations for an arbitrary quantum system probed by a continuous-mode bosonic input field in two types of non-classical states. Specifically, we consider the cases where the state of the input field is a superposition or combination of: (1) a continuous-mode single photon wave packet and vacuum, and (2) any number of continuous-mode coherent states.

id: 1107.2989
title: Adiabatic Theorem for Discrete Time Evolution
authors: Atushi Tanaka
comments: 2pages; typos corrected; v3 added "NOTE ADDED" on an earlier work
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn., Vol.80, p.125002 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2989
abstract: A proof of the adiabatic theorem for quantum systems whose time evolution proceeds along discrete time, e.g., quantum maps and quantum circuits, is shown.

id: 1107.3008
title: Macroscopic Quantum Phenomena from the Correlation, Coupling and Criticality Perspectives
authors: C H Chou, B L Hu, Y Subasi
comments: For IARD 2010 meeting, Hualien, Taiwan. Proceedings to appear in J. Physics (Conf. Series)
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 330, 012003 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3008
abstract: In this sequel paper we explore how macroscopic quantum phenomena can be measured or understood from the behavior of quantum correlations which exist in a quantum system of many particles or components and how the interaction strengths change with energy or scale, under ordinary situations and when the system is near its critical point. We use the nPI (master) effective action related to the Boltzmann-BBGKY / Schwinger-Dyson hierarchy of equations as a tool for systemizing the contributions of higher order correlation functions to the dynamics of lower order correlation functions. Together with the large N expansion discussed in our first paper(MQP1) we explore 1) the conditions whereby an H-theorem is obtained, which can be viewed as a signifier of the emergence of macroscopic behavior in the system. We give two more examples from past work: 2) the nonequilibrium dynamics of N atoms in an optical lattice under the large $\cal N$ (field components), 2PI and second order perturbative expansions, illustrating how N and $\cal N$ enter in these three aspects of quantum correlations, coherence and coupling strength. 3) the behavior of an interacting quantum system near its critical point, the effects of quantum and thermal fluctuations and the conditions under which the system manifests infrared dimensional reduction. We also discuss how the effective field theory concept bears on macroscopic quantum phenomena: the running of the coupling parameters with energy or scale imparts a dynamical-dependent and an interaction-sensitive definition of `macroscopia'.

id: 1107.3089
title: Probing higher order correlations of the photon field with photon number resolving avalanche photodiodes
authors: J. F. Dynes, Z. L. Yuan, A. W. Sharpe, O. Thomas, A. J. Shields
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 19, Issue 14, pp. 13268-13276 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3089
abstract: We demonstrate the use of two high speed avalanche photodiodes in exploring higher order photon correlations. By employing the photon number resolving capability of the photodiodes the response to higher order photon coincidences can be measured. As an example we show experimentally the sensitivity to higher order correlations for three types of photon sources with distinct photon statistics. This higher order correlation technique could be used as a low cost and compact tool for quantifying the degree of correlation of photon sources employed in quantum information science.

id: 1107.3108
title: Excitations of optically driven atomic condensate in a cavity: theory of photodetection measurements
authors: B. ?ztop, M. Bordyuh, ?. E. M¨¹stecapl\io?lu, H. E. T¨¹reci
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics, 14, 085011 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3108
abstract: Recent experiments have demonstrated an open system realization of the Dicke quantum phase transition in the motional degrees of freedom of an optically driven Bose-Einstein condensate in a cavity. Relevant collective excitations of this light-matter system are polaritonic in nature, allowing access to the quantum critical behavior of the Dicke model through light leaking out of the cavity. This opens the path to using photodetection based quantum optical techniques to study the dynamics and excitations of this elementary quantum critical system. We first discuss the photon flux observed at the cavity face and find that it displays a different scaling law near criticality than that obtained from the mean field theory for the equivalent closed system. Next, we study the second order correlation measurements of photons leaking out of the cavity. Finally, we discuss a modulation technique that directly captures the softening of polaritonic excitations. Our analysis takes into account the effect of the finite size of the system which may result in an effective symmetry breaking term.

id: 1107.3158
title: Polarization squeezing of light by single passage through an atomic vapor
authors: S. Barreiro, P. Valente, H. Failache, A. Lezama
comments: Revised version. Minor changes. four pages, three figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3158
abstract: We have studied relative-intensity fluctuations for a variable set of orthogonal elliptic polarization components of a linearly polarized laser beam traversing a resonant $^{87}$Rb vapor cell. Significant polarization squeezing at the threshold level (-3dB) required for the implementation of several continuous variables quantum protocols was observed. The extreme simplicity of the setup, based on standard polarization components, makes it particularly convenient for quantum information applications.

id: 1107.3168
title: Ab initio derivation of the quantum Dirac equation by conformal differential geometry: the "Affine Quantum Mechanics'"
authors: Enrico Santamato, Francesco De Martini
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3168
abstract: A rigorous \textit{ab initio} derivation of the (square of) Dirac's equation for a single particle with spin is presented. The general Hamilton-Jacobi equation for the particle expressed in terms of a background Weyl's conformal geometry is found to be linearized, exactly and in closed form, by an \textit{ansatz} solution that can be straightforwardly interpreted as the "quantum wave function" $\psi_4$ of the 4-spinor Dirac's equation. In particular, all quantum features of the model arise from a subtle interplay between the conformal curvature of the configuration space acting as a potential and Weyl's "pre-potential", closely related to $\psi_4$, which acts on the particle trajectory. The theory, carried out here by assuming a Minkowsky metric, can be easily extended to arbitrary space-time Riemann metric, e.g. the one adopted in the context of General Relativity. This novel theoretical scenario, referred to as "Affine Quantum Mechanics", appears to be of general application and is expected to open a promising perspective in the modern endeavor aimed at the unification of the natural forces with gravitation.

id: 1107.3169
title: Rydberg Spectroscopy in an Optical Lattice: Blackbody Thermometry for Atomic Clocks
authors: Vitali D. Ovsiannikov, Andrei Derevianko, Kurt Gibble
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 093003 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3169
abstract: We show that optical spectroscopy of Rydberg states can provide accurate {\em in situ} thermometry at room-temperature. Transitions from a metastable state to Rydberg states with principal quantum numbers of 25 to 30 have 200 times larger fractional frequency sensitivities to blackbody radiation than the Strontium clock transition. We demonstrate that magic wavelength lattices exist for both Strontium and Ytterbium transitions between the metastable and Rydberg states. Frequency measurements of Rydberg transitions with $10^{-16}$ accuracy provide $10 \, \mathrm{mK}$ resolution and yield a blackbody uncertainty for the clock transition of $10^{-18}$.

id: 1107.3202
title: Dephasing of multiparticle Rydberg excitations for fast entanglement generation
authors: F. Bariani, Y. O. Dudin, T. A. B. Kennedy, A. Kuzmich
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 030501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3202
abstract: An approach to fast entanglement generation based on Rydberg dephasing of collective excitations (spin-waves) in large, optically thick atomic ensembles is proposed. Long-range $1/r^3$ atomic interactions are induced by microwave mixing of opposite-parity Rydberg states. Required long coherence times are achieved via four-photon excitation and read-out of long wavelength spin-waves. The dephasing mechanism is shown to have favorable, approximately exponential, scaling for entanglement generation.

id: 1107.3224
title: Four Locally Indistinguishable Ququad-Ququad Orthogonal Maximally Entangled States
authors: Nengkun Yu, Runyao Duan, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 6 pages. Comments are welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 020506 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3224
abstract: We explicitly exhibit a set of four ququad-ququad orthogonal maximally entangled states that cannot be perfectly distinguished by means of local operations and classical communication. Before our work, it was unknown whether there is a set of $d$ locally indistinguishable $d\otimes d$ orthogonal maximally entangled states for some positive integer $d$. We further show that a $2\otimes 2$ maximally entangled state can be used to locally distinguish this set of states without being consumed, thus demonstrate a novel phenomenon of "Entanglement Discrimination Catalysis". Based on this set of states, we construct a new set $\mathrm{K}$ consisting of four locally indistinguishable states such that $\mathrm{K}^{\otimes m}$ (with $4^m$ members) is locally distinguishable for some $m$ greater than one. As an immediate application, we construct a noisy quantum channel with one sender and two receivers whose local zero-error classical capacity can achieve the full dimension of the input space but only with a multi-shot protocol.

id: 1107.3235
title: Residual entanglement of accelerated fermions is not nonlocal
authors: Nicolai Friis, Philipp K?hler, E. Martin-Martinez, Reinhold A. Bertlmann
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; v2: minor changes, reference and section headers added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062111 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3235
abstract: We analyze the operational meaning of the residual entanglement in non-inertial fermionic systems in terms of the achievable violation of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality. We demonstrate that the quantum correlations of fermions, which were previously found to survive in the infinite acceleration limit, cannot be considered to be non-local. The entanglement shared by an inertial and an accelerated observer cannot be utilized for the violation of the CHSH inequality in case of high accelerations. Our results are shown to extend beyond the single mode approximation commonly used in the literature.

id: 1107.3257
title: Theory of quantum frequency translation of light in optical fiber: application to interference of two photons of different color
authors: H. J. McGuinness, M. G. Raymer, C. J. McKinstrie
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3257
abstract: We study quantum frequency translation and two-color photon interference enabled by the Bragg scattering four-wave mixing process in optical fiber. Using realistic model parameters, we computationally and analytically determine the Green function and Schmidt modes for cases with various pump-pulse lengths. These cases can be categorized as either "non-discriminatory" or "discriminatory" in regards to their propensity to exhibit high-efficiency translation or high-visibility two-photon interference for many different shapes of input wave packets or for only a few input wave packets, respectively. Also, for a particular case, the Schmidt mode set was found to be nearly equal to a Hermite-Gaussian function set. The methods and results also apply with little modification to frequency conversion by sum-frequency conversion in optical crystals.

id: 1107.3301
title: Lie-algebraic structure of 2D harmonic oscillator with non-separable complex coupling
authors: Asish Ganguly, Suman De
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors because some crucial mistakes are detected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3301
abstract: An attempt had been made to get algebraic structure of 2D complex harmonic oscillator.

id: 1107.3304
title: Expected Behavior of Quantum Thermodynamic Machines with Prior Information
authors: George Thomas, Ramandeep S. Johal
comments: Revtex, 13 pages, 3 figures, revised version, new results added, accepted for Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, (2012) 041146
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3304
abstract: We estimate the expected behavior of a quantum model of heat engine when we have incomplete information about external macroscopic parameters, like magnetic field controlling the intrinsic energy scales of the working medium. We explicitly derive the prior probability distribution for these unknown parameters, $a_i, (i=1,2)$. Based on a few simple assumptions, the prior is found to be of the form $\Pi(a_i) \propto 1/a_i$. By calculating the expected values of various physical quantities related to this engine, we find that the expected behavior of the quantum model exhibits thermodynamic-like features. This leads us to a surprising proposal that incomplete information quantified as appropriate prior distribution can lead us to expect classical thermodynamic behavior in quantum models.

id: 1107.3346
title: Asymptotic distributions of quantum walks on the line with two entangled coins
authors: Chaobin Liu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3346
abstract: We advance the previous studies of quantum walks on the line with two coins. Such four-state quantum walks driven by a three-direction shift operator may have nonzero stationary distributions (localization), thus distinguishing themselves from the quantum walks on the line in the basic scenario (i.e., driven by a single coin). In this work, asymptotic position distributions of the quantum walks are examined. We derive a weak limit for the quantum walks and explicit formulas of stationary probability distribution, whose dependencies on the coin parameter and the initial state of quantum walks are presented. In particular, it is shown that the weak limit for the present quantum walks can be of the form in the basic scenario of quantum walks on the line, for certain initial states of the walk and certain values of the coin parameter. In the case where localization occurs, we show that the stationary probability exponentially decays with the absolute value of a walker's position, independent of the parity of time.

id: 1107.3366
title: A Critical Discussion About The Methodology Of Quantum Theory
authors: M. Ferrero, D. Salgado, J.L. Sanchez-Gomez
comments: 25 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3366
abstract: It is argued that the traditional "realist" methodology of physics, according to which human concepts, laws and theories can grasp the essence of reality, is incompatible with the most fruitful interpretation of quantum formalism. The proof rests on the violation by quantum mechanics of the foundational principles of that methodology. An alternative methodology, in which the construction of sciences finishes at the level of human experience, as standard quantum theory strongly suggests, is then conjectured.

id: 1107.3375
title: Spatial Pauli-blocking of spontaneous emission in optical lattices
authors: R. M. Sandner, M. M¨¹ller, A. J. Daley, P. Zoller
comments: 11 pages + appendices, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043825 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3375
abstract: Spontaneous emission by an excited fermionic atom can be suppressed due to the Pauli exclusion principle if the relevant final states after the decay are already occupied by identical atoms in the ground state. Here we discuss a setup where a single atom is prepared in the first excited state on a single site of an optical lattice under conditions of very tight trapping. We investigate these phenomena in the context of two experimental realizations: (1) with alkali atoms, where the decay rate of the excited state is large and (2) with alkaline earth-like atoms, where the decay rate from metastable states can be tuned in experiments. This phenomenon has potential applications towards reservoir engineering and dissipative many-body state preparation in an optical lattice.

id: 1107.3376
title: Escape of quantum particles from an open cavity
authors: H. J. Zhao, M. L. Du
comments: 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3376
abstract: A negative ion irradiated by a laser provides a coherent source of electrons propagating out from the location of the negative ion. We study the total escape rates of the electrons when the negative ion is placed inside an open cavity in the shape of a wedge. We show the wedge induces significant oscillations in the total escape rates because of quantum interference effects. In particular, we show, for a wedge with an opening angle of {\pi}/N, where N is an arbitrary positive integer, there are (2N - 1) induced oscillations in the rates. As a demonstration, the case for a wedge with an opening angle {\pi}/5 is calculated and analyzed in detail.

id: 1107.3383
title: Evolutionary Quantum Logic Synthesis of Boolean Reversible Logic Circuits Embedded in Ternary Quantum Space using Heuristics
authors: Maarti nLukac, Marek Perkowski, Michitaka Kameyama
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3383
abstract: It has been experimentally proven that realizing universal quantum gates using higher-radices logic is practically and technologically possible. We developed a Parallel Genetic Algorithm that synthesizes Boolean reversible circuits realized with a variety of quantum gates on qudits with various radices. In order to allow synthesizing circuits of medium sizes in the higher radix quantum space we performed the experiments using a GPU accelerated Genetic Algorithm. Using the accelerated GA we compare heuristic improvements to the mutation process based on cost minimization, on the adaptive cost of the primitives and improvements due to Baldwinian vs. Lamarckian GA. We also describe various fitness function formulations that allowed for various realizations of well known universal Boolean reversible or quantum-probabilistic circuits.

id: 1107.3398
title: Solvable model of dissipative dynamics in the deep strong coupling regime
authors: M. Bina, G. Romero, J. Casanova, J. J. Garcia-Ripoll, A. Lulli, F. Casagrande, E. Solano
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics 203, 207-216 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3398
abstract: We describe the dynamics of a qubit interacting with a bosonic mode coupled to a zero-temperature bath in the deep strong coupling (DSC) regime. We provide an analytical solution for this open system dynamics in the off-resonance case of the qubit-mode interaction. Collapses and revivals of parity chain populations and the oscillatory behavior of the mean photon number are predicted. At the same time, photon number wave packets, propagating back and forth along parity chains, become incoherently mixed. Finally, we investigate numerically the effect of detuning on the validity of the analytical solution.

id: 1107.3425
title: Derivation of the probability law in the many-worlds, one-MIND interpretation
authors: Casey Blood
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3425
abstract: The basic mathematical structure, QM-A, of the many worlds interpretation consists solely of the linear mathematics plus the Hilbert space properties of the state vectors. There is no collapse and there are no particles or hidden variables. It is remarkable that QM-A alone can account for all our observations except probability. There is no need for particles, hidden variables or collapse to explain perception of only one classical version of reality, the photoelectric effect, localized effects from a spread-out wave function in scattering and interference experiments, wave-particle duality, and so on. But probability cannot be defined within QM-A. Nevertheless, because of its astonishing success, it seems reasonable to require (1) that the mathematics of an interpretation be limited to the highly successful QM-A and (2) that "matter" be composed of state vectors alone. But the probability law requires, in essence, that one version of the observer be singled out. The most straightforward way to accomplish this under (1) and (2) is to assume there is an aspect of the observer-the Mind-which is outside the laws of quantum mechanics and perceives just one version of reality. Under that assumption, the probability law can then be derived. Thus we have an interpretation, QM-A plus "outside" observer, which explains all our perceptions.

id: 1107.3428
title: Theoretical and experimental aspects of quantum discord and related measures
authors: Lucas C. C¨¦leri, Jonas Maziero, Roberto M. Serra
comments: Submitted to the special issue on Quantum Correlations: Entanglement and beyond, of the International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 9, 1837 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3428
abstract: Correlations are a very important tool in the study of multipartite systems, both for classical and quantum ones. The discussion about the quantum nature of correlations permeates Physics since Einstein, Podolski and Rosen published their famous article criticizing quantum mechanics. Here we provide a short review about the quantum nature of correlations, discussing both its theoretical and experimental aspects. We focus on quantum discord and related measures. After discussing their fundamental aspects (theoretically and experimentally), we proceed by analysing the dynamical behaviour of correlations under decoherence as well as some applications in different scenarios, such as quantum computation and relativity, passing through critical and biological systems.

id: 1107.3447
title: Absence of Vacuum Induced Berry Phases without the Rotating Wave Approximation in Cavity QED
authors: Jonas Larson
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 033601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3447
abstract: We revisit earlier studies on Berry phases suggested to appear in certain cavity QED settings. It has been especially argued that a non-trivial geometric phase is achievable even in the situation of no cavity photons. We, however, show that such results hinge on imposing the {\it rotating wave approximation} (RWA), while without the RWA no Berry phases occur in these schemes. A geometrical interpretation of our results is obtained by introducing semi-classical energy surfaces which in a simple way brings out the phase space dynamics. With the RWA, a conical intersection between the surfaces emerges and encircling it gives rise to the Berry phase. Without the RWA, the conical intersection is absent and therefore the Berry phase vanishes. It is believed that this is a first example showing how the application of the RWA in the Jaynes-Cummings model may lead to false conclusions, regardless mutual strengths between the system parameters.

id: 1107.3476
title: Fast path and polarisation manipulation of telecom wavelength single photons in lithium niobate waveguide devices
authors: Damien Bonneau, Mirko Lobino, Pisu Jiang, Chandra M. Natarajan, Michael G. Tanner, Robert H. Hadfield, Sanders N. Dorenbos, Val Zwiller, Mark G. Thompson, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 053601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3476
abstract: We demonstrate fast polarisation and path control of photons at 1550 nm in lithium niobate waveguide devices using the electro-optic effect. We show heralded single photon state engineering, quantum interference, fast state preparation of two entangled photons and feedback control of quantum interference. These results point the way to a single platform that will enable the integration of nonlinear single photon sources and fast reconfigurable circuits for future photonic quantum information science and technology.

id: 1107.3495
title: Effective environments: Preparation of stationary states with inverse temperature ranging from positive to negative values
authors: Thomas Jahnke, G¨¹nter Mahler
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 84, 011129 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3495
abstract: In this paper, we discuss how effective environments incorporating periodic measurements can be used to prepare a two-level system (TLS) in almost arbitrary thermal states: Concretely, we study a TLS coupled to a spin environment, the magnetization of which is measured periodically. In ensemble average these measurements cause a relaxation of the TLS into a thermal (diagonal) state. By adjusting the time between the measurements and the detuning of the environmental spins, the creation of very low temperatures as well as inversion becomes possible. Our analytical results derived for large environments are numerically shown to be valid even for quite small environments, down to only a few spins.

id: 1107.3500
title: Quantum Reading Capacity
authors: Stefano Pirandola, Cosmo Lupo, Vittorio Giovannetti, Stefano Mancini, Samuel L. Braunstein
comments: REVTeX. 16 pages. 11 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 113012 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3500
abstract: The readout of a classical memory can be modelled as a problem of quantum channel discrimination, where a decoder retrieves information by distinguishing the different quantum channels encoded in each cell of the memory [S. Pirandola, Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 090504 (2011)]. In the case of optical memories, such as CDs and DVDs, this discrimination involves lossy bosonic channels and can be remarkably boosted by the use of nonclassical light (quantum reading). Here we generalize these concepts by extending the model of memory from single-cell to multi-cell encoding. In general, information is stored in a block of cells by using a channel-codeword, i.e., a sequence of channels chosen according to a classical code. Correspondingly, the readout of data is realized by a process of "parallel" channel discrimination, where the entire block of cells is probed simultaneously and decoded via an optimal collective measurement. In the limit of an infinite block we define the quantum reading capacity of the memory, quantifying the maximum number of readable bits per cell. This notion of capacity is nontrivial when we suitably constrain the physical resources of the decoder. For optical memories (encoding bosonic channels), such a constraint is energetic and corresponds to fixing the mean total number of photons per cell. In this case, we are able to prove a separation between the quantum reading capacity and the maximum information rate achievable by classical transmitters, i.e., arbitrary classical mixtures of coherent states. In fact, we can easily construct nonclassical transmitters that are able to outperform any classical transmitter, thus showing that the advantages of quantum reading persist in the optimal multi-cell scenario.

id: 1107.3502
title: Homological Stabilizer Codes
authors: Jonas T. Anderson
comments: Some statements clarified and typos fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3502
abstract: In this paper we define homological stabilizer codes which encompass codes such as Kitaev's toric code and the topological color codes. These codes are defined solely by the graphs they reside on. This feature allows us to use properties of topological graph theory to determine the graphs which are suitable as homological stabilizer codes. We then show that all toric codes are equivalent to homological stabilizer codes on 4-valent graphs. We show that the topological color codes and toric codes correspond to two distinct classes of graphs. We define the notion of label set equivalencies and show that under a small set of constraints the only homological stabilizer codes without local logical operators are equivalent to Kitaev's toric code or to the topological color codes.

id: 1107.3591
title: Optimal super dense coding over memory channels
authors: Zahra Shadman, Hermann Kampermann, Chiara Macchiavello, Dagmar Bru?
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042309 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3591
abstract: We study the super dense coding capacity in the presence of quantum channels with correlated noise. We investigate both the cases of unitary and non-unitary encoding. Pauli channels for arbitrary dimensions are treated explicitly. The super dense coding capacity for some special channels and resource states is derived for unitary encoding. We also provide an example of a memory channel where non-unitary encoding leads to an improvement in the super dense coding capacity.

id: 1107.3605
title: Light-shift-induced quantum phase transitions of a Bose-Einstein condensate in the optical cavities
authors: Ni Liu, Jinling Lian, Jie Ma, Liantuan Xiao, Gang Chen, J. -Q. Liang, Suotang Jia
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev.A 83, 033601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3605
abstract: In this paper we reveal the rich ground-state properties induced by the strong nonlinear atom-photon interaction, which has been found in the recent experiment about a Bose-Einstein condensate coupling with a high-finesse cavity [Nature (London) 464, 1301 (2010)]. Two detuning-dependent phase diagrams are revealed by investigating the experimentally-measurable atomic population. In particular, two new quantum phase transitions from the superradiant phase or the normal phase to a dynamically-unstable phase are predicted in the blue detuning, and moreover, the three-phase coexistence points are found. It is also demonstrated that these predicted quantum phase transitions are the intrinsic transitions governed only by the second-order derivative of the ground-state energy. Finally, we also point out that the region involving coexistence of the superradiant phase and the normal phase predicted before can not happen in the ground state.

id: 1107.3607
title: Robustness of nonclassical superpositions states against decoherence
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65 (2002) 043814-6
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3607
abstract: We make a comparative study of quadrature squeezing, photon-number distribution and Wigner function in a decayed quantum system. Specifically, for a field mode prepared initially in cat states interacting with a zero-temperature environment, we show that the rate of reduction of the nonclassical effects in this system is proportional to the occurrence of the decoherence process.

id: 1107.3634
title: Quantum resonant effect of the strongly-driven spin-boson model
authors: Qifeng Liang, Lixian Yu, Gang Chen, Suotang Jia
comments: 4 figures; Submitted for publication in March
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3634
abstract: In this paper we discuss both analytically and numerically the rich quantum dynamics of the spin-boson model driven by a time-independent field of photon. Interestingly, we predict a new Rabi oscillation, whose period is inversely proportional to the driving amplitude. More surprisingly, some nonzero resonant peaks are found for some special values of the \emph{strong} driving regime. Moreover, for the different resonant positions, the peaks have different values. Thus, an important application of this resonance effect is to realize the precision measurement of the relative parameters in experiment. We also illustrate that this resonant effect arises from the interference of the nontrivial periodic phase factors induced by the evolution of the coherent states in two different subspaces. Our predictions may be, in principle, observed in the solid-state cavity quantum electrodynamics with the ultrastrong coupling if the driving magnitude of the photon field is sufficiently large.

id: 1107.3635
title: Analytical ground state for the Jaynes-Cummings model with the ultrastrong coupling
authors: Yuanwei Zhang, Gang Chen, Lixian Yu, Qifeng Liang, J.-Q. Liang, Suotang Jia
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 065802 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3635
abstract: We present a generalized variational method to analytically obtain the ground-state properties of the unsolvable Jaynes-Cummings model with the ultrastrong coupling. An explicit expression for the ground-state energy, which agrees well with the numerical simulation in a wide range of the experimental parameters, is given. In particular, the introduced method can successfully solve this Jaynes-Cummings model with the positive detuning (the atomic resonant level is larger than the photon frequency), which can not be treated in the adiabatical approximation and the generalized rotating-wave approximation. Finally, we also demonstrate analytically how to control the mean photon number by means of the current experimental parameters including the photon frequency, the coupling strength, and especially the atomic resonant level.

id: 1107.3640
title: Squeezing properties of the Kerr-down conversion system
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany, M. Sebawe Abdalla, J. Perina
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 41, 391-396 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3640
abstract: In this Letter we describe a new two-mode system, which consists of Kerr-like medium and down conversion process, called the Kerr-down conversion system. Under a certain condition we can obtain an exact solution of the dynamical equations of motion. For this system we investigate different kinds of quadrature squeezing, e.g., single-mode, two-mode and sum-squeezing. Also we give a more general definition of the principal squeezing. We show that the amounts of nonclassical effects produced by the Kerr-like and down-conversion processes separately are greater than those obtained from the Kerr-down conversion system where both the processes are in competition.

id: 1107.3650
title: Realization of an optomechanical interface between ultracold atoms and a membrane
authors: Stephan Camerer, Maria Korppi, Andreas J?ckel, David Hunger, Theodor W. H?nsch, Philipp Treutlein
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3650
abstract: We have realized a hybrid optomechanical system by coupling ultracold atoms to a micromechanical membrane. The atoms are trapped in an optical lattice, which is formed by retro-reflection of a laser beam from the membrane surface. In this setup, the lattice laser light mediates an optomechanical coupling between membrane vibrations and atomic center-of-mass motion. We observe both the effect of the membrane vibrations onto the atoms as well as the backaction of the atomic motion onto the membrane. By coupling the membrane to laser-cooled atoms, we engineer the dissipation rate of the membrane. Our observations agree quantitatively with a simple model.

id: 1107.3726
title: Phase estimation via quantum interferometry for noisy detectors
authors: Nicol¨® Spagnolo, Chiara Vitelli, Vito Giovanni Lucivero, Vittorio Giovannetti, Lorenzo Maccone, Fabio Sciarrino
comments: 4 pages + supplementary information (10 pages), 3 + 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 233602 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3726
abstract: The sensitivity in optical interferometry is strongly affected by losses during the signal propagation or at the detection stage. The optimal quantum states of the probing signals in the presence of loss were recently found. However, in many cases of practical interest, their associated accuracy is worse than the one obtainable without employing quantum resources (e.g. entanglement and squeezing) but neglecting the detector's loss. Here we detail an experiment that can reach the latter even in the presence of imperfect detectors: it employs a phase-sensitive amplification of the signals after the phase sensing, before the detection. We experimentally demonstrated the feasibility of a phase estimation experiment able to reach its optimal working regime. Since our method uses coherent states as input signals, it is a practical technique that can be used for high-sensitivity interferometry and, in contrast to the optimal strategies, does not require one to have an exact characterization of the loss beforehand.

id: 1107.3730
title: Sauter-Schwinger like tunneling in tilted Bose-Hubbard lattices in the Mott phase
authors: Friedemann Queisser, Patrick Navez, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3730
abstract: We study the Mott phase of the Bose-Hubbard model on a tilted lattice. On the (Gutzwiller) mean-field level, the tilt has no effect -- but quantum fluctuations entail particle-hole pair creation via tunneling. For small potential gradients (long-wavelength limit), we derive a quantitative analogy to the Sauter-Schwinger effect, i.e., electron-positron pair creation out of the vacuum by an electric field. For large tilts, we obtain resonant tunneling related to Bloch oscillations.

id: 1107.3736
title: A Comment on a Recent Derivation of the Born Rule by Zurek
authors: Cecilia Jarlskog
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3736
abstract: The derivation of the Born rule by Zurek uses a "splitting procedure" where a physical state is subdivided into a number of states. It is argued that in quantum field theory, which encompasses quantum mechanics, such a procedure would in general modify the physics.

id: 1107.3738
title: Quantum correlations require multipartite information principles
authors: Rodrigo Gallego, Lars Erik W¨¹rflinger, Antonio Ac¨ªn, Miguel Navascu¨¦s
comments: Appendix added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 210403 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3738
abstract: Identifying which correlations among distant observers are possible within our current description of Nature, based on quantum mechanics, is a fundamental problem in Physics. Recently, information concepts have been proposed as the key ingredient to characterize the set of quantum correlations. Novel information principles, such as, information causality or non-trivial communication complexity, have been introduced in this context and successfully applied to some concrete scenarios. We show in this work a fundamental limitation of this approach: no principle based on bipartite information concepts is able to single out the set of quantum correlations for an arbitrary number of parties. Our results reflect the intricate structure of quantum correlations and imply that new and intrinsically multipartite information concepts are needed for their full understanding.

id: 1107.3741
title: Calculating a maximizer for quantum mutual information
authors: Tony Dorlas, Ciara Morgan
comments: Published in IJQI (2008). One figure added
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, vol. 6, pages 745-750, 2008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3741
abstract: We obtain a maximizer for the quantum mutual information for classical information sent over the quantum qubit amplitude damping channel. This is achieved by limiting the ensemble of input states to antipodal states, in the calculation of the product-state capacity for the channel, the resulting maximizing ensemble consisting of just two non-orthogonal states. We also consider the product-state capacity of a convex combination of two memoryless channels and demonstrate in particular that it is in general not given by the minimum of the capacities of the respective memoryless channels.

id: 1107.3751
title: Attojoule all-optical switching with a single quantum dot
authors: Deepak Sridharan, Ranojoy Bose, Hyochul Kim Glenn S. Solomon, Edo Waks
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3751
abstract: We experimentally investigate the dynamic nonlinear response of a single quantum dot (QD) strongly coupled to a photonic crystal cavity-waveguide structure. The temporal response is measured by pump-probe excitation where a control pulse propagating through the waveguide is used to create an optical Stark shift on the QD, resulting in a large modification of the cavity reflectivity. This optically induced cavity reflectivity modification switches the propagation direction of a detuned signal pulse. Using this device we demonstrate all-optical switching with only 14 attojoules of control pulse energy. The response time of the switch is measured to be up to 8.4 GHz, which is primarily limited by the cavity-QD interaction strength.

id: 1107.3761
title: Quantum-coherent coupling of a mechanical oscillator to an optical cavity mode
authors: E. Verhagen, S. Del¨¦glise, S. Weis, A. Schliesser, T. J. Kippenberg
comments: 23 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3761
abstract: Quantum control of engineered mechanical oscillators can be achieved by coupling the oscillator to an auxiliary degree of freedom, provided that the coherent rate of energy exchange exceeds the decoherence rate of each of the two sub-systems. We achieve such quantum-coherent coupling between the mechanical and optical modes of a micro-optomechanical system. Simultaneously, the mechanical oscillator is cooled to an average occupancy of n = 1.7 \pm 0.1 motional quanta. Pulsed optical excitation reveals the exchange of energy between the optical light field and the micromechanical oscillator in the time domain at the level of less than one quantum on average. These results provide a route towards the realization of efficient quantum interfaces between mechanical oscillators and optical fields.

id: 1107.3786
title: Immunity of information encoded in decoherence-free subspaces to particle loss
authors: Piotr Migda?, Konrad Banaszek
comments: to appear in Phys. Rev. A; 5 pages, 2 figures; content changed a bit (the property demonstrated explicitly on a 4 qubit state)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052318 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3786
abstract: We demonstrate that for an ensemble of qudits, subjected to collective decoherence in the form of perfectly correlated random SU(d) unitaries, quantum superpositions stored in the decoherence free subspace are fully immune against the removal of one particle. This provides a feasible scheme to protect quantum information encoded in the polarization state of a sequence of photons against both collective depolarization and one photon loss, and can be demonstrated with photon quadruplets using currently available technology.

id: 1107.3791
title: Optimal Local Transformations of Flip and Exchange Symmetric Entangled States
authors: G. Karpat, Z. Gedik
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 376, 75 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3791
abstract: Local quantum operations relating multiqubit flip (0-1) and exchange symmetric (FES) states, with the maximum possible probability of success, have been determined by assuming that the states are converted via one-shot FES transformations. It has been shown that certain entangled states are more robust than others, in the sense that the optimum probability of converting these robust states to the states lying in the close neighborhood of separable ones vanish under local FES operations.

id: 1107.3795
title: Where to quantum walk
authors: Viv Kendon
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, feedback welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3795
abstract: Quantum versions of random walks have diverse applications that are motivating experimental implementations as well as theoretical studies. However, the main impetus behind this interest is their use in quantum algorithms, which have always employed the quantum walk in the form of a program running on a quantum computer. Recent results showing that quantum walks are "universal for quantum computation" relate entirely to algorithms, and do not imply that a physical quantum walk could provide a new architecture for quantum computers. Nonetheless, quantum walks used to model transport phenomena in spin chains and biomolecules broaden their scope well beyond algorithms, and reopen the question of when a physical implementation might provide useful computational outputs. In this article we determine the conditions under which a physical quantum walk experiment could provide useful results beyond the reach of classical computation.

id: 1107.3828
title: A micropillar for cavity optomechanics
authors: A. G. Kuhn, M. Bahriz, O. Ducloux, C. Chartier, O. Le Traon, T. Briant, P. -F. Cohadon, A. Heidmann, C. Michel, L. Pinard, R. Flaminio
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics Letters 99 (2011) 121103
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3828
abstract: We present a new micromechanical resonator designed for cavity optomechanics. We have used a micropillar geometry to obtain a high-frequency mechanical resonance with a low effective mass and a very high quality factor. We have coated a 60-$\mu$m diameter low-loss dielectric mirror on top of the pillar and are planning to use this micromirror as part of a high-finesse Fabry-Perot cavity, to laser cool the resonator down to its quantum ground state and to monitor its quantum position fluctuations by quantum-limited optical interferometry.

id: 1107.3915
title: Comparison between Decoherence time for a Two-state Spin 1/2 System with Its Corresponding Quantum Retrieval Period
authors: Afshin Shafiee, Arash Tirandaz
comments: 21 pages, one figure, two appendices
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3915
abstract: We consider the evolution of a two-state quantum system (a spin 1/2 particle) in both the framework of standard quantum mechanics and under the decoherence regime. The former approach on this issue is the well-known quantum flipping process of a dichotomic system subjected to a time-dependent magnetic field. In the latter approach, utilizing the Spin-Boson model to describe the interaction of system with its environment, we derive the Born-Markov master equation to obtain the decoherence time. It is possible to show that under some legitimate conditions, one may find a potential conflict between the predictions of decoherence theory and the result observed in a typical quantum flipping experiment.

id: 1107.3939
title: Transverse Ising Model: Markovian evolution of classical and quantum correlations under decoherence
authors: Amit Kumar Pal, Indrani Bose
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, revtex4-1, version accepted for publication in Eur. Phys. J. B
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B, Volume 85, Number 1, Article Number 36, January 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3939
abstract: The transverse Ising Model (TIM) in one dimension is the simplest model which exhibits a quantum phase transition (QPT). Quantities related to quantum information theoretic measures like entanglement, quantum discord (QD) and fidelity are known to provide signatures of QPTs. The issue is less well explored when the quantum system is subjected to decoherence due to its interaction, represented by a quantum channel, with an environment. In this paper we study the dynamics of the mutual information $I(\rho_{AB})$, the classical correlations $C(\rho_{AB})$ and the quantum correlations $Q(\rho_{AB})$, as measured by the QD, in a two-qubit state the density matrix of which is the reduced density matrix obtained from the ground state of the TIM in 1d. The time evolution brought about by system-environment interactions is assumed to be Markovian in nature and the quantum channels considered are amplitude damping, bit-flip, phase-flip and bit-phase-flip. Each quantum channel is shown to be distinguished by a specific type of dynamics. In the case of the phase-flip channel, there is a finite time interval in which the quantum correlations are larger in magnitude than the classical correlations. For this channel as well as the bit-phase-flip channel, appropriate quantities associated with the dynamics of the correlations can be derived which signal the occurrence of a QPT.

id: 1107.3940
title: The Capabilities of a Perturbed Toric Code as a Quantum Memory
authors: Alastair Kay
comments: 4 and a bit pages, 3 figures v3: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 270502 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3940
abstract: We analyze the effect of typical, unknown perturbations on the 2D toric code when acting as a quantum memory, incorporating the effects of error correction on read-out. By transforming the system into a 1D transverse Ising model undergoing an instantaneous quench, and making extensive use of Lieb-Robinson bounds, we prove that for a large class of perturbations, the survival time of stored information grows at least logarithmically with the system size. A uniform magnetic field saturates this scaling behavior. We show that randomizing the stabilizer strengths gives a polynomial survival time with a degree that depends on the strength of the perturbation.

id: 1107.3983
title: The long-term cyclotron dynamics of relativistic wave packets: spontaneous collapse and revival
authors: V. Ya. Demikhovskii, G. M. Maksimova, A. A. Perov, A. V. Telezhnikov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3983
abstract: In this work we study the effects of collapse and revival as well as {\it Zitterbewegung} (ZB) phenomenon, for the relativistic electron wave packets, which are a superposition of the states with quantum numbers sharply peaked around some level $n_0$ of the order of few tens. The probability densities as well as average velocities of the packet center and the average spin components were calculated analytically and visualized. Our computations demonstrate that due to dephasing of the states for times larger than the cyclotron period the initial wave packet (which includes the states with the positive energy only) loses the spatial localization so that the evolution can no longer be described classically. However, at the half-revival time $t=T_R/2$ its reshaping takes place firstly. The behavior of the wave packet containing the states of both energy bands (with $E_n>0$ and $E_n<0$) is more complicated. At short times of a few classical periods such packet splits into two parts which rotate with cyclotron frequency in the opposite directions and meet each other every one-half of the cyclotron period. At these moments their wave functions have significant overlap that leads to ZB. At the time of fractional revival each of two sub-packets is decomposed into few packets-fractions. However, at $t=T_R$ each of the two sub-packets (with positive or negative energy) restores at various points of the cyclotron orbit, that makes it impossible reshaping of initial wave packet entirely unlike the wave packet which consists of states with energies $E_n>0$ only. Obtained results can be useful for the description of electromagnetic radiation and absorption in relativistic plasma on astrophysics objects, where super high magnetic field has the value of the order $10^8-10^9$T, as well as for interpretation of experiments with trapped ions.

id: 1107.3990
title: Dissipation and Ultrastrong Coupling in Circuit QED
authors: F¨¦lix Beaudoin, J. M. Gambetta, A. Blais
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043832 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3990
abstract: Cavity and circuit QED study light-matter interaction at its most fundamental level. Yet, this interaction is most often neglected when considering the coupling of this system with an environment. In this paper, we show how this simplification, which leads to the standard quantum optics master equation, is at the root of unphysical effects. Including qubit relaxation and dephasing, and cavity relaxation, we derive a master equation that takes into account the qubit-resonator coupling. Special attention is given to the ultrastrong coupling regime, where the failure of the quantum optical master equation is manifest. In this situation, our model predicts an asymmetry in the vacuum Rabi splitting that could be used to probe dephasing noise at unexplored frequencies. We also show how fluctuations in the qubit frequency can cause sideband transitions, squeezing, and Casimir-like photon generation.

id: 1107.3999
title: Vacuum-Induced Transparency
authors: Haruka Tanji-Suzuki, Wenlan Chen, Renate Landig, Jonathan Simon, Vladan Vuletic
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3999
abstract: Photons are excellent information carriers but normally pass through each other without consequence. Engineered interactions between photons would enable applications from quantum information processing to simulation of condensed matter systems. Using an ensemble of cold atoms strongly coupled to an optical cavity, we demonstrate experimentally that the transmission of light through a medium may be controlled with few photons and even by the electromagnetic vacuum field. The vacuum induces a group delay of 25 ns on the input optical pulse, corresponding to a light velocity of 1600 m/s, and a transparency of 40% that increases to 80% when the resonator is filled with 10 photons. This strongly nonlinear effect provides prospects for advanced quantum devices such as photon-number-state filters.

id: 1107.4027
title: Real-time quantum feedback prepares and stabilizes photon number states
authors: Cl¨¦ment Sayrin, Igor Dotsenko, Xingxing Zhou, Bruno Peaudecerf, Th¨¦o Rybarczyk, S¨¦bastien Gleyzes, Pierre Rouchon, Mazyar Mirrahimi, Hadis Amini, Michel Brune, Jean-Michel Raimond, Serge Haroche
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature 477, 73-77 (1 september 2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4027
abstract: Feedback loops are at the heart of most classical control procedures. A controller compares the signal measured by a sensor with the target value. It adjusts then an actuator in order to stabilize the signal towards its target. Generalizing this scheme to stabilize a micro-system's quantum state relies on quantum feedback, which must overcome a fundamental difficulty: the measurements by the sensor have a random back-action on the system. An optimal compromise employs weak measurements providing partial information with minimal perturbation. The controller should include the effect of this perturbation in the computation of the actuator's unitary operation bringing the incrementally perturbed state closer to the target. While some aspects of this scenario have been experimentally demonstrated for the control of quantum or classical micro-system variables, continuous feedback loop operations permanently stabilizing quantum systems around a target state have not yet been realized. We have implemented such a real-time stabilizing quantum feedback scheme. It prepares on demand photon number states (Fock states) of a microwave field in a superconducting cavity and subsequently reverses the effects of decoherence-induced field quantum jumps. The sensor is a beam of atoms crossing the cavity which repeatedly performs weak quantum non-demolition measurements of the photon number. The controller is implemented in a real-time computer commanding the injection, between measurements, of adjusted small classical fields in the cavity. The microwave field is a quantum oscillator usable as a quantum memory or as a quantum bus swapping information between atoms. By demonstrating that active control can generate non-classical states of this oscillator and combat their decoherence, this experiment is a significant step towards the implementation of complex quantum information operations.

id: 1107.4031
title: Information causality from an entropic and a probabilistic perspective
authors: Sabri W. Al-Safi, Anthony J. Short
comments: 7 pages, v2: some references added and minor improvements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4031
abstract: The information causality principle is a generalisation of the no-signalling principle which implies some of the known restrictions on quantum correlations. But despite its clear physical motivation, information causality is formulated in terms of a rather specialised game and figure of merit. We explore different perspectives on information causality, discussing the probability of success as the figure of merit, a relation between information causality and the non-local `inner-product game', and the derivation of a quadratic bound for these games. We then examine an entropic formulation of information causality with which one can obtain the same results, arguably in a simpler fashion.

id: 1107.4034
title: The relationship between minimum gap and success probability in adiabatic quantum computing
authors: M. Cullimore, M. J. Everitt, M. A. Ormerod, J. H. Samson, R. D. Wilson, A. M. Zagoskin
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures. Substantially updated, with further discussion of the phase diagram and the relation between one- and two-qubit evolution, as well as a greatly extended list of references
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 505305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4034
abstract: We explore the relationship between two figures of merit for an adiabatic quantum computation process: the success probability $P$ and the minimum gap $\Delta_{min}$ between the ground and first excited states, investigating to what extent the success probability for an ensemble of problem Hamiltonians can be fitted by a function of $\Delta_{min}$ and the computation time $T$. We study a generic adiabatic algorithm and show that a rich structure exists in the distribution of $P$ and $\Delta_{min}$. In the case of two qubits, $P$ is to a good approximation a function of $\Delta_{min}$, of the stage in the evolution at which the minimum occurs and of $T$. This structure persists in examples of larger systems.

id: 1107.4082
title: Thick-film technology for ultra high vacuum interfaces of micro-structured traps
authors: Delia Kaufmann, Thomas Collath, M. Tanveer Baig, Peter Kaufmann, Eman Asenwar, Michael Johanning, Christof Wunderlich
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures added references to recent literature about microwave anipulated ions and fast shuttling
journal: Applied Physics B 107 (2012) 935-943
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4082
abstract: We adopt thick-film technology to produce ultra high vacuum compatible interfaces for electrical signals. These interfaces permit voltages of hundreds of Volts and currents of several Amperes and allow for very compact vacuum setups, useful in quantum optics in general, and especially for quantum information and quantum simulations using miniaturized traps for ions or neutral atoms. Such printed circuits can also be useful as pure in-vacuum devices. We demonstrate a specific interface, which provides eleven current feedthroughs, more than 70 dc feedthroughs and a feedthrough for radio frequencies. We achieve a pressure in the low 1e-11mbar range and demonstrate the full functionality of the interface by trapping chains of cold ytterbium ions, which requires all of the signals mentioned above being present. In addition, a versatile multi-channel device for supplying precise time-dependent voltages has been developed.

id: 1107.4092
title: Resonances for symmetric two-barrier potentials
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4092
abstract: We describe a method for the accurate calculation of bound-state and resonance energies for one-dimensional potentials. We calculate the shape resonances for symmetric two-barrier potentials and compare them with those coming from the Siegert approximation, the complex scaling method and the box-stabilization method. A comparison of the Breit-Wigner profile and the transmission coefficient about its maximum illustrates that the agreement is better the sharper the resonance.

id: 1107.4122
title: A compact entanglement distillery
authors: Animesh Datta, Lijian Zhang, Joshua Nunn, Nathan K. Langford, Alvaro Feito, Martin B. Plenio, Ian A. Walmsley
comments: 5 + 3 figures, 5 + 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 060502, (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4122
abstract: Large-scale quantum-correlated networks could transform technologies ranging from communications and cryptography to computation, metrology, and simulation of novel materials. Critical to achieving such quantum enhancements is distributing high-quality entanglement between distant nodes. This is made possible in the unavoidable presence of decoherence by entanglement distillation. However, current versions of this protocol are prohibitively costly in terms of resources. We introduce a new scheme for continuous-variable entanglement distillation that requires only linear temporal and constant physical or spatial resources, both of which are exponential improvements over existing protocols. Our scheme uses a fixed module - an entanglement distillery - comprising only four quantum memories of at most 50 % storage efficiency and allowing a feasible experimental implementation. Tangible quantum advantages are obtained by using non-ideal quantum memories outside their conventional role of storage. By creating, storing and processing information in the same physical space, the scheme establishes a potentially valuable technique for designing stable, scalable protocols across different quantum technologies.

id: 1107.4152
title: Entangling optical and microwave cavity modes by means of a nanomechanical resonator
authors: Sh. Barzanjeh, D. Vitali, P. Tombesi, G. J. Milburn
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042342 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4152
abstract: We propose a scheme able to generate stationary continuous variable entanglement between an optical and a microwave cavity mode by means of their common interaction with a micro-mechanical resonator. We show that when both cavities are intensely driven one can generate bipartite entanglement between any pair of the tripartite system, and that, due to entanglement sharing, optical-microwave entanglement is efficiently generated at the expense of microwave-mechanical and opto-mechanical entanglement.

id: 1107.4198
title: Can fluctuating quantum states acquire the classical behavior on large scale?
authors: Piero Chiarelli
comments: 22 pages, 2 figures, submitted for pubblication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4198
abstract: The quantum hydrodynamic analogy (QHA) equivalent to the Schrodinger equation is generalized to its stochastic version by a systematic technique. On large scale, the quantum stochastic hydrodynamic analogy (QSHA) shows dynamics that under some circumstances may acquire the classical evolution. The QSHA puts in evidence that in presence of spatially distributed noise the quantum pseudo-potential restores the quantum behavior on a distance shorter than the correlation length of fluctuations (named here lc) of the quantum wave function modulus. The quantum mechanics is achieved in the deterministic limit when lc tends to infinity with respect to the scale of the problem. When the physical length of the problem is of order or larger than lc, the quantum potential may have a finite range of efficacy maintaining the non-local behavior on a distance lL (named here "quantum non-locality length") depending both by the noise amplitude and by the inter-particle strength of interaction. In the deterministic limit (quantum mechanics) the model shows that the "quantum non-locality length" lLalso becomes infinite. The QSHA unveils that in linear systems fluctuations are not sufficient to break the quantum non-locality showing that lL is infinite even if lc is finite.

id: 1107.4201
title: Framework for discrete-time quantum walks and a symmetric walk on a binary tree
authors: Zlatko Dimcovic, Daniel Rockwell, Ian Milligan, Robert M. Burton, Thinh Nguyen, Yevgeniy Kovchegov
comments: 13 pages, 8 pdf figures, revtex4-1. Published version (minor editorial changes throughout; "log" changed to "ln" in Appendix). This arXiv version contains some hyperlinks (to references) not available in the journal. 12 journal pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032311 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4201
abstract: We formulate a framework for discrete-time quantum walks, motivated by classical random walks with memory. We present a specific representation of the classical walk with memory 2 on which this is based. The framework has no need for coin spaces, it imposes no constraints on the evolution operator other than unitarity, and is unifying of other approaches. As an example we construct a symmetric discrete-time quantum walk on the semi-infinite binary tree. The generating function of the amplitude at the root is computed in closed-form, as a function of time and the initial level n in the tree, and we find the asymptotic and a full numerical solution for the amplitude. It exhibits a sharp interference peak and a power law tail, as opposed to the exponentially decaying tail of a broadly peaked distribution of the classical symmetric random walk on a binary tree. The probability peak is orders of magnitude larger than it is for the classical walk (already at small n). The quantum walk shows a polynomial algorithmic speedup in n over the classical walk, which we conjecture to be of the order 2/3, based on strong trends in data.

id: 1107.4221
title: Parameter-free ansatz for inferring ground state wave functions of even potentials
authors: S. P. Flego, A. Plastino, A. R. Plastino
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4221
abstract: Schr\"odinger's equation (SE) and the information-optimizing principle based on Fisher's information measure (FIM) are intimately linked, which entails the existence of a Legendre transform structure underlying the SE. In this comunication we show that the existence of such an structure allows, via the virial theorem, for the formulation of a parameter-free ground state's SE-ansatz for a rather large family of potentials. The parameter-free nature of the ansatz derives from the structural information it incorporates through its Legendre properties.

id: 1107.4256
title: PT symmetry and spontaneous symmetry breaking in a microwave billiard
authors: S. Bittner, B. Dietz, U. Guenther, H. L. Harney, M. Miski-Oglu, A. Richter, F. Schaefer
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108: 024101, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4256
abstract: We demonstrate the presence of parity-time (PT) symmetry for the non-Hermitian two-state Hamiltonian of a dissipative microwave billiard in the vicinity of an exceptional point (EP). The shape of the billiard depends on two parameters. The Hamiltonian is determined from the measured resonance spectrum on a fine grid in the parameter plane. After applying a purely imaginary diagonal shift to the Hamiltonian, its eigenvalues are either real or complex conjugate on a curve, which passes through the EP. An appropriate basis choice reveals its PT symmetry. Spontaneous symmetry breaking occurs at the EP.

id: 1107.4271
title: On the linear forms of the Schrodinger equation
authors: Y. Kasri, A. B¨¦rard, Y. Grandati, L. Chetouani
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4271
abstract: Generalizing the linearisation procedure used by Dirac and later by L\'evy-Leblond, we derive the first-order non-relativistic wave equations for particles of spin 1 and spin 3/2 starting from the Schrodinger equation.

id: 1107.4276
title: Solving the transport without transit quantum paradox of the spatial adiabatic passage technique
authors: Albert Benseny, Joan Bagud¨¤, Xavier Oriols, Jordi Mompart
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053619 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4276
abstract: We discuss and solve the transport without transit quantum paradox recently introduced in the context of the adiabatic transport of a single particle or a Bose--Einstein condensate between the two extreme traps of a triple-well potential. To this aim, we address the corresponding quantum dynamics in terms of Bohmian trajectories and show that transport always implies transit through the middle well, in full agreement with the quantum continuity equation. This adiabatic quantum transport presents a very counterintuitive effect: by slowing down the total time duration of the transport process, ultra-high Bohmian velocities are achieved such that, in the limit of perfect adiabaticity, relativistic corrections are needed to properly address the transfer process while avoiding superluminal matter wave propagation.

id: 1107.4297
title: Two-fermion composite quasi-bosons and deformed oscillators
authors: A.M. Gavrilik, I.I. Kachurik, Yu.A. Mishchenko
comments: 7 pages; minor changes made, the published version
journal: Ukrainian Journal of Physics, 2011, Vol. 56, no. 9, pp. 948-954
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4297
abstract: The concept of quasi-bosons or composite bosons (like mesons, excitons etc.) has a wide range of potential physical applications. Even composed of two pure fermions, the quasi-boson creation and annihilation operators satisfy non-standard commutation relations. It is natural to try to realize the quasi-boson operators by the operators of deformed (nonlinear) oscillator, the latter constituting widely studied field of modern quantum physics. In this paper, it is proved that the deformed oscillators which realize quasi-boson operators in a consistent way really exist. The conditions for such realization are derived, and the uniqueness of the family of deformations under consideration is shown.

id: 1107.4305
title: Experimental test of quantum non-Gaussianity of heralded single photon state
authors: Miroslav Jezek, Ivo Straka, Michal Micuda, Miloslav Dusek, Jaromir Fiurasek, Radim Filip
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 107, 213602 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4305
abstract: We report on experimental verification of quantum non-Gaussianity of a heralded single photon state with positive Wigner function. We unambiguously demonstrate that the generated state cannot be expressed as a mixture of Gaussian states. A sufficient information to witness the quantum non-Gaussianity is obtained from a standard photon anti-correlation measurement.

id: 1107.4311
title: Hermitian dynamics in a class of pseudo-Hermitian networks
authors: L. Jin, Z. Song
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042116 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4311
abstract: We investigate the connection between pseudo-Hermitian and Hermitian descriptions for a lattice, which consists of a set of isomorphic pseudo-Hermitian clusters. We show that such non-Hermitian systems can act as Hermitian systems. This is made possible by considering the dynamics of a state involving the superposition of a single eigenmode of each isomorphic clusters. It still holds when multiple eigenmodes are involved when additional restriction on the state is imposed. This Hermitian dynamics is demonstrated for the case of an exactly solvable PT-symmetric ladder system.

id: 1107.4323
title: On the critical exponent of a quantum noise driven phase transition: the open system Dicke-model
authors: D. Nagy, G. Szirmai, P. Domokos
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043637 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4323
abstract: The quantum phase transition of the Dicke-model has been observed recently in a system formed by motional excitations of a laser-driven Bose--Einstein condensate coupled to an optical cavity [1]. The cavity-based system is intrinsically open: photons can leak out of the cavity where they are detected. Even at zero temperature, the continuous weak measurement of the photon number leads to an irreversible dynamics towards a steady-state which exhibits a dynamical quantum phase transition. However, whereas the critical point and the mean field is only slightly modified with respect to the phase transition in the ground state, the entanglement and the critical exponents of the singular quantum correlations are significantly different in the two cases.

id: 1107.4333
title: Parallel Information Transfer in a Multi-Node Quantum Information Processor
authors: Troy W. Borneman, Christopher E. Granade, David G. Cory
comments: revtex4-1; 7 pages; 5 figures. New version includes minor changes, with updated Fig. 4 and new supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 140502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4333
abstract: We describe a method for coupling disjoint quantum bits (qubits) in different local processing nodes of a distributed node quantum information processor. An effective channel for information transfer between nodes is obtained by moving the system into an interaction frame where all pairs of cross-node qubits are effectively coupled via an exchange interaction between actuator elements of each node. All control is achieved via actuator-only modulation, leading to fast implementations of a universal set of internode quantum gates. The method is expected to be nearly independent of actuator decoherence and may be made insensitive to experimental variations of system parameters by appropriate design of control sequences. We show, in particular, how the induced cross-node coupling channel may be used to swap the complete quantum states of the local processors in parallel.

id: 1107.4358
title: Robust quantum gates for systems subject to decoherence via optimal control: Markovian vs non-Markovian dynamics
authors: Frederik Floether, Pierre de Fouquieres, Sophie Schirmer
comments: Complete revised, more concise version with new material added, to appear in NJP
journal: New Journal of Physics 14, 073023 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4358
abstract: We study the implementation of one-, two-, and three-qubit quantum gates for interacting qubits using optimal control. Different Markovian and non-Markovian environments are compared and efficient optimisation algorithms utilising analytic gradient expressions and quasi-Newton updates are given for both cases. The performance of the algorithms is analysed for a large set of problems in terms of the fidelities attained and the observed convergence behaviour. New notions of success rate and success speed are introduced and density plots are utilised to study the effect of key parameters, such as gate operation times, and random variables, such as the initial fields required to start the iterative algorithm. Core characteristics of the optimal fields are statistically analysed. Substantial differences between Markovian and non-Markovian environments in terms of the possibilities for control and the control mechanisms are uncovered. In particular, in the Markovian case it is found that the optimal fields obtained without considering the environment cannot be improved substantially by taking the environment into account and the fidelities attained are determined mostly by the gate operation time as well as the overall strength of the environmental effects. Computation time is saved if the fields are pre-optimised neglecting decoherence. In the non-Markovian case, on the other hand, substantial improvements in the fidelities are observed when the details of the system-bath coupling are taken into account. In that case, field leakage is shown to be a significant issue which can make high gate fidelities impossible to obtain unless both the system and noise qubits are fully controlled.

id: 1107.4359
title: Haunted quantum contextuality versus value indefiniteness - a minority report
authors: Karl Svozil
comments: 2 pages
journal: Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Volume 7160/201, ed. by Michael J. Dinneen, Bakhadyr Khoussainov und Andr\'e Nies (Springer, New York, Heidelberg, 2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4359
abstract: Physical entities are ultimately (re)constructed from elementary yes/no events, in particular clicks in detectors or measurement devices recording quanta. Recently, the interpretation of certain such clicks has given rise to unfounded claims which are neither necessary nor sufficient, although they are presented in that way. In particular, clicks can neither inductively support nor "(dis)prove" the Kochen-Specker theorem, which is a formal result that has a deductive proof by contradiction. More importantly, the alleged empirical evidence of quantum contextuality, which is "inferred" from violations of bounds of classical probabilities by quantum correlations, is based on highly nontrivial assumptions, in particular on physical omniscience.

id: 1107.4369
title: Electromagnetic Energy, Absorption, and Casimir Forces. Inhomogeneous Dielectric Media
authors: F.S.S. Rosa, D.A.R. Dalvit, P.W. Milonni
comments: 13 pages, no figures. Updated version with generalization to finite temperature and added examples
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4369
abstract: A general, exact formula is derived for the expectation value of the electromagnetic energy density of an inhomogeneous absorbing and dispersive dielectric medium in thermal equilibrium, assuming that the medium is well approximated as a continuum. From this formula we obtain the formal expression for the Casimir force density. Unlike most previous approaches to Casimir effects in which absorption is either ignored or admitted implicitly through the required analytic properties of the permittivity, we include dissipation explicitly via the coupling of each dipole oscillator of the medium to a reservoir of harmonic oscillators. We obtain the energy density and the Casimir force density as a consequence of the van der Waals interactions of the oscillators and also from Poynting's theorem.

id: 1107.4385
title: When does noise increase the quantum capacity?
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brand?o, Jonathan Oppenheim, Sergii Strelchuk
comments: Corrected minor typos
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 040501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4385
abstract: Superactivation is the property that two channels with zero quantum capacity can be used together to yield positive capacity. Here we demonstrate that this effect exists for a wide class of inequivalent channels, none of which can simulate each other. We also consider the case where one of two zero capacity channels are applied, but the sender is ignorant of which one is applied. We find examples where the greater the entropy of mixing of the channels, the greater the lower bound for the capacity. Finally, we show that the effect of superactivation is rather generic by providing example of superactivation using the depolarizing channel.

id: 1107.4394
title: Quasideterministic realization of a universal quantum gate in a single scattering process
authors: F. Ciccarello, D. E. Browne, L. C. Kwek, H. Schomerus, M. Zarcone, S. Bose
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures (including Suppl. Mater.)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 050305(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4394
abstract: We show that a flying particle, such as an electron or a photon, scattering along a one-dimensional waveguide from a pair of static spin-1/2 centers, such as quantum dots, can implement a CZ gate (universal for quantum computation) between them. This occurs quasi-deterministically in a single scattering event, hence with no need for any post-selection or iteration, {and} without demanding the flying particle to bear any internal spin. We show that an easily matched hard-wall boundary condition along with the elastic nature of the process are key to such performances.

id: 1107.4400
title: Alternate two-dimensional quantum walk with a single-qubit coin
authors: C. Di Franco, M. Mc Gettrick, T. Machida, Th. Busch
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042337 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4400
abstract: We have recently proposed a two-dimensional quantum walk where the requirement of a higher dimensionality of the coin space is substituted with the alternance of the directions in which the walker can move [C. Di Franco, M. Mc Gettrick, and Th. Busch, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 106}, 080502 (2011)]. For a particular initial state of the coin, this walk is able to perfectly reproduce the spatial probability distribution of the non-localized case of the Grover walk. Here, we present a more detailed proof of this equivalence. We also extend the analysis to other initial states, in order to provide a more complete picture of our walk. We show that this scheme outperforms the Grover walk in the generation of $x$-$y$ spatial entanglement for any initial condition, with the maximum entanglement obtained in the case of the particular aforementioned state. Finally, the equivalence is generalized to wider classes of quantum walks and a limit theorem for the alternate walk in this context is presented.

id: 1107.4435
title: Comment on "Deterministic six states protocol for quantum communication" [Phys. Lett. A 358 (2006) 85]
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 374 (2010) 1097-1100
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4435
abstract: In [J.S. Shaari, M. Lucamarini, M.R.B. Wahiddin, Phys. Lett. A 358 (2006) 85-90] the deterministic six states protocol (6DP) for quantum communication has been developed. This protocol is based on three mutually unbiased bases and four encoding operators. Information is transmitted between the users via two qubits from different bases. Three attacks have been studied; namely intercept-resend attack (IRA), double-CNOT attack (2CNOTA) and quantum man-in-the-middle attack. In this Letter, we show that the IRA and 2CNOTA are not properly addressed. For instance, we show that the probability of detecting Eve in the control mode of the IRA is 70% instead of 50% in the previous study. Moreover, in the 2CNOTA, Eve can only obtain 50% of the data not all of it as argued earlier.

id: 1107.4438
title: Real time demonstration of high bitrate quantum random number generation with coherent laser light
authors: T. Symul, S. M. Assad, P. K. Lam
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 98, 231103 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4438
abstract: We present a random number generation scheme that uses broadband measurements of the vacuum field contained in the radio-frequency sidebands of a single-mode laser. Even though the measurements may contain technical noise, we show that suitable algorithms can transform the digitized photocurrents into a string of random numbers that can be made arbitrarily correlated with a subset of the quantum fluctuations (high quantum correlation regime) or arbitrarily immune to environmental fluctuations (high environmental immunity). We demonstrate up to 2 Gbps of real time random number generation that were verified using standard randomness tests.

id: 1107.4457
title: Quantum Discord: A Dynamic Approach in Geometric Picture
authors: Mingjun Shi, Fengjian Jiang, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4457
abstract: We present a dynamic approach to study the quantum discord and classical correlation. By local filtering operation, the evaluation of quantum discord is closely related to quantum channel and channel capacity. As a consequence, the traditional optimization over horizontal-or-vertical von Neumann measurements is replaced by that over horizontal-and-vertical three-element POVM measurement, from which more rigorous results of quantum discord are obtained.

id: 1107.4462
title: Limit measures of inhomogeneous discrete-time quantum walks in one dimension
authors: Norio Konno, Tomasz Luczak, Etsuo Segawa
comments: 14 pages, minor corrections, Quantum Information Processing (in press)
journal: Quantum Information Processing 12 (2013) pp. 33-53
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4462
abstract: We treat three types of measures of the quantum walk (QW) with the spatial perturbation at the origin, which was introduced by [1]: time averaged limit measure, weak limit measure, and stationary measure. From the first two measures, we see a coexistence of the ballistic and localized behaviors in the walk as a sequential result following [1,2]. We propose a universality class of QWs with respect to weak limit measure. It is shown that typical spatial homogeneous QWs with ballistic spreading belong to the universality class. We find that the walk treated here with one defect also belongs to the class. We mainly consider the walk starting from the origin. However when we remove this restriction, we obtain a stationary measure of the walk. As a consequence, by choosing parameters in the stationary measure, we get the uniform measure as a stationary measure of the Hadamard walk and a time averaged limit measure of the walk with one defect respectively.

id: 1107.4474
title: Anomalous ring-down effects and breakdown of the decay rate concept in optical cavities with negative group delay
authors: T. Laupr¨ºtre, S. Schwartz, R. Ghosh, I. Carusotto, F. Goldfarb, F. Bretenaker
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4474
abstract: Propagation of light pulses through negative group velocity media is known to give rise to a number of paradoxical situations that seem to violate causality. The solution of these paradoxes has triggered the investigation of a number of interesting and unexpected features of light propagation. Here we report a combined theoretical and experimental study of the ring-down oscillations in optical cavities filled with a medium with such a strongly negative frequency dispersion to give a negative round-trip group delay time. We theoretically anticipate that causality imposes the existence of additional resonance peaks in the cavity transmission, resulting in a non-exponential decay of the cavity field and in a breakdown of the cavity decay rate concept. Our predictions are validated by simulations and by an experiment using a room-temperature gas of metastable helium atoms in the detuned electromagnetically induced transparency regime as the cavity medium.

id: 1107.4479
title: Optimized t-expansion method for the Rabi Hamiltonian
authors: Igor Travenec, Ladislav Samaj
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375 (2011) 4104-4108
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4479
abstract: A polemic arose recently about the applicability of the $t$-expansion method to the calculation of the ground state energy $E_0$ of the Rabi model. For specific choices of the trial function and very large number of involved connected moments, the $t$-expansion results are rather poor and exhibit considerable oscillations. In this letter, we formulate the $t$-expansion method for trial functions containing two free parameters which capture two exactly solvable limits of the Rabi Hamiltonian. At each order of the $t$-series, $E_0$ is assumed to be stationary with respect to the free parameters. A high accuracy of $E_0$ estimates is achieved for small numbers (5 or 6) of involved connected moments, the relative error being smaller than $10^{-4}$ (0.01%) within the whole parameter space of the Rabi Hamiltonian. A special symmetrization of the trial function enables us to calculate also the first excited energy $E_1$, with the relative error smaller than $10^{-2}$ (1%).

id: 1107.4497
title: libCreme: An optimization library for evaluating convex-roof entanglement measures
authors: Beat R?thlisberger, J?rg Lehmann, Daniel Loss
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure. The program code can be downloaded either from the CPC Library (this http URL) or directly at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4497
abstract: We present the software library libCreme which we have previously used to successfully calculate convex-roof entanglement measures of mixed quantum states appearing in realistic physical systems. Evaluating the amount of entanglement in such states is in general a non-trivial task requiring to solve a highly non-linear complex optimization problem. The algorithms provided here are able to achieve to do this for a large and important class of entanglement measures. The library is mostly written in the Matlab programming language, but is fully compatible to the free and open-source Octave platform. Some inefficient subroutines are written in C/C++ for better performance. This manuscript discusses the most important theoretical concepts and workings of the algorithms, focussing on the actual implementation and usage within the library. Detailed examples in the end should make it easy for the user to apply libCreme to specific problems.

id: 1107.4529
title: Comment on "Cryptanalysis and improvement of multiparty quantum secret sharing schemes"
authors: Gan Gao
comments: welcome to all kinds of comments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4529
abstract: We show that, using Wang et al. attack [T.-y. Wang, Q.-y. Wen, F. Gao, S. Lin, F.-c. Zhu, Phys. Lett. A 373 (2008) 65], the first agent and the last agent cannot eavesdrop all the secret messages in Zhang et al. QSSCM scheme [Z.-j. Zhang, G. Gao, X. Wang, L.-f Han, S.-h. Shi, Opt. Commun. 269 (2007) 418]. In some sense, Wang et al. attack is unsuccessful for Zhang et al. QSSCM scheme.

id: 1107.4579
title: Generalization of internal Density Functional Theory and Kohn-Sham scheme to multicomponent systems, and link with traditional DFT
authors: Jeremie Messud
comments: 20 pages, 46 references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84 (2011) 052113
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4579
abstract: We generalize the recently developped "internal" Density Functional Theory (DFT) and Kohn-Sham scheme to multicomponent systems. We obtain a general formalism, applicable for the description of multicomponent self-bound systems (as molecules where the nuclei are treated explicitely, atomic nuclei and mix of 3He and 4He droplets), where the fundamental translational symmetry has been treated correctly. The main difference with traditional DFT is the explicit inclusion of center-of-mass correlations in the functional. A large part of the paper is dedicated to the application to molecules, which permits among other to clarify the approximations that underly traditional DFT.

id: 1107.4633
title: Persistence of Tripartite Nonlocality for Non-inertial Observers
authors: Alexander Smith, Robert B. Mann
comments: 4 pages, pdflatex, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4633
abstract: We consider the behaviour of bipartite and tripartite non-locality between fermionic entangled states shared by observers, one of whom uniformly accelerates. We find that while fermionic entanglement persists for arbitrarily large acceleration, the Bell/CHSH inequalities cannot be violated for sufficiently large but finite acceleration. However the Svetlichny inequality, which is a measure of genuine tripartite non-locality, can be violated for any finite value of the acceleration.

id: 1107.4646
title: No-go theorem for passive single-rail linear optical quantum computing
authors: Lian-Ao Wu, Philip Walther, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: v3: Expanded to 7 pages and rewritten. Accepted for publication in Scientific Reports
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4646
abstract: Photonic quantum systems are among the most promising architectures for quantum computers. It is well known that for dual-rail photons effective non-linearities and near-deterministic non-trivial two-qubit gates can be achieved via the measurement process and by introducing ancillary photons. While in principle this opens a legitimate path to scalable linear optical quantum computing, the technical requirements are still very challenging and thus other optical encodings are being actively investigated. One of the alternatives is to use single-rail encoded photons, where entangled states can be deterministically generated. Here we prove that even for such systems universal optical quantum computing using only passive optical elements such as beam splitters and phase shifters is not possible. This no-go theorem proves that photon bunching cannot be passively suppressed even when extra ancilla modes and arbitrary number of photons are used. Our result provides useful guidance for the design of optical quantum computers.

id: 1107.4647
title: Approximate simulation of entanglement with a linear cost of communication
authors: Alberto Montina
comments: Added some clarifications. The entanglement model alternative to the Toner-Bacon model is stressed in the abstract and introduction. Added section IIIB
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042307 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4647
abstract: Bell's theorem implies that the outcomes of local measurements on two maximally entangled systems cannot be simulated without classical communication between the parties. The communication cost is finite for n Bell states, but it grows exponentially in n. Three simple protocols are presented that provide approximate simulations for low-dimensional entangled systems and require a linearly growing amount of communication. We have tested them by performing some simulations for a family of measurements. The maximal error is less than 1% in three dimensions and grows sublinearly with the number of entangled bits in the range numerically tested. One protocol is the multidimensional generalization of the exact Toner-Bacon [Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 187904 (2003)] model for a single Bell state. The other two protocols are generalizations of an alternative exact model, which we derive from the Kochen-Specker [J. Math. Mech. 17, 59 (1967)] scheme for simulating single-qubit measurements. These protocols can give some indication for finding optimal one-way communication protocols that classically simulate entanglement and quantum channels. Furthermore they can be useful for deciding if a quantum communication protocol provides an advantage on classical protocols.

id: 1107.4669
title: Dimensional regularization of the free-electron self-energy and vertex correction in Coulomb gauge
authors: Ingvar Lindgren
comments: 23 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4669
abstract: There is presently a great interest in studying static and dynamic properties of highly charged ions that can be produced in large particle accelerators, like that at GSI in Darmstadt. To perform corresponding theoretical calculations with great accuracy requires a highly developed machinery of computational methods that have not until recently been available. In order to combine many-body perturbation theory with quantum electrodynamics, the calculations have generally to be performed in the Coulomb gauge, where applications have not been so developed as in, for instance, the Feynman gauge. Formulas for the free-electron self energy and vertex correction have been given without derivation by Adkins (Phys. Rev. D27, 1814 (1983); Phys. Rev. D34, 2489 (1986)). In the present paper the formulas of Adkins are verified with detailed derivations.

id: 1107.4675
title: Problems with modelling closed timelike curves as post-selected teleportation
authors: T.C.Ralph
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4675
abstract: In this comment on S.Lloyd, et al, Phys.Rev.Lett. 106, 040403 (2011), we show that modelling closed timelike curves (CTCs) as post-selected teleportation allows signalling to past times before the creation of the CTC and allows information paradoxes to form.

id: 1107.4735
title: Estimation of a quantum interaction parameter using weak measurements: Theory and experiment
authors: Holger F. Hofmann, Michael E. Goggin, Marcelo P. Almeida, Marco Barbieri
comments: Replace with the published version. Comments still welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 040102(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4735
abstract: We investigate the estimation of a small interaction parameter from the outcomes of weak quantum measurements implemented by the interaction. The relation of weak values and sensitivity is explained and the different contributions of postselected results are identified using experimental data. The results show how weak values can be used to control the distribution of input state sensitivity between different postselected outcomes.

id: 1107.4743
title: Unitary invariant discord as a measure of bipartite quantum correlations in an $N$-qubit quantum system
authors: A.I. Zenchuk
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4743
abstract: We introduce a measure of quantum correlations in the $N$-qubit quantum system which is invariant with respect to the $SU(2^N)$ group of transformations of this system. This measure is a modification of the quantum discord introduced earlier and is referred to as the unitary or $SU(2^N)$-invariant discord. Since the evolution of a quantum system is equivalent to the proper unitary transformation, the introduced measure is an integral of motion and is completely defined by eigenvalues of the density matrix. As far as the calculation of the unitary invariant discord is rather complicated computational problem, we propose its modification which may be found in a simpler way. The case N=2 is considered in details. In particular, it is shown that the modified SU(4)-invariant discord reaches the maximum value for a pure state. {A geometric measure of the unitary invariant discord of an $N$-qubit state is introduced and a simple formula for this measure is derived, which allows one to consider this measure as a witness of quantum correlations.} The relation of the unitary invariant discord with the quantum state transfer along the spin chain is considered. We also compare the modified SU(4)-invariant discord with the geometric measure of SU(4)-invariant discord of the two-qubit systems in the thermal equilibrium states governed by the different Hamiltonians.

id: 1107.4755
title: Generating Molecular Rovibrational Coherence by Two-Photon Femtosecond Photoassociation of Thermally Hot Atoms
authors: Leonid Rybak, Saieswari Amaran, Liat Levin, Michal Tomza, Robert Moszynski, Ronnie Kosloff, Christiane P. Koch, Zohar Amitay
comments: final version, accepted for publication in Phys Rev Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 273001 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4755
abstract: The formation of diatomic molecules with rotational and vibrational coherence is demonstrated experimentally in free-to-bound two-photon femtosecond photoassociation of hot atoms. In a thermal gas at a temperature of 1000 K, pairs of magnesium atoms, colliding in their electronic ground state, are excited into coherent superpositions of bound rovibrational levels in an electronically excited state. The rovibrational coherence is probed by a time-delayed third photon, resulting in quantum beats in the UV fluorescence. A comprehensive theoretical model based on ab initio calculations rationalizes the generation of coherence by Franck-Condon filtering of collision energies and partial waves, quantifying it in terms of an increase in quantum purity of the thermal ensemble. Our results open the way to coherent control of a binary reaction.

id: 1107.4774
title: Benchmarking a Teleportation Protocol realized in Superconducting Circuits
authors: M. Baur, A. Fedorov, L. Steffen, S. Filipp, M. P. da Silva, A. Wallraff
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 040502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4774
abstract: Teleportation of a quantum state may be used for distributing entanglement between distant qubits in quantum communication and for quantum computation. Here we demonstrate the implementation of a teleportation protocol, up to the single-shot measurement step, with superconducting qubits coupled to a microwave resonator. Using full quantum state tomography and evaluating an entanglement witness, we show that the protocol generates a genuine tripartite entangled state of all three-qubits. Calculating the projection of the measured density matrix onto the basis states of two qubits allows us to reconstruct the teleported state. Repeating this procedure for a complete set of input states we find an average output state fidelity of 88%.

id: 1107.4783
title: Optically induced rotation of a quantum dot exciton spin
authors: E. Poem, O. Kenneth, Y. Kodriano, Y. Benny, S. Khatsevich, J. E. Avron, D. Gershoni
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4783
abstract: We demonstrate control over the spin state of a semiconductor quantum dot exciton using a polarized picosecond laser pulse slightly detuned from a biexciton resonance. The control pulse follows an earlier pulse, which generates an exciton and initializes its spin state as a coherent superposition of its two non-degenerate eigenstates. The control pulse preferentially couples one component of the exciton state to the biexciton state, thereby rotating the exciton's spin direction. We detect the rotation by measuring the polarization of the exciton spectral line as a function of the time-difference between the two pulses. We show experimentally and theoretically how the angle of rotation depends on the detuning of the second pulse from the biexciton resonance.

id: 1107.4813
title: Linear Amplifier Model for Optomechanical Systems
authors: Thierry Botter, Daniel W. C. Brooks, Nathan Brahms, Sydney Schreppler, Dan M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013812 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4813
abstract: We model optomechanical systems as linear optical amplifiers. This provides a unified treatment of diverse optomechanical phenomena. We emphasize, in particular, the relationship between ponderomotive squeezing and optomechanically induced transparency, two foci of current research. We characterize the amplifier response to quantum and deliberately applied fluctuations, both optical and mechanical. Further, we apply these results to establish quantum limits on external force sensing both on and off cavity resonance. We find that the maximum sensitivity attained on resonance constitutes an absolute upper limit, not surpassed when detuning off cavity resonance. The theory can be extended to a two-sided cavity with losses and limited detection efficiency.

id: 1107.4835
title: Topology of Entanglement in Multipartite States with Translational Invariance
authors: H. T. Cui, J. L. Tian, C. M. Wang, Y. C. Chen
comments: major revision. accepted by EPJD
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4835
abstract: The topology of entanglement in multipartite states with translational invariance is discussed in this article. Two global features are foundby which one can distinguish distinct states. These are the cyclic unit and the quantised geometric phase. Furthermore the topology is indicated by the fractional spin. Finally a scheme is presented for preparation of these types of states in spin chain systems, in which the degeneracy of the energy levels characterises the robustness of the states with translational invariance.

id: 1107.4863
title: Multiparticle entanglement in graph-diagonal states: Necessary and sufficient conditions for four qubits
authors: Otfried G¨¹hne, Bastian Jungnitsch, Tobias Moroder, Yaakov S. Weinstein
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, v2: small changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052319 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4863
abstract: The characterization of genuine multiparticle entanglement is important for entanglement theory as well as experimental studies related to quantum information theory. Here, we completely characterize genuine multiparticle entanglement for four-qubit states diagonal in the cluster-state basis. In addition, we give a complete characterization of multiparticle entanglement for all five-qubit graph states mixed with white noise, for states diagonal in the basis corresponding to the five-qubit Y-shaped graph, and for a family of graph states with an arbitrary number of qubits.

id: 1107.4909
title: The zig-zag road to reality
authors: Samuel Colin, Howard M Wiseman
comments: 24 pages, 12 figures. Accepted for publication in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical
journal: J.Phys.A44:345304,2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4909
abstract: In the standard model of particle physics, all fermions are fundamentally massless and only acquire their effective bare mass when the Higgs field condenses. Therefore, in a fundamental de Broglie-Bohm pilot-wave quantum field theory (valid before and after the Higgs condensation), position beables should be attributed to massless fermions. In our endeavour to build a pilot-wave theory of massless fermions, which would be relevant for the study of quantum non-equilibrium in the early universe, we are naturally led to Weyl spinors and to particle trajectories which give meaning to the `zig-zag' picture of the electron discussed recently by Penrose. We show that a positive-energy massive Dirac electron of given helicity can be thought of as a superposition of positive and negative energy Weyl particles of the same helicity and that a single massive Dirac electron can in principle move luminally at all times. This is however not true for the many body situation required by quantum field theory and we conclude that a more natural theory arises from attributing beable status to the positions of massless Dirac particles instead of to Weyl particles.

id: 1107.4964
title: Quantum gates implementations in the separated ion-traps by fast laser pulses
authors: Miao Zhang, L. F. Wei
comments: 10 pages, 3figures
journal: Chinese Physics Letters 29 080301(2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4964
abstract: An approach is proposed to implement the universal quantum gates between the ions confined individually in the separated traps. Instead of the typical adiabatic operations, performed for manipulating the ion-ion coupling, here the switchable couplings between ions are implemented non-adiabatically by using the fast laser pulses. Consequently, the desirable quantum gates between the ions could be implemented by using only a series of laser pulses. The proposal may be conveniently generalized to the quantum computation with the scalable ion-traps.

id: 1107.4971
title: Consistency of the adiabatic theorem and perturbation theory
authors: Marco Frasca
comments: 15 pages, no figures. Added a relevant clarification and minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4971
abstract: We present an analysis of the adiabatic approximation to understand when it applies, in view of the recent criticisms and studies for the validity of the adiabatic theorem. We point out that this approximation is just the leading order of a perturbation series, that holds in a regime of a perturbation going to infinity, and so the conditions for its validity can be only obtained going to higher orders in the expansion and removing secular terms, that is terms that runs to infinity as the time increases. In this way, it is always possible to get the exact criteria for the approximation to hold.

id: 1107.4972
title: A possible method for non-Hermitian and non-$PT$-symmetric Hamiltonian systems
authors: Jun-Qing Li, Yan-Gang Miao, Zhao Xue
comments: 15 pages, no figures; v2: clarifications added; v3: 16 pages, 1 figure, clarifications made clearer; v4: 19 pages, the main context is completely rewritten; v5: 25 pages, title slightly changed, clarifications added, the final version to appear in PLOS ONE
journal: PLoS ONE 9 (2014) e97107 (11 pages)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4972
abstract: A possible method to investigate non-Hermitian Hamiltonians is suggested through finding a Hermitian operator $\eta_+$ and defining the annihilation and creation operators to be $\eta_+$-pseudo-Hermitian adjoint to each other. The operator $\eta_+$ represents the $\eta_+$-pseudo-Hermiticity of Hamiltonians. As an example, a non-Hermitian and non-$PT$-symmetric Hamiltonian with imaginary linear coordinate and linear momentum terms is constructed and analyzed in detail. The operator $\eta_+$ is found, based on which, a real spectrum and a positive-definite inner product, together with the probability explanation of wave functions, the orthogonality of eigenstates, and the unitarity of time evolution, are obtained for the non-Hermitian and non-$PT$-symmetric Hamiltonian. Moreover, this Hamiltonian turns out to be coupled when it is extended to the canonical noncommutative space with noncommutative spatial coordinate operators and noncommutative momentum operators as well. Our method is applicable to the coupled Hamiltonian. Then the first and second order noncommutative corrections of energy levels are calculated, and in particular the reality of energy spectra, the positive-definiteness of inner products, and the related properties (the probability explanation of wave functions, the orthogonality of eigenstates, and the unitarity of time evolution) are found not to be altered by the noncommutativity.

id: 1107.4990
title: Coherence of a qubit stored in Zeeman levels of a single optically trapped atom
authors: Wenjamin Rosenfeld, J¨¹rgen Volz, Markus Weber, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4990
abstract: We experimentally investigate the coherence properties of a qubit stored in the Zeeman substates of the 5S1/2, F=1 hyperfine ground level of a single optically trapped Rb-87 atom. Larmor precession of a single atomic spin-1 system is observed by preparing the atom in a defined initial spin-state and then measuring the resulting state after a programmable period of free evolution. Additionally, by performing quantum state tomography, maximum knowledge about the spin coherence is gathered. By using an active magnetic field stabilization and without application of a magnetic guiding field we achieve transverse and longitudinal dephasing times of T2*=75..150 \mus and T1>0.5 ms respectively. We derive the light-shift distribution of a single atom in the approximately harmonic potential of a dipole trap and show that the measured atomic spin coherence is limited mainly by residual position- and state-dependent effects in the optical trapping potential. The improved understanding enables longer coherence times, an important prerequisite for future applications in long-distance quantum communication and computation with atoms in optical lattices or for a loophole-free test of Bell's inequality.

id: 1107.5009
title: Local toy-model theory with ontic correlated states of composite systems
authors: Berry Groisman
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5009
abstract: We propose a toy-model theory, that mimics various characteristic features of quantum mechanics. Unlike the toy-models previously studied in the literature, our toy-model allows for an observer to have a full knowledge of a system's real (ontic) state. This is achieved by introducing domains of disjointness, that is by allowing ontic states to be "non-orthogonal". The observer can perform tests which allow her to distinguish between the states in a single domain of disjointness, but not between all ontic states at once. The consequence of this assumption is that the ontic picture is extended to include joint states of two or more systems. This effectively amounts to emergence of entanglement in the model. We argue that these features, albeit being a "non-classical" element in the theory, support the view that quantum-mechanical states are ontic states.

id: 1107.5010
title: On the Fermi Function of Squeezed Coherent States
authors: Maurice A. de Gosson
comments: Research Note
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5010
abstract: Fermi observed in 1930 that the state of a quantum system may be defined in two different (but equivalent) ways, namely by its wavefunction $\Psi$ or by a certain function $g_F$ on phase space canonically associated with $\Psi$. In this Note we study we study Fermi's function when $\Psi$ is a squeezed coherent state. We relate it with the Wigner transform of $\Psi$, thus generalising a previous observation of Benenti and Strini. We show that the symplectic capacity of the phase space ellipsoid $g_{F}(x,p)\leq0$ is bounded by $h/2$ and $nh/2$ (n the number of degrees of freedom).

id: 1107.5071
title: Entangled identical particles and noise
authors: Giuseppe Argentieri, Fabio Benatti, Roberto Floreanini, Ugo Marzolino
comments: 11 pages
journal: Int J Quant Inf 9, 1745 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5071
abstract: For systems of identical Bosons, it is necessary to reformulate the notions of separability and entanglement in algebraic terms shifting the emphasis from the particle aspect of first quantization to the mode description typical of second quantization. Within this new framework, we show that, unlike for systems consisting of distinguishable qubits, negativity is an exhaustive bipartite entanglement witness for systems with fixed number of Bosons; further, we investigate the impact of dephasing noise in relation to the use of such many-body Bosonic systems in metrological applications.

id: 1107.5080
title: Superradiance of Harmonic Oscillators
authors: Michael Delanty, Stojan Rebic, Jason Twamley
comments: 19 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5080
abstract: Superradiance, the enhanced collective emission of light from a coherent ensemble of quantum systems, has been typically studied in atomic ensembles. In this work we study the enhanced emission of energy from coherent ensembles of harmonic oscillators. We show that it should be possible to observe harmonic oscillator superradiance in a variety of physical platforms such as waveguide arrays in integrated photonics and resonator arrays in circuit QED. We find general conditions specifying when emission is superradiant and subradiant and find that superradiant, subradiant and dark states take the form of multimode squeezed coherent states and highly entangled multimode Fock states. The intensity, two-mode correlations and fraction of quanta trapped in the system after decay are calculated for a range of initial states including multimode Fock, squeezed, coherent and thermal states. In order to explore these effects, the Law and Eberly protocol [C. K. Law and J. H. Eberly, Phys. Rev. Lett. 76, 1055 (1996)] is generalized to prepare highly entangled multimode Fock states in circuit QED.

id: 1107.5127
title: Non-adiabatic holonomic quantum computation
authors: Erik Sj?qvist, D.M. Tong, L. Mauritz Andersson, Bj?rn Hessmo, Markus Johansson, Kuldip Singh
comments: Some changes, journal reference added
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 103035 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5127
abstract: We develop a non-adiabatic generalization of holonomic quantum computation in which high-speed universal quantum gates can be realized by using non-Abelian geometric phases. We show how a set of non-adiabatic holonomic one- and two-qubit gates can be implemented by utilizing optical transitions in a generic three-level $\Lambda$ configuration. Our scheme opens up for universal holonomic quantum computation on qubits characterized by short coherence times.

id: 1107.5128
title: Influence of the atomic-wall collision elasticity on the coherent population trapping resonance shape
authors: G. A. Kazakov, A. N. Litvinov, B. G. Matisov, V. I. Romanenko, L. P. Yatsenko, A. V. Romanenko
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: Journal of physics B: Atomic, molecular and optical physics Vol. 44, 235401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5128
abstract: We studied theoretically a coherent population trapping resonance formation in cylindrical cell without buffer gas irradiated by a narrow laser beam. We take into account non-zero probabilities of elastic ("specular") and inelastic ("sticking") collision between the atom and the cell wall. We have developed a theoretical model based on averaging over the random Ramsey pulse sequences of times that atom spent in and out of the beam. It is shown that the shape of coherent population trapping resonance line depends on the probability of elastic collision.

id: 1107.5139
title: Relativistic Wigner function and consistent classical limit for spin 1/2 particles
authors: Renan Cabrera, Denys I. Bondar, Herschel A. Rabitz
comments: The paper was completely rewritten. 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5139
abstract: The relativistic Wigner function for spin 1/2 particles is the subject of active research due to diverse applications. However, further progress is hindered by the fabulous complexity of the integro-differential equations of motion. We simplify these equations to partial differential equations of the Dirac type that are not only well suited for numerical computation, but also posses a well defined classical limit in a manifestly covariant form.

id: 1107.5159
title: Strong quantum violation of the gravitational weak equivalence principle by a non-Gaussian wave-packet
authors: P. Chowdhury, D. Home, A. S. Majumdar, S. V. Mousavi, M. R. Mozaffari, S. Sinha
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 29 (2012) 025010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5159
abstract: The weak equivalence principle of gravity is examined at the quantum level in two ways. First, the position detection probabilities of particles described by a non-Gaussian wave-packet projected upwards against gravity around the classical turning point and also around the point of initial projection are calculated. These probabilities exhibit mass-dependence at both these points, thereby reflecting the quantum violation of the weak equivalence principle. Secondly, the mean arrival time of freely falling particles is calculated using the quantum probability current, which also turns out to be mass dependent. Such a mass-dependence is shown to be enhanced by increasing the non-Gaussianity parameter of the wave packet, thus signifying a stronger violation of the weak equivalence principle through a greater departure from Gaussianity of the initial wave packet. The mass-dependence of both the position detection probabilities and the mean arrival time vanish in the limit of large mass. Thus, compatibility between the weak equivalence principle and quantum mechanics is recovered in the macroscopic limit of the latter. A selection of Bohm trajectories is exhibited to illustrate these features in the free fall case.

id: 1107.5162
title: Entanglement detection in the vicinity of arbitrary Dicke states
authors: L.-M. Duan
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5162
abstract: Dicke states represent a class of multipartite entangled states that can be generated experimentally with many applications in quantum information. We propose a method to experimentally detect genuine multipartite entanglement in the vicinity of arbitrary Dicke states. The detection scheme can be used to experimentally quantity the entanglement depth of many-body systems and is easy to implement as it requires to measure only three collective spin operators. The detection criterion is strong as it heralds multipartite entanglement even in cases where the state fidelity goes down exponentially with the number of qubits.

id: 1107.5174
title: Generation of Entanglement, Measure of Multipartite Entanglement in Fermionic Systems and Quantum Discord in Bipartite Systems and Heisenberg Chains
authors: Behzad Lari
comments: 137 pages, 34 figures. arXiv admin note: this thesis reuses substantial verbatim text from arXiv:quant-ph/0006034, arXiv:quant-ph/0207052, arXiv:1004.0190v2, arXiv:quant-ph/0505149, arXiv:0911.3903, arXiv:quant-ph/0504163, written by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5174
abstract: This is a thesis submitted to university of Pune, India, for the Ph.D. degree. This work deals with entanglement production in two qubit, two qutrit and three qubit systems, entanglement in indistinguishable fermionic systems, quantum discord in a Heisenberg chain and geometric measure of quantum discord in an arbitrary state of a bipartite quantum system.

id: 1107.5217
title: Nonlocality of two-qubit and three-qubit Schmidt-Correlated states
authors: Ming-Jing Zhao, Zong-Guo Li, Bo Li, Shao-Ming Fei, Zhi-Xi Wang, Xian-Qing Li-Jost
comments: 12 pages
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 56 (2011) 253
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5217
abstract: We investigate the nonlocality of Schmidt-correlated (SC) states, and present analytical expressions of the maximum violation value of Bell inequalities. It is shown that the violation of Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) inequality is necessary and sufficient for the nonlocality of two-qubit SC states, whereas the violation of the Svetlichny inequality is only a sufficient condition for the genuine nonlocality of three-qubit SC states. Furthermore, the relations among the maximum violation values, concurrence and relative entropy entanglement are discussed.

id: 1107.5233
title: Quantum Simulation of Quantum Field Theories in Trapped Ions
authors: J. Casanova, L. Lamata, I. L. Egusquiza, R. Gerritsma, C. F. Roos, J. J. Garcia-Ripoll, E. Solano
comments: To be published in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 260501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5233
abstract: We propose the quantum simulation of a fermion and an antifermion field modes interacting via a bosonic field mode, and present a possible implementation with two trapped ions. This quantum platform allows for the scalable add-up of bosonic and fermionic modes, and represents an avenue towards quantum simulations of quantum field theories in perturbative and nonperturbative regimes.

id: 1107.5245
title: Quantum Mutual Information Capacity for High Dimensional Entangled States
authors: P. Ben Dixon, Gregory A. Howland, James Schneeloch, John C. Howell
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5245
abstract: High dimensional Hilbert spaces used for quantum communication channels offer the possibility of large data transmission capabilities. We propose a method of characterizing the channel capacity of an entangled photonic state in high dimensional position and momentum bases. We use this method to measure the channel capacity of a parametric downconversion state, achieving a channel capacity over 7 bits/photon in either the position or momentum basis, by measuring in up to 576 dimensions per detector. The channel violated an entropic separability bound, suggesting the performance cannot be replicated classically.

id: 1107.5347
title: Improving Quantum Clocks via Semidefinite Programming
authors: Michael Mullan, Emanuel Knill
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5347
abstract: The accuracies of modern quantum logic clocks have surpassed those of standard atomic fountain clocks. These clocks also provide a greater degree of control, because before and after clock queries, we are able to apply chosen unitary operations and measurements. Here, we take advantage of these choices and present a numerical technique designed to increase the accuracy of these clocks. We use a greedy approach, minimizing the phase variance of a noisy classical oscillator with respect to a perfect frequency standard after an interrogation step; we do not optimize over successive interrogations or the probe times. We consider arbitrary prior frequency knowledge and compare clocks with varying numbers of ions and queries interlaced with unitary control. Our technique is based on the semidefinite programming formulation of quantum query complexity, a method first developed in the context of deriving algorithmic lower bounds. The application of semidefinite programming to an inherently continuous problem like that considered here requires discretization; we derive bounds on the error introduced and show that it can be made suitably small.

id: 1107.5392
title: Phase properties of the superposition of squeezed and displaced number states
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany, J. Perina, M. Sebawe Abdalla
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 2 (2000) 545-552
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5392
abstract: We show that a nonlinear asymmetric directional coupler composed of a linear waveguide and a nonlinear waveguide operating by nondegenerate parametric amplification is an effective source of single-mode squeezed light. This is has been demonstrated, under certain conditions and for specific modes, for incident coherent beams in terms of the quasiprobability functions, photon-number distribution and phase distribution.

id: 1107.5395
title: Locally Unextendible Non-Maximally Entangled Basis
authors: Indranil Chakrabarty, Pankaj Agrawal, Arun K Pati
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, Accepted for publication in Quantum Information and Computation
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, 12, 0271 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5395
abstract: We introduce the concept of the locally unextendible non-maximally entangled basis (LUNMEB) in $H^d \bigotimes H^d$. It is shown that such a basis consists of $d$ orthogonal vectors for a non-maximally entangled state. However, there can be a maximum of $(d-1)^2$ orthogonal vectors for non-maximally entangled state if it is maximally entangled in $(d-1)$ dimensional subspace. Such a basis plays an important role in determining the number of classical bits that one can send in a superdense coding protocol using a non-maximally entangled state as a resource. By constructing appropriate POVM operators, we find that the number of classical bits one can transmit using a non-maximally entangled state as a resource is $(1+p_0\frac{d}{d-1})\log d$, where $p_0$ is the smallest Schmidt coefficient. However, when the state is maximally entangled in its subspace then one can send up to $2\log (d-1) $ bits. We also find that for $d= 3$, former may be more suitable for the superdense coding.

id: 1107.5398
title: Generation of squeezed light in a nonlinear asymmetric directional coupler
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany, J. Perina, M. Sebawe Abdalla
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 3 (2001) 67-75
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5398
abstract: We show that a nonlinear asymmetric directional coupler composed of a linear waveguide and a nonlinear waveguide operating by nondegenerate parametric amplification is an effective source of single-mode squeezed light. This is has been demonstrated, under certain conditions and for specific modes, for incident coherent beams in terms of the quasiprobability functions, photon-number distribution and phase distribution.

id: 1107.5405
title: Uncertainties in Gapped Graphene
authors: Eylee Jung, Kwang S. Kim, DaeKil Park
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures V2: 21 pages, one more author is added. will appear in PRB
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5405
abstract: Motivated by graphene-based quantum computer we examine the time-dependence of the position-momentum and position-velocity uncertainties in the monolayer gapped graphene. The effect of the energy gap to the uncertainties is shown to appear via the Compton-like wavelength $\lambda_c$. The uncertainties in the graphene are mainly contributed by two phenomena, spreading and zitterbewegung. While the former determines the uncertainties in the long-range of time, the latter gives the highly oscillation to the uncertainties in the short-range of time. The uncertainties in the graphene are compared with the corresponding values for the usual free Hamiltonian $\hat{H}_{free} = (p_1^2 + p_2^2) / 2 M$. It is shown that the uncertainties can be under control within the quantum mechanical law if one can choose the gap parameter $\lambda_c$ freely.

id: 1107.5413
title: Beyond Zeno: Approaching Infinite Temperature upon Repeated Measurements
authors: Juyeon Yi, Peter Talkner, Gert-Ludwig Ingold
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032121 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5413
abstract: The influence of repeated projective measurements on the dynamics of the state of a quantum system is studied in dependence of the time lag $\tau$ between successive measurements. In the limit of infinitely many measurements of the occupancy of a single state the total system approaches a uniform state. The asymptotic approach to this state is exponential in the case of finite Hilbert space dimension. The rate characterizing this approach undergoes a sharp transition from a monotonically increasing to an erratically varying function of the time between subsequent measurements.

id: 1107.5432
title: Controllable ultra-broadband slow light in a warm Rubidium vapor
authors: Rui Zhang, Joel A. Greenberg, Martin C. Fischer, Daniel J.Gauthier
comments: The first two authors contributed equally to this work
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5432
abstract: We study ultra-broadband slow light in a warm Rubidium vapor cell. By working between the D1 and D2 transitions, we find a several-nm window centered at 788.4 nm in which the group index is highly uniform and the absorption is small (<1%). We demonstrate that we can control the group delay by varying the temperature of the cell, and observe a tunable fractional delay of 18 for pulses as short as 250 fs (6.9 nm bandwidth) with a fractional broadening of only 0.65 and a power leakage of 55%. We find that a simple theoretical model is in excellent agreement with the experimental results. Using this model, we discuss the impact of the pulse's spectral characteristics on the distortion it incurs during propagation through the vapor.

id: 1107.5447
title: Bloch sphere representation of three-vertex geometric phases
authors: Shuhei Tamate, Kazuhisa Ogawa, Masao Kitano
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052114 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5447
abstract: The properties of the geometric phases between three quantum states are investigated in a high-dimensional Hilbert space using the Majorana representation of symmetric quantum states. We found that the geometric phases between the three quantum states in an N-state quantum system can be represented by N-1 spherical triangles on the Bloch sphere. The parameter dependence of the geometric phase was analyzed based on this picture. We found that the geometric phase exhibits rich nonlinear behavior in a high-dimensional Hilbert space.

id: 1107.5452
title: Revisiting the Dolinar Receiver through Multiple-Copy State Discrimination Theory
authors: Antonio Assalini, Nicola Dalla Pozza, Gianfranco Pierobon
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5452
abstract: We consider the problem of discriminating between two quantum coherent states by interpreting a single state like being a collection of several successive copies of weaker coherent states. By means of recent results on multiple-copy state discrimination, it is possible to give a reinterpretation of the Dolinar receiver, and carry out a quite straightforward analysis of its behavior. We also propose and investigate a suboptimal detection scheme derived from the Dolinar's architecture, which is shown to slightly outperform some other near-optimal schemes available in literature.

id: 1107.5458
title: Observable estimation of entanglement of formation and quantum discord for bipartite mixed quantum states
authors: Chengjie Zhang, Sixia Yu, Qing Chen, C.H. Oh
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052112 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5458
abstract: We present observable lower and upper bounds for the entanglement of formation (EOF) and quantum discord (QD), which facilitates estimates of EOF and QD for arbitrary experimental unknown states in finite-dimensional bipartite systems. These bounds can be easily obtained by a few experimental measurements on a twofold copy $\varrho\otimes\varrho$ of the mixed states. Based on our results, we use the experimental measurement data of the real experiment given by Schmid \textit{et al.} [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{101}, 260505 (2008)] to obtain the lower and upper bounds of EOF and QD for the experimental unknown state.

id: 1107.5459
title: Quasi-one-dimensional scattering in a discrete model
authors: Manuel Valiente, Klaus Molmer
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053628 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5459
abstract: We study quasi-one-dimensional scattering of one and two particles with short-range interactions on a discrete lattice model in two dimensions. One of the directions is tightly confined by an arbitrary trapping potential. We obtain the collisional properties of these systems both at finite and zero Bloch quasi- momenta, considering as well finite sizes and transversal traps that support a continuum of states. This is made straightforward by using the exact ansatz for the quasi-one-dimensional states from the beginning. In the more interesting case of genuine two-particle scattering, we find that more than one confinement-induced resonance appear due to the non-separability of the center-of-mass and relative coordinates on the lattice. This is done by solving its corresponding Lippmann- Schwinger-like equation. We characterize the effective one-dimensional interaction and compare it with a model that includes only the effect of the dominant, broadest resonance, which amounts to a single-pole approximation for the interaction coupling constant.

id: 1107.5460
title: The Smooth Entropy Formalism on von Neumann Algebras
authors: Mario Berta, Fabian Furrer, Volkher B. Scholz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5460
abstract: We discuss quantum information theoretical concepts on von Neumann algebras and lift the smooth entropy formalism to the most general quantum setting. For the smooth min- and max-entropies we recover similar characterizing properties and information-theoretic operational interpretations as in the finite-dimensional case. We generalize the entropic uncertainty relation with quantum side information of Tomamichel and Renner and sketch possible applications to continuous variable quantum cryptography. In particular, we prove the possibility to perform privacy amplification and classical data compression with quantum side information modeled by a von Neumann algebra. From this we generalize the formula of Renes and Renner characterizing the optimal length of a distillable secure finite-key. We also elaborate on the question when the formalism of von Neumann algebras is of advantage in the description of quantum systems with an infinite number of degrees of freedom.

id: 1107.5467
title: Experimental realization of Counterfactual Quantum Cryptography
authors: Giorgio Brida, Andrea Cavanna, Ivo Pietro Degiovanni, Marco Genovese, Paolo Traina
comments: 
journal: Laser Phys. Lett. 9 vol. 3 pp 247 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5467
abstract: In counterfactual QKD information is transfered, in a secure way, between Alice and Bob even when no particle carrying the information is in fact transmitted between them. In this letter we fully implement the scheme for counterfactual QKD proposed in [T. Noh, \PRL \textbf{103}, 230501 (2009)], demonstrating for the first time that information can be transmitted between two parties without the transmission of a carrier.

id: 1107.5519
title: Implementing two-photon interference in the frequency domain with electro-optic phase modulators
authors: Laurent Olislager, Isma?l Mbodji, Erik Woodhead, Johann Cussey, Luca Furfaro, Philippe Emplit, Serge Massar, Kien Phan Huy, Jean-Marc Merolla
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 043015 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5519
abstract: Frequency-entangled photons can be readily produced using parametric down-conversion. We have recently shown how such entanglement could be manipulated and measured using electro-optic phase modulators and narrow-band frequency filters, thereby leading to two-photon interference patterns in the frequency domain. Here we introduce new theoretical and experimental developments showing that this method is potentially a competitive platform for the realization of quantum communication protocols in standard telecommunication fibres. We derive a simple theoretical expression for the coincidence probabilities and use it to optimize a Bell inequality. Furthermore, we establish an equivalence between the entangled- photon scheme and a classical interference scheme. Our measurements of two-photon interference in the frequency domain yield raw visibilities in excess of 99%. We use our high quality setup to experimentally validate the theoretical predictions, and in particular we report a violation of the CH74 inequality by more than 18 standard deviations.

id: 1107.5526
title: Quantum and Classical Chirps in an Anharmonic Oscillator
authors: Yoni Shalibo, Ya'ara Rofe, Ido Barth, Lazar Friedland, Radoslaw Bialczack, John M. Martinis, Nadav Katz
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. Supplementary material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5526
abstract: We measure the state dynamics of a tunable anharmonic quantum system, the Josephson phase circuit, under the excitation of a frequency-chirped drive. At small anharmonicity, the state evolves like a wavepacket - a characteristic response in classical oscillators; in this regime we report exponentially enhanced lifetimes of highly excited states, held by the drive. At large anharmonicity, we observe sharp steps, corresponding to the excitation of discrete energy levels. The continuous transition between the two regimes is mapped by measuring the threshold of these two effects.

id: 1107.5545
title: Entanglement-assisted tomography of a quantum target
authors: A. De Pasquale, P. Facchi, V. Giovannetti, K. Yuasa
comments: 22 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 105309
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5545
abstract: We study the efficiency of quantum tomographic reconstruction where the system under investigation (quantum target) is indirectly monitored by looking at the state of a quantum probe that has been scattered off the target. In particular we focus on the state tomography of a qubit through a one-dimensional scattering of a probe qubit, with a Heisenberg-type interaction. Via direct evaluation of the associated quantum Cram\'{e}r-Rao bounds, we compare the accuracy efficiency that one can get by adopting entanglement-assisted strategies with that achievable when entanglement resources are not available. Even though sub-shot noise accuracy levels are not attainable, we show that quantum correlations play a significant role in the estimation. A comparison with the accuracy levels obtainable by direct estimation (not through a probe) of the quantum target is also performed.

id: 1107.5557
title: On-chip, photon-number-resolving, telecom-band detectors for scalable photonic information processing
authors: Thomas Gerrits, Nicholas Thomas-Peter, James C. Gates, Adriana E. Lita, Benjamin J. Metcalf, Brice Calkins, Nathan A. Tomlin, Anna E. Fox, Ant¨ªa Lamas Linares, Justin B. Spring, Nathan K. Langford, Richard P. Mirin, Peter G. R. Smith, Ian A. Walmsley, Sae Woo Nam
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 060301(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5557
abstract: Integration is currently the only feasible route towards scalable photonic quantum processing devices that are sufficiently complex to be genuinely useful in computing, metrology, and simulation. Embedded on-chip detection will be critical to such devices. We demonstrate an integrated photon-number resolving detector, operating in the telecom band at 1550 nm, employing an evanescently coupled design that allows it to be placed at arbitrary locations within a planar circuit. Up to 5 photons are resolved in the guided optical mode via absorption from the evanescent field into a tungsten transition-edge sensor. The detection efficiency is 7.2 \pm 0.5 %. The polarization sensitivity of the detector is also demonstrated. Detailed modeling of device designs shows a clear and feasible route to reaching high detection efficiencies.

id: 1107.5609
title: Ponderomotive light squeezing with atomic cavity optomechanics
authors: Daniel W. C. Brooks, Thierry Botter, Nathan Brahms, Thomas P. Purdy, Sydney Schreppler, Dan M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5609
abstract: Accessing distinctly quantum aspects of the interaction between light and the position of a mechanical object has been an outstanding challenge to cavity-optomechanical systems. Only cold-atom implementations of cavity optomechanics have indicated effects of the quantum fluctuations in the optical radiation pressure force. Here we use such a system, in which quantum photon-number fluctuations significantly drive the center of mass of an atomic ensemble inside a Fabry-Perot cavity. We show that the optomechanical response both amplifies and ponderomotively squeezes the quantum light field. We also demonstrate that classical optical fluctuations can be attenuated by 26 dB or amplified by 20 dB with a weak input pump power of < 40 pW, and characterize the optomechanical amplifier's frequency-dependent gain and phase response in both the amplitude and phase-modulation quadratures.

id: 1107.5635
title: SU(2)- and SU(1,1)-squeezing of interacting radiation modes
authors: M. Sebawe Abdalla, Faisal A. A. El-Orany, J. Perina
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Act. Phys. Slovaca 50 (2000) 613-623
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5635
abstract: In this communication we discuss SU(1,1)- and SU(2)-squeezing of an interacting system of radiation modes in a quadratic medium in the framework of Lie algebra. We show that regardless of which state being initially considered, squeezing can be periodically generated.

id: 1107.5643
title: Filtering of matter wave vibrational states via spatial adiabatic passage
authors: Yu. Loiko, V. Ahufinger, R. Corbal¨¢n, G. Birkl, J. Mompart
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 033629 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5643
abstract: We discuss the filtering of the vibrational states of a cold atom in an optical trap, by chaining this trap with two empty ones and controlling adiabatically the tunneling. Matter wave filtering is performed by selectively transferring the population of the highest populated vibrational state to the most distant trap while the population of the rest of the states remains in the initial trap. Analytical conditions for two-state filtering are derived and then applied to an arbitrary number of populated bound states. Realistic numerical simulations close to state-of-the-art experimental arrangements are performed by modeling the triple well with time dependent P\"oschl-Teller potentials. In addition to filtering of vibrational states, we discuss applications for quantum tomography of the initial population distribution and engineering of atomic Fock states that, eventually, could be used for tunneling assisted evaporative cooling.

id: 1107.5670
title: Creating quantum discord through local generalized amplitude damping
authors: Jianwei Xu
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5670
abstract: We show that two qubits initially in completely classical state can create quantum discord through a local generalized amplitude damping channel, but high temperature will impede the creating of quantum discord.

id: 1107.5675
title: Mathematical Modeling of Finite Quantum Systems
authors: Vladimir V. Kornyak
comments: 15 pages, talk at the conference "Mathematical Modeling and Computational Physics" Stara Lesna, High Tatra Mountains, Slovakia, July 4 - 8, 2011; v.2, some refinements of text
journal: LNCS 7125, pp. 79-93, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5675
abstract: We consider the problem of quantum behavior in the finite background. Introduction of continuum or other infinities into physics leads only to technical complications without any need for them in description of empirical observations. The finite approach makes the problem constructive and more tractable. We argue that quantum behavior is a natural consequence of symmetries of dynamical systems. It is a result of fundamental impossibility to trace identity of indistinguishable objects in their evolution - only information about invariant combinations of such objects is available. We demonstrate that any quantum dynamics can be embedded into a simple permutation dynamics. Quantum phenomena, such as interferences, arise in invariant subspaces of permutation representations of the symmetry group of a system. Observable quantities can be expressed in terms of the permutation invariants.

id: 1107.5692
title: Robustness of different indicators of quantumness in the presence of dissipation
authors: Gian Luca Giorgi, Fernando Galve, Roberta Zambrini
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information 9, 1825-1836 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5692
abstract: The dynamics of a pair of coupled harmonic oscillators in separate or common thermal environments is studied, focusing on different indicators of quantumness, such as entanglement, twin oscillators correlations and quantum discord. We compare their decay under the effect of dissipation and show, through a phase diagram, that entanglement is more likely to survive asymptotically than twin oscillators correlations.

id: 1107.5716
title: Multiple quantum NMR dynamics in a gas of spin-carrying molecules in fluctuating nanopores
authors: E.B.Fel'dman, A.I.Zenchuk
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Chemical Physics V. 390, pp. 20-24 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5716
abstract: The effect of Gaussian fluctuations of nanopores filled with a gas of spin-carrying molecules ($s=1/2$) on the multiple quantum (MQ) NMR dynamics is investigated at different variances and correlation times of the fluctuations. We show that the fluctuations smooth out the evolution of MQ NMR coherence intensities which rapidly oscillate as functions of time in the absence of fluctuations. The growth and decay of the MQ coherence clusters in the fluctuating nanopore are also investigated.

id: 1107.5748
title: Quantum Simulation of the Ultrastrong Coupling Dynamics in Circuit QED
authors: D. Ballester, G. Romero, J. J. Garc¨ªa-Ripoll, F. Deppe, E. Solano
comments: Final version published in PRX
journal: Phys. Rev. X 2, 021007 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5748
abstract: We propose a method to get experimental access to the physics of the ultrastrong (USC) and deep strong (DSC) coupling regimes of light-matter interaction through the quantum simulation of their dynamics in standard circuit QED. The method makes use of a two-tone driving scheme, using state-of-the-art circuit-QED technology, and can be easily extended to general cavity-QED setups. We provide examples of USC/DSC quantum effects that would be otherwise unaccessible.

id: 1107.5754
title: Experimental demonstration of counterfactual quantum communication
authors: Yang Liu, Lei Ju, Xiao-Lei Liang, Shi-Biao Tang, Guo-Liang Shen Tu, Lei Zhou, Cheng-Zhi Peng, Kai Chen, Teng-Yun Chen, Zeng-Bing Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 109 (2012) 030501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5754
abstract: Based on principle of quantum mechanics, quantum cryptography provides an intriguing way to establish secret keys between remote parties, generally relying on actual transmission of signal particles. Surprisingly, an even more striking method is recently proposed by Noh named as `counterfactual quantum cryptography' enabling key distribution, in which particles carrying secret information are seemly not being transmitted through quantum channel. We experimentally give here a faithful implementation by following the scheme with an on-table realization. Furthermore, we report an illustration on a 1 km fiber operating at telecom wavelength to verify its feasibility for extending to long distance. For both cases, high visibilities of better than 98% are maintained with active stabilization of interferometers, while a quantum bit error rate around 5.5% is attained after 1 km channel.

id: 1107.5768
title: Enhanced four-wave mixing via crossover resonance in cesium vapor
authors: T. Passerat de Silans, C. S. L. Goncalves, D. Felinto, J. W. R. Tabosa
comments: Accepted for publication in JOSA B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5768
abstract: We report on the observation of enhanced four-wave mixing via crossover resonance in a Doppler broadened cesium vapor. Using a single laser frequency, a resonant parametric process in a double-$\Lambda$ level configuration is directly excited for a specific velocity class. We investigate this process in different saturation regimes and demonstrate the possibility of generating intensity correlation and anti-correlation between the probe and conjugate beams. A simple theoretical model is developed that accounts qualitatively well to the observed results.

id: 1107.5791
title: Star-Trek Teleportation: A Possibility?
authors: Kiang Wei Kho
comments: 24 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5791
abstract: This paper describes a scheme, through which the quantum information as well as the structural information of a time-reversal invariant system can be teleported over a distance. I show that my teleportation scheme can be viewed as a form of reversible purification process by repeated interactions with an auxiliary quantum system.

id: 1107.5828
title: Aharon-Vaidman quantum game with a Young-type photonic qutrit
authors: Piotr Kolenderski, Urbasi Sinha, Li Youning, Tong Zhao, Matthew Volpini, Adan Cabello, Raymond Laflamme, Thomas Jennewein
comments: Text and figures updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012321 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5828
abstract: The Aharon-Vaidman (AV) game exemplifies the advantage of using simple quantum systems to outperform classical strategies. We present an experimental test of this advantage by using a three-state quantum system (qutrit) encoded in a spatial mode of a single photon passing through three slits. The preparation of a particular state is controlled as the photon propagates through the slits by varying the number of open slits and their respective phases. The measurements are achieved by placing detectors in the specific positions in the near and far fields after the slits. This set of tools allowed us to perform tomographic reconstructions of generalized qutrit states, and to implement the quantum version of the AV game with compelling evidence of the quantum advantage.

id: 1107.5836
title: A derivation of the Breit equation from Barut's covariant formulation of electrodynamics in terms of direct interactions
authors: Domingo J. Louis-Martinez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5836
abstract: We study Barut's covariant equations describing the electromagnetic interactions between N spin-1/2 particles. In the covariant formulation each particle is described by a Dirac spinor. It is assumed that the interactions between the particles are not mediated by a bosonic field (direct interactions). Within this formulation, using the Lagrangian formalism, we derive the approximate (semirelativistic) Breit equation for two interacting spin-1/2 particles.

id: 1107.5839
title: Geometry in the entanglement dynamics of the double Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: A. R. Vieira, J. G. G. de Oliveira Junior, J. G. Peixoto de Faria, M. C. Nemes
comments: 11 pages, 21 figures. Brazilian Journal of Physics (2014)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5839
abstract: We report on the geometric character of the entanglement dynamics of to pairs of qubits evolving according to the double Jaynes-Cummings model. We show that the entanglement dynamics for the initial states |{\psi}_0> = Cos{\alpha} |1 0> + Sin{\alpha} |0 1> and |{\phi}_0> = Cos{\alpha} |1 1> + Sin{\alpha} |0 0> cover 3-dimensional surfaces in the diagram C_ij\timesC_ik\timesC_il, where C_mn stands for the concurrence between the qubits m and n, varying 0\leq{\alpha}\leq{\pi}/2. In the first case projections of the surfaces on a diagram C_ij\timesC_kl are conics. In the second case the curves can be more complex. We relate those conics with a measurable quantity, the {\it predictability}.We also derive inequalities limiting the sum of the squares of the concurrence of every bipartition and show that sudden death of entanglement is intimately connected to the size of the radius of a hyper-sphere.

id: 1107.5846
title: Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics of a two-level atom with modulated fields
authors: U. Pishipati, I. Almakremi, Amitabh Joshi, Juan D. Serna
comments: REVTeX, 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Am. J. Phys. 80 (2012) 612-620
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5846
abstract: We studied the interaction of a two-level atom with a frequency modulated cavity mode in an ideal optical cavity. The system, described by a Jaynes-Cumming Hamiltonian, gave rise to a set of stiff nonlinear first order equations solved numerically using implicit and semi-implicit numerical algorithms. We explored the evolution of the atomic system using nonlinear dynamics tools, like time series, phase plane, power spectral density, and Poincar\'{e} sections plots, for monochromatic and bichromatic modulations of the cavity field. The system showed quasiperiodic and possibly chaotic behavior when the selected monochromatic frequencies, or ratio of the bichromatic frequencies were irrational (incommensurate) numbers. In addition, when the modulated frequencies were overtones of the Rabi frequency of the system, a single dominant frequency emerged for the system.

id: 1107.5849
title: Towards a Formulation of Quantum Theory as a Causally Neutral Theory of Bayesian Inference
authors: M. S. Leifer, R. W. Spekkens
comments: v1 43 pages, revTeX4. v2 42 pages, edited for clarity, added references and corrected minor errors, submitted to Phys. Rev. A. v3 41 pages, improved figures, added two new figures, added extra explanation in response to referee comments, minor rewrites for readability. v4 44 pages, added "towards" to title, rewritten abstract, rewritten introduction with new tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052130 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5849
abstract: Quantum theory can be viewed as a generalization of classical probability theory, but the analogy as it has been developed so far is not complete. Whereas the manner in which inferences are made in classical probability theory is independent of the causal relation that holds between the conditioned variable and the conditioning variable, in the conventional quantum formalism, there is a significant difference between how one treats experiments involving two systems at a single time and those involving a single system at two times. In this article, we develop the formalism of quantum conditional states, which provides a unified description of these two sorts of experiment. In addition, concepts that are distinct in the conventional formalism become unified: channels, sets of states, and positive operator valued measures are all seen to be instances of conditional states; the action of a channel on a state, ensemble averaging, the Born rule, the composition of channels, and nonselective state-update rules are all seen to be instances of belief propagation. Using a quantum generalization of Bayes' theorem and the associated notion of Bayesian conditioning, we also show that the remote steering of quantum states can be described within our formalism as a mere updating of beliefs about one system given new information about another, and retrodictive inferences can be expressed using the same belief propagation rule as is used for predictive inferences. Finally, we show that previous arguments for interpreting the projection postulate as a quantum generalization of Bayesian conditioning are based on a misleading analogy and that it is best understood as a combination of belief propagation (corresponding to the nonselective state-update map) and conditioning on the measurement outcome.

id: 1107.5881
title: Quantum Private Information Retrieval with Sublinear Communication Complexity
authors: Fran?ois Le Gall
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5881
abstract: This note presents a quantum protocol for private information retrieval, in the single-server case and with information-theoretical privacy, that has O(\sqrt{n})-qubit communication complexity, where n denotes the size of the database. In comparison, it is known that any classical protocol must use \Omega(n) bits of communication in this setting.

id: 1107.5905
title: Nonlinear Schrodinger equations with multiple-well potential
authors: Andrea Sacchetti
comments: Accepted on Physica D - Keywords: Nonlinear dynamics, Bifurcation, Semiclassical limit, Bose-Einstein condensates in lattices
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5905
abstract: We consider the stationary solutions for a class of Schrodinger equations with a N-well potential and a nonlinear perturbation. By means of semiclassical techniques we prove that the dominant term of the ground state solutions is described by a N-dimensional Hamiltonian system, where the coupling term among the coordinates is a tridiagonal Toeplitz matrix. In particular we consider the case of N=4 wells, where we show the occurrence of spontaneous symmetry-breaking bifurcation effect. In particular, in the limit of large focusing nonlinearity we prove that the ground state stationary solutions consist of N wavefunctions localized on a single well.

id: 1107.5907
title: Stationary States of Dissipative Quantum Systems
authors: Vasily E. Tarasov
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX
journal: Physics Letters A. Vol.299. No.2-3. (2002) 173-178
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5907
abstract: In this Letter we consider stationary states of dissipative quantum systems. We discuss stationary states of dissipative quantum systems, which coincide with stationary states of Hamiltonian quantum systems. Dissipative quantum systems with pure stationary states of linear harmonic oscillator are suggested. We discuss bifurcations of stationary states for dissipative quantum systems which are quantum analogs of classical dynamical bifurcations.

id: 1107.5929
title: Minimum Uncertainty and Entanglement
authors: N.D. Hari Dass, Tabish Qureshi, Aditi Sheel
comments: Final version, to appear in Int.J.Mod.Phys. B
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, 27, 1350068 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5929
abstract: We address the question, does a system A being entangled with another system B, put any constraints on the Heisenberg uncertainty relation (or the Schrodinger-Robertson inequality)? We find that the equality of the uncertainty relation cannot be reached for any two noncommuting observables, for finite dimensional Hilbert spaces if the Schmidt rank of the entangled state is maximal. One consequence is that the lower bound of the uncertainty relation can never be attained for any two observables for qubits, if the state is entangled. For infinite-dimensional Hilbert space too, we show that there is a class of physically interesting entangled states for which no two noncommuting observables can attain the minimum uncertainty equality.

id: 1107.5931
title: Fidelity spectrum and phase transitions of quantum systems
authors: P. D. Sacramento, N. Paunkovic, V. R. Vieira
comments: 12 figures
journal: Physical Review A 84, 062318 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5931
abstract: Quantum fidelity between two density matrices, $F(\rho_1,\rho_2)$ is usually defined as the trace of the operator ${\cal F}=\sqrt{\sqrt{\rho_1} \rho_2 \sqrt{\rho_1}}$. We study the logarithmic spectrum of this operator, which we denote by {\it fidelity spectrum}, in the cases of the $XX$ spin chain in a magnetic field, a magnetic impurity inserted in a conventional superconductor and a bulk superconductor at finite temperature. When the density matrices are equal, $\rho_1=\rho_2$, the fidelity spectrum reduces to the entanglement spectrum. We find that the fidelity spectrum can be a useful tool in giving a detailed characterization of different phases of many-body quantum systems.

id: 1107.5964
title: Sensitivity of entangled photon holes to loss and amplification
authors: J. D. Franson
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043831 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5964
abstract: Energy-time entangled photon holes are shown to be relatively insensitive to photon loss due to absorption by atoms whose coherence times are longer than the time delays typically employed in nonlocal interferometry (a fraction of a nanosecond). Roughly speaking, the excited atoms do not retain any significant "which-path" information regarding the time at which a photon was absorbed. High-intensity entangled photon holes can also be amplified under similar conditions. Decoherence does occur from losses at beam splitters, and these results show that photon loss cannot always be adequately modeled using a sequence of beam splitters. These properties of entangled photon holes may be useful in quantum communications systems where the range of the system is limited by photon loss.

id: 1107.5982
title: Quantum statistics and dynamics of nonlinear couplers with nonlinear exchange
authors: M. Sebawe Abdalla, Faisal A. A. El-Orany, J. Perina
comments: 32 pages, 10 figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 47 (2000) 1055-1087
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5982
abstract: In this paper we derive the quantum statistical and dynamical properties of nonlinear optical couplers composed of two nonlinear waveguides operating by the second subharmonic generation, which are coupled linearly through evanescent waves and nonlinearly through nondegenerate optical parametric interaction. Main attention is paid to generation and transmission of nonclassical light, based on a discussion of squeezing phenomenon, normalized second-order correlation function, and quasiprobability distribution functions. Initially coherent, number and thermal states of optical beams are considered. In particular, results are discussed in dependence on the strength of the nonlinear coupling relatively to the linear coupling. We show that if the Fock state $|1>$ enters the first waveguide and the vacuum state $|0>$ enters the second waveguide, the coupler can serve as a generator of squeezed vacuum state governed by the coupler parameters. Further, if thermal fields enter initially the waveguides the coupler plays similar role as a microwave Josephson-junction parametric amplifier to generate squeezed thermal light.

id: 1107.6029
title: Unifying typical entanglement and coin tossing: on randomization in probabilistic theories
authors: Markus P. M¨¹ller, Oscar C. O. Dahlsten, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 35 pages, 5 figures, (only change for v2 is that 2 references were updated)
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics, Volume 316, Number 2 (2012), 441-48
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.6029
abstract: It is well-known that pure quantum states are typically almost maximally entangled, and thus have close to maximally mixed subsystems. We consider whether this is true for probabilistic theories more generally, and not just for quantum theory. We derive a formula for the expected purity of a subsystem in any probabilistic theory for which this quantity is well-defined. It applies to typical entanglement in pure quantum states, coin tossing in classical probability theory, and randomization in post-quantum theories; a simple generalization yields the typical entanglement in (anti)symmetric quantum subspaces. The formula is exact and simple, only containing the number of degrees of freedom and the information capacity of the respective systems. It allows us to generalize statistical physics arguments in a way which depends only on coarse properties of the underlying theory. The proof of the formula generalizes several randomization notions to general probabilistic theories. This includes a generalization of purity, contributing to the recent effort of finding appropriate generalized entropy measures.

id: 1107.6030
title: Casimir Force for Absorbing Media in an Open Quantum System Framework: Scalar Model
authors: Fernando C. Lombardo, Francisco D. Mazzitelli, Adrian E. Rubio Lopez
comments: Minor changes, version to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.6030
abstract: In this article we compute the Casimir force between two finite-width mirrors at finite temperature, working in a simplified model in 1+1 dimensions. The mirrors, considered as dissipative media, are modeled by a continuous set of harmonic oscillators which in turn are coupled to an external environment at thermal equilibrium. The calculation of the Casimir force is performed in the framework of the theory of quantum open systems. It is shown that the Casimir interaction has two different contributions: the usual radiation pressure from vacuum, which is obtained for ideal mirrors without dissipation or losses, and a Langevin force associated with the noise induced by the interaction between dielectric atoms in the slabs and the thermal bath. Both contributions to the Casimir force are needed in order to reproduce the analogous of Lifshitz formula in 1+1 dimensions. We also discuss the relation between the electromagnetic properties of the mirrors and the spectral density of the environment

id: 1107.6035
title: Subsystem dynamics under random Hamiltonian evolution
authors: Vinayak, Marko Znidaric
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures; v3: slightly re-structured and an additional appendix
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 125204 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.6035
abstract: We study time evolution of a subsystem's density matrix under unitary evolution, generated by a sufficiently complex, say quantum chaotic, Hamiltonian, modeled by a random matrix. We exactly calculate all coherences, purity and fluctuations. We show that the reduced density matrix can be described in terms of a noncentral correlated Wishart ensemble for which we are able to perform analytical calculations of the eigenvalue density. Our description accounts for a transition from an arbitrary initial state towards a random state at large times, enabling us to determine the convergence time after which random states are reached. We identify and describe a number of other interesting features, like a series of collisions between the largest eigenvalue and the bulk, accompanied by a phase transition in its distribution function.

id: 1107.0073
title: SLUG Microwave Amplifier: Theory
authors: G. J. Ribeill, D. Hover, Y.-F. Chen, S. Zhu, R. McDermott
comments: 15 pages, 23 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0073
abstract: We describe a novel scheme for low-noise phase-insensitive linear amplification at microwave frequencies based on the Superconducting Low-inductance Undulatory Galvanometer (SLUG). Direct integration of the junction equations of motion provides access to the full scattering matrix of the SLUG. We discuss the optimization of SLUG amplifiers and calculate amplifier gain and noise temperature in both the thermal and quantum regimes. Loading of the SLUG element by the finite input admittance is taken into account, and strategies for decoupling the SLUG from the higher-order modes of the input circuit are discussed. The microwave SLUG amplifier is expected to achieve noise performance approaching the standard quantum limit in the frequency range from 5-10 GHz, with gain around 15 dB for a single-stage device and instantaneous bandwidths of order 1 GHz.

id: 1107.0143
title: Fate of Dirac Points in a Vortex Superlattice
authors: M. Kamfor, S. Dusuel, K. P. Schmidt, J. Vidal
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 153404 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0143
abstract: We consider noninteracting fermions on the honeycomb lattice in the presence of a magnetic vortex superlattice. It is shown that depending on the superlattice periodicity, a gap may open at zero energy. We derive an expression of the gap in the small-flux limit but the main qualitative features are found to be valid for arbitrary fluxes. This study provides an original example of a metal-insulator transition induced by a strongly modulated magnetic field in graphene. At the same time our results directly apply to Kitaev's honeycomb model in a vortex superlattice.

id: 1107.0149
title: Deformable two-dimensional photonic crystal slab for cavity optomechanics
authors: T. Antoni, A. G. Kuhn, T. Briant, P.-F. Cohadon, A. Heidmann, R. Braive, A. Beveratos, I. Abram, L. Le Gatiet, I. Sagnes, I. Robert-Philip
comments: 
journal: Optics Letters 36, 17 (2011) 3434
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0149
abstract: We have designed photonic crystal suspended membranes with optimized optical and mechanical properties for cavity optomechanics. Such resonators sustain vibration modes in the megahertz range with quality factors of a few thousand. Thanks to a two-dimensional square lattice of holes, their reflectivity at normal incidence at 1064 nm reaches values as high as 95%. These two features, combined with the very low mass of the membrane, open the way to the use of such periodic structures as deformable end-mirrors in Fabry-Perot cavities for the investigation of cavity optomechanical effects

id: 1107.0215
title: Scaling of quantum Zeno dynamics in thermodynamic systems
authors: Wing Chi Yu, Li-Gang Wang, Shi-Jian Gu, Hai-Qing Lin
comments: 8 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0215
abstract: We study the quantum Zeno effect (QZE) in two many-body systems, namely the one-dimensional transverse-field Ising model and the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick (LMG) model, coupled to a central qubit. Our result shows that in order to observe QZE in the Ising model, the frequency of the projective measurement should be of comparable order to that of the system sizes. The same criterion also holds in the symmetry broken phase of the LMG model while in the model's polarized phase, the QZE can be easily observed.

id: 1107.0244
title: Negative index of refraction in a four-level system with magnetoelectric cross coupling and local field corrections
authors: F. Bello
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, Conferencia Espa\~nola de Nanofotonica (CEN), Segovia, Spain 2010
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0244
abstract: This research focuses on a coherently driven four-level atomic medium with the aim of inducing a negative index of refraction while taking into consideration local field corrections as well as magnetoelectric cross coupling, i.e. chirality, within the material's response functions. Two control fields are used to render the medium transparent for a probe field which simultaenously couples to an electric and a magnetic dipole transition, thus allowing one to test the permittivity and permeability of the material at the same time. Numerical simulations show that a negative index of refraction with low absorption can be obtained for a range of probe detunings while depending on number density and the ratio between the intensities of the control fields.

id: 1107.0273
title: Semiclassical Description of Relativistic Spin without use of Grassmann variables and the Dirac equation
authors: A. A. Deriglazov
comments: 16 pages, misprints corrected
journal: Annals of Physics, 327 (2012) 398-406
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0273
abstract: We propose a relativistic particle model without Grassmann variables which, being canonically quantized, leads to the Dirac equation. Both $\Gamma$\,-matrices and the relativistic spin tensor are produced through the canonical quantization of the classical variables which parametrize the properly constructed relativistic spin surface. Although there is no mass-shell constraint in our model, our particle's speed cannot exceed the speed of light. The classical dynamics of the model is in correspondence with the dynamics of mean values of the corresponding operators in the Dirac theory. In particular, the position variable experiences {\it Zitterbewegung} in noninteracting theory. The classical equations for the spin tensor are the same as those of the Barut-Zanghi model of a spinning particle.

id: 1107.0288
title: Decay rates for topological memories encoded with Majorana fermions
authors: Garry Goldstein, Claudio Chamon
comments: 27 pages, 5 figures, V2 some typos corrected and minor clarifications, V3: Some clarifications, accepted to PRB, V4 some corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 205109 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0288
abstract: Recently there have been numerous proposals to create Majorana zero modes in solid state heterojunctions, superconducting wires and optical lattices. Putatively the information stored in qubits constructed from these modes is protected from various forms of decoherence. Here we show that this is not the case. We present a generic method to study the effect of external perturbations on these modes. We focus on the case where there are no interactions between different Majorana modes either directly or through intermediary fermions. To quantify the rate of loss of the information stored in the Majorana modes we study the two-time correlators for qubits built from them. We analyze a generic gapped fermionic environment (bath) interacting via tunneling with different components of the qubit (different Majorana modes). We find that static (time-independent) perturbations are not harmful, and just lead to a depletion of the information stored that saturates in the long-time limit. On the other hand we find markedly different results for dynamic (time dependent) systems, with no coherence surviving in the long time limit. In particular we find that dephasing and energy fluctuations of the modes in the fermionic bath have adverse effects on the Majorana memories.

id: 1107.0289
title: Smearing Formulas for Density Matrices
authors: Michael Bachmann, Hagen Kleinert, Axel Pelster
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, Conference "Path Integrals from peV to TeV: 50 Years after Feynman's Paper", Florence, Italy (1998)
journal: Proceedings of the Conference "Path Integrals from peV to TeV: 50 Years after Feynman's Paper", (World Scientific, Singapore, 1999), pp. 489-492
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0289
abstract: We report on the development of a systematic variational perturbation theory for the euclidean path integral representation of the density matrix based on new smearing formulas for harmonic correlation functions. As a first application, we present the lowest-order approximation for the radial distribution function of an electron in a hydrogen atom.

id: 1107.0397
title: The Hidden Landscape of Localization
authors: Marcel Filoche, Svitlana Mayboroda
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0397
abstract: Wave localization occurs in all types of vibrating systems, in acoustics, mechanics, optics, or quantum physics. It arises either in systems of irregular geometry (weak localization) or in disordered systems (Anderson localization). We present here a general theory that explains how the system geometry and the wave operator interplay to give rise to a "landscape" that splits the system into weakly coupled subregions, and how these regions shape the spatial distribution of the vibrational eigenmodes. This theory holds in any dimension, for any domain shape, and for all operators deriving from an energy form. It encompasses both weak and Anderson localizations in the same mathematical frame and shows, in particular, that Anderson localization can be understood as a special case of weak localization in a very rough landscape.

id: 1107.0426
title: Theory of pseudogap and superconductivity in doped Mott insulators
authors: Masatoshi Imada, Youhei Yamaji, Shiro Sakai, Yukitoshi Motome
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Annalen der Physik 523 (2011) 629-637
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0426
abstract: Underdoped Mott insulators provide us with a challenge of many-body physics. Recent renewed understanding is discussed in terms of the evolution of pole and zero structure of the single-particle Green's function. Pseudogap as well as Fermi arc/pocket structure in the underdoped cuprates is well reproduced from the recent cluster extension of the dynamical mean-field theory. Emergent coexisting zeros and poles set the underdoped Mott insulator apart from the Fermi liquid, separated by topological transitions. Cofermion proposed as a generalization of exciton in the slave-boson framework accounts for the origin of the zero surface formation. The cofermion-quasiparticle hybridization gap offers a natural understanding of the pseudogap and various unusual Mottness. Furthermore the cofermion offers a novel pairing mechanism, where the cofermion has two roles: It reinforces the Cooper pair as a pair partner of the quasiparticle and acts as a glue as well. It provides a strong insight for solving the puzzle found in the dichotomy of the gap structure.

id: 1107.0485
title: Brownian motion in superfluid $^4$He
authors: Xiao Li, Ran Cheng, Tongcang Li, Qian Niu
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0485
abstract: We propose to study the Brownian motion of a classical microsphere submerged in superfluid $^4$He using the recent laser technology as a direct investigation of the thermal fluctuations of quasiparticles in the quantum fluid. By calculating the temperature dependence of both the friction coefficient and the strength of the random force, we show that the resonant mode of the fluctuational motion can be fully resolved by the present technology. Contrary to the previous work, it is found that the roton contribution is not negligible, and it even becomes dominant when the temperature is above 0.76\,K.

id: 1107.0501
title: PT symmetry in relativistic quantum mechanics
authors: Carl M. Bender, Philip D. Mannheim
comments: 18 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0501
abstract: In nonrelativistic quantum mechanics and in relativistic quantum field theory, time t is a parameter and thus the time-reversal operator T does not actually reverse the sign of t. However, in relativistic quantum mechanics the time coordinate t and the space coordinates x are treated on an equal footing and all are operators. In this paper it is shown how to extend PT symmetry from nonrelativistic to relativistic quantum mechanics by implementing time reversal as an operation that changes the sign of the time coordinate operator t. Some illustrative relativistic quantum-mechanical models are constructed whose associated Hamiltonians are non-Hermitian but PT symmetric, and it is shown that for each such Hamiltonian the energy eigenvalues are all real.

id: 1107.0502
title: Diamond particles as nanoantennas for nitrogen-vacancy color centers
authors: J.-J. Greffet, J.-P. Hugonin, M. Besbes, N.D. Lai, F. Treussart, J.-F. Roch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0502
abstract: The photoluminescence of nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond nanoparticles exhibits specific properties as compared to NV centers in bulk diamond. For instance large fluctuations of lifetime and brightness from particle to particle have been reported. It has also been observed that for nanocrystals much smaller than the mean luminescence wavelength, the particle size sets a lower threshold for resolution in Stimulated Emission Depletion (STED) microscopy. We show that all these features can be quantitatively understood by realizing that the absorption-emission of light by the NV center is mediated by the diamond nanoparticle which behaves as a dielectric nanoantenna.

id: 1107.0584
title: Exploring qubit-qubit entanglement mediated by one-dimensional plasmonic nanowaveguides
authors: A. Gonzalez-Tudela, D. Martin-Cano, E. Moreno, L. Martin-Moreno, F.J. Garcia-Vidal, C. Tejedor
comments: 6 pages. Conference Proceedings PLMCN11
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0584
abstract: We exploit the qubit-qubit coupling induced by plasmon-polariton modes in a one-dimensional nanowaveguide to obtain various two-qubit entanglement situations. Firstly, we observe three phenomena occurring when preparing the initial state of the system and leaving it freely relax: spontaneous formation of entanglement, sudden birth and revival. Then, we show that plugging a laser to each of the qubit, the system arrives to an steady state which, depending on their inter-qubit distance, can also be entangled. For this situation, we also characterize the quantum state of the system showing the entanglement-purity- diagram typical for two-qubit systems.

id: 1107.0750
title: Probing mechanical quantum coherence with an ultracold-atom probe
authors: N. Lo Gullo, Th. Busch, G. M. Palma, M. Paternostro
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 063815 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0750
abstract: We propose a scheme to probe quantum coherence in the state of a nano-cantilever based on its magnetic coupling (mediated by a magnetic tip) with a spinor Bose Einstein condensate (BEC). By mapping the BEC into a rotor, its coupling with the cantilever results in a gyroscopic motion whose properties depend on the state of the cantilever: the dynamics of one of the components of the rotor angular momentum turns out to be strictly related to the presence of quantum coherence in the state of the cantilever. We also suggest a detection scheme relying on Faraday rotation, which produces only a very small back-action on the BEC and it is thus suitable for a continuous detection of the cantilever's dynamics.

id: 1107.0810
title: Selection rules in a strongly coupled qubit-resonator system
authors: T. Niemczyk, F. Deppe, E. P. Menzel, M. J. Schwarz, H. Huebl, F. Hocke, M. H?berlein, M. Danner, E. Hoffmann, A. Baust, E. Solano, J. J. Garcia-Ripoll, A. Marx, R. Gross
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0810
abstract: Superconducting qubits acting as artificial two-level atoms allow for controlled variation of the symmetry properties which govern the selection rules for single and multiphoton excitation. We spectroscopically analyze a superconducting qubit-resonator system in the strong coupling regime under one- and two-photon driving. Our results provide clear experimental evidence for the controlled transition from an operating point governed by dipolar selection rules to a regime where one- and two-photon excitations of the artificial atom coexist. We find that the vacuum coupling between qubit and resonator can be straightforwardly extracted from the two-photon spectra where the detuned two-photon drive does not populate the relevant resonator mode significantly.

id: 1107.0818
title: Modifying molecule-surface scattering by ultrashort laser pulses
authors: Yuri Khodorkovsky, J. R. Manson, Ilya Sh. Averbukh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0818
abstract: In recent years it became possible to align molecules in free space using ultrashort laser pulses. Here we explore two schemes for controlling molecule-surface scattering process, which are based on the laser-induced molecular alignment. In the first scheme, a single ultrashort non-resonant laser pulse is applied to a molecular beam hitting the surface. This pulse modifies the angular distribution of the incident molecules, and causes the scattered molecules to rotate with a preferred sense of rotation (clockwise or counter-clockwise). In the second scheme, two properly delayed laser pulses are applied to a molecular beam composed of two chemically close molecular species (isotopes, or nuclear spin isomers). As the result of the double pulse excitation, these species are selectively scattered to different angles after the collision with the surface. These effects may provide new means for the analysis and separation of molecular mixtures.

id: 1107.0952
title: Thermal diffractive corrections to Casimir energies
authors: Daniel Kabat, Dimitra Karabali
comments: 31 pages, 7 figures, LaTeX. v2: minor typos fixed, version to appear in PRD
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0952
abstract: We study the interplay of thermal and diffractive effects in Casimir energies. We consider plates with edges, oriented either parallel or perpendicular to each other, as well as a single plate with a slit. We compute the Casimir energy at finite temperature using a formalism in which the diffractive effects are encoded in a lower dimensional non-local field theory that lives in the gap between the plates. The formalism allows for a clean separation between direct or geometric effects and diffractive effects, and makes an analytic derivation of the temperature dependence of the free energy possible. At low temperatures, with Dirichlet boundary conditions on the plates, we find that diffractive effects make a correction to the free energy which scales as T^6 for perpendicular plates, as T^4 for slits, and as T^4 log T for parallel plates.

id: 1107.0953
title: Generation of two identical photons from a quantum dot in a microcavity
authors: E. del Valle, A. Gonzalez-Tudela, E. Cancellieri, F. P. Laussy, C. Tejedor
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 113014 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0953
abstract: We propose and characterize a two-photon emitter in a highly polarised, monochromatic and directional beam, realized by means of a quantum dot embedded in a linearly polarized cavity. In our scheme, the cavity frequency is tuned to half the frequency of the biexciton (two excitons with opposite spins) and largely detuned from the excitons thanks to the large biexciton binding energy. We show how the emission can be Purcell enhanced by several orders of magnitude into the two-photon channel for available experimental systems.

id: 1107.1021
title: Optogalvanic Spectroscopy of Metastable States in Yb^{+}
authors: M. J. Petrasiunas, E. W. Streed, T. J. Weinhold, B. G. Norton, D. Kielpinski
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1021
abstract: The metastable ^{2}F_{7/2} and ^{2}D_{3/2} states of Yb^{+} are of interest for applications in metrology and quantum information and also act as dark states in laser cooling. These metastable states are commonly repumped to the ground state via the 638.6 nm ^{2}F_{7/2} -- ^{1}D[5/2]_{5/2} and 935.2 nm ^{2}D_{3/2} -- ^{3}D[3/2]_{1/2} transitions. We have performed optogalvanic spectroscopy of these transitions in Yb^{+} ions generated in a discharge. We measure the pressure broadening coefficient for the 638.6 nm transition to be 70 \pm 10 MHz mbar^{-1}. We place an upper bound of 375 MHz/nucleon on the 638.6 nm isotope splitting and show that our observations are consistent with theory for the hyperfine splitting. Our measurements of the 935.2 nm transition extend those made by Sugiyama et al, showing well-resolved isotope and hyperfine splitting. We obtain high signal to noise, sufficient for laser stabilisation applications.

id: 1107.1044
title: Thermodynamic limits of dynamic cooling
authors: Armen E. Allahverdyan, Karen V. Hovhannisyan, Dominik Janzing, Guenter Mahler
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures; submitted to PRE
journal: Phys. Rev. E 84, 041109 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1044
abstract: We study dynamic cooling, where an externally driven two-level system is cooled via reservoir, a quantum system with initial canonical equilibrium state. We obtain explicitly the minimal possible temperature $T_{\rm min}>0$ reachable for the two-level system. The minimization goes over all unitary dynamic processes operating on the system and reservoir, and over the reservoir energy spectrum. The minimal work needed to reach $T_{\rm min}$ grows as $1/T_{\rm min}$. This work cost can be significantly reduced, though, if one is satisfied by temperatures slightly above $T_{\rm min}$. Our results on $T_{\rm min}>0$ prove unattainability of the absolute zero temperature without ambiguities that surround its derivation from the entropic version of the third law. The unattainability can be recovered, albeit via a different mechanism, for cooling by a reservoir with an initially microcanonic state. We also study cooling via a reservoir consisting of $N\gg 1$ identical spins. Here we show that $T_{\rm min}\propto\frac{1}{N}$ and find the maximal cooling compatible with the minimal work determined by the free energy.

id: 1107.1046
title: Memory in the Photon Statistics of Multilevel Quantum Systems
authors: Felipe Caycedo-Soler, Ferney J. Rodriguez, Gert Zumofen
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 053813 (2008)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1046
abstract: The statistics of photons emitted by single multilevel systems is investigated with emphasis on the nonrenewal characteristics of the photon-arrival times. We consider the correlation between consecutive interphoton times and present closed form expressions for the corresponding multiple moment analysis. Based on the moments a memory measure is proposed which provides an easy way of gaging the non-renewal statistics. Monte-Carlo simulations demonstrate that the experimental verification of non-renewal statistics is feasible.

id: 1107.1047
title: Induced Metric And Matrix Inequalities On Unitary Matrices
authors: H. F. Chau, C.-K. Li, Y.-T. Poon, N.-S. Sze
comments: 6 pages, extensively rewritten with an earlier error fixed. It generalizes and simplifies the mathematical results concerning certain matrix inequalities originally reported in arXiv:1006.3614v1. To appear in J.Phys.A
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, Vol 45, 095201 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1047
abstract: Recently, Chau [Quant. Inform. & Comp. 11, 721 (2011)] showed that one can define certain metrics and pseudo-metrics on U(n), the group of all $n\times n$ unitary matrices, based on the arguments of the eigenvalues of the unitary matrices. More importantly, these metrics and pseudo-metrics have quantum information theoretical meanings. So it is instructive to study this kind of metrics and pseudo-metrics on U(n). Here we show that any symmetric norm on ${\mathbb R}^n$ induces a metric on U(n). Furthermore, using the same technique, we prove an inequality concerning the eigenvalues of a product of two unitary matrices which generalizes a few inequalities obtained earlier by Chau [arXiv:1006.3614v1].

id: 1107.1064
title: Absence of topological insulator phases in non-Hermitian PT-symmetric Hamiltonians
authors: Yi Chen Hu, Taylor L. Hughes
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 153101 (2011)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1064
abstract: In this work we consider a generalization of the symmetry classification of topological insulators to non-Hermitian Hamiltonians which satisfy a combined $PT$-symmetry (parity and time-reversal). We show via examples, and explicit bulk and boundary state proofs that the typical paradigm of forming topological insulator states from Dirac Hamiltonians is not compatible with the construction of non-Hermitian $PT$-symmetric Hamiltonians. The topological insulator states are $PT$-breaking phases and have energy spectra which are complex (not real) and thus such non-Hermitian Hamiltonians are not consistent quantum theories.

id: 1107.1141
title: Structure and interactions of ultracold Yb ions and Rb atoms
authors: H. D. L. Lamb, J. F. McCann, B. M. McLaughlin, J. Goold, N. Wells, I. Lane
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, 5 tables
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1141
abstract: In order to study ultracold charge-transfer processes in hybrid atom-ion traps, we have mapped out the potential energy curves and molecular parameters for several low lying states of the Rb, Yb$^+$ system. We employ both a multi-reference configuration interaction (MRCI) and a full configuration interaction (FCI) approach. Turning points, crossing points, potential minima and spectroscopic molecular constants are obtained for the lowest five molecular states. Long-range parameters, including the dispersion coefficients are estimated from our {\it ab initio} data. The separated-atom ionization potentials and atomic polarizability of the ytterbium atom ($\alpha_d=128.4$ atomic units) are in good agreement with experiment and previous calculations. We present some dynamical calculations for (adiabatic) scattering lengths for the two lowest (Yb,Rb$^+$) channels that were carried out in our work. However, we find that the pseudo potential approximation is rather limited in validity, and only applies to nK temperatures. The adiabatic scattering lengths for both the triplet and singlet channels indicate that both are large and negative in the FCI approximation.

id: 1107.1180
title: Complexity measures, emergence, and multiparticle correlations
authors: Tobias Galla, Otfried G¨¹hne
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, accepted by Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 046209 (2012)
subjects: Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1180
abstract: We study correlation measures for complex systems. First, we investigate some recently proposed measures based on information geometry. We show that these measures can increase under local transformations as well as under discarding particles, thereby questioning their interpretation as a quantifier for complexity or correlations. We then propose a refined definition of these measures, investigate its properties and discuss its numerical evaluation. As an example, we study coupled logistic maps and study the behavior of the different measures for that case. Finally, we investigate other local effects during the coarse graining of the complex system.

id: 1107.1274
title: Polarization rotation, reference frames and Mach's principle
authors: Aharon Brodutch, Daniel R. Terno
comments: 4 pages. Final version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 84, 121501(R) (2011)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1274
abstract: Polarization of light rotates in a gravitational field. The accrued phase is operationally meaningful only with respect to a local polarization basis. In stationary space-times, we construct local reference frames that allow us to isolate the Machian gravimagnetic effect from the geodetic (mass) contribution to the rotation. The Machian effect is supplemented by the geometric term that arises from the choice of standard polarizations. The phase accrued along a close trajectory is gauge-independent and is zero in the Schwarzschild space-time. The geometric term may give a dominant contribution to the phase. We calculate polarization rotation for several trajectories and find it to be more significant than is usually believed, pointing to its possible role as a future gravity probe.

id: 1107.1337
title: Markov processes and generalized Schroedinger equations
authors: Andrea Andrisani, Nicola Cufaro Petroni
comments: 33 pages, 2 figures; corrected as required by referee; references added; in press on J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52 (2011) 113509
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1337
abstract: Starting from the forward and backward infinitesimal generators of bilateral, time-homogeneous Markov processes, the self-adjoint Hamiltonians of the generalized Schroedinger equations are first introduced by means of suitable Doob transformations. Then, by broadening with the aid of the Dirichlet forms the results of the Nelson stochastic mechanics, we prove that it is possible to associate bilateral, and time-homogeneous Markov processes to the wave functions stationary solutions of our generalized Schroedinger equations. Particular attention is then paid to the special case of the Levy-Schroedinger equations and to their associated Levy-type Markov processes, and to a few examples of Cauchy background noise.

id: 1107.1389
title: Guiding structures with multiply connected cross-sections: evolution of propagation in external fields at complex Robin parameters
authors: O. Olendski
comments: 37 pages, 9 figures
journal: Annals of Physics, vol. 327,#5, pp.1365 - 1390 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1389
abstract: Properties of the two-dimensional ring and three-dimensional infinitely long straight hollow waveguide with unit width and inner radius $\rho_0$ in the superposition of the longitudinal uniform magnetic field $\bf B$ and Aharonov-Bohm flux are analyzed within the framework of the scalar Helmholtz equation under the assumption that the Robin boundary conditions at the inner and outer confining walls contain extrapolation lengths $\Lambda_{in}$ and $\Lambda_{out}$, respectively, with nonzero imaginary parts. It is shown that, compared to the disk geometry, the annulus opens up additional possibilities of varying magnetization and currents by tuning imaginary components of the Robin parameters on each confining circumference; in particular, the possibility of restoring a lossless longitudinal flux by zeroing imaginary part $E_i$ of the total transverse energy $E$ is discussed. The energy $E$ turns real under special correlation between the imaginary parts of $\Lambda_{in}$ and $\Lambda_{out}$ with the opposite signs what physically corresponds to the equal transverse fluxes through the inner and outer interfaces of the annulus. In the asymptotic case of the very large radius, simple expressions are derived and applied to the analysis of the dependence of the real energy $E$ on $\Lambda_{in}$ and $\Lambda_{out}$. New features also emerge in the magnetic field influence; for example, if, for the quantum disk, the imaginary energy $E_i$ is quenched by the strong intensities $B$, then for the annulus this takes place only when the inner Robin distance $\Lambda_{in}$ is real; otherwise, it almost quadratically depends on $B$ with the corresponding enhancement of the reactive scattering. Closely related problem of the hole in the otherwise uniform medium is also addressed for real and complex extrapolation lengths with the emphasis on the comparative analysis with its dot counterpart.

id: 1107.1587
title: Stationary entanglement in strongly coupled qubits
authors: K. Xia, M. Macovei, J. Evers
comments: 19 pages, 21 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 184510 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1587
abstract: The dynamics of two superconducting flux qubits coupled to each other and to a common bath is discussed. We focus on the case in which the qubit-qubit coupling strength dominates over the respective qubit transition frequencies. We derive the master equation including collective effect by modeling the bath as 1D open space in this ultra-strong coupling regime, and find that the coupling greatly modifies both the coherent and the incoherent dynamics of the system, giving rise to qualitatively different properties. By analyzing the steady-state and the dynamics governed by the master equation, we show that ground state entanglement and maximum coherence between the two qubits can be induced by the environment alone. By employing in addition a single external driving field, both the entangled anti-symmetric and symmetric collective states can be populated and preserved with high fidelity. Similarly, entangled states can be prepared using adiabatic passage techniques using two external fields. Our results could find applications in entangling quantum gates and quantum memories free from the decoherence.

id: 1107.1643
title: Pump-probe coupling of matter wave packets to remote lattice states
authors: Jacob F. Sherson, Sung Jong Park, Poul Pedersen, Nils Winter, Miroslav Gajdacz, Sune Mai, Jan Arlt
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1643
abstract: The coherent manipulation of wave packets is an important tool in many areas of physics. We demonstrate the experimental realization of quasi-free wave packets of ultra-cold atoms bound by an external harmonic trap. The wave packets are produced by modulating the intensity of an optical lattice containing a Bose-Einstein condensate. The evolution of these wave packets is monitored in-situ and their reflection on a band gap is observed. In direct analogy with pump-probe spectroscopy, a probe pulse allows for the resonant de-excitation of the wave packet into localized lattice states at a long, controllable distance of more than 100 lattice sites from the main component. This coherent control mechanism for ultra-cold atoms thus enables controlled quantum state preparation, opening exciting perspectives for quantum metrology and simulation.

id: 1107.1691
title: Minimum-Time Quantum Transport with Bounded Trap Velocity
authors: Dionisis Stefanatos, Jr-Shin Li
comments: 
journal: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control 59 (3), 733 - 738, 2014
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1691
abstract: We formulate the problem of efficient transport of a quantum particle trapped in a harmonic potential which can move with a bounded velocity, as a minimum-time problem on a linear system with bounded input. We completely solve the corresponding optimal control problem and obtain an interesting bang-bang solution. These results are expected to find applications in quantum information processing, where quantum transport between the storage and processing units of a quantum computer is an essential step. They can also be extended to the efficient transport of Bose-Einstein condensates, where the ability to control them is crucial for their potential use as interferometric sensors.

id: 1107.1830
title: Significance of the Compton frequency in atom interferometry
authors: Michael A. Hohensee, Holger Mueller
comments: Submitted to the Proceedings of the 46th Rencontres de Moriond. Gravitational Waves and Experimental Gravity. 20-27 March 2011, La Thuile, Aosta valley, Italy
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1830
abstract: The recent realization that atom interferometers (AIs) can be used to test the gravitational redshift tests has proven to be controversial in some quarters. Here, we address the issues raised against the interpretation of AIs as redshift tests, reaffirming the fact that Mueller et al. [Nature 463, 926 (2010)] indeed report a gravitational redshift test.

id: 1107.1873
title: Spectral Singularities of a Complex Spherical Barrier Potential and Their Optical Realization
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh, Mustafa Sarisaman
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375, 3387-3391 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1873
abstract: The mathematical notion of a spectral singularity admits a physical interpretation as a zero-width resonance. It finds an optical realization as a certain type of lasing effect that occurs at the threshold gain. We explore spectral singularities of a complex spherical barrier potential and study their realization as transverse spherical electromagnetic waves emitted by a gain medium with a spherical geometry. In particular, for a typical dye laser material, we obtain a lower bound on the size of the gain medium for the occurence of this kind of spectral singularities.

id: 1107.1874
title: Imaginary-Scaling versus Indefinite-Metric Quantization of the Pais-Uhlenbeck Oscillator
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: Published version, 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. D 84, 105018 (2011)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1874
abstract: Using the Pais-Uhlenbeck Oscillator as a toy model, we outline a consistent alternative to the indefinite-metric quantization scheme that does not violate unitarity. We describe the basic mathematical structure of this method by giving an explicit construction of the Hilbert space of state vectors and the corresponding creation and annihilation operators. The latter satisfy the usual bosonic commutation relation and differ from those of the indefinite-metric theories by a sign in the definition of the creation operator. This change of sign achieves a definitization of the indefinite-metric that gives life to the ghost states without changing their contribution to the energy spectrum.

id: 1107.1875
title: Spectral Singularities of a General Point Interaction
authors: Ali Mostafazadeh
comments: 11 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 375302 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1875
abstract: We study the problem of locating spectral singularities of a general complex point interaction with a support at a single point. We also determine the bound states, examine the special cases where the point interaction is P-, T-, and PT-symmetric, and explore the issue of the coalescence of spectral singularities and bound states.

id: 1107.2060
title: Magic-zero wavelengths of alkali-metal atoms and their applications
authors: Bindiya Arora, M. S. Safronova, Charles W. Clark
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2060
abstract: Using first-principles calculations, we identify "magic-zero" optical wavelengths, \lambda_zero, for which the ground-state frequency-dependent polarizabilities of alkali-metal atoms vanish. Our approach uses high-precision, relativistic all-order methods in which all single, double, and partial triple excitations of the Dirac-Fock wave functions are included to all orders of perturbation theory. We discuss the use of magic-zero wavelengths for sympathetic cooling in two-species mixtures of alkalis with group-II and other elements of interest. Special cases in which these wavelengths coincide with strong resonance transitions in a target system are identified.

id: 1107.2079
title: Edge states and topological phases in non-Hermitian systems
authors: Kenta Esaki, Masatoshi Sato, Kazuki Hasebe, Mahito Kohmoto
comments: 29 pages, 19 figures, typos fixed
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 205128 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2079
abstract: Topological stability of the edge states is investigated for non-Hermitian systems. We examine two classes of non-Hermitian Hamiltonians supporting real bulk eigenenergies in weak non-Hermiticity: SU(1,1) and SO(3,2) Hamiltonians. As an SU(1,1) Hamiltonian, the tight-binding model on the honeycomb lattice with imaginary on-site potentials is examined. Edge states with ReE=0 and their topological stability are discussed by the winding number and the index theorem, based on the pseudo-anti-Hermiticity of the system. As a higher symmetric generalization of SU(1,1) Hamiltonians, we also consider SO(3,2) models. We investigate non-Hermitian generalization of the Luttinger Hamiltonian on the square lattice, and that of the Kane-Mele model on the honeycomb lattice, respectively. Using the generalized Kramers theorem for the time-reversal operator Theta with Theta^2=+1 [M. Sato et al., arXiv:1106.1806], we introduce a time-reversal invariant Chern number from which topological stability of gapless edge modes is argued.

id: 1107.2150
title: Pseudospectral Calculation of Helium Wave Functions, Expectation Values, and Oscillator Strength
authors: Paul E. Grabowski, David F. Chernoff
comments: 24 pages, 12 figures, 6 tables. To be submitted to Physical Review A. LANL identifier 'LA-UR-11-10986'
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2150
abstract: The pseudospectral method is a powerful tool for finding highly precise solutions of Schr\"{o}dinger's equation for few-electron problems. We extend the method's scope to wave functions with non-zero angular momentum and test it on several challenging problems. One group of tests involves the determination of the nonrelativistic electric dipole oscillator strength for the helium $1^1$S $\to 2^1$P transition. The result achieved, $0.27616499(27)$, is comparable to the best in the literature. Another group of test applications is comprised of well-studied leading order finite nuclear mass and relativistic corrections for the helium ground state. A straightforward computation reaches near state-of-the-art accuracy without requiring the implementation of any special-purpose numerics. All the relevant quantities tested in this paper -- energy eigenvalues, S-state expectation values and bound-bound dipole transitions for S and P states -- converge exponentially with increasing resolution and do so at roughly the same rate. Each individual calculation samples and weights the configuration space wave function uniquely but all behave in a qualitatively similar manner. Quantum mechanical matrix elements are directly and reliably calculable with pseudospectral methods. The technical discussion includes a prescription for choosing coordinates and subdomains to achieve exponential convergence when two-particle Coulomb singularities are present. The prescription does not account for the wave function's non-analytic behavior near the three-particle coalescence which should eventually hinder the rate of the convergence. Nonetheless the effect is small in the sense that ignoring the higher-order coalescence does not appear to affect adversely the accuracy of any of the quantities reported nor the rate at which errors diminish.

id: 1107.2254
title: On the velocity of the TE-polarized light wave to propagate through a homogeneous dielectric layer
authors: N. L. Chuprikov
comments: 13 pages (new style files), 8 figures, rewritten introducion and conclusion, misprints corrected
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2254
abstract: We present a novel model of elastic scattering of the plane TE-polarized light wave on a homogeneous dielectric layer. This wave is shown can be uniquely decomposed into a coherent superposition of two 'subprocess' TE waves to describe transmission and reflection in all spatial regions. Each of them has one incoming and one outgoing waves connected 'causally' to each other on the midplane of the layer -- namely, with keeping the continuity of the complex-valued electrical field strength and the corresponding energy flow density (averaged over an oscillation period). This model unlike the conventional one fulfills the mandatory physical requirements: in this scattering problem, the velocity of the energy transfer through the layer must be the same on mirror-symmetric planes, as well as it must be always subluminal, including the case of a frustrated total internal reflection (FTIR).

id: 1107.2268
title: Magnetic near fields as a probe of charge transport in spatially dispersive conductors
authors: Harald R. Haakh, Carsten Henkel
comments: 11 pages
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 85, 46 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2268
abstract: We calculate magnetic field fluctuations above a conductor with a nonlocal response (spatial dispersion) and consider a large range of distances. The cross-over from ballistic to diffusive charge transport leads to reduced noise spectrum at distances below the electronic mean free path, as compared to a local description. We also find that the mean free path provides a lower limit to the correlation (coherence) length of the near field fluctuations. The short-distance behavior is common to a wide range of materials, covering also semiconductors and superconductors. Our discussion is aimed at atom chip experiments where spin-flip transitions give access to material properties with mesoscopic spatial resolution. The results also hint at fundamental limits to the coherent operation of miniaturized atom traps and matter wave interferometers.

id: 1107.2293
title: Bound states of PT-symmetric separable potentials
authors: Carl M. Bender, Hugh F. Jones
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2293
abstract: All of the PT-symmetric potentials that have been studied so far have been local. In this paper nonlocal PT-symmetric separable potentials of the form $V(x,y)=i\epsilon[U(x)U(y)-U(-x)U(-y)]$, where $U(x)$ is real, are examined. Two specific models are examined. In each case it is shown that there is a parametric region of the coupling strength $\epsilon$ for which the PT symmetry of the Hamiltonian is unbroken and the bound-state energies are real. The critical values of $\epsilon$ that bound this region are calculated.

id: 1107.2357
title: Lifshitz formula for the Casimir force and the Gelfand-Yaglom theorem
authors: C. Ccapa Ttira, C. D. Fosco, F. D. Mazzitelli
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2357
abstract: We provide a Quantum Field Theory derivation of Lifshitz formula for the Casimir force due to a fluctuating real scalar field in $d+1$ dimensions. The field is coupled to two imperfect, thick, plane mirrors, which are modeled by background potentials localized on their positions. The derivation proceeds from the calculation of the vacuum energy in the Euclidean version of the system, reducing the problem to the evaluation of a functional determinant. The latter is written, via Gelfand-Yaglom's formula, in terms of functions depending on the structure of the potential describing each mirror; those functions encode the properties which are relevant to the Casimir force and are the reflection coefficients evaluated at imaginary frequencies.

id: 1107.2360
title: Prototyping method for Bragg-type atom interferometers
authors: Brandon Benton, Michael Krygier, Jeffrey Heward, Mark Edwards, Charles W. Clark
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, version 3 published in PRA - Volume 84, Page 043648
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2360
abstract: We present a method for rapid prototyping of new Bragg ultra-cold atom interferometer (AI) designs useful for assessing the performance of such interferometers. The method simulates the overall effect on the condensate wave function in a given AI design using two separate elements. These are (1) modeling the effect of a Bragg pulse on the wave function and (2) approximating the evolution of the wave function during the intervals between the pulses. The actual sequence of these pulses and intervals is then followed to determine the approximate final wave function from which the interference pattern can be calculated. The exact evolution between pulses is assumed to be governed by the Gross-Pitaevskii (GP) equation whose solution is approximated using a Lagrangian Variational Method to facilitate rapid prototyping. The method presented here is an extension of an earlier one that was used to analyze the results of an experiment [J.E. Simsarian, et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 83, 2040 (2000)], where the phase of a Bose-Einstein condensate was measured using a Mach- Zehnder-type Bragg AI. We have developed both 1D and 3D versions of this method and we have determined their validity by comparing their predicted interference patterns with those obtained by numerical integration of the 1D GP equation and with the results of the above experiment. We find excellent agreement between the 1D interference patterns predicted by this method and those found by the GP equation. We show that we can reproduce all of the results of that experiment without recourse to an ad hoc velocity-kick correction needed by the earlier method, including some experimental results that the earlier model did not predict. We also found that this method provides estimates of 1D interference patterns at least four orders-of-magnitude faster than direct numerical solution of the 1D GP equation.

id: 1107.2442
title: Unitary representations of the Galilean line group: Quantum mechanical principle of equivalence
authors: B. R. MacGregor, A. E. McCoy, S. Wickramasekara
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2442
abstract: We present a formalism of Galilean quantum mechanics in non-inertial reference frames and discuss its implications for the equivalence principle. This extension of quantum mechanics rests on the Galilean line group, the semidirect product of the real line and the group of analytic functions from the real line to the Euclidean group in three dimensions. This group provides transformations between all inertial and non-inertial reference frames and contains the Galilei group as a subgroup. We construct a certain class of unitary representations of the Galilean line group and show that these representations determine the structure of quantum mechanics in non-inertial reference frames. Our representations of the Galilean line group contain the usual unitary projective representations of the Galilei group, but have a more intricate cocycle structure. The transformation formula for the Hamiltonian under the Galilean line group shows that in a non-inertial reference frame it acquires a fictitious potential energy term that is proportional to the inertial mass, suggesting the equivalence of inertial mass and gravitational mass in quantum mechanics.

id: 1107.2486
title: Strain-tuning of quantum dot optical transitions via laser-induced surface defects
authors: Cristian Bonato, Evert van Nieuwenburg, Jan Gudat, Susanna Thon, Hyochul Kim, Martin P. van Exter, Dirk Bouwmeester
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 075306 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2486
abstract: We discuss the fine-tuning of the optical properties of self-assembled quantum dots by the strain perturbation introduced by laser-induced surface defects. We show experimentally that the quantum dot transition red-shifts, independently of the actual position of the defect, and that such frequency shift is about a factor five larger than the corresponding shift of a micropillar cavity mode resonance. We present a simple model that accounts for these experimental findings.

id: 1107.2525
title: Generic matrix superpotentials
authors: Anatoly G. Nikitin, Yuri Karadzhov
comments: Ref. 17 is added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 445202
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2525
abstract: A simple and algorithmic description of matrix shape invariant potentials is presented. The complete lists of generic matrix superpotentials of dimension $2\times2$ and of special superpotentials of dimension $3\times3$ are given explicitly. In addition, a constructive description of superpotentials realized by matrices of arbitrary dimension is presented. In this way an extended class of integrable systems of coupled Schr\"odinger equation is classified. Examples of such systems are considered in detail. New integrable multidimensional models which are reduced to shape invariant systems via separation of variables are presented also.

id: 1107.2604
title: Effective Long-Range Interactions in Confined Curved Dimensions
authors: Peter Schmelcher
comments: 13 pages, 3 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2604
abstract: We explore the effective long-range interaction of charged particles confined to a curved low-dimensional manifold using the example of a helical geometry. Opposite to the Coulomb interaction in free space the confined particles experience a force which is oscillating with the distance between the particles. This leads to stable equilibrium configurations and correspondingly induced bound states whose number is tunable with the parameters of the helix. We demonstrate the existence of a plethora of equilibria of few-body chains with different symmetry character that are allowed to freely move. An outline concerning the implications on many-body helical chains is provided.

id: 1107.2627
title: BCS-BEC crossover in spin-orbit coupled two-dimensional Fermi gases
authors: Gang Chen, Ming Gong, Chuanwei Zhang
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2627
abstract: The recent experimental realization of spin-orbit coupling for ultra-cold atoms has generated much interest in the physics of spin-orbit coupled degenerate Fermi gases. Although recently the BCS-BEC crossover in three-dimensional (3D) spin-orbit coupled Fermi gases has been intensively studied, the corresponding two-dimensional (2D) crossover physics has remained unexplored. In this paper, we investigate, both numerically and analytically, the BCS-BEC crossover physics in 2D degenerate Fermi gases in the presence of a Rashba type of spin-orbit coupling. We derive the mean field gap and atom number equations suitable for the 2D spin-orbit coupled Fermi gases and solve them numerically and self-consistently, from which the dependence of the ground state properties (chemical potential, superfluid pairing gap, ground state energy per atom) on the system parameters (e.g., binding energy, spin-orbit coupling strength) is obtained. Furthermore, we derive analytic expressions for these ground state quantities, which agree well with our numerical results within a broad parameter region. Such analytic expressions also agree qualitatively with previous numerical results for the 3D spin-orbit coupled Fermi gases, where analytic results are lacked. We show that with an increasing SOC strength, the chemical potential is shifted by a constant determined by the SOC strength. The superfluid pairing gap is enhanced significantly in the BCS limit for strong SOC, but only increases slightly in the BEC limit.

id: 1107.2663
title: In situ measurement of the dynamic structure factor in ultracold quantum gases
authors: Hendrik Weimer, Hans Peter B¨¹chler
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 113018 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2663
abstract: We propose an experimental setup to efficiently measure the dynamic structure factor of ultracold quantum gases. Our method uses the interaction of the trapped atomic system with two different cavity modes, which are driven by external laser fields. By measuring the output fields of the cavity the dynamic structure factor of the atomic system can be determined. Contrary to previous approaches the atomic system is not destroyed during the measurement process.

id: 1107.2669
title: Quantum Noise in Amplifiers and Hawking/Dumb-Hole Radiation as Amplifier Noise
authors: W. G. Unruh
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2669
abstract: The quantum noise in a linear amplifier is shown to be thermal noise. The theory of linear amplifiers is applied first to the simplest, single or double oscillator model of an amplifier, and then to linear model of an amplifier with continuous fields and input and outputs. Finally it is shown that the thermal noise emitted by black holes first demonstrated by Hawking, and of dumb holes (sonic and other analogs to black holes), arises from the same analysis as for linear amplifiers. The amplifier noise of black holes acting as amplifiers on the quantum fields living in the spacetime surrounding the black hole is the radiation discovered by Hawking. For any amplifier, that quantum noise is completely characterized by the attributes of the system regarded as a classical amplifier, and arises out of those classical amplification factors and the commutation relations of quantum mechanics.

id: 1107.2758
title: A tentative replica theory of glassy Helium 4
authors: Giulio Biroli, Francesco Zamponi
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures; prepared as a contribution to a special issue of JLTP on supersolids
journal: J.Low.Temp.Phys. 168, 101 (2012)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2758
abstract: We develop a quantum replica method for interacting particle systems and use it to estimate the location of the glass transition line in Helium 4. Although we do not fully succeed in taking into account all quantum effects, we make a thorough semiclassical analysis. We confirm previous suggestions that quantum fluctuations promote the formation of the glass and give a quantitative estimate of this effect at high density. Finally, we discuss the difficulties that are met when one tries to extend the calculation to the region of low densities and low temperatures, where quantum effects are strong and the semiclassical expansion breaks down.

id: 1107.2770
title: Theoretical description of two ultracold atoms in finite 3D optical lattices using realistic interatomic interaction potentials
authors: Sergey Grishkevich, Simon Sala, Alejandro Saenz
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2770
abstract: A theoretical approach is described for an exact numerical treatment of a pair of ultracold atoms interacting via a central potential that are trapped in a finite three-dimensional optical lattice. The coupling of center-of-mass and relative-motion coordinates is treated using an exact diagonalization (configuration-interaction) approach. The orthorhombic symmetry of an optical lattice with three different but orthogonal lattice vectors is explicitly considered as is the Fermionic or Bosonic symmetry in the case of indistinguishable particles.

id: 1107.2792
title: Probability measure generated by the superfidelity
authors: Zbigniew Pucha?a, Jaros?aw Adam Miszczak
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 405301
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2792
abstract: We study the probability measure on the space of density matrices induced by the metric defined by using superfidelity. We give the formula for the probability density of eigenvalues. We also study some statistical properties of the set of density matrices equipped with the introduced measure and provide a method for generating density matrices according to the introduced measure.

id: 1107.2840
title: Anomalies in the Entanglement Properties of the Square Lattice Heisenberg Model
authors: Ann B. Kallin, Matthew B. Hastings, Roger G. Melko, Rajiv R. P. Singh
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures, 2 tables. Numerical values in Table I corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 165134 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2840
abstract: We compute the bipartite entanglement properties of the spin-half square-lattice Heisenberg model by a variety of numerical techniques that include valence bond quantum Monte Carlo (QMC), stochastic series expansion QMC, high temperature series expansions and zero temperature coupling constant expansions around the Ising limit. We find that the area law is always satisfied, but in addition to the entanglement entropy per unit boundary length, there are other terms that depend logarithmically on the subregion size, arising from broken symmetry in the bulk and from the existence of corners at the boundary. We find that the numerical results are anomalous in several ways. First, the bulk term arising from broken symmetry deviates from an exact calculation that can be done for a mean-field Neel state. Second, the corner logs do not agree with the known results for non-interacting Boson modes. And, third, even the finite temperature mutual information shows an anomalous behavior as T goes to zero, suggesting that T->0 and L->infinity limits do not commute. These calculations show that entanglement entropy demonstrates a very rich behavior in d>1, which deserves further attention.

id: 1107.2852
title: Ponderomotive forces and wave dispersion: two sides of the same coin
authors: I. Y. Dodin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2852
abstract: Presented here is a general view on adiabatic and resonant wave-particle interactions leading to a uniform description of nonlinear ponderomotive effects in very different environments, from low-temperature plasmas to relativistic plasmas or even atoms in laser light. Treating the wave-particle interaction as a classical mode-coupling problem, this theory shows the inherent connection between the ponderomotive forces and the properties of waves causing those forces. The adiabatic Lagrangians are derived for single particles and nonlinear waves, possibly carrying trapped particles, and yield both the dynamic equations and the nonlinear dispersion relations in the general case.

id: 1107.2861
title: A charged particle in a homogeneous magnetic field accelerated by a time periodic Aharonov-Bohm flux
authors: T. Kalvoda, P. Stovicek
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2861
abstract: We consider a nonrelativistic quantum charged particle moving on a plane under the influence of a uniform magnetic field and driven by a periodically time-dependent Aharonov-Bohm flux. We observe an acceleration effect in the case when the Aharonov-Bohm flux depends on time as a sinusoidal function whose frequency is in resonance with the cyclotron frequency. In particular, the energy of the particle increases linearly for large times. An explicit formula for the acceleration rate is derived with the aid of the quantum averaging method, and then it is checked against a numerical solution with a very good agreement.

id: 1107.2907
title: Impurity Entanglement in the $J-J_2-¦Ä$ Quantum Spin Chain
authors: Andreas Deschner, Erik S. Sorensen
comments: 24 pages, 25 figures, typos corrected, one figure added and minor revisions of text performed
journal: J. Stat. Mech. (2011) P10023
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2907
abstract: The contribution to the entanglement of an impurity attached to one end of a $J-J_2-delta$ quantum spin chain (S=1/2) is studied. Two different measures of the impurity contribution to the entanglement have been proposed: the impurity-entanglement-entropy S_{imp} and the negativity N. The first, S_{imp}, is based on a subtractive procedure where the entanglement-entropy in the absence of the impurity is subtracted from results with the impurity present. The other, N, is the negativity of a part of the system separated from the impurity and the impurity itself. In this paper we compare the two measures and discuss similarities and differences between them. In the $J-J_2-\delta$ model it is possible to perform very precise variational calculations close to the Majumdar-Ghosh-point (J_2 = J / 2 and \delta = 0) where the system is gapped with a two-fold degenerate dimerized ground-state. We describe in detail how such calculations are done and how they can be used to calculate N as well as S_{imp} for any impurity-coupling J_K. We then study the complete cross-over in the impurity entanglement as J_K is varied between 0 and 1 close to the Majumdar-Ghosh-point. In particular we study the impurity entanglement when a staggered nearest-neighbour-interaction proportional to $\delta$ is introduced. In this case, the two-fold degeneracy of the ground-state is lifted leading to a very rapid reduction in the impurity entanglement as $\delta$ is increased.

id: 1107.2940
title: Holographic Mutual Information is Monogamous
authors: Patrick Hayden, Matthew Headrick, Alexander Maloney
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure; v2: minor changes, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. D 87, 046003 (2013)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2940
abstract: We identify a special information-theoretic property of quantum field theories with holographic duals: the mutual informations among arbitrary disjoint spatial regions A,B,C obey the inequality I(A:BC) >= I(A:B)+I(A:C), provided entanglement entropies are given by the Ryu-Takayanagi formula. Inequalities of this type are known as monogamy relations and are characteristic of measures of quantum entanglement. This suggests that correlations in holographic theories arise primarily from entanglement rather than classical correlations. We also show that the Ryu-Takayanagi formula is consistent with all known general inequalities obeyed by the entanglement entropy, including an infinite set recently discovered by Cadney, Linden, and Winter; this constitutes strong evidence in favour of its validity.

id: 1107.3017
title: Scaling and universality in two dimensions: three-body bound states with short-ranged interactions
authors: F. F. Bellotti, T. Frederico, M. T. Yamashita, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 21 pages, 8 figures, 4 tables, final version
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44, 205302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3017
abstract: The momentum space zero-range model is used to investigate universal properties of three interacting particles confined to two dimensions. The pertinent equations are first formulated for a system of two identical and one distinct particle and the two different two-body subsystems are characterized by two-body energies and masses. The three-body energy in units of one of the two-body energies is a universal function of the other two-body energy and the mass ratio. We derive convenient analytical formulae for calculations of the three-body energy as function of these two independent parameters and exhibit the results as universal curves. In particular, we show that the three-body system can have any number of stable bound states. When the mass ratio of the distinct to identical particles is greater than 0.22 we find that at most two stable bound states exist, while for two heavy and one light mass an increasing number of bound states is possible. The specific number of stable bound states depends on the ratio of two-body bound state energies and on the mass ratio and we map out an energy-mass phase-diagram of the number of stable bound states. Realizable systems of both fermions and bosons are discussed in this framework.

id: 1107.3034
title: A New Path-Integral Representation of the $T$-Matrix in Potential Scattering
authors: J. Carron, R. Rosenfelder
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure, Latex with amsmath, amssym; v2: some typos corrected, matches published version
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375 (2011) 3781
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3034
abstract: We employ the method used by Barbashov and collaborators in Quantum Field Theory to derive a path-integral representation of the $T$-matrix in nonrelativistic potential scattering which is free of functional integration over fictitious variables as was necessary before. The resulting expression serves as a starting point for a variational approximation applied to high-energy scattering from a Gaussian potential. Good agreement with exact partial-wave calculations is found even at large scattering angles. A novel path-integral representation of the scattering length is obtained in the low-energy limit.

id: 1107.3060
title: Thermodynamic properties of a magnetically modulated graphene
authors: SK Firoz Islam, Naveen K. Singh, Tarun Kanti Ghosh
comments: 9 figures, a new section added
journal: Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 23, 445502 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3060
abstract: The effect of magnetic modulation on thermodynamic properties of a graphene monolayer in presence of a constant perpendicular magnetic field is reported here. One-dimensional spatial electric or magnetic modulation lifts the degeneracy of the Landau levels and converts into bands and their band width oscillates with magnetic field leading to Weiss-type oscillation in the thermodynamic properties. The effect of magnetic modulation on thermodynamic properties of a graphene sheet is studied and then compared with electrically modulated graphene and magnetically modulated conventional two-dimensional electron gas (2DEG). We observe Weiss-type and de Haas-van Alphen (dHvA) oscillations at low and high magnetic field, respectively. There is a definite phase difference in Weiss-type oscillations in thermodynamic quantities of magnetically modulated graphene in compare to electrically modulated graphene. On the other hand, the phase remains same and amplitude of the oscillation is large when compared with the magnetically modulated 2DEG. Explicit asymptotic expressions of density of states and the Helmholtz free energy are provided to understand the phase and amplitude of the Weiss-type oscillations qualitatively. We also study thermodynamic properties when both electric and magnetic modulations are present. The Weiss-type oscillations still exist when the modulations are out-of-phase.

id: 1107.3077
title: Many-site coherence revivals in the extended Bose-Hubbard model and the Gutzwiller approximation
authors: Uwe R. Fischer, Bo Xiong
comments: 8+\epsilon{} pages of RevTex4-1, 4 figures; with an appendix added, has been published in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 063635 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3077
abstract: We investigate the collapse and revival of first-order coherence in deep optical lattices when long-range interactions are turned on, and find that the first few revival peaks are strongly attenuated already for moderate values of the nearest-neighbor interaction coupling. It is shown that the conventionally employed Gutzwiller wavefunction, with only onsite-number dependence of the variational amplitudes, leads to incorrect predictions for the collapse and revival oscillations. We provide a modified variant of the Gutzwiller ansatz, reproducing the analytically calculated time dependence of first-order coherence in the limit of zero tunneling.

id: 1107.3080
title: Lamb shift in muonic deuterium atom
authors: A.A. Krutov, A.P. Martynenko
comments: 24 pages, 11 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:hep-ph/0612298
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3080
abstract: We present new investigation of the Lamb shift (2P_{1/2}-2S_{1/2}) in muonic deuterium (mu d) atom using the three-dimensional quasipotential method in quantum electrodynamics. The vacuum polarization, nuclear structure and recoil effects are calculated with the account of contributions of orders alpha^3, alpha^4, alpha^5 and alpha^6. The results are compared with earlier performed calculations. The obtained numerical value of the Lamb shift 202.4139 meV can be considered as a reliable estimate for the comparison with forthcoming experimental data.

id: 1107.3126
title: Casimir repulsion between Topological Insulators in the diluted regime
authors: Pablo Rodriguez-Lopez
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3126
abstract: The Pairwise Summation Approximation (PSA) of Casimir energy is applied to a system of two dielectrics with magnetoelectric coupling. In particular, the case of Topological Insulators (TI) is studied in detail. Depending on the the optical response of the TI, we obtain a stable equilibrium distance, atraction for all distances, or repulsion for all distances at zero temperature. This equilibrium distance disappears in the high temperature limit. These results are independent on the geometry of the TI, but are only valid in the diluted approximation.

id: 1107.3132
title: Spontaneous Crystallization And Filamentation Of Solitons In Dipolar Condensates
authors: Kazimierz ?akomy, Rejish Nath, Luis Santos
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 033618 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3132
abstract: Inter-site interactions play a crucial role in polar gases in optical lattices even in the absence of hopping. We show that due to these long-range interactions a destabilized stack of quasi-one dimensional Bose-Einstein condensates develops a correlated modulational instability in the non-overlapping sites. Interestingly, this density pattern may evolve spontaneously into soliton filaments or a crystal of solitons that can be so created for the first time in ultra-cold gases. These self-assembled structures may be observed under realistic conditions within current experimental feasibilities.

id: 1107.3164
title: A proposal for testing Quantum Gravity in the lab
authors: Ahmed Farag Ali, Saurya Das, Elias C. Vagenas
comments: v1: 10 pages, REVTeX 4, no figures; v2: minor typos corrected and a reference added. arXiv admin note: has substantial overlap with arXiv:0906.5396 , published in a different journal
journal: Phys.Rev.D84:044013,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3164
abstract: Attempts to formulate a quantum theory of gravitation are collectively known as {\it quantum gravity}. Various approaches to quantum gravity such as string theory and loop quantum gravity, as well as black hole physics and doubly special relativity theories predict a minimum measurable length, or a maximum observable momentum, and related modifications of the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle to a so-called generalized uncertainty principle (GUP). We have proposed a GUP consistent with string theory, black hole physics and doubly special relativity theories and have showed that this modifies all quantum mechanical Hamiltonians. When applied to an elementary particle, it suggests that the space that confines it must be quantized, and in fact that all measurable lengths are quantized in units of a fundamental length (which can be the Planck length). On the one hand, this may signal the breakdown of the spacetime continuum picture near that scale, and on the other hand, it can predict an upper bound on the quantum gravity parameter in the GUP, from current observations. Furthermore, such fundamental discreteness of space may have observable consequences at length scales much larger than the Planck scale. Because this influences all the quantum Hamiltonians in an universal way, it predicts quantum gravity corrections to various quantum phenomena. Therefore, in the present work we compute these corrections to the Lamb shift, simple harmonic oscillator, Landau levels, and the tunneling current in a scanning tunneling microscope.

id: 1107.3174
title: On the infeasibility of entanglement generation in Gaussian quantum systems via classical control
authors: H.I. Nurdin, I.R. Petersen, M.R. James
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. To appear in IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 2011
journal: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 57(1), pp. 198-203, January 2012
subjects: Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3174
abstract: This paper uses a system theoretic approach to show that classical linear time invariant controllers cannot generate steady state entanglement in a bipartite Gaussian quantum system which is initialized in a Gaussian state. The paper also shows that the use of classical linear controllers cannot generate entanglement in a finite time from a bipartite system initialized in a separable Gaussian state. The approach reveals connections between system theoretic concepts and the well known physical principle that local operations and classical communications cannot generate entangled states starting from separable states.

id: 1107.3204
title: Scattering and Bound State Solutions of Asymmetric Hulth¨¦n Potential
authors: Altu? Arda, Oktay Aydo?du, Ramazan Sever
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Scr.84, 025004 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3204
abstract: One-dimensional time-independent Schr\"odinger equation is solved for the asymmetric Hulth\'{e}n potential. Reflection and transmission coefficients and bound state solutions are obtained in terms of the hypergeometric functions. It is observed that the unitary condition is satisfied in non-relativistic region.

id: 1107.3240
title: Electron random walk in ideal phonon gas. Exact dressed electron density matrix evolution equations
authors: Yu.E.Kuzovlev
comments: 19 pages, no figures, LATEX2e iopart
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3240
abstract: An original approach is suggested to analysis of full quantum Liouville equation for single electron (quantum particle) interacting with ideal phonon gas (harmonic boson thermostat). It is shown that under the thermodynamic limit this equation can be exactly reduced to a system of evolution equations connecting density matrix of the electron and its simplest irreducible correlations with amplitudes of one, two, three and more phonon modes. Possible application of these new equations to explanation of the electron mobility 1/f-type fluctuations in semiconductors and other media is discussed. The special case of electron in static disorder is also considered.

id: 1107.3249
title: On the Possibility of New High Tc Superconductors by Producing metal Heterostructures as in the Cuprate Perovskites
authors: Antonio Bianconi
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Solid State Communications 89, 933-936 (1994)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3249
abstract: Here we propose a possible way to produce superconductors with high critical temperature Tc by confinement of a Fermi liquid in a superlattice of quantum stripes (wells, wires or dots). The enhancement of Tc is obtained by tuning the size L of the stripes (wells, wires or dots), and the wavelength of electrons at the Fermi level {\lambda}F at the resonance condition L {\lambda}F. The 3D superconducting phase is stabilized by the condition that the separation W between the stripes (wells, wires or dots) should be of the order of the coherence length {\xi}0. This quantum state is realized in Bi2Sr2Ca2Cu2O8+y superconductor with Tc= 84K, where the resonance condition kFy~2{\pi}/L for the component of the Fermi wavevector normal to the stripe direction holds. This work gives the parameters for the design of new superconducting materials with higher Tc made of metal heterostructures approaching the atomic limit.

id: 1107.3259
title: Quantum phenomenology of conjunction fallacy
authors: Taksu Cheon, Taiki Takahashi
comments: LaTeX 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 81 (2012) 104801(5pp)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3259
abstract: A quantum-like description of human decision process is developed, and a heuristic argument supporting the theory as sound phenomenology is given. It is shown to be capable of quantitatively explaining the conjunction fallacy in the same footing as the violation of sure-thing principle.

id: 1107.3271
title: On the Simulation of Adaptive Measurements via Postselection
authors: Vikram Dhillon
comments: 3 pgs
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3271
abstract: In this note we address the question of whether any any quantum computational model that allows adaptive measurements can be simulated by a model that allows postselected measurements. We argue in the favor of this question and prove that adaptive measurements can be simulated by postselection. We also discuss some potentially stunning consequences of this result such as the ability to solve #P problems.

id: 1107.3330
title: A fast Variational Gaussian Wave-packet method: Size-induced structural transitions in large neon clusters
authors: Ionu? Georgescu, Vladimir A. Mandelshtam
comments: submitted to JCP
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3330
abstract: The Variational Gaussian wavepacket (VGW) method is an alternative to Path Integral Monte-Carlo (PIMC) for the computation of thermodynamic properties of many-body systems at thermal equilibrium. It provides a direct access to the thermal density matrix and is particularly efficient for Monte-Carlo approaches, as for an N-body system it operates in a non-inflated 3N dimensional configuration space. Here we greatly accelerate the VGW method by retaining only the relevant short-range correlations in the (otherwise full) $3N\times 3N$ Gaussian width matrix without sacrificing the accuracy of the fully-coupled VGW method. This results in the reduction of the original $\mathcal{O}(N^3)$ scaling to $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$. The Fast-VGW method is then applied to quantum Lennard-Jones clusters with sizes up to N=6500 atoms. Following Doye and Calvo [JCP 116, 8307 (2002)] we study the competition between the icosahedral and decahedral structural motifs in Ne_N clusters as a function of N.

id: 1107.3347
title: Nonlinear Quantum Cosmology of de Sitter Space
authors: Rajesh R. Parwani, Siti Nursaba Tarih
comments: Revised version has changed title, abstract and additional review and clarifying remarks, with typos corrected and references updated. Results unchanged. 23 pages inclusive of 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3347
abstract: We perform a minisuperspace analysis of an information-theoretic nonlinear Wheeler-deWitt (WDW) equation for de Sitter universes. The nonlinear WDW equation, which is in the form of a difference-differential equation, is transformed into a pure difference equation for the probability density by using the current conservation constraint. In the present study we observe some new features not seen in our previous approximate investigation, such as a nonzero minimum and maximum allowable size to the quantum universe: An examination of the effective classical dynamics supports the interpretation of a bouncing universe. The studied model suggests implications for the early universe, and plausibly also for the future of an ongoing accelerating phase of the universe.

id: 1107.3357
title: Buckled nano rod - a two state system: quantum effects on its dynamics
authors: Aniruddha Chakraborty
comments: arXiv admin note: this article republishes almost the entirety of arXiv:cond-mat/0411253v1 , published in a different journal
journal: Mol. Phys. 107, 1777 (2009)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3357
abstract: We consider a suspended elastic rod under longitudinal compression. The compression can be used to adjust potential energy for transverse displacements from harmonic to double well regime. The two minima in potential energy curve describe two possible buckled states. Using transition state theory (TST) we have calculated the rate of conversion from one state to other. If the strain $\epsilon = 4 \epsilon_c$ the simple TST rate diverges. We suggest a method to correct this divergence for quantum calculations. We also find that zero point energy contributions can be quite large so that single mode calculations can lead to large errors in the rate.

id: 1107.3379
title: Crow instability in trapped Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Tapio P. Simula
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 021603(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3379
abstract: We show theoretically that elongated vortex-antivortex dipoles can be created controllably in trapped Bose-Einstein condensates, using known experimental techniques. Vortex dipoles of sufficient length are unstable and cascade into slow vortex rings which ultimately decay via sound emission. This instability of antiparallel vortex line elements, which self-generates Kelvin waves on vortex loops and in trapped atomic gases, may play a role in bridging the Kelvin-wave and Kolmogorov-Richardson cascades of quantum turbulence.

id: 1107.3448
title: On the origin of the holographic principle
authors: Jae-Weon Lee
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, Revtex4-1, more generic proof added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3448
abstract: It was recently suggested that quantum mechanics and gravity are not fundamental but emerge from information loss at causal horizons. On the basis of the formalism the holographic principle is also shown to arise naturally from the loss of information about bulk fields observed by an outside observer. As an application, Witten's prescription is derived.

id: 1107.3489
title: Critical partitions and nodal deficiency of billiard eigenfunctions
authors: Gregory Berkolaiko, Peter Kuchment, Uzy Smilansky
comments: In the 2nd version minor modifications were implemented
journal: Geom. Funct. Anal., 22, 1517-1540 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3489
abstract: The paper addresses the the number of nodal domains for eigenfunctions of Schr\"{o}dinger operators with Dirichlet boundary conditions in bounded domains. In dimension one, the $n$th eigenfunction has $n$ nodal domains. The Courant Theorem claims that in any dimension, the number of nodal domains of the $n$th eigenfunction cannot exceed $n$. However, in dimensions higher than 1 the equality can hold for only finitely many eigenfunctions. Thus, a "nodal deficiency" arises. Examples are known of eigenfunctions with arbitrarily large index $n$ that have just two nodal domains. It was suggested in the recent years to look at the partitions of the domain, rather than eigenfunctions. It was shown in a recent paper by Helffer, Hoffmann-Ostenhof and Terracini that (under some natural conditions) bipartite partitions minimizing the maximum of the ground-state energies in sub-domains of the partition, correspond to the "Courant sharp" eigenfunctions, i.e. to those with zero nodal deficiency. In this paper, the authors show, under some genericity conditions, among the bipartite equipartitions, the nodal ones correspond exactly to the critical points of an analogous functional, with the nodal deficiency being equal to the Morse index at this point. This explains, in particular, why all the minimal partitions must be Courant sharp.

id: 1107.3827
title: Low-noise conditional operation of singlet-triplet coupled quantum dot qubits
authors: Shuo Yang, S. Das Sarma
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 121306(R) (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3827
abstract: We theoretically study the influence of charge noise on a controlled phase gate, implemented using two proximal double quantum dots coupled electrostatically. Using the configuration interaction method, we present a full description of the conditional control scheme and quantitatively calculate the gate error arising from charge fluctuations. Our key finding is that the existence of noise-immune sweet spots depends on not only the energy detuning but also the device geometry. The conditions for sweet spots with minimal charge noise are predicted analytically and verified numerically. Going beyond the simple sweet-spot concept we demonstrate the existence of other optimal situations for fast and low-noise singlet-triplet two-qubit gates.

id: 1107.3888
title: Entanglement Spectra of the 2D AKLT Model: VBS/CFT Correspondence
authors: Jie Lou, Shu Tanaka, Hosho Katsura, Naoki Kawashima
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 245128 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3888
abstract: We investigate the entanglement properties of the valence-bond-solid (VBS) state defined on two-dimensional lattices, which is the exact ground state of the Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki model. It is shown that the entanglement entropy obeys an area law and the non-universal prefactor of the leading term is strictly less than $\ln 2$. The analysis of entanglement spectra for various lattices reveals that the reduced density matrix associated with the VBS state is closely related to a thermal density matrix of a {\it holographic} spin chain, whose spectrum is reminiscent of that of the spin-1/2 Heisenberg chain. This correspondence is further supported by comparing the entanglement entropy in the holographic spin chain with conformal field theory predictions.

id: 1107.3916
title: Stern-Gerlach deflection of field-free aligned paramagnetic molecules
authors: E. Gershnabel, M. Shapiro, I. Sh. Averbukh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3916
abstract: The effects of laser-induced prealignment on the deflection of paramagnetic molecules by inhomogeneous static magnetic field are studied. Depending on the relevant Hund's coupling case of the molecule, two different effects were identified: either suppression of the deflection by laser pulses (Hund's coupling case (a) molecules, such as ClO), or a dramatic reconstruction of the broad distribution of the scattering angles into several narrow peaks (for Hund's coupling case (b) molecules, such as O2 or NH). These findings are important for various applications using molecular guiding, focusing and trapping with the help of magnetic fields.

id: 1107.3985
title: The entanglement entropy of 1D systems in continuous and homogenous space
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, Mihail Mintchev, Ettore Vicari
comments: 26 pages, correction of a few misprints
journal: J.Stat.Mech.1109:P09028,2011
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3985
abstract: We introduce a systematic framework to calculate the bipartite entanglement entropy of a compact spatial subsystem in a one-dimensional quantum gas which can be mapped into a noninteracting fermion system. We show that when working with a finite number of particles N, the Renyi entanglement entropies grow as log N, with a prefactor that is given by the central charge. We apply this novel technique to the ground state and to excited states of periodic systems. We also consider systems with boundaries. We derive universal formulas for the leading behavior and for subleading corrections to the scaling. The universality of the results allows us to make predictions for the finite-size scaling forms of the corrections to the scaling.

id: 1107.4156
title: CPT groups of higher spin fields
authors: V. V. Varlamov
comments: 30 pages
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 51: 1453-1481, 2012
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4156
abstract: $CPT$ groups of higher spin fields are defined in the framework of automorphism groups of Clifford algebras associated with the complex representations of the proper orthochronous Lorentz group. Higher spin fields are understood as the fields on the Poincar\'{e} group which describe orientable (extended) objects. A general method for construction of $CPT$ groups of the fields of any spin is given. $CPT$ groups of the fields of spin-1/2, spin-1 and spin-3/2 are considered in detail. $CPT$ groups of the fields of tensor type are discussed. It is shown that tensor fields correspond to particles of the same spin with different masses.

id: 1107.4298
title: Critical velocities and the effect of steady and oscillating rotations on solid He4
authors: S. T. Chui
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4298
abstract: We apply our recently developed model of a Bose condensate of quantum kink wave in solid He4 to understand recent torsional oscillator experimental results of the citical velocities and the effect of the steady and oscillating rotations at around 0.1 degree K. When the D.C. rotation is present we find a decrease of the Q factor given by $Q^{-1} \propto f_{sf}\times \Omega_{D}/\omega_{TO}$ where $f_{sf}$ is the superfluid fraction; $\Omega_{D}$, the D. C. angular rotation velocity, $\omega_{TO}$, the torsional oscillator oscillating frequency. We estimate the AC critical velocity $\Omega_A^{crit}$ as that required to generate a kink wave of wavevector $2\pi/L_d$ where $L_d$ is the distance between nodes of the dislocation network. We generalize this to include a steady rotation and find a D. C. critical velocity $\Omega_D^{crit} \propto (\Omega_{A}^{crit})^{1/2}$. Estimates for both the steady and the oscillating critical velocities are in order of magnitude agreement with experimental results. We have also examined an alternative mechanism of kink tunnelling through a node in the dislocation networm and find that there is also a dependence on the torsional oscillator frequency: $\Omega_D^{crit}=[\Omega_A^{crit} \omega_{TO}2\pi]^{1/2}. $ The DC critical velocity $\Omega_D^{crit}$ is ten times higher than the experimental value.

id: 1107.4334
title: Theory of quantum energy transfer in spin chains: From superexchange to ballistic motion
authors: Claire X. Yu, Lian-Ao Wu, Dvira Segal
comments: 
journal: JCP 135, 234508 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4334
abstract: Quantum energy transfer in a chain of two-level (spin) units, connected at its ends to two thermal reservoirs, is analyzed in two limits: (i) In the off-resonance regime, when the characteristic subsystem excitation energy gaps are larger than the reservoirs frequencies, or the baths temperatures are low. (ii) In the resonance regime, when the chain excitation gaps match populated bath modes. In the latter case the model is studied using a master equation approach, showing that the dynamics is ballistic for the particular chain model explored. In the former case we analytically study the system dynamics utilizing the recently developed Energy-Transfer Born-Oppenheimer formalism [Phys. Rev. E {\bf 83}, 051114 (2011)], demonstrating that energy transfers across the chain in a superexchange (bridge assisted tunneling) mechanism, with the energy current decreasing exponentially with distance. This behavior is insensitive to the chain details. Since at low temperatures the excitation spectrum of molecular systems can be truncated to resemble a spin chain model, we argue that the superexchange behavior obtained here should be observed in widespread systems satisfying the off-resonance condition.

id: 1107.4447
title: Negative Backaction Noise in Interferometric Detection of a Microlever
authors: J. Laurent, A. Mosset, O. Arcizet, J. Chevrier, S. Huant, H. Sellier
comments: accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Physical Review Letters 107, 050801 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4447
abstract: Interferometric detection of mirror displacements is intrinsically limited by laser shot noise. In practice, however, it is often limited by thermal noise. Here we report on an experiment performed at the liquid helium temperature to overcome the thermal noise limitation and investigate the effect of classical laser noise on a microlever that forms a Fabry-Perot cavity with an optical fiber. The spectral noise densities show a region of negative contribution of the backaction noise close to the resonance frequency. We interpret this noise reduction as a coherent coupling of the microlever to the laser intensity noise. This optomechanical effect could be used to improve the detection sensitivity as discussed in proposals going beyond the Standard Quantum Limit.

id: 1107.4560
title: Stabilization of single-electron pumps by high magnetic fields
authors: J. D. Fletcher, M. Kataoka, S. P. Giblin, Sunghun Park, H.-S. Sim, P. See, T. J. B. M. Janssen, J. P. Griffiths, G. A. C. Jones, H. E. Beere, D. A. Ritchie
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4560
abstract: We study the effect of perpendicular magnetic fields on a single-electron system with a strongly time-dependent electrostatic potential. Continuous improvements to the current quantization in these electron pumps are revealed by high-resolution measurements. Simulations show that the sensitivity of tunnel rates to the barrier potential is enhanced, stabilizing particular charge states. Nonadiabatic excitations are also suppressed due to a reduced sensitivity of the Fock-Darwin states to electrostatic potential. The combination of these effects leads to significantly more accurate current quantization.

id: 1107.4589
title: Hard and soft walls
authors: Kimball A. Milton
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4589
abstract: In a continuing effort to understand divergences which occur when quantum fields are confined by bounding surfaces, we investigate local energy densities (and the local energy-momentum tensor) in the vicinity of a wall. In this paper, attention is largely confined to a scalar field. If the wall is an infinite Dirichlet plane, well known volume and surface divergences are found, which are regulated by a temporal point-splitting parameter. If the wall is represented by a linear potential in one coordinate $z$, the divergences are softened. The case of a general wall, described by a potential of the form $z^\alpha$ for $z>0$ is considered. If $\alpha>2$, there are no surface divergences, which in any case vanish if the conformal stress tensor is employed. Divergences within the wall are also considered.

id: 1107.4596
title: Matrix Superpotential Linear in Variable Parameter
authors: Yuri Karadzhov
comments: 11 pages, stylistic corrections were added, some signs were corrected
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4596
abstract: The paper presents the classification of matrix valued superpotentials corresponding to shape invariant systems of Schr\"odinger equations. All inequivalent irreducible matrix superpotentials realized by matrices of arbitrary dimension with linear dependence on variable parameter are presented explicitly.

id: 1107.4650
title: Numerical Solution of the Time-Dependent Dirac Equation in Coordinate Space without Fermion-Doubling
authors: Francois Fillion-Gourdeau, Emmanuel Lorin, Andre D. Bandrauk
comments: 46 pages, 9 figures, new version contains new numerical results and revised text
journal: Computer Physics Communication, Volume 183, Issue 7, 2012, Pages 1404-1415
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4650
abstract: The validation and parallel implementation of a numerical method for the solution of the time-dependent Dirac equation is presented. This numerical method is based on a split operator scheme where the space-time dependence is computed in coordinate space using the method of characteristics. Thus, most of the steps in the splitting are calculated exactly, making for a very efficient and unconditionally stable method. We show that it is free from spurious solutions related to the fermion-doubling problem and that it can be parallelized very efficiently. We consider a few simple physical systems such as the time evolution of Gaussian wave packets and the Klein paradox. The numerical results obtained are compared to analytical formulas for the validation of the method.

id: 1107.4746
title: Optimized coupling of cold atoms into a fiber using a blue-detuned hollow-beam funnel
authors: Jerome Poulin, Philip S. Light, Raman Kashyap, Andre N. Luiten
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4746
abstract: We theoretically investigate the process of coupling cold atoms into the core of a hollow-core photonic-crystal optical fiber using a blue-detuned Laguerre-Gaussian beam. In contrast to the use of a red-detuned Gaussian beam to couple the atoms, the blue-detuned hollow-beam can confine cold atoms to the darkest regions of the beam thereby minimizing shifts in the internal states and making the guide highly robust to heating effects. This single optical beam is used as both a funnel and guide to maximize the number of atoms into the fiber. In the proposed experiment, Rb atoms are loaded into a magneto-optical trap (MOT) above a vertically-oriented optical fiber. We observe a gravito-optical trapping effect for atoms with high orbital momentum around the trap axis, which prevents atoms from coupling to the fiber: these atoms lack the kinetic energy to escape the potential and are thus trapped in the laser funnel indefinitely. We find that by reducing the dipolar force to the point at which the trapping effect just vanishes, it is possible to optimize the coupling of atoms into the fiber. Our simulations predict that by using a low-power (2.5 mW) and far-detuned (300 GHz) Laguerre-Gaussian beam with a 20-{\mu}m radius core hollow-fiber it is possible to couple 11% of the atoms from a MOT 9 mm away from the fiber. When MOT is positioned further away, coupling efficiencies over 50% can be achieved with larger core fibers.

id: 1107.4758
title: The effect of photo-generated carriers on the spectral diffusion of a quantum dot coupled to a photonic crystal cavity
authors: Arka Majumdar, Erik D. Kim, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4758
abstract: We experimentally observe the effect of photo-generated carriers on the spectral diffusion of a quantum dot (QD) coupled to a photonic crystal (PC) cavity. In this system, spectral diffusion arises in part from charge fluctuations on the etched surfaces of the PC. We find that these fluctuations may be suppressed by photo-generated carriers, leading to a reduction of the measured QD linewidth by a factor of ~2 compared to the case where the photo-generated carriers are not present. This result demonstrates a possible means of countering the effects of spectral diffusion in QD-PC cavity systems and thus may be useful for quantum information applications where narrow QD linewidths are desired.

id: 1107.4903
title: Microwave amplification with nanomechanical resonators
authors: F. Massel, T. T. Heikkil?, J.-M. Pirkkalainen, S. U. Cho, H. Saloniemi, P. Hakonen, M. A. Sillanp??
comments: Main text + supplementary information. 14 pages, 3 figures (main text), 18 pages, 6 figures (supplementary information)
journal: Nature 480, 351-354 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4903
abstract: Sensitive measurement of electrical signals is at the heart of modern science and technology. According to quantum mechanics, any detector or amplifier is required to add a certain amount of noise to the signal, equaling at best the energy of quantum fluctuations. The quantum limit of added noise has nearly been reached with superconducting devices which take advantage of nonlinearities in Josephson junctions. Here, we introduce a new paradigm of amplification of microwave signals with the help of a mechanical oscillator. By relying on the radiation pressure force on a nanomechanical resonator, we provide an experimental demonstration and an analytical description of how the injection of microwaves induces coherent stimulated emission and signal amplification. This scheme, based on two linear oscillators, has the advantage of being conceptually and practically simpler than the Josephson junction devices, and, at the same time, has a high potential to reach quantum limited operation. With a measured signal amplification of 25 decibels and the addition of 20 quanta of noise, we anticipate near quantum-limited mechanical microwave amplification is feasible in various applications involving integrated electrical circuits.

id: 1107.4908
title: Dissipative Optomechanics in a Michelson--Sagnac Interferometer
authors: Andr¨¦ Xuereb, Roman Schnabel, Klemens Hammerer
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 213604 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4908
abstract: Dissipative optomechanics studies the coupling of the motion of an optical element to the decay rate of a cavity. We propose and theoretically explore a realization of this system in the optical domain, using a combined Michelson--Sagnac interferometer, which enables a strong and tunable dissipative coupling. Quantum interference in such a setup results in the suppression of the lower motional sideband, leading to strongly enhanced cooling in the non-sideband-resolved regime. With state-of-the-art parameters, ground-state cooling and low-power quantum-limited position transduction are both possible. The possibility of a strong and tunable dissipative coupling opens up a new route towards observation of fundamental optomechanical effects such as ponderomotive squeezing or nonlinear dynamics. Beyond optomechanics, the method suggested here can be readily transferred to other setups involving such systems as nonlinear media, atomic ensembles, or single atoms.

id: 1107.4927
title: Nonadiabatic quantum control of a semiconductor charge qubit
authors: Y. Dovzhenko, J. Stehlik, K. D. Petersson, J. R. Petta, H. Lu, A. C. Gossard
comments: Related papers at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. B (RC) 84, 161302 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4927
abstract: We demonstrate multipulse quantum control of a single electron charge qubit. The qubit is manipulated by applying nonadiabatic voltage pulses to a surface depletion gate and readout is achieved using a quantum point contact charge sensor. We observe Ramsey fringes in the excited state occupation in response to a pi/2 - pi/2 pulse sequence and extract T2* ~ 60 ps away from the charge degeneracy point. Simulations suggest these results may be extended to implement a charge-echo by reducing the interdot tunnel coupling and pulse rise time, thereby increasing the nonadiabaticity of the pulses.

id: 1107.4968
title: Optically Induced Polarization and Depolarization of an Electron Spin in a Nitrogen-Vacancy Center of Diamond Nano-crystals
authors: Robert Chapman, Taras Plakhotnik
comments: 12 text pages + 7 figures + references. A new figure and a reference are added. The data in the figure support the model and the data of the first version
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4968
abstract: Pulsed laser excitation causes the luminescence of Nitrogen Vacancy centers in diamond to unexpectedly decrease with increasing pulse energy. This decrease is observed in both the negatively charged and neutral centers and is caused by shortening of the luminescence lifetimes of the centers of both types. In darkness, the luminescence does not show any recovery on a time scale of 10 microseconds but as little as three low-intensity pulses can return the luminescence to its previous, brighter state. An external magnetic field reduces the magnitude of the effect. A possible mechanism for these phenomena based on optical polarisation and depolarisation of an electronic spin is proposed.

id: 1107.4983
title: Josephson-like currents in graphene for arbitrary time-dependent potential barriers
authors: Sergey E. Savel'ev, Wolfgang Hausler, Peter Hanggi
comments: 8 pages, 4 figure
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4983
abstract: From the exact solution of the Dirac-Weyl equation we find unusual currents j_y running in y-direction parallel to a time-dependent scalar potential barrier W(x,t) placed upon a monolayer of graphene, even for vanishing momentum component p_y. In their sine-like dependence on the phase difference of wave functions, describing left and right moving Dirac fermions, these currents resemble Josephson currents in superconductors, including the occurance of Shapiro steps at certain frequencies of potential oscillations. The Josephson-like currents are calculated for several specific time-dependent barriers. A novel type of resonance is discovered when, accounting for the Fermi velocity, temporal and spatial frequencies match.

id: 1107.5036
title: Comparing two methods of regularization of the kinetic energy density
authors: Dan Solomon
comments: Added an extra section. 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5036
abstract: In this paper we will compare two different methods of regularizing the kinetic energy density for a massless scalar field in the presence of a static scalar potential. One method of regularization is to subtract the cosmological constant from the "naive" expression for the kinetic energy density. The other method is to use point split regularization. It is found that the two methods yield different results. The result obtained using point split regularization includes an extra ambiguous term.

id: 1107.5057
title: Decoherence in Crystals of Quantum Molecular Magnets
authors: S. Takahashi, I.S. Tupitsyn, J. van Tol, C.C. Beedle, D. N. Hendrickson, P.C.E. Stamp
comments: Submitted version including 11 pages, 3 figures and online supporting materials. Appeared on Nature Advance Online Publication (AOP) on July 20th, 2011. (this http URL)
journal: Will be published in Nature on 4 August 2011
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5057
abstract: Decoherence in Nature has become one of the most pressing problems in physics. Many applications, including quantum information processing, depend on understanding it; and fundamental theories going beyond quantum mechanics have been suggested [1-3], where the breakdown of quantum theory appears as an 'intrinsic decoherence', mimicking environmental decoherence [4]. Such theories cannot be tested until we have a handle on ordinary environmental decoherence processes. Here we show that the theory for insulating electronic spin systems can make accurate predictions for environmental decoherence in molecular-based quantum magnets [5]. Experimental understanding of decoherence in molecular magnets has been limited by short decoherence times, which make coherent spin manipulation extremely difficult [6-9]. Here we reduce the decoherence by applying a strong magnetic field. The theory predicts the contributions to the decoherence from phonons, nuclear spins, and intermolecular dipolar interactions, for a single crystal of the Fe8 molecular magnet. In experiments we find that the decoherence time varies strongly as a function of temperature and magnetic field. The theoretical predictions are fully verified experimentally - there are no other visible decoherence sources. Our investigation suggests that the decoherence time is ultimately limited by nuclear spins, and can be extended up to about 500 microseconds, by optimizing the temperature, magnetic field, and nuclear isotopic concentrations.

id: 1107.5090
title: Exact polynomial solutions of second order differential equations and their applications
authors: Yao-Zhong Zhang
comments: LaTex 25 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 065206 (20pp)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5090
abstract: We find all polynomials $Z(z)$ such that the differential equation $${X(z)\frac{d^2}{dz^2}+Y(z)\frac{d}{dz}+Z(z)}S(z)=0,$$ where $X(z), Y(z), Z(z)$ are polynomials of degree at most 4, 3, 2 respectively, has polynomial solutions $S(z)=\prod_{i=1}^n(z-z_i)$ of degree $n$ with distinct roots $z_i$. We derive a set of $n$ algebraic equations which determine these roots. We also find all polynomials $Z(z)$ which give polynomial solutions to the differential equation when the coefficients of X(z) and Y(z) are algebraically dependent. As applications to our general results, we obtain the exact (closed-form) solutions of the Schr\"odinger type differential equations describing: 1) Two Coulombically repelling electrons on a sphere; 2) Schr\"odinger equation from kink stability analysis of $\phi^6$-type field theory; 3) Static perturbations for the non-extremal Reissner-Nordstr\"om solution; 4) Planar Dirac electron in Coulomb and magnetic fields; and 5) O(N) invariant decatic anharmonic oscillator.

id: 1107.5176
title: Locking Local Oscillator Phase to the Atomic Phase via Weak Measurement
authors: Nobuyasu Shiga, Makoto Takeuchi
comments: 18 pages, 7 figures, submitted to New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 14 023034 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5176
abstract: We propose a new method to reduce the frequency noise of a Local Oscillator (LO) to the level of white phase noise by maintaining (not destroying by projective measurement) the coherence of the ensemble pseudo-spin of atoms over many measurement cycles. This scheme uses weak measurement to monitor the phase in Ramsey method and repeat the cycle without initialization of phase and we call, "atomic phase lock (APL)" in this paper. APL will achieve white phase noise as long as the noise accumulated during dead time and the decoherence are smaller than the measurement noise. A numerical simulation confirms that with APL, Allan deviation is averaged down at a maximum rate that is proportional to the inverse of total measurement time, tau^-1. In contrast, the current atomic clocks that use projection measurement suppress the noise only down to the level of white frequency, in which case Allan deviation scales as tau^-1/2. Faraday rotation is one of the possible ways to realize weak measurement for APL. We evaluate the strength of Faraday rotation with 171Yb+ ions trapped in a linear rf-trap and discuss the performance of APL. The main source of the decoherence is a spontaneous emission induced by the probe beam for Faraday rotation measurement. One can repeat the Faraday rotation measurement until the decoherence become comparable to the SNR of measurement. We estimate this number of cycles to be ~100 cycles for a realistic experimental parameter.

id: 1107.5258
title: Diagrammatics for SU(2) invariant matrix product states
authors: Andreas Fledderjohann, Andreas Kl¨¹mper, Karl-Heinz M¨¹tter
comments: 18 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5258
abstract: We report on a systematic implementation of su(2) invariance for matrix product states (MPS) with concrete computations cast in a diagrammatic language. As an application we present a variational MPS study of $su(2)$ invariant quantum spin systems. For efficient computations we make systematic use of the su(2) symmetry at all steps of the calculations: (i) the matrix space is set up as a direct sum of irreducible representations, (ii) the local matrices with state-valued entries are set up as superposition of su(2) singlet operators, (iii) products of operators are evaluated algebraically by making use of identities for $3j$ and $6j$ symbols. The remaining numerical computations like the diagonalization of the associated transfer matrix and the minimization of the energy expectation value are done in spaces free of symmetry degeneracies. The energy expectation value is a strict upper bound of the true ground-state energy and yields definite conclusions about the accuracy of DMRG results reported in the literature. Furthermore, we present explicit results with accuracy better than $10^{-4}$ for nearest- and next-nearest neighbour spin correlators and for general dimer-dimer correlators in the thermodynamical limit of the spin-1/2 Heisenberg chain with frustration.

id: 1107.5416
title: Realization of a distributed Bragg reflector for propagating guided matter waves
authors: Charlotte M. Fabre, Pierrick Cheiney, Giovanni Luca Gattobigio, Francois Vermersch, St¨¦phane Faure, Renaud Mathevet, Thierry Lahaye, David Gu¨¦ry-Odelin
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures + supplementary material (2 pages, 2 figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 230401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5416
abstract: We report on the experimental realization of a Bragg reflector for guided matter waves. A Bose-Einstein condensate with controlled velocity distribution impinges onto an attractive optical lattice of finite length and directly probes its band structure. We study the dynamics of the scattering by this potential and compare the results with simple one-dimensional models. We emphasize the importance of taking into account the gaussian envelope of the optical lattice which gives rise to Bragg cavity effects. Our results are a further step towards integrated atom optics setups for quasi-cw matter waves.

id: 1107.5516
title: Alexander Polynomial Invariants of Torus Knots T(n,3) and Chebyshev Polynomials
authors: A.M. Gavrilik, A.M. Pavlyuk
comments: 8 pages, two-column ujp style; this http URL
journal: Ukr. J. Phys., 2011, Vol. 56, no. 7, pp. 680-687
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5516
abstract: The explicit formula, which expresses the Alexander polynomials \Delta_{n,3}(t) of torus knots T(n,3) as a sum of the Alexander polynomials \Delta_{k,2}(t) of torus knots T(k,2), is found. Using this result and those from our previous papers, we express the Alexander polynomials \Delta_{n,3}(t) through Chebyshev polynomials. The latter result is extended to general torus knots T(n,l) with n and l coprime.

id: 1107.5605
title: Singular Perturbation Approximations for a Class of Linear Quantum Systems
authors: Ian R. Petersen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5605
abstract: This paper considers the use of singular perturbation approximations for a class of linear quantum systems arising in the area of linear quantum optics. The paper presents results on the physical realizability properties of the approximate system arising from singular perturbation model reduction.

id: 1107.5607
title: Low Frequency Approximation for a class of Linear Quantum Systems using Cascade Cavity Realization
authors: Ian R. Petersen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5607
abstract: This paper presents a method for approximating a class of complex transfer function matrices corresponding to physically realizable complex linear quantum systems. The class of linear quantum systems under consideration includes interconnections of passive optical components such as cavities, beam-splitters, phase-shifters and interferometers. This approximation method builds on a previous result for cascade realization and gives good approximations at low frequencies.

id: 1107.5704
title: Quasibosons composed of two q-fermions: realization by deformed oscillators
authors: A. M. Gavrilik, I. I. Kachurik, Yu. A. Mishchenko
comments: 24 pages; v2: new appendix with particular examples given, few references added, minor textual changes made
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor., vol.44 (2011) 475303
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5704
abstract: Composite bosons, here called {\it quasibosons} (e.g. mesons, excitons, etc.), occur in various physical situations. Quasibosons differ from bosons or fermions as their creation and annihilation operators obey non-standard commutation relations, even for the "fermion+fermion" composites. Our aim is to realize the operator algebra of quasibosons composed of two fermions or two q-fermions (q-deformed fermions) by the respective operators of deformed oscillators, the widely studied objects. For this, the restrictions on quasiboson creation/annihilation operators and on the deformed oscillator (deformed boson) algebra are obtained. Their resolving proves uniqueness of the family of deformations and gives explicitly the deformation structure function (DSF) which provides the desired realization. In case of two fermions as constituents, such realization is achieved when the DSF is quadratic polynomial in the number operator. In the case of two q-fermions, q\neq 1, the obtained DSF inherits the parameter q and does not continuously converge when q\to 1 to the DSF of the first case.

id: 1107.5781
title: Study of light-assisted collisions between a few cold atoms in a microscopic dipole trap
authors: A. Fuhrmanek, R. Bourgain, Y. R. P. Sortais, A. Browaeys
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062708 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5781
abstract: We study light-assisted collisions in an ensemble containing a small number (~3) of cold Rb87 atoms trapped in a microscopic dipole trap. Using our ability to operate with one atom exactly in the trap, we measure the one-body heating rate associated to a near-resonant laser excitation, and we use this measurement to extract the two-body loss rate associated to light-assisted collisions when a few atoms are present in the trap. Our measurements indicate that the two-body loss rate can reach surprisingly large values beta>10^{-8} cm^{3}.s^{-1} and varies rapidly with the trap depth and the parameters of the excitation light.

id: 1107.5794
title: Waves, Particles, and Quantized Transitions: A New Realistic Model of the Microworld
authors: Alan M. Kadin
comments: 32 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5794
abstract: A novel two-tiered organization of the microworld is presented, in which only the fundamental quantum fields of the standard model of particle physics (electrons, photons, quarks, etc.) are true quantum waves, exhibiting linear superposition. In contrast, confined quantum waves and their composites (such as nucleons and atoms) move collectively as particles following a classical Hamiltonian trajectory, as derived from the coherent phases of the component quantum waves. However, transitions between such quasi-classical trajectories are still subject to quantum transition rules of energy and momentum quantization (both linear and angular). Furthermore, there is no quantum decoherence, and no entanglement of multi-particle states. This provides a clear foundation for classical behavior, and avoids paradoxes of quantum measurement such as Schr\"odinger cat states. A synthesis of this type does not seem to have been previously examined. Can such a simple realistic representation really account for the known physics? This does require major reinterpretations of some established phenomena such as crystal diffraction, phonons, and superfluids.

id: 1107.5803
title: Terahertz relativistic spatial solitons in doped graphene metamaterials
authors: Haiming Dong, Claudio Conti, Fabio Biancalana
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5803
abstract: We propose an electrically tunable graphene-based metamaterial showing a large nonlinear optical response at THz frequencies, which we calculate analytically for the first time to our knowledge and arises from the intraband current. The structure sustains a novel type of stable two-dimensional spatial solitary wave, a relativistic version of the Townes soliton. These results can be also applied to any material exhibiting a conical dispersion with massless Dirac fermions.

id: 1107.5833
title: Multiple-scale approach for the expansion scaling of superfluid quantum gases
authors: I. L. Egusquiza, M. Modugno, M. A. Valle Basagoiti
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A84: 043629, 2011
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5833
abstract: We present a general method, based on a multiple-scale approach, for deriving the perturbative solutions of the scaling equations governing the expansion of superfluid ultracold quantum gases released from elongated harmonic traps. We discuss how to treat the secular terms appearing in the usual naive expansion in the trap asymmetry parameter epsilon, and calculate the next-to-leading correction for the asymptotic aspect ratio, with significant improvement over the previous proposals.

id: 1107.5911
title: Resolutions of Identity for Some Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians. I. Exceptional Point in Continuous Spectrum
authors: Alexander A. Andrianov, Andrey V. Sokolov
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 7 (2011), 111, 19 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5911
abstract: Resolutions of identity for certain non-Hermitian Hamiltonians constructed from biorthogonal sets of their eigen- and associated functions are given for the spectral problem defined on entire axis. Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians under consideration possess the continuous spectrum and the following peculiarities are investigated: (1) the case when there is an exceptional point of arbitrary multiplicity situated on a boundary of continuous spectrum; (2) the case when there is an exceptional point situated inside of continuous spectrum. The reductions of the derived resolutions of identity under narrowing of the classes of employed test functions are revealed. It is shown that in the case (1) some of associated functions included into the resolution of identity are normalizable and some of them may be not and in the case (2) the bounded associated function corresponding to the exceptional point does not belong to the physical state space. Spectral properties of a SUSY partner Hamiltonian for the Hamiltonian with an exceptional point are examined.

id: 1107.5912
title: Observation of noise phase locking in a single-frequency VECSEL
authors: A. El Amili, V. Pal, F. Goldfarb, R. Ghosh, M. Alouini, I. Sagnes, F. Bretenaker
comments: 
journal: Optics Express 19, 17250 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5912
abstract: We present an experimental observation of phase locking effects in the intensity noise spectrum of a semiconductor laser. These noise correlations are created in the medium by coherent carrier-population oscillations induced by the beatnote between the lasing and non-lasing modes of the laser. This phase locking leads to a modification of the intensity noise profile at around the cavity free-spectral-range value. The noise correlations are evidenced by varying the relative phase shift between the laser mode and the non-lasing adjacent side modes.

id: 1107.5916
title: Resolutions of Identity for Some Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians. II. Proofs
authors: Andrey V. Sokolov
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 7 (2011), 112, 16 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5916
abstract: This part is a continuation of the Part I where we built resolutions of identity for certain non-Hermitian Hamiltonians constructed of biorthogonal sets of their eigen- and associated functions for the spectral problem defined on entire axis. Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians under consideration are taken with continuous spectrum and the following cases are examined: an exceptional point of arbitrary multiplicity situated on a boundary of continuous spectrum and an exceptional point situated inside of continuous spectrum. In the present work the rigorous proofs are given for the resolutions of identity in both cases.

id: 1107.5937
title: Extracting information from non adiabatic dynamics: excited symmetric states of the Bose-Hubbard model
authors: M. Lacki, D. Delande, J. Zakrzewski
comments: inv. talk at 5th Workshop on Quantum Chaos and Localization Phenomena, Warsaw 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5937
abstract: Using Fourier transform on a time series generated by unitary evolution, we extract many-body eigenstates of the Bose-Hubbard model corresponding to low energy excitations, which are generated when the insulator-superfluid phase transition is realized in a typical experiment. The analysis is conducted in a symmetric external potential both without and with and disorder. A simple classification of excitations in the absence disorder is provided. The evolution is performed assuming the presence of the parity symmetry in the system rendering many-body quantum states either symmetric or antisymmetric. Using symmetry-breaking technique, those states are decomposed into elementary one-particle processes.

id: 1107.5956
title: Fluctuation-dissipation relations and critical quenches in the transverse field Ising chain
authors: Laura Foini, Leticia F. Cugliandolo, Andrea Gambassi
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 212404 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5956
abstract: Dynamic correlation and response functions of classical and quantum systems in thermal equilibrium are connected by fluctuation-dissipation theorems, which allow an alternative definition of their (unique) temperature. Motivated by this fundamental property, we revisit the issue of thermalization of closed many-body quantum systems long after a sudden quench, focussing on the non-equilibrium dynamics of the Ising chain in a critical transverse field. We show the emergence of distinct observable-dependent effective temperatures, which rule out Gibbs thermalization in a strict sense but might still have a thermodynamic meaning.

id: 1107.6013
title: Quantum thermal equilibration from equipartition
authors: A. V. Ponomarev, S. Denisov, J. Gemmer, P. H?nggi
comments: Accepted to EPL, 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: EPL 98, 40011 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.6013
abstract: The problem of mutual equilibration between two finite, identical quantum systems, A and B, prepared initially at different temperatures is elucidated. We show that the process of energy exchange between the two systems leads to accurate equipartition within energy shells in the Hilbert space of the total non-interacting, composite system, A \otimes B. This scenario occurs under the general condition of a weak interaction between the systems. We predict that the sole hypothesis of such equipartition is sufficient to obtain a relaxation of the peers, A and B, towards a common thermal-like state. This conjecture is fully corroborated by an exact diagonalization of several quantum models.

id: 1107.6019
title: Causal categories: relativistically interacting processes
authors: Bob Coecke, Raymond Lal
comments: 43 pages, lots of figures
journal: Found. Phys. 43(4), 458-501 (2012)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.6019
abstract: A symmetric monoidal category naturally arises as the mathematical structure that organizes physical systems, processes, and composition thereof, both sequentially and in parallel. This structure admits a purely graphical calculus. This paper is concerned with the encoding of a fixed causal structure within a symmetric monoidal category: causal dependencies will correspond to topological connectedness in the graphical language. We show that correlations, either classical or quantum, force terminality of the tensor unit. We also show that well-definedness of the concept of a global state forces the monoidal product to be only partially defined, which in turn results in a relativistic covariance theorem. Except for these assumptions, at no stage do we assume anything more than purely compositional symmetric-monoidal categorical structure. We cast these two structural results in terms of a mathematical entity, which we call a `causal category'. We provide methods of constructing causal categories, and we study the consequences of these methods for the general framework of categorical quantum mechanics.

id: 1107.6023
title: Relativistic Wavepackets in Classically Chaotic Quantum Cosmological Billiards
authors: Michael Koehn
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys Rev D 85, 063501 (2012)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.6023
abstract: Close to a spacelike singularity, pure gravity and supergravity in four to eleven spacetime dimensions admit a cosmological billiard description based on hyperbolic Kac-Moody groups. We investigate the quantum cosmological billiards of relativistic wavepackets towards the singularity, employing flat and hyperbolic space descriptions for the quantum billiards. We find that the strongly chaotic classical billiard motion of four-dimensional pure gravity corresponds to a spreading wavepacket subject to successive redshifts and tending to zero as the singularity is approached. We discuss the possible implications of these results in the context of singularity resolution and compare them with those of known semiclassical approaches. As an aside, we obtain exact solutions for the one-dimensional relativistic quantum billiards with moving walls.

id: 1107.5074
title: Symmetric and conserved energy-momentum tensors in moving media
authors: Finn Ravndal
comments: 5 pages, LaTeX, two references added with commentary
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5074
abstract: A symmetric and conserved energy-momentum tensor for a scalar field in a moving medium is derived using the Gordon metric. When applied to an electromagnetic field, the method gives a similar result. This approach thus points a way out of the old Abraham-Minkowski controversy about the correct energy-momentum tensors for the electromagnetic field in a material medium. The new tensor describes the properties of the field while the Abraham tensor contains information about the field coupled to the medium.

id: 1107.3816
title: Atomic fragments from the nuclear reaction of the ${}^{6}$Li atom with slow neutrons
authors: Alexei M. Frolov, David M. Wardlaw
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3816
abstract: Approximate probabilities of formation of various atoms and ions in different bound states are determined for the exothermic nuclear $(n,{}^{6}$Li$;t,{}^{4}$He)-reaction of atomic lithium-6 with slow neutrons. In our calculations of the final state probabilities we have assumed that the incident lithium atom is in its ground (doublet) atomic ${}^2S(L = 0)-$state. It is straightforward to generalize our analysis to other bound states of the three-electron Li atom.

id: 1107.0779
title: Cavity optoelectromechanical regenerative amplification
authors: Michael A. Taylor, Alex Szorkovszky, Joachim Knittel, Kwan H. Lee, Terry G. McRae, Warwick P. Bowen
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20, Issue 12, pp. 12742-12751 (2012)
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0779
abstract: Cavity optoelectromechanical regenerative amplification is demonstrated. An optical cavity enhances mechanical transduction, allowing sensitive measurement even for heavy oscillators. A 27.3 MHz mechanical mode of a microtoroid was linewidth narrowed to 6.6\pm1.4 mHz, 30 times smaller than previously achieved with radiation pressure driving in such a system. These results may have applications in areas such as ultrasensitive optomechanical mass spectroscopy.

id: 1107.2207
title: The valence electron photoemission spectrum of semiconductors: ab initio description of multiple satellites
authors: Matteo Guzzo, Giovanna Lani, Francesco Sottile, Pina Romaniello, Matteo Gatti, Joshua J. Kas, John J. Rehr, Mathieu G. Silly, Fausto Sirotti, Lucia Reining
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, accepted for publication on Physical Review Letters on Sept 2, 2011
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2207
abstract: The experimental valence band photoemission spectrum of semiconductors exhibits multiple satellites that cannot be described by the GW approximation for the self-energy in the framework of many-body perturbation theory. Taking silicon as a prototypical example, we compare experimental high energy photoemission spectra with GW calculations and analyze the origin of the GW failure. We then propose an approximation to the functional differential equation that determines the exact one-body Green's function, whose solution has an exponential form. This yields a calculated spectrum, including cross sections, secondary electrons, and an estimate for extrinsic and interference effects, in excellent agreement with experiment. Our result can be recast as a dynamical vertex correction beyond GW, giving hints for further developments.

id: 1107.5811
title: Initial state dependence of the quench dynamics in integrable quantum systems
authors: Marcos Rigol, Mattias Fitzpatrick
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures, as published
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 033640 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5811
abstract: We identify and study classes of initial states in integrable quantum systems that, after the relaxation dynamics following a sudden quench, lead to near-thermal expectation values of few-body observables. In the systems considered here, those states are found to be insulating ground states of lattice hard-core boson Hamiltonians. We show that, as a suitable parameter in the initial Hamiltonian is changed, those states become closer to Fock states (products of single site states) as the outcome of the relaxation dynamics becomes closer to the thermal prediction. At the same time, the energy density approaches a Gaussian. Furthermore, the entropy associated with the generalized canonical and generalized grand-canonical ensembles, introduced to describe observables in integrable systems after relaxation, approaches that of the conventional canonical and grand-canonical ensembles. We argue that those classes of initial states are special because a control parameter allows one to tune the distribution of conserved quantities to approach the one in thermal equilibrium. This helps in understanding the approach of all the quantities studied to their thermal expectation values. However, a finite-size scaling analysis shows that this behavior should not be confused with thermalization as understood for nonintegrable systems.

id: 1107.3595
title: Positron annihilation in the MuPs system
authors: Alexei M. Frolov
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters A, v. 376, 1451 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.3595
abstract: The life-time of the four-body atomic system MuPs ($\mu^{+} e^{-}_2 e^{+}$ or muonium-positronium) against positron annihilation has been evaluated as $\tau = \frac{1}{\Gamma} \approx 4.076453 \cdot 10^{-10}$ $sec$. Various annihilation rates for MuPs are determined to a good numerical accuracy, e.g., $\Gamma_{2 \gamma} \approx$ 2.446485$\cdot 10^{9}$ $sec^{-1}$, $\Gamma_{3 \gamma} \approx$ 6.62798$\cdot 10^{6}$ $sec^{-1}$, $\Gamma_{4 \gamma} \approx$ 3.61680$\cdot 10^{3}$ $sec^{-1}$, $\Gamma_{5 \gamma} \approx$ 6.32973 $sec^{-1}$. The hyperfine structure splitting for the ground state in the MuPs system has also been evaluated as $\Delta$ = 23.078 $MHz$.

id: 1107.2029
title: A quantum hydrodynamics approach to the formation of new types of waves in polarized two-dimension systems of charged and neutral particles
authors: P. A. Andreev, L. S. Kuzmenkov, M. I. Trukhanova
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys.Rev.B.84:245401,2011
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2029
abstract: In this paper we explicate a method of quantum hydrodynamics (QHD) for the study of the quantum evolution of a system of polarized particles. Though we focused primarily on the two-dimension physical systems, the method is valid for three-dimension and one-dimension systems too. The presented method is based upon the Schr\"{o}dinger equation. Fundamental QHD equations for charged and neutral particles were derived from the many-particle microscopic Schr\"{o}dinger equation. The fact that particles possess the electric dipole moment (EDM) was taken into account. The explicated QHD approach was used to study dispersion characteristics of various physical systems. We analyzed dispersion of waves in a two-dimension (2D) ion and hole gas placed into an external electric field which is orthogonal to the gas plane. Elementary excitations in a system of neutral polarized particles were studied for 1D, 2D and 3D cases. The polarization dynamics in systems of both neutral and charged particles is shown to cause formation of a new type of waves as well as changes in the dispersion characteristics of already known waves. We also analyzed wave dispersion in 2D exciton systems, in 2D electron-ion plasma and 2D electron-hole plasma. Generation of waves in 3D system neutral particles with EDM by means of the beam of electrons and neutral polarized particles is investigated.

id: 1107.4898
title: Local energy: a basis for local electronegativity and local hardness
authors: Tamas Gal
comments: 22 pages; finalized version
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4898
abstract: The traditional approach to establishing a local measure of chemical hardness, by defining a local hardness concept through the derivative of the chemical potential with respect to the electron density, has been found to have limited chemical applicability, and has proved to be an unfeasible approach in principle. Here, we propose a new approach via a unique local energy concept. This local energy is shown to emerge from the Hamilton-Jacobi kind of construction of Schrodinger's quantum mechanics. It then leads to the concepts of a local chemical potential, i.e. negative of local electronegativity, and a local hardness just as the chemical potential and hardness are obtained from the energy, namely via differentiations with respect to the number of electrons. The emerging local hardness adds corrections to a recently proposed local hardness expression that has been found to be a good local measure of hardness for a series of atomic and molecular systems. These corrections become relevant for molecules with a large number of electrons. It is pointed out further that the definition of local softness that yields it as the Fukui function times the softness is not well-established, explaining recent observations of failure of this local softness concept as a proper local reactivity index for hard systems.

id: 1107.1103
title: Dipolar bosons on an optical lattice ring
authors: Michal Maik, Pierfrancesco Buonsante, Alessandro Vezzani, Jakub Zakrzewski
comments: decompressed version now reaching 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.1103
abstract: We consider an ultra-small system of polarized bosons on an optical lattice with a ring topology interacting via long range dipole-dipole interactions. Dipoles polarized perpendicular to the plane of the ring reveal sharp transitions between different density wave phases. As the strength of the dipolar interactions is varied the behavior of the transitions is first-order like. For dipoles polarized in the plane of the ring the transitions between possible phases show pronounced sensitivity to the lattice depth. The abundance of possible configurations may be useful for quantum information applications.

id: 1107.2371
title: From closed to open 1D Anderson model: Transport versus spectral statistics
authors: S. Sorathia, F. M. Izrailev, V. G. Zelevinsky, G. L. Celardo
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures, fully revised version accepted for publication in PRE
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2371
abstract: Using the phenomenological expression for the level spacing distribution with only one parameter, $0 \leq \beta \leq \infty$, covering all regimes of chaos and complexity in a quantum system, we show that transport properties of the one-dimensional Anderson model of finite size can be expressed in terms of this parameter. Specifically, we demonstrate a strictly linear relation between $\beta$ and the normalized localization length for the whole transition from strongly localized to extended states. This result allows one to describe all transport properties in the open system entirely in terms of the parameter $\beta$ and strength of coupling to continuum. For non-perfect coupling, our data show a quite unusual interplay between the degree of internal chaos defined by $\beta$, and degree of openness of the model. The results can be experimentally tested in single-mode waveguides with either bulk or surface disorder.

id: 1107.2523
title: Dynamics of localized states in extended supersymmetric quantum mechanics with multi-well potentials
authors: V. P. Berezovoj, M. I. Konchatnij
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.2523
abstract: In this paper we propose a self--consistent approach to the description of temporal dynamics of localized states. This approach is based on exactly solvable quantum mechanical models with multi-well potentials and their propagators. States of Hamiltonians with multi-well potentials form a suitable basis for the expansion of wave packets with different shapes and localization degrees. We also consider properties of the tunneling wave packets, taking into account all states of Hamiltonians with symmetric and asymmetric potentials, as well as their dependence on the degree of localization and deformations of potentials. The study of the dynamics of initially localized states shows that application of the two-state approximation for the description of tunneling is considerably limited, especially for systems, which have several states in the under-barrier region, as for example in modern superconducting quantum interference devices and traps for cold atoms.

id: 1107.4274
title: Non-Abelian toplogical superconductors from topological semimetals and related systems under superconducting proximity effect
authors: Jian-Hua Jiang, Si Wu
comments: 
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 25, 055701 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.4274
abstract: Non-Abelian toplogical superconductors are characterized by the existence of {zero-energy} Majorana fermions bound in the quantized vortices. This is a consequence of the nontrivial bulk topology characterized by an {\em odd} Chern number. It is found that in topological semimetals with a single two-bands crossing point all the gapped superconductors are non-Abelian ones. Such a property is generalized to related but more generic systems which will be useful in the search of non-Abelian superconductors and Majorana fermions.

id: 1107.0309
title: Cavity-free Photon Blockade Induced by Many-body Bound States
authors: Huaixiu Zheng, Daniel J. Gauthier, Harold U. Baranger
comments: 4 pages main text + 4 pages supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 223601 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.0309
abstract: The manipulation of individual, mobile quanta is a key goal of quantum communication; to achieve this, nonlinear phenomena in open systems can play a critical role. We show theoretically that a variety of strong quantum nonlinear phenomena occur in a completely open one-dimensional waveguide coupled to an N-type four-level system (4LS). We focus on photon blockade and the creation of single photon states in the absence of a cavity. Many-body bound states appear due to the strong photon-photon correlation mediated by the 4LS. These bound states cause photon blockade which can generate a sub-Poissonian single photon source.

id: 1107.5703
title: Quantum information transfer between topological and spin qubit systems
authors: Martin Leijnse, Karsten Flensberg
comments: 4+ pages, 2 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 210502 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5703
abstract: We propose a method to coherently transfer quantum information, and to create entanglement, between topological qubits and conventional spin qubits. Our suggestion uses gated control to transfer an electron (spin qubit) between a quantum dot and edge Majorana modes in adjacent topological superconductors. Because of the spin polarization of the Majorana modes, the electron transfer translates spin superposition states into superposition states of the Majorana system, and vice versa. Furthermore, we show how a topological superconductor can be used to facilitate long-distance quantum information transfer and entanglement between spatially separated spin qubits.

id: 1107.5157
title: Nonperturbative Loop Quantization of Scalar-Tensor Theories of Gravity
authors: Xiangdong Zhang, Yongge Ma
comments: 18 pages, the sector of $\omega(\phi)=-3/2$ included, to be published in PRD
journal: Phys. Rev. D 84, 104045 (2011)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1107.5157
abstract: The Hamiltonian formulation of scalar-tensor theories of gravity is derived from their Lagrangian formulation by Hamiltonian analysis. The Hamiltonian formalism marks off two sectors of the theories by the coupling parameter $\omega(\phi)$. In the sector of $\omega(\phi)=-3/2$, the feasible theories are restricted and a new primary constraint generating conformal transformations of spacetime is obtained, while in the other sector of $\omega(\phi)\neq-3/2$, the canonical structure and constraint algebra of the theories are similar to those of general relativity coupled with a scalar field. By canonical transformations, we further obtain the connection dynamical formalism of the scalar-tensor theories with real $su(2)$-connections as configuration variables in both sectors. This formalism enables us to extend the scheme of non-perturbative loop quantum gravity to the scalar-tensor theories. The quantum kinematical framework for the scalar-tensor theories is rigorously constructed. Both the Hamiltonian constraint operator and master constraint operator are well defined and proposed to represent quantum dynamics. Thus loop quantum gravity method is also valid for general scalar-tensor theories.

