id: 1108.0339
title: Perfect state transfer on quotient graphs
authors: R. Bachman, E. Fredette, J. Fuller, M. Landry, M. Opperman, C. Tamon, A. Tollefson
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 12, No. 3&4, pages 293-313, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0339
abstract: We prove new results on perfect state transfer of quantum walks on quotient graphs. Since a graph $G$ has perfect state transfer if and only if its quotient $G/\pi$, under any equitable partition $\pi$, has perfect state transfer, we exhibit graphs with perfect state transfer between two vertices but which lack automorphism swapping them. This answers a question of Godsil (Discrete Mathematics 312(1):129-147, 2011). We also show that the Cartesian product of quotient graphs $\Box_{k} G_{k}/\pi_{k}$ is isomorphic to the quotient graph $\Box_{k} G_{k}/\pi$, for some equitable partition $\pi$. This provides an algebraic description of a construction due to Feder (Physical Review Letters 97, 180502, 2006) which is based on many-boson quantum walk.

id: 1108.0803
title: Classical analogue of displaced Fock states and quantum correlations in Glauber-Fock photonic lattices
authors: Robert Keil, Armando Perez-Leija, Felix Dreisow, Matthias Heinrich, Hector Moya-Cessa, Stefan Nolte, Demetrios N. Christodoulides, Alexander Szameit
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0803
abstract: Coherent states and their generalisations, displaced Fock states, are of fundamental importance to quantum optics. Here we present a direct observation of a classical analogue for the emergence of these states from the eigenstates of the harmonic oscillator. To this end, the light propagation in a Glauber-Fock waveguide lattice serves as equivalent for the displacement of Fock states in phase space. Theoretical calculations and analogue classical experiments show that the square-root distribution of the coupling parameter in such lattices supports a new family of intriguing quantum correlations not encountered in uniform arrays. Due to the broken shift-invariance of the lattice, these correlations strongly depend on the transverse position. Consequently, quantum random walks with this extra degree of freedom may be realised in Glauber-Fock lattices.

id: 1108.0913
title: Experimental simulation and limitations of quantum walks with trapped ions
authors: Robert Matjeschk, Christian Schneider, Martin Enderlein, Thomas Huber, Hector Schmitz, Jan Glueckert, Tobias Schaetz
comments: 29 pages, 15 figues
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0913
abstract: We examine the prospects of discrete quantum walks (QWs) with trapped ions. In particular, we analyze in detail the limitations of the protocol of Travaglione and Milburn (PRA 2002) that has been implemented by several experimental groups in recent years. Based on the first realization in our group (PRL 2009), we investigate the consequences of leaving the scope of the approximations originally made, such as the Lamb--Dicke approximation. We explain the consequential deviations from the idealized QW for different experimental realizations and an increasing number of steps by taking into account higher-order terms of the quantum evolution. It turns out that these become dominant after a few steps already, which is confirmed by experimental results and is currently limiting the scalability of this approach. Finally, we propose a new scheme using short laser pulses, derived from a protocol from the field of quantum computation. We show that the new scheme is not subject to the above-mentioned restrictions, and analytically and numerically evaluate its limitations, based on a realistic implementation with our specific setup. Implementing the protocol with state-of-the-art techniques should allow for substantially increasing the number of steps to 100 and beyond and should be extendable to higher-dimensional QWs.

id: 1108.0984
title: Localization of Two-Dimensional Five-State Quantum Walks
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0984
abstract: We investigate a generalized Hadamard walk in two dimensions with five inner states. The particle governed by a five-state quantum walk (5QW) moves, in superposition, either leftward, rightward, upward, or downward according to the inner state. In addition to the four degrees of freedom, it is allowed to stay at the same position. We calculate rigorously the wave function of the particle starting from the origin in the plane for any initial state, and give the spatial distribution of probability of finding the particle. We also investigate the localization problem for the two-dimensional five-state quantum walk: Does the probability of finding a particle anywhere on the plane converge to zero even after infinite time steps except initial states?

id: 1108.3318
title: Quantum Walk of Nonclassical Light in Glauber-Fock photonic lattices
authors: Amit Rai
comments: The paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3318
abstract: The paper is being updated.

id: 1108.5730
title: The quantum walk temperature
authors: Alejandro Romanelli
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5730
abstract: A thermodynamic theory is developed to describe the behavior of the entanglement between the coin and position degrees of freedom of the quantum walk on the line. This theory shows that, in spite of the unitary evolution, a steady state is established after a Markovian transient stage. This study suggests that if a quantum dynamics is developed in a composite Hilbert space (i.e. the tensor product of several sub-spaces) then the behavior of an operator that only belongs to one of the sub-spaces may camouflage the unitary character of the global evolution.

id: 1108.1791
title: Why Philosophers Should Care About Computational Complexity
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 58 pages, to appear in "Computability: G\"odel, Turing, Church, and beyond," MIT Press, 2012. Some minor clarifications and corrections; new references added
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1791
abstract: One might think that, once we know something is computable, how efficiently it can be computed is a practical question with little further philosophical importance. In this essay, I offer a detailed case that one would be wrong. In particular, I argue that computational complexity theory---the field that studies the resources (such as time, space, and randomness) needed to solve computational problems---leads to new perspectives on the nature of mathematical knowledge, the strong AI debate, computationalism, the problem of logical omniscience, Hume's problem of induction, Goodman's grue riddle, the foundations of quantum mechanics, economic rationality, closed timelike curves, and several other topics of philosophical interest. I end by discussing aspects of complexity theory itself that could benefit from philosophical analysis.

id: 1108.4149
title: Limit Theorems For the Grover Walk Without Memory
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: 15 pages, contains an extreme open problem
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4149
abstract: We consider the Grover walk as a 4-state quantum walk without memory in one dimension. The walker in our 4-state quantum walk moves to the left or right. We compute the stationary distribution of the walk, in addition, we obtain the weak limit theorem

id: 1108.5198
title: Limit Theorems for the Fibonacci Quantum Walk
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: Contains an extreme problem
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5198
abstract: We study the discrete-time quantum walk in one-dimension governed by the Fibonacci transformation .We show localization does not occur for the Fibonacci quantum walk by investigating the stationary distribution of the walk, in addition, we obtain the weak limit theorem.

id: 1108.6005
title: No quantum gravity signature from the farthest quasars
authors: Fabrizio Tamburini, Carmine Cuofano, Massimo Della Valle, Roberto Gilmozzi
comments: 5 pages 6 figures
journal: Astron.Astrophys.533:A71,2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6005
abstract: Context: Strings and other alternative theories describing the quantum properties of space-time suggest that space-time could present a foamy structure and also that, in certain cases, quantum gravity (QG) may manifest at energies much below the Planck scale. One of the observable effects could be the degradation of the diffraction images of distant sources. Aims: We searched for this degradation effect, caused by QG fluctuations, in the light of the farthest quasars (QSOs) observed by the Hubble Space Telescope with the aim of setting new limits on the fluctuations of the space-time foam and QG models. Methods: We developed a software that estimates and compares the phase variation in the interference patterns of the high-redshift QSOs, taken from the snapshot survey of HST-SDSS, with those of stars that are expected to not be affected by QG effects. We used a two-parameter function to determine, for each test star and QSO, the maximum of the diffraction pattern and to calculate the Strehl ratio. Results: Our results go far beyond those already present in the literature. By adopting the most conservative approach where the correction terms, that describe the possibility for space-time fluctuations cumulating across long distances and partially compensate for the effects of the phase variations, are taken into account. We exclude the random walk model and most of the holographic models of the space-time foam. Without considering these correction terms, all the main QG scenarios are excluded. Finally, our results show the absence of any directional dependence of QG effects and the validity of the cosmological principle with an independent method; that is, viewed on a large scale, the properties of the Universe are the same for all observers, including the effects of space-time fluctuations.

id: 1108.6110
title: Limit Theorems for the Disordered Quantum Walk
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: Contains an open problem
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6110
abstract: We study the disordered quantum walk in one dimension, and obtain the weak limit theorem.

id: 1108.6116
title: Spontaneous Parametric Down-Conversion and Quantum Walks in Arrays of Quadratic Nonlinear Waveguides
authors: Alexander S. Solntsev, Andrey A. Sukhorukov, Dragomir N. Neshev, Yuri S. Kivshar
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 023601(1-5) (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6116
abstract: We analyze the process of simultaneous photon pair generation and quantum walks realized by spontaneous parametric down conversion of a pump beam in a quadratic nonlinear waveguide array. We demonstrate that this flexible platform allows for creating quantum states with different spatial correlations. In particular, we predict that the output photon correlations can be switched from photon bunching to antibunching controlled entirely classically by varying the temperature of the array or the spatial profile of the pump beam.

