id: 1108.0001
title: Bell argument: Locality or Realism? Time to make the choice
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: English and presentation were improved; citation of the arxiv-preprint of C. Fuchs on inter-relation of locality and objectivity in Bell's theorem. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1105.4269
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0001
abstract: This paper discusses a possible resolution of the nonobjectivity-nonlocality dilemma in quantum mechanics in 'the light of experimental tests of the Bell inequality for two entangled photons and a Bell-like inequality for a single neutron. My conclusion is that these experiments show that quantum mechanics is nonobjective: that is, the values of physical observables cannot be assigned to a system before measurement. Bell's assumption of nonlocality has to be rejected as having no direct experimental confirmation, at least thus far. I also consider the relationships between nonobjectivity and contextuality. Specifically, I analyze the impact of the Kochen-Specker theorem on the problem of contextuality of quantum observables. I argue that, just as von Neumann's "no-go" theorem, the Kochen-Specker theorem is based on assumptions that do not correspond to the real physical situation. Finally, I present a theory of measurement based on a classical, purely wave model (pre-quantum classical statistical field theory), a model that reproduces quantum probabilities. In this model continuous fields are transformed into discrete clicks of detectors. While this model is classical, it is nonobjective. In this case, nonobjectivity is the result of the dependence of experimental outcomes on the context of measurement, in accordance with Bohr's view.

id: 1108.0051
title: Splitting of degenerate states in one-dimensional quantum mechanics
authors: Avik Dutt, Trisha Nath, Sayan Kar, Rajesh Parwani
comments: Title changed, content reduced, references added. 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. Jr. Plus, 127(3), 28 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0051
abstract: A classic no-go theorem in one-dimensional quantum mechanics can be evaded when the potentials are unbounded below, thus allowing for novel parity-paired degenerate energy bound states. We numerically determine the spectrum of one such potential and study the parametric variation of the transition wavelength between a bound state lying inside the valley of the potential and another, von Neumann-Wigner-like state, appearing above the potential maximum. We then construct a modified potential which is bounded below except when a parameter is tuned to vanish. We show how the spacing between certain energy levels gradually decreases as we tune the parameter to approach the value for which unboundedness arises, thus quantitatively linking the closeness of degeneracy to the steepness of the potential. Our results are generic to a large class of such potentials. Apart from their conceptual interest, such potentials might be realisable in mesoscopic systems thus allowing for the experimental study of the novel states. The numerical spectrum in this study is determined using the asymptotic iteration method which we briefly review.

id: 1108.0053
title: Changes of separation status during registration and scattering
authors: Petr Hajicek
comments: 30 pages, no figure, published version
journal: Foundations of Physics 42 (2012) 555-581
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0053
abstract: In our previous work, a new approach to the notorious problem of quantum measurement was proposed. Existing treatments of the problem were incorrect because they ignored the disturbance of measurement by identical particles and standard quantum mechanics had to be modified to obey the cluster separability principle. The key tool was the notion of separation status. Changes of separation status occur during preparations, registrations and scattering on macroscopic targets. Standard quantum mechanics does not provide any correct rules that would govern these changes. This gives us the possibility to add new rules to quantum mechanics that would satisfy the objectification requirement. The method of the present paper is to start from the standard unitary evolution and then introduce minimal corrections. Several representative examples of registration and particle scattering on macroscopic targets are analysed case by case in order to see their common features. The resulting general Rule of Separation Status Changes is stated in the Conclusion.

id: 1108.0068
title: Dynamical Casimir Effect in Optically Modulated Cavities
authors: Daniele Faccio, Iacopo Carusotto
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Europ. Phys. Lett., vol. 96, p. 24006 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0068
abstract: Cavities with periodically oscillating mirrors have been predicted to excite photon pairs out of the quantum vacuum in a process known as the Dynamical Casimir effect. Here we propose and analyse an experimental layout that can provide an efficient modulation of the effective optical length of a cavity mode in the near-infrared spectral region. An analytical model of the dynamical Casimir emission is developed and compared to the predictions of a direct numerical solution of Maxwell's equations in real time. A sizeable intensity of dynamical Casimir emission is anticipated for realistic operating parameters. In the presence of an external coherent seed beam, we predict amplification of the seed beam and the appearance of an additional phase-conjugate beam as a consequence of stimulated dynamical Casimir processes.

id: 1108.0080
title: Non-Standard Probabilistic Teleportation through Conventionally Non-Teleporting Channels
authors: Mayank Mishra, Atul Mantri, Priyank Mishra, P.K. Panigrahi
comments: 10 pages, 5 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0080
abstract: A non-standard teleportation scheme is proposed, wherein probabilistic teleportation is achieved in conventionally non-teleporting channels. We make use of entanglement monogamy to incorporate an unknown state in a multipartite entangled channel, such that the receiver partially gets disentangled from the network. Subsequently, the sender performs local measurement based teleportation protocol in an appropriate measurement basis, which results with the receiver in the possession of an unknown state, connected by local unitary transformation with the state to be teleported. This procedure succeeds in a number of cases, like that of W and other non-maximally entangled four qubit states, where the conventional measurement based approach has failed. It is also found that in certain four particle channels, the present procedure does not succeed, although the conventional one works well.

id: 1108.0097
title: Quantum Computing Without Wavefunctions: Time-Dependent Density Functional Theory for Universal Quantum Computation
authors: David G. Tempel, Alan Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 14 pages, 8 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0097
abstract: We prove that the theorems of TDDFT can be applied to a class of qubit Hamiltonians that are universal for quantum computation. The theorems of TDDFT applied to universal Hamiltonians imply that single-qubit expectation values can be used as the basic variables in quantum computation and information theory, rather than wavefunctions. From a practical standpoint this opens the possibility of approximating observables of interest in quantum computations directly in terms of single-qubit quantities (i.e. as density functionals). Additionally, we also demonstrate that TDDFT provides an exact prescription for simulating universal Hamiltonians with other universal Hamiltonians that have different, and possibly easier-to-realize two-qubit interactions.

id: 1108.0127
title: Evolution of cat states in a dissipative parametric amplifier: decoherence and entanglement
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany, J. Perina, V. Perinova, and M. Sebawe Abdalla
comments: 34 pages, 10 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 22, 141-156 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0127
abstract: The evolution of the Schr\"{o}dinger-cat states in a dissipative parametric amplifier is examined. The main tool in the analysis is the normally ordered characteristic function. Squeezing, photon-number distribution and reduced factorial moments are discussed for the single- and compound-mode cases. Also the single-mode Wigner function is demonstrated. In addition to the decoherence resulting from the interaction with the environment (damped case) there are two sources which can cause such decoherence in the system even if it is completely isolated: these are the decay of the pump and the relative phases of the initial cat states. Furthermore, for the damped case there are two regimes, which are underdamped and overdamped. In the first (second) regime the signal mode or the idler mode "collapses" to a statistical mixture (thermal field).

id: 1108.0130
title: Entanglement witnesses arising from exposed positive linear maps
authors: Kil-Chan Ha, Seung-Hyeok Kye
comments: 16 pages, Some typos are corrected
journal: Open Systems & Information Dynamics, Vol.18, Issue 4, pp.323-337 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0130
abstract: We consider entanglement witnesses arising from positive linear maps which generate exposed extremal rays. We show that every entanglement can be detected by one of these witnesses, and this witness detects a unique set of entanglement among those. Therefore, they provide a minimal set of witnesses to detect all entanglement in a sense. Furthermore, if those maps are indecomposable then they detect large classes of entanglement with positive partial transposes which have nonempty relative interiors in the cone generated by all PPT states. We also provide a one parameter family of indecomposable positive linear maps which generate exposed extremal rays. This gives the first examples of such maps between three dimensional matrix algebra.

id: 1108.0153
title: A reply to "Problems with modelling closed timelike curves as post-selected teleportation"
authors: Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone, Raul Garcia-Patron, Vittorio Giovannetti, Yutaka Shikano, Stefano Pirandola, Lee A. Rozema, Ardavan Darabi, Yasaman Soudagar, Lynden K. Shalm, Aephraim M. Steinberg
comments: 2 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0153
abstract: In arXiv:1107.4675 Ralph uses our post-selection model of closed timelike curves (P-CTC) to construct an "unproven-theorem" paradox, and claims that this voids our argument that P-CTCs are able to resolve such types of paradoxes. Here we point out that Ralph has not accounted for all the interactions needed for his construction. A more careful analysis confirms that indeed there is no paradox, contrary to his claims.

id: 1108.0182
title: Quantum simulation of neutrino oscillations with trapped ions
authors: Changsuk Noh, B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara, Dimitris G. Angelakis
comments: This is an author-created, un-copyedited version of an article accepted for publication in New Journal of Physics. IOP Publishing Ltd is not responsible for any errors or omissions in this version of the manuscript or any version derived from it. The definitive publisher authenticated version is available online at 10.1088/1367-2630/14/3/033028
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 033028 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0182
abstract: We propose a scheme to simulate the dynamics of neutrino oscillations using trapped ions. For neutrinos in 1+1 dimensions, our scheme is experimentally implementable with existing trapped ion technology. We show that the three generation neutrino oscillations can be realized with three ions for 1+3 and 1+1 dimensions where the latter case only requires experimentally proven two-ion interactions. For this case, we discuss two setups utilizing different types of spin-spin interactions. Our method can be readily applied to two generation neutrino oscillations requiring fewer ions and lasers. We give a brief outline of a possible experimental scenario.

id: 1108.0212
title: Reply to Comment on "Quantification of Macroscopic Quantum Superpositions within Phase Space"
authors: Hyunseok Jeong, Minsu Kang, Chang-Woo Lee
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0212
abstract: Gong points out [quant-ph arXiv:1106.0062] a "direct connection" between our measure [PRL 106, 220401 (2011)] recently proposed to quantify macroscopic quantum superpositions and a previously studied quantity introduced to study classical and quantum chaos. We point out that the two measures are obviously different for some mixed states, and the previous one does not work as a sensible measure to quantify quantum superpositions.

id: 1108.0226
title: SeCQC: An open-source program code for the numerical Search for the classical Capacity of Quantum Channels
authors: Jiangwei Shang, Kean Loon Lee, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: Brief description of, and user manual for, an open source code that implements a numerical Search for the classical Capacity of Quantum Channels (SeCQC) by using an iterative method. 10 pages, 5 figures; the program code is available at this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0226
abstract: SeCQC is an open-source program code which implements a Numerical Search for the classical Capacity of Quantum Channels (SeCQC) by using an iterative method. Given a quantum channel, SeCQC finds the statistical operators and POVM outcomes that maximize the accessible information, and thus determines the classical capacity of the quantum channel. The optimization procedure is realized by using a steepest-ascent method that fol- lows the gradient in the POVM space, and also uses conjugate gradients for speed-up.

id: 1108.0263
title: Upper bounds on violation of Bell-type inequalities by a multipartite quantum state
authors: Elena R. Loubenets
comments: Concise presentation of the main results on Bell inequalities in arXiv:1104.2289, reported at ICQT, July 13-17, 2011, Skolkovo, Russia
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0263
abstract: We present the new exact upper bounds on the maximal Bell violation for the generalized N-qubit GHZ state, the N-qudit GHZ state and, in general, for an arbitrary N-partite quantum state, possibly infinite-dimensional. Our results indicate that, for an N-partite quantum state of any Hilbert space dimension, violation of any Bell-type inequality (either on correlation functions or on joint probabilities) with S settings and any number of outcomes at each site cannot exceed (2S-1)^{N-1}.

id: 1108.0270
title: Thermalization of a strongly interacting closed spin system: From coherent many-body dynamics to a Fokker-Planck equation
authors: C. Ates, J. P. Garrahan, I. Lesanovsky
comments: to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 110603 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0270
abstract: Thermalization has been shown to occur in a number of closed quantum many-body systems, but the description of the actual thermalization dynamics is prohibitively complex. Here, we present a model - in one and two dimensions - for which we can analytically show that the evolution into thermal equilibrium is governed by a Fokker-Planck equation derived from the underlying quantum dynamics. Our approach does not rely on a formal distinction of weakly coupled bath and system degrees of freedom. The results show that transitions within narrow energy shells lead to a dynamics which is dominated by entropy and establishes detailed balance conditions that determine both the eventual equilibrium state and the non-equilibrium relaxation to it.

id: 1108.0303
title: QFT In Physical Systems: Condensed Matter to Life Sciences
authors: A.N. Mitra
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0303
abstract: A panoramic view is given of the applications of QFT to diverse areas of physics, beginning with the concepts of QED Vacuum as well as of electron self-energy and renormalization. The related concepts of the degenerate vacuum, spontaneous symmetry breaking (SSB)and Nambu-Goldstone bosons, together with their applications to condensed matter physics and quasi particles are outlined. The possibilities of application to life sciences are also examined. Finally the alternative method of Path integrals for introducing QFT is briefly indicated.

id: 1108.0339
title: Perfect state transfer on quotient graphs
authors: R. Bachman, E. Fredette, J. Fuller, M. Landry, M. Opperman, C. Tamon, A. Tollefson
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 12, No. 3&4, pages 293-313, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0339
abstract: We prove new results on perfect state transfer of quantum walks on quotient graphs. Since a graph $G$ has perfect state transfer if and only if its quotient $G/\pi$, under any equitable partition $\pi$, has perfect state transfer, we exhibit graphs with perfect state transfer between two vertices but which lack automorphism swapping them. This answers a question of Godsil (Discrete Mathematics 312(1):129-147, 2011). We also show that the Cartesian product of quotient graphs $\Box_{k} G_{k}/\pi_{k}$ is isomorphic to the quotient graph $\Box_{k} G_{k}/\pi$, for some equitable partition $\pi$. This provides an algebraic description of a construction due to Feder (Physical Review Letters 97, 180502, 2006) which is based on many-boson quantum walk.

id: 1108.0367
title: Projective Representations of the Inhomogeneous Hamilton Group: Noninertial Symmetry in Quantum Mechanics
authors: S. G. Low, P. D. Jarvis, R. Campoamor-Stursberg
comments: 
journal: Annals of Physics 327 (2012), pp. 74-101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0367
abstract: Symmetries in quantum mechanics are realized by the projective representations of the Lie group as physical states are defined only up to a phase. A cornerstone theorem shows that these representations are equivalent to the unitary representations of the central extension of the group. The formulation of the inertial states of special relativistic quantum mechanics as the projective representations of the inhomogeneous Lorentz group, and its nonrelativistic limit in terms of the Galilei group, are fundamental examples. Interestingly, neither of these symmetries includes the Weyl-Heisenberg group; the hermitian representations of its algebra are the Heisenberg commutation relations that are a foundation of quantum mechanics. The Weyl-Heisenberg group is a one dimensional central extension of the abelian group and its unitary representations are therefore a particular projective representation of the abelian group of translations on phase space. A theorem involving the automorphism group shows that the maximal symmetry that leaves invariant the Heisenberg commutation relations are essentially projective representations of the inhomogeneous symplectic group. In the nonrelativistic domain, we must also have invariance of Newtonian time. This reduces the symmetry group to the inhomogeneous Hamilton group that is a local noninertial symmetry of Hamilton's equations. The projective representations of these groups are calculated using the Mackey theorems for the general case of a nonabelian normal subgroup.

id: 1108.0374
title: The complexity of energy eigenstates as a mechanism for equilibration
authors: Lluis Masanes, Augusto J. Roncaglia, Antonio Acin
comments: improved version (6 pages + appendix)
journal: Phys Rev E 87 032137 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0374
abstract: Understanding the mechanisms responsible for the equilibration of isolated quantum many-body systems is a long-standing open problem. In this work we obtain a statistical relationship between the equilibration properties of Hamiltonians and the complexity of their eigenvectors, provided that a conjecture about the incompressibility of quantum circuits holds. We quantify the complexity by the size of the smallest quantum circuit mapping the local basis onto the energy eigenbasis. Specifically, we consider the set of all Hamiltonians having complexity C, and show that almost all such Hamiltonians equilibrate if C is super-quadratic with the system size, which includes the fully random Hamiltonian case in the limit C to infinity, and do not equilibrate if C is sub-linear. We also provide a simple formula for the equilibration time-scale in terms of the Fourier transform of the level density. Our results are statistical and, therefore, do not apply to specific Hamiltonians. Yet, they establish a fundamental link between equilibration and complexity theory.

id: 1108.0434
title: Genuine quantum and classical correlations in multipartite systems
authors: Gian Luca Giorgi, Bruno Bellomo, Fernando Galve, Roberta Zambrini
comments: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Physical Review Letters 107, 190501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0434
abstract: Generalizing the quantifiers used to classify correlations in bipartite systems, we define genuine total, quantum, and classical correlations in multipartite systems. The measure we give is based on the use of relative entropy to quantify the "distance" between two density matrices. Moreover, we show that, for pure states of three qubits, both quantum and classical bipartite correlations obey a ladder ordering law fixed by two-body mutual informations, or, equivalently, by one-qubit entropies.

id: 1108.0435
title: Modeling and control of entanglement dynamics in laser cooling of trapped atoms
authors: Maryam Roghani, Heinz-Peter Breuer, Hanspeter Helm
comments: 11 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012313 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0435
abstract: We discuss the dynamical behavior of the entanglement between the internal and the external degrees of freedom of a trapped atom in electromagnetically-induced transparency (EIT) laser cooling. It is shown that essential features of the intricate entanglement dynamics observed in full numerical simulations of the underlying quantum master equation can be understood in terms of a two-state model on the basis of Landau-Zener splittings in the atom-laser field Hamiltonian. An extension of this model to an effective non-Hermitian Hamiltonian is constructed which describes the decay of entanglement by spontaneous emission processes. We also discuss schemes for the control of entanglement and demonstrate that a permanent entanglement can be imprinted on trapped atoms through a rapid switch off of the driving fields. Finally, we point out fundamental distinctions between the entanglement created in EIT cooling and in the cooling scheme based on velocity-selective coherent population trapping.

id: 1108.0456
title: Necessary conditions for optimality of decomposable entanglement witnesses
authors: Seung-Hyeok Kye
comments: Final form to be published in Rep. Math. Phys. The last example is corrected together with minor texts
journal: Rep. Math. Phys., 63 (2012), 419-426
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0456
abstract: It is well known that the support of an optimal decomposable entanglement witness is completely entangled. We add two more necessary conditions for the optimality: The orthogonal complement of the support must have a nonzero product vector; another one will be given in terms of related faces of a convex cone. With these necessary conditions, we show that there exist examples of non-optimal decomposable entanglement witnesses which are the partial transposes of positive semi-definite matrices supported on completely entangled spaces, whenever both of the local dimensions are greater than or equal to three.

id: 1108.0485
title: Simulating typical entanglement with many-body Hamiltonian dynamics
authors: Yoshifumi Nakata, Mio Murao
comments: Revised, 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052321 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0485
abstract: We study the time evolution of the amount of entanglement generated by one dimensional spin-1/2 Ising-type Hamiltonians composed of many-body interactions. We investigate sets of states randomly selected during the time evolution generated by several types of time-independent Hamiltonians by analyzing the distributions of the amount of entanglement of the sets. We compare such entanglement distributions with that of typical entanglement, entanglement of a set of states randomly selected from a Hilbert space with respect to the unitarily invariant measure. We show that the entanglement distribution obtained by a time-independent Hamiltonian can simulate the average and standard deviation of the typical entanglement, if the Hamiltonian contains suitable many-body interactions. We also show that the time required to achieve such a distribution is polynomial in the system size for certain types of Hamiltonians.

id: 1108.0493
title: Casimir interaction between two concentric cylinders at nonzero temperature
authors: L. P. Teo
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Europhys. Lett. 96 (2011), 10006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0493
abstract: We study the finite temperature Casimir interaction between two concentric cylinders. When the separation between the cylinders is much smaller than the radii of the cylinders, the asymptotic expansions of the Casimir interaction are derived. Both the low temperature and the high temperature regions are considered. The leading terms are found to agree with the proximity force approximations. The low temperature leading term of the temperature correction is also computed and it is found to be independent of the boundary conditions imposed on the larger cylinder.

id: 1108.0513
title: Optimal entanglement witnesses for two qutrits
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Gniewomir Sarbicki
comments: 4 pages
journal: Open Sys. Information Dyn. 20, 1350006 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0513
abstract: We provide a proof that entanglement witnesses considered recently in [D. Chru\'sci\'nski, F.A. Wudarski, arXiv:1105.4821] are optimal.

id: 1108.0528
title: Collective strong coupling between ion Coulomb crystals and an optical cavity field: Theory and experiment
authors: M. Albert, J. P. Marler, P. F. Herskind, A. Dantan, M. Drewsen
comments: 15 pages, 15 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 023818 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0528
abstract: A detailed description and theoretical analysis of experiments achieving coherent coupling between an ion Coulomb crystal and an optical cavity field are presented. The various methods used to measure the coherent coupling rate between large ion Coulomb crystals in a linear quadrupole radiofrequency ion trap and a single field mode of a moderately high-finesse cavity are described in detail. Theoretical models based on a semiclassical approach are applied in assessment of the experimental results of [P. F. Herskind et al., Nature Phys. 5, 494 (2009)] and of complementary new measurements. Generally, a very good agreement between theory and experiments is obtained.

id: 1108.0531
title: A monomial matrix formalism to describe quantum many-body states
authors: Maarten Van den Nest
comments: 11 pages + appendices
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 123004 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0531
abstract: We propose a framework to describe and simulate a class of many-body quantum states. We do so by considering joint eigenspaces of sets of monomial unitary matrices, called here "M-spaces"; a unitary matrix is monomial if precisely one entry per row and column is nonzero. We show that M-spaces encompass various important state families, such as all Pauli stabilizer states and codes, the AKLT model, Kitaev's (abelian and non-abelian) anyon models, group coset states, W states and the locally maximally entanglable states. We furthermore show how basic properties of M-spaces can transparently be understood by manipulating their monomial stabilizer groups. In particular we derive a unified procedure to construct an eigenbasis of any M-space, yielding an explicit formula for each of the eigenstates. We also discuss the computational complexity of M-spaces and show that basic problems, such as estimating local expectation values, are NP-hard. Finally we prove that a large subclass of M-spaces---containing in particular most of the aforementioned examples---can be simulated efficiently classically with a unified method.

id: 1108.0537
title: Isotropic non-locality cannot be distilled
authors: Dejan D. Dukaric
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author since it crucially depends on arXiv:1105.2513 which is flawed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0537
abstract: We investigate non-locality distillation protocols for isotropic correlations. These correlations are the hardest instances which respect to distillability and only partial results are known about their behaviour under non-locality distillation protocols. We completely resolve this issue by proving that non-locality distillation is impossible for all non-local isotropic correlations.

id: 1108.0563
title: On the interaction of a single-photon wave packet with an excited atom
authors: P.V. Elyutin
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0563
abstract: The interaction of a single-photon wave packet with an initially excited two-level atom in free space is studied in semiclassical and quantum approaches. It is shown that the final state of the field does not contain doubly occupied modes. The process of the atom's transition to the ground state may be accelerated, decelerated or even reversed by the incoming photon, depending on parameters. The spectrum of emitted radiation is close to the sum of the spectrum of the incoming single-photon wave packet and the natural line shape, with small and complicated deviations.

id: 1108.0578
title: Gaussian multipartite bound information
authors: Ladislav Mi?ta, Jr., Natalia Korolkova
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 040305 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0578
abstract: We demonstrate the existence of Gaussian multipartite bound information which is a classical analog of Gaussian multipartite bound entanglement. We construct a tripartite Gaussian distribution from which no secret key can be distilled, but which cannot be created by local operations and public communication. Further, we show that the presence of bound information is conditional on the presence of a part of the adversary's information creatable only by private communication. Existence of this part of the adversary's information is found to be a more generic feature of classical analogs of quantum phenomena obtained by mapping of non-classically correlated separable quantum states.

id: 1108.0591
title: Spin noise spectroscopy under resonant optical probing conditions: coherent and non-linear effects
authors: H. Horn, G. M. M¨¹ller, E. M. Rasel, L. Santos, J. H¨¹bner, M. Oestreich
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043851 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0591
abstract: High sensitivity Faraday rotation spectroscopy is used to measure the fluctuating magnetization noise of non-interacting rubidium atoms under resonant and non-resonant optical probing conditions. The spin noise frequency spectra in dependence on the probe light detuning with respect to the D2-transition reveals clear signatures of a coherent coupling of the participating electronic levels. The results are explained by extended Bloch equations including homogeneous and inhomogeneous broadening mechanisms. Our measurements further indicate that spin noise originating from excited states are governed at high intensities by collective effects.

id: 1108.0617
title: QMA variants with polynomially many provers
authors: Sevag Gharibian, Jamie Sikora, Sarvagya Upadhyay
comments: Minor changes. 22 pages, no figures
journal: Quantum Information & Computation 13(1 & 2):0135-0157, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0617
abstract: We study three variants of multi-prover quantum Merlin-Arthur proof systems. We first show that the class of problems that can be efficiently verified using polynomially many quantum proofs, each of logarithmic-size, is exactly MQA (also known as QCMA), the class of problems which can be efficiently verified via a classical proof and a quantum verifier. We then study the class BellQMA(poly), characterized by a verifier who first applies unentangled, nonadaptive measurements to each of the polynomially many proofs, followed by an arbitrary but efficient quantum verification circuit on the resulting measurement outcomes. We show that if the number of outcomes per nonadaptive measurement is a polynomially-bounded function, then the expressive power of the proof system is exactly QMA. Finally, we study a class equivalent to QMA(m), denoted SepQMA(m), where the verifier's measurement operator corresponding to outcome "accept" is a fully separable operator across the m quantum proofs. Using cone programming duality, we give an alternate proof of a result of Harrow and Montanaro [FOCS, pp. 633--642 (2010)] that shows a perfect parallel repetition theorem for SepQMA(m) for any m.

id: 1108.0620
title: Decays of degeneracies in PT-symmetric ring-shaped lattices
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 17 pp, 10 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 375 (2011), pp. 3435-3441
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0620
abstract: Non-Hermitian ring-shaped discrete lattices share the appeal with their more popular linear predecessors. Their dynamics controlled by the nearest-neighbor interaction is equally phenomenologically interesting. In comparison, the innovative nontriviality of their topology may be expected to lead to new spectral effects. Some of them are studied here via solvable examples. Main attention is paid to the perturbation-caused removals of spectral degeneracy at exceptional points.

id: 1108.0630
title: Experimental Test of Universality of the Anderson Transition
authors: Matthias Lopez, Jean-Fran?ois Cl¨¦ment, Pascal Szriftgiser, Jean Claude Garreau, Dominique Delande
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Physical Review Letters 108, 9 (2012) 095701
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0630
abstract: We experimentally test the universality of the Anderson three dimensional metal-insulator transition. Nine sets of parameters controlling the microscopic details of this second order phase transition have been tested. The corresponding critical exponents are independent (within $2\sigma$) of these microscopic details, and the average value $1.63\pm0.05$ is in very good agreement with the numerically predicted value, $\nu = 1.58$.

id: 1108.0641
title: An information theoretic study of number-phase complementarity in a four level atomic system
authors: Archana Sharma, R. Srikanth, Subhashish Banerjee, Hema Ramachandran
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0641
abstract: We study number-phase uncertainty in a laser-driven, effectively four-level atomic system under electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) and coherent population trapping (CPT). Uncertainty is described using (entropic) knowledge of the two complementary variables, namely, number and phase, where knowledge is defined as the relative entropy with respect to a uniform distribution. In the regime where the coupling and probe lasers are approximately of equal strength, and the atom exists in a CPT state, there is coherence between the ground states, and correspondingly large phase knowledge and lower number knowledge. The situation is the opposite in the case where coupling laser is much stronger and the atom exists in an EIT state. We study these effects also in the presence of a higher-order nonlinear absorption, which is seen to produce a dephasing effect.

id: 1108.0642
title: Qubit flip game on a Heisenberg spin chain
authors: Jaros?aw A. Miszczak, Piotr Gawron, Zbigniew Pucha?a
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, 3 tables
journal: Quantum Inf. Process., Vol. 11, No. 6 (2012), pp. 1571-1583
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0642
abstract: We study a quantum version of a penny flip game played using control parameters of the Hamiltonian in the Heisenberg model. Moreover, we extend this game by introducing auxiliary spins which can be used to alter the behaviour of the system. We show that a player aware of the complex structure of the system used to implement the game can use this knowledge to gain higher mean payoff.

id: 1108.0646
title: A scheme for symmetrization verification
authors: Pedro Sancho
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scr. 84 (2011)025003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0646
abstract: We propose a scheme for symmetrization verification in two-particle systems, based on one-particle detection and state determination. In contrast to previous proposals, it does not follow a Hong-Ou-Mandel-type approach. Moreover, the technique can be used to generate superposition states of single particles.

id: 1108.0672
title: Short-time quantum detection: probing quantum fluctuations
authors: Marco del Rey, Carlos Sabin, Juan Leon
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 045802 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0672
abstract: In this work we study the information provided by a detector click on the state of an initially excited two level system. By computing the time evolution of the corresponding conditioned probability beyond the rotating wave approximation, as needed for short time analysis, we show that a click in the detector is related with the decay of the source only for long times of interaction. For short times, non-rotating wave approximation effects, like self-excitations of the detector, forbid a na\"{i}ve interpretation of the detector readings. These effects might appear in circuit QED experiments.

id: 1108.0699
title: Quantum read-out and fast initialization of nuclear spin qubits with electric currents
authors: Noah Stemeroff, Rogerio de Sousa
comments: Final version to be published in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 197602 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0699
abstract: Nuclear spin qubits have the longest coherence times in the solid state, but their quantum read-out and initialization is a great challenge. We present a theory for the interaction of an electric current with the nuclear spins of donor impurities in semiconductors. The theory yields a sensitivity criterion for quantum detection of nuclear spin states using electrically detected magnetic resonance, as well as an all electrical method for fast nuclear spin qubit initialization.

id: 1108.0701
title: Geometric phase kickback in a mesoscopic qubit-oscillator system
authors: G. Vacanti, R. Fazio, M. S. Kim, G. M. Palma, M. Paternostro, V. Vedral
comments: RevTeX4, 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022129 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0701
abstract: We illustrate a reverse Von Neumann measurement scheme in which a geometric phase induced on a quantum harmonic oscillator is measured using a microscopic qubit as a probe. We show how such a phase, generated by a cyclic evolution in the phase space of the harmonic oscillator, can be kicked back on the qubit, which plays the role of a quantum interferometer. We also extend our study to finite-temperature dissipative Markovian dynamics and discuss potential implementations in micro and nano-mechanical devices coupled to an effective two-level system.

id: 1108.0703
title: Numerical solutions of the Dicke Hamiltonian
authors: Miguel A. Bastarrachea-Magnani, Jorge G. Hirsch
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures, 1 table, Proc. Quantum Optics V, Cozumel, Mexico, November 15-19, 2010
journal: Rev. Mex. Fis. 57 (2011) 69 - 75
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0703
abstract: We study the numerical solutions of the Dicke Hamiltonian, which describes a system of many two level atoms interacting with a monochromatic radiation field into a cavity. The Dicke model is an example of a quantum collective behavior which shows superradiant quantum phase transitions in the thermodynamic limit. Results obtained employing two different bases are compared. Both of them use the pseudospin basis to describe the atomic states. For the photon states we use in one case Fock states, while in the other case we use a basis built over a particular coherent state, associated to each atomic state. It is shown that, when the number of atoms increases, the description of the ground state of the system in the superradiant phase requires an equivalent number of photons to be included. This imposes a strong limit to the states that can be calculated using Fock states, while the dimensionality needed to obtain convergent results in the other basis decreases when the atomic number increases, allowing calculations that are very difficult in the Fock basis. Naturally, it reduces also the computing time, economizing computing resources. We show results for the energy, the photon number and the number of excited atoms, for the ground and the first excited state.

id: 1108.0706
title: Single Molecule Magnets and the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model
authors: Jorge A. Campos, Jorge G. Hirsch
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, 1 table, Proc. Quantum Optics V, Cozumel, Mexico, November 15-19, 2010
journal: Rev. Mex. Fis. 57 (2011) 56-61
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0706
abstract: We discuss the description of quantum magnetization in the super paramagnetic compound Fe$_8$ using a generalization of the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick Hamiltonian. We study the variation of the energy spectra and of the wave-functions as functions of the intensity of an external magnetic field along the three magnetic anisotropy axes.

id: 1108.0752
title: On Bell inequality violations with high-dimensional systems
authors: Adetunmise C. Dada, Erika Andersson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0752
abstract: Quantum correlations resulting in violations of Bell inequalities have generated a lot of interest in quantum information science and fundamental physics. In this paper, we address some questions that become relevant in Bell-type tests involving systems with local dimension greater than 2. For CHSH-Bell tests within 2-dimensional subspaces of such high-dimensional systems, it has been suggested that experimental violation of Tsirelson's bound indicates that more than 2-dimensional entanglement was present. We explain that the overstepping of Tsirelson's bound is due to violation of fair sampling, and can in general be reproduced by a separable state, if fair sampling is violated. For a class of Bell-type inequalities generalized to d-dimensional systems, we then consider what level of violation is required to guarantee d-dimensional entanglement of the tested state, when fair sampling is satisfied. We find that this can be used as an experimentally feasible test of d-dimensional entanglement for up to quite high values of d.

id: 1108.0803
title: Classical analogue of displaced Fock states and quantum correlations in Glauber-Fock photonic lattices
authors: Robert Keil, Armando Perez-Leija, Felix Dreisow, Matthias Heinrich, Hector Moya-Cessa, Stefan Nolte, Demetrios N. Christodoulides, Alexander Szameit
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0803
abstract: Coherent states and their generalisations, displaced Fock states, are of fundamental importance to quantum optics. Here we present a direct observation of a classical analogue for the emergence of these states from the eigenstates of the harmonic oscillator. To this end, the light propagation in a Glauber-Fock waveguide lattice serves as equivalent for the displacement of Fock states in phase space. Theoretical calculations and analogue classical experiments show that the square-root distribution of the coupling parameter in such lattices supports a new family of intriguing quantum correlations not encountered in uniform arrays. Due to the broken shift-invariance of the lattice, these correlations strongly depend on the transverse position. Consequently, quantum random walks with this extra degree of freedom may be realised in Glauber-Fock lattices.

id: 1108.0823
title: Quantum filtering one bit at a time
authors: Jason F. Ralph, Neil P. Oxtoby
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 260503 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0823
abstract: In this paper we consider the purification of a quantum state using the information obtained from a continuous measurement record, where the classical measurement record is digitized to a single bit per measurement after the measurements have been made. Analysis indicates that efficient and reliable state purification is achievable for one- and two-qubit systems. We also consider quantum feedback control based on the discrete one-bit measurement sequences.

id: 1108.0841
title: A passive transmitter for quantum key distribution with coherent light
authors: Marcos Curty, Marc Jofre, Valerio Pruneri, Morgan W. Mitchell
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1009.3830
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0841
abstract: Signal state preparation in quantum key distribution schemes can be realized using either an active or a passive source. Passive sources might be valuable in some scenarios; for instance, in those experimental setups operating at high transmission rates, since no externally driven element is required. Typical passive transmitters involve parametric down-conversion. More recently, it has been shown that phase-randomized coherent pulses also allow passive generation of decoy states and Bennett-Brassard 1984 (BB84) polarization signals, though the combination of both setups in a single passive source is cumbersome. In this paper, we present a complete passive transmitter that prepares decoy-state BB84 signals using coherent light. Our method employs sum-frequency generation together with linear optical components and classical photodetectors. In the asymptotic limit of an infinite long experiment, the resulting secret key rate (per pulse) is comparable to the one delivered by an active decoy-state BB84 setup with an infinite number of decoy settings.

id: 1108.0888
title: Algebraically contractible topological tensor network states
authors: S. J. Denny, J. D. Biamonte, D. Jaksch, S. R. Clark
comments: 23 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 015309
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0888
abstract: We adapt the bialgebra and Hopf relations to expose internal structure in the ground state of a Hamiltonian with $Z_2$ topological order. Its tensor network description allows for exact contraction through simple diagrammatic rewrite rules. The contraction property does not depend on specifics such as geometry, but rather originates from the non-trivial algebraic properties of the constituent tensors. We then generalise the resulting tensor network from a spin-1/2 lattice to a class of exactly contractible states on spin-S degrees of freedom, yielding the most efficient tensor network description of finite Abelian lattice gauge theories. We gain a new perspective on these states as examples of two-dimensional quantum states with algebraically contractible tensor network representations. The introduction of local perturbations to the network is shown to reduce the von Neumann entropy of string-like regions, creating an unentangled sub-system within the bulk in a certain limit. We also show how perturbations induce finite-range correlations in this system. This class of tensor networks is readily translated onto any lattice, and we differentiate between the physical consequences of bipartite and non-bipartite lattices on the properties of the corresponding quantum states. We explicitly show this on the hexagonal, square, kagome and triangular lattices.

id: 1108.0902
title: Generation of degenerate, factorizable, pulsed squeezed light at telecom wavelengths
authors: Thomas Gerrits, Martin J. Stevens, Burm Baek, Brice Calkins, Adriana Lita, Scott Glancy, Emanuel Knill, Sae Woo Nam, Richard P. Mirin, Robert H. Hadfield, Ryan S. Bennink, Warren P. Grice, Sander Dorenbos, Tony Zijlstra, Teun Klapwijk, Val Zwiller
comments: 
journal: Opt. Express 19(24), 24434-24447 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0902
abstract: We characterize a periodically poled KTP crystal that produces an entangled, two-mode, squeezed state with orthogonal polarizations, nearly identical, factorizable frequency modes, and few photons in unwanted frequency modes. We focus the pump beam to create a nearly circular joint spectral probability distribution between the two modes. After disentangling the two modes, we observe Hong-Ou-Mandel interference with a raw (background corrected) visibility of 86 % (95 %) when an 8.6 nm bandwidth spectral filter is applied. We measure second order photon correlations of the entangled and disentangled squeezed states with both superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors and photon-number-resolving transition-edge sensors. Both methods agree and verify that the detected modes contain the desired photon number distributions.

id: 1108.0913
title: Experimental simulation and limitations of quantum walks with trapped ions
authors: Robert Matjeschk, Christian Schneider, Martin Enderlein, Thomas Huber, Hector Schmitz, Jan Glueckert, Tobias Schaetz
comments: 29 pages, 15 figues
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0913
abstract: We examine the prospects of discrete quantum walks (QWs) with trapped ions. In particular, we analyze in detail the limitations of the protocol of Travaglione and Milburn (PRA 2002) that has been implemented by several experimental groups in recent years. Based on the first realization in our group (PRL 2009), we investigate the consequences of leaving the scope of the approximations originally made, such as the Lamb--Dicke approximation. We explain the consequential deviations from the idealized QW for different experimental realizations and an increasing number of steps by taking into account higher-order terms of the quantum evolution. It turns out that these become dominant after a few steps already, which is confirmed by experimental results and is currently limiting the scalability of this approach. Finally, we propose a new scheme using short laser pulses, derived from a protocol from the field of quantum computation. We show that the new scheme is not subject to the above-mentioned restrictions, and analytically and numerically evaluate its limitations, based on a realistic implementation with our specific setup. Implementing the protocol with state-of-the-art techniques should allow for substantially increasing the number of steps to 100 and beyond and should be extendable to higher-dimensional QWs.

id: 1108.0922
title: The assumption in Bell's inequalities and entanglement problem
authors: Milo? V. Lokaj¨ª?ek
comments: 4 pages, 0 figure, extension of original text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0922
abstract: Bell derived the given inequalities on the basis of one rather forceful assumption that was supposed to hold in the hidden variable theory. However, this assumption has been so strong that it has corresponded only to the classical physics; any dependence on spin orientations of individual objects (i.e., on quantum characteristics) having been practically excluded. And consequently, the hidden-variable theory has not been refused by corresponding experimental data. On the other side, Einstein's criticism of Copenhagen quantum mechanics based on ontological approach refusing nonlocality has been entitled as a much higher limit value corresponds to Bell's probability combination in such a case. And there is not any reason to believe in direct interaction between matter objects at greater distances as shown recently also by K. Hess on the basis of another approach.

id: 1108.0923
title: Reduction of the Casimir force from indium tin oxide film by UV treatment
authors: C. C. Chang, A. A. Banishev, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko, U. Mohideen
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., v. 107, N 9, p. 090403-1-4 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0923
abstract: A significant decrease in the magnitude of the Casimir force (from 21% to 35%) was observed after an indium tin oxide (ITO) sample interacting with an Au sphere was subjected to the UV treatment. Measurements were performed by using an atomic force microscope (AFM) in high vacuum. The experimental results are compared with theory, and a hypothetical explanation for the observed phenomenon is proposed.

id: 1108.0936
title: Entanglement in composite bosons realized by deformed oscillators
authors: A. M. Gavrilik, Yu. A. Mishchenko
comments: 5 pages; v2: abstract and introduction rewritten, references added
journal: Phys. Lett. A 376 (2012), pp.1596-1600
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0936
abstract: Composite bosons (or quasibosons), as recently proven, are realizable by deformed oscillators and due to that can be effectively treated as particles of nonstandard statistics (deformed bosons). This enables us to study quasiboson states and their inter-component entanglement aspects using the well developed formalism of deformed oscillators. We prove that the internal entanglement characteristics for single two-component quasiboson are determined completely by the parameter(s) of deformation. The bipartite entanglement characteristics are generalized and calculated for arbitrary multi-quasiboson (Fock, coherent etc.) states and expressed through deformation parameter.

id: 1108.0963
title: Non-adiabatic elimination of auxiliary modes in continuous quantum measurements
authors: Huan Yang, Haixing Miao, Yanbei Chen
comments: a revised version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0963
abstract: When measuring a complex quantum system, we are often interested in only a few degrees of freedom-the plant, while the rest of them are collected as auxiliary modes-the bath. The bath can have finite memory (non-Markovian), and simply ignoring its dynamics, i.e., adiabatically eliminating it, will prevent us from predicting the true quantum behavior of the plant. We generalize the technique introduced by Strunz et. al. [Phys. Rev. Lett 82, 1801 (1999)], and develop a formalism that allows us to eliminate the bath non-adiabatically in continuous quantum measurements, and obtain a non-Markovian stochastic master equation for the plant which we focus on. We apply this formalism to three interesting examples relevant to current experiments.

id: 1108.0984
title: Localization of Two-Dimensional Five-State Quantum Walks
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0984
abstract: We investigate a generalized Hadamard walk in two dimensions with five inner states. The particle governed by a five-state quantum walk (5QW) moves, in superposition, either leftward, rightward, upward, or downward according to the inner state. In addition to the four degrees of freedom, it is allowed to stay at the same position. We calculate rigorously the wave function of the particle starting from the origin in the plane for any initial state, and give the spatial distribution of probability of finding the particle. We also investigate the localization problem for the two-dimensional five-state quantum walk: Does the probability of finding a particle anywhere on the plane converge to zero even after infinite time steps except initial states?

id: 1108.0991
title: Toward an Information-based Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics and the Quantum-Classical Transition
authors: Juan G. Roederer
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0991
abstract: I will show how an objective definition of the concept of information and the consideration of recent results about information-processing in the human brain help clarify some fundamental and often counter-intuitive aspects of quantum mechanics. In particular, I will discuss entanglement, teleportation, non-interaction measurements and decoherence in the light of the fact that pragmatic information, the one our brain handles, can only be defined in the classical macroscopic domain; it does not operate in the quantum domain. This justifies viewing quantum mechanics as a discipline dealing with mathematical models and procedures aimed exclusively at predicting possible macroscopic changes and their likelihood that a given quantum system may cause when it interacts with its environment, including man-made devices such as measurement instruments. I will discuss the informational and neurobiological reasons of why counter-intuitive aspects arise whenever we attempt to construct mental images of the "inner workings" of a quantum system by forcing the concepts of classical information and time into the quantum domain; in this context I will examine the role of pragmatic information as a discriminator in the quantum-to-classical transition.

id: 1108.1006
title: Preparation of Knill-Laflamme-Milburn states using tunable controlled phase gate
authors: Karel Lemr
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, accepted in Journal of Physics B
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 195501
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1006
abstract: A specific class of partially entangled states known as Knill-Laflamme-Milburn states (or KLM states) has been proved to be useful in relation to quantum information processing [Knill et al., Nature 409, 46 (2001)]. Although the usage of such states is widely investigated, considerably less effort has been invested into experimentally accessible preparation schemes. This paper discusses the possibility to employ a tunable controlled phase gate to generate an arbitrary Knill-Laflamme-Milburn state. In the first part, the idea of using the controlled phase gate is explained on the case of two-qubit KLM states. Optimization of the proposed scheme is then discussed for the framework of linear optics. Subsequent generalization of the scheme to arbitrary n-qubit KLM state is derived in the second part of this paper.

id: 1108.1018
title: Bound State Solutions of Schr?dinger Equation for a more general Woods-Saxon Potential with Arbitrary l - state
authors: Akpan Ndem Ikot, Ita Okon Akpan
comments: 10pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1018
abstract: The energy spectra and the wave function depending on the c-factor are investigated for a more general Woods-Saxon potential (MGWSP) with an arbitrary l - state. The wave functions are expressed in terms of the Jacobi polynomials. Two potentials are obtained from this MGWSP as special cases. These special potentials are Hulthen and the standard Woods-Saxon potentials. We also discuss the energy spectrum and wave function for the special cases.

id: 1108.1024
title: Frustrated Quantum Spin Models with Cold Coulomb Crystals
authors: A. Bermudez, J. Almeida, F. Schmidt-Kaler, A. Retzker, M. B. Plenio
comments: replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 207209 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1024
abstract: We exploit the geometry of a zig-zag cold-ion crystal in a linear trap to propose the quantum simulation of a paradigmatic model of long-ranged magnetic frustration. Such a quantum simulation would clarify the complex features of a rich phase diagram that presents ferromagnetic, dimerized antiferromagnetic, paramagnetic, and floating phases, together with previously unnoticed features that are hard to assess by numerics. We analyze in detail its experimental feasibility, and provide supporting numerical evidence on the basis of realistic parameters in current ion-trap technology.

id: 1108.1027
title: Loophole-free Bell test for one atom and less than one photon
authors: N. Sangouard, J.-D. Bancal, N. Gisin, W. Rosenfeld, P. Sekatski, M. Weber, H. Weinfurter
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052122 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1027
abstract: We consider the entanglement between two internal states of a single atom and two photon number states describing either the vaccum or a single photon and thus containing, on average, less than one photon. We show that this intriguing entanglement can be characterized through substantial violations of a Bell inequality by performing homodyne detections on the optical mode. We present the experimental challenges that need to be overcome to pave the way towards a loophole-free Bell test in this setup.

id: 1108.1052
title: Testing quantum circuits and detecting insecure encryption
authors: Bill Rosgen
comments: 15 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1052
abstract: We show that computational problem of testing the behaviour of quantum circuits is hard for the class of problems known as QMA that can be verified efficiently with a quantum computer. This result is a generalization of the techniques previously used to prove the hardness of other problem on quantum circuits. We use this result to show the QMA-hardness of a weak version of the problem of detecting the insecurity of a symmetric-key quantum encryption system, or alternately the problem of determining when a quantum channel is not private. We also give a QMA protocol for the problem of detecting insecure encryption to show that it is QMA-complete.

id: 1108.1106
title: Comment on "Minimum Uncertainty and Entanglement"
authors: Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: The simple counter example given in the first version should have settled the case, but it didn't. The extended second version gives two more counter examples and exhibits the flaw in the alleged proof of arXiv:1107.5929v2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1106
abstract: Dass, Qureshi, and Sheel conjecture that the lower bound in the Heisenberg-Robertson uncertainty relation cannot be reached in mixed states. The conjecture is wrong.

id: 1108.1111
title: Fermionic entanglement extinction in non-inertial frames
authors: M. Montero, J. Leon, E. Martin-Martinez
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, revtex4-1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042320 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1111
abstract: We study families of fermionic field states in non-inertial frames which show no entanglement survival in the infinite acceleration limit. We generalise some recent results where some particular examples of such states where found. We analyse the abundance and characteristics of the states showing this behaviour and discuss its relation with the statistics of the field. We also consider the phenomenon beyond the single mode approximation.

id: 1108.1177
title: Tunable Supersolids of Rydberg Excitations Described by Quantum Evolutions on Graphs
authors: P.-L. Giscard, D. Jaksch
comments: 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1177
abstract: We show that transient supersolid quantum states of Rydberg-excitations can be created dynamically from a Mott insulator of ground state atoms in a 2D optical-lattices by irradiating it with short laser pulses. The structure of these supersolids is tunable via the choice of laser parameters. We calculate first, second and fourth order correlation functions as well as the pressure to characterize the supersolid states. Our study is based on the development of a general theoretical tool for obtaining the dynamics of strongly interacting quantum systems whose initial state is accurately known. We show that this method allows to accurately approximate the evolution of quantum systems analytically with a number of operations growing polynomially.

id: 1108.1240
title: Quantum information transfer in degenerate Raman regime
authors: Thiago Prudencio
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1240
abstract: The interaction of a three level Rydberg atom of Lambda-type with a single mode optical field in far off-resonant and at large detuning regimes can be described by an effective degenerate Raman model, where the atomic state can be treated as a two-level system of degenerate states. By means of this approximation, we propose a quantum information transfer of an one-qubit state from a Rydberg atom of Lambda-type with degenerate levels to a single-mode field initially in a coherent state.

id: 1108.1243
title: First analytic correction to the proximity force approximation in the Casimir effect between two parallel cylinders
authors: L. P. Teo
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures, some formulas corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. D 84 (2011), 065027
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1243
abstract: We consider the small separation asymptotic expansions of the Casimir interaction energy and the Casimir interaction force between two parallel cylinders. The leading order terms and the next-to-leading order terms are computed analytically. Four combinations of boundary conditions are considered, which are Dirichlet-Dirichlet (DD), Neumann-Neumann (NN), Dirichlet-Neumann (DN) and Neumann-Dirichlet (ND). For the case where one cylinder is inside another cylinder, the computations are shown in detail. In this case, we restrict our attention to the situation where the cylinders are strictly eccentric and the distance between the cylinders $d$ is much smaller than the distance between the centers of the cylinders. The computations for the case where the two cylinders are exterior to each other can be done in the same way and we only present the results, which turn up to be similar to the results for the case where one cylinder is inside another except for some changes of signs. In all the scenarios we consider, the leading order terms are of order $d^{-7/2}$ and they agree completely with the proximity force approximations. The results for the next-to-leading order terms are new. In the limiting case where the radius of the larger cylinder approaches infinity, the well-known results for the cylinder-plate configuration with DD or NN boundary conditions are recovered.

id: 1108.1249
title: Surpassing the Standard Quantum Limit in an Atom Interferometer with Four-mode Entanglement Produced from Four-Wave Mixing
authors: S. A. Haine, A. J. Ferris
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043624 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1249
abstract: We theoretically investigate a scheme for atom interferometry that surpasses the standard quantum limit. A four-wave mixing scheme similar to the recent experiment performed by Pertot et al. \cite{pertot} is used to generate sub-shot noise correlations between two modes. These two modes are then interfered with the remaining two modes in such a way as to surpass the standard quantum limit, whilst utilising all of the available atoms. Our scheme can be viewed as using two correlated interferometers. That is, the signal from each interferometer when looked at individually is classical, but there are correlations between the two interferometers that allow for the standard quantum limit to be surpassed.

id: 1108.1277
title: Holographic View on Quantum Correlations and Mutual Information between Disjoint Blocks of a Quantum Critical System
authors: Javier Molina-Vilaplana, Pasquale Sodano
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures. Abstract and Figure 1 has been modified. Minor modifications in Section 1 and Section 5
journal: JHEP 10 (2011) 011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1277
abstract: In (d+1) dimensional Multiscale Entanglement Renormalization Ansatz (MERA) networks, tensors are connected so as to reproduce the discrete, (d + 2) holographic geometry of Anti de Sitter space (AdSd+2) with the original system lying at the boundary. We analyze the MERA renormalization flow that arises when computing the quantum correlations between two disjoint blocks of a quantum critical system, to show that the structure of the causal cones characteristic of MERA, requires a transition between two different regimes attainable by changing the ratio between the size and the separation of the two disjoint blocks. We argue that this transition in the MERA causal developments of the blocks may be easily accounted by an AdSd+2 black hole geometry when the mutual information is computed using the Ryu-Takayanagi formula. As an explicit example, we use a BTZ AdS3 black hole to compute the MI and the quantum correlations between two disjoint intervals of a one dimensional boundary critical system. Our results for this low dimensional system not only show the existence of a phase transition emerging when the conformal four point ratio reaches a critical value but also provide an intuitive entropic argument accounting for the source of this instability. We discuss the robustness of this transition when finite temperature and finite size effects are taken into account.

id: 1108.1305
title: Noninvasiveness and time symmetry of weak measurements
authors: Adam Bednorz, Kurt Franke, Wolfgang Belzig
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures, more information at this http URL
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 023043 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1305
abstract: Measurements in classical and quantum physics are described in fundamentally different ways. Nevertheless, one can formally define similar measurement procedures with respect to the disturbance they cause. Obviously, strong measurements, both classical and quantum, are invasive -- they disturb the measured system. We show that it is possible to define general weak measurements, which are noninvasive: the disturbance becomes negligible as the measurement strength goes to zero. Classical intuition suggests that noninvasive measurements should be time symmetric (if the system dynamics is reversible) and we confirm that correlations are time-reversal symmetric in the classical case. However, quantum weak measurements -- defined analogously to their classical counterparts -- can be noninvasive but not time symmetric. We present a simple example of measurements on a two-level system which violates time symmetry and propose an experiment with quantum dots to measure the time-symmetry violation in a third-order current correlation function.

id: 1108.1326
title: Tunable multiple layered Dirac cones in optical lattices
authors: Z. Lan, A. Celi, W. Lu, P. Ohberg, M. Lewenstein
comments: replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 253001 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1326
abstract: We show that multiple layered Dirac cones can emerge in the band structure of properly addressed multicomponent cold fermionic gases in optical lattices. The layered Dirac cones contain multiple copies of massless spin-1/2 Dirac fermions at the {\it same}location in momentum space, whose different Fermi velocity can be tuned at will. On-site microwave Raman transitions can further be used to mix the different Dirac species, resulting in either splitting of or preserving the Dirac point (depending on the symmetry of the on-site term). The tunability of the multiple layered Dirac cones allows to simulate a number of fundamental phenomena in modern physics, such as neutrino oscillations and exotic particle dispersions with $E\sim p^N $ for arbitrary integer $N$.

id: 1108.1383
title: Protecting superconducting qubits from external sources of loss and heat
authors: Antonio D. C¨®rcoles, Jerry M. Chow, Jay M. Gambetta, Chad Rigetti, J. R. Rozen, George A. Keefe, Mary Beth Rothwell, Mark B. Ketchen, M. Steffen
comments: 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 99, 181906 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1383
abstract: We characterize a superconducting qubit before and after embedding it along with its package in an absorptive medium. We observe a drastic improvement in the effective qubit temperature and over a tenfold improvement in the relaxation time up to 5.7 $\mu$s. Our results suggest the presence of external radiation inside the cryogenic apparatus can be a limiting factor for both qubit initialization and coherence. We infer from simple calculations that relaxation is not limited by thermal photons in the sample prior to embedding, but by dissipation arising from quasiparticle generation.

id: 1108.1412
title: Entanglement of polar symmetric top molecules as candidate qubits
authors: Qi Wei, Sabre Kais, Bretislav Friedrich, Dudley Herschbach
comments: Already sent to Journal of chemical physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1412
abstract: Proposals for quantum computing using rotational states of polar molecules as qubits have previously considered only diatomic molecules. For these the Stark effect is second-order, so a sizable external electric field is required to produce the requisite dipole moments in the laboratory frame. Here we consider use of polar symmetric top molecules. These offer advantages resulting from a first-order Stark effect, which renders the effective dipole moments nearly independent of the field strength. That permits use of much lower external field strengths for addressing sites. Moreover, for a particular choice of qubits, the electric dipole interactions become isomorphous with NMR systems for which many techniques enhancing logic gate operations have been developed. Also inviting is the wider chemical scope, since many symmetric top organic molecules provide options for auxiliary storage qubits in spin and hyperfine structure or in internal rotation states.

id: 1108.1436
title: Multipartite nonlocality in the presence of particle-number super-selection rules
authors: Sebastian Meznaric, Libby Heaney, Dieter Jaksch
comments: 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1436
abstract: Super-selection rules severely restrict the possible operations one can perform on an entangled state. Their effect on the observation of non-locality through the Bell inequalities is only partially understood in the bipartite case. In this article we examine a range of multipartite entangled states and find that for those states the super-selection rules limit the genuinely multipartite nonlocality but not the non-genuinely multipartite. We argue that when the number of particles is smaller than the number of parties, genuinely multipartite nonlocality cannot be detected unless the super-selection rules can be relaxed. The tests proposed in the paper can be implemented using routinely used experimental techniques.

id: 1108.1458
title: Displaced rotations of coherent states
authors: Sergey A. Podoshvedov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1458
abstract: We propose an approach that enables to use it for construction of rotations of coherent states, in particular, it gives a possibility to construct Hadamard gate for the coherent states. Our approach is based on representation of arbitrary one-mode pure state in free-travelling fields, in particular superposition of coherent states (SCSs), in terms of displaced number states with arbitrary amplitude of displacement. Studied optical scheme is based on alternation of photon additions and displacement operators (in general case, photon additions and displacements are required) with seed coherent state to generate both even and odd displaced squeezed SCSs (DSSCSs) regardless of number of used photon additions. It is shown the studied optical scheme is sensitive to seed coherent state provided that other parameters are invariable. Output states approximate with high fidelity either even squeezed SCS or odd SCS shifted relative each other by some value. It enables to construct local rotation operator for coherent states, in particular, Hadamard gate being mainframe element for quantum computation with coherent states. The effects deteriorating quality of output states are considered.

id: 1108.1475
title: Scalable Generation and Characterization of a Four-Photon Twelve-Qubit Hyperentangled State
authors: Kun Du, Cong-Feng Qiao
comments: 14 pages, 6 Postscript figures
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 59, 611-617 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1475
abstract: An experimentally feasible scheme for generating a 12-qubit hyperentangled state via four photons, entangled in polarization, frequency and spatial mode, is proposed. We study the nature of quantum non-locality of this hyperentangled state by evaluating its violation degree to a Bell-type inequality, and find that the result agrees well with quantum mechanics prediction while extremely contradicts to the local realism constraint.

id: 1108.1480
title: Semi-device independent random number expansion without entanglement
authors: Hong-Wei Li, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Yu-Chun Wu, Xu-Bo Zou, Shuang Wang, Wei Chen, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1480
abstract: By testing the classical correlation violation between two systems, the random number can be expanded and certified without applying classical statistical method. In this work, we propose a new random number expansion protocol without entanglement, and the randomness can be guaranteed only by the 2-dimension quantum witness violation. Furthermore, we only assume that the dimensionality of the system used in the protocol has a tight bound, and the whole protocol can be regarded as a semi-device independent black-box scenario. Comparing with the device independent random number expansion protocol based on entanglement, our protocol is much easier to implement and test.

id: 1108.1493
title: Entanglement witness operator for quantum teleportation
authors: Nirman Ganguly, Satyabrata Adhikari, A. S. Majumdar, Jyotishman Chatterjee
comments: Minor revisions to match the published version. Accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 270501(2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1493
abstract: The ability of entangled states to act as resource for teleportation is linked to a property of the fully entangled fraction. We show that the set of states with their fully entangled fraction bounded by a threshold value required for performing teleportation is both convex and compact. This feature enables for the existence of hermitian witness operators the measurement of which could distinguish unknown states useful for performing teleportation. We present an example of such a witness operator illustrating it for different classes of states.

id: 1108.1517
title: Effectiveness of entangled coherent state in quantum metrology
authors: Osamu Hirota, Kentaro Kato, Dan Murakami
comments: 4 pages, no figure, add two references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1517
abstract: This Letter verifies the potential of several classes of entangled coherent state in well known quantum metrology which includes detection of classical external force, and shows that there is a class of entangled coherent state for the external force detection system without the quantum limit in the detection of the light. In the case of the precision measurement of continuos parameter like phase measurement, the entangled coherent state with perfect entanglement does not provide remarkable benefit, but we provide a concrete example that certain class of entangled coherent state gives a remarkable sensitive detection scheme in the discrimination of digital signal affected by external force.

id: 1108.1520
title: Comment on "Hidden Variable Interpretation of Spontaneous Localization Theory"
authors: Roderich Tumulka
comments: 4 pages LaTeX, no figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 478001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1520
abstract: In his recent paper [arXiv:1104.1938], Bedingham discussed a hybrid between a theory of spontaneous wave function collapse and Bohmian mechanics. I offer a simpler way of conveying the substance of Bedingham's paper.

id: 1108.1543
title: Quantum process tomography of single photon quantum channels with controllable decoherence
authors: A. Shaham, H. S. Eisenberg
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Physica Scripta
journal: A. Shaham and H. S. Eisenberg, Phys. Scr. T147, 014029 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1543
abstract: We characterized unital quantum channels of single photon polarization qubits. The channels are composed of two birefringent crystals and wave-plates, where their decoherence properties are controlled. An experimental comparison between two different depolarizing configurations was performed using a quantum process tomography procedure. The results are with a high fidelity to the theoretical predictions.

id: 1108.1562
title: Confinement and lattice QED electric flux-tubes simulated with ultracold atoms
authors: Erez Zohar, Benni Reznik
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 275301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1562
abstract: We propose a method for simulating 2+1-d compact lattice quantum-electrodynamics (QED), using ultracold atoms in optical lattices. In our model local Bose-Einstein condensates' phases correspond to the electromagnetic vector-potential, and the fluctuations of the local number operators represent the conjugate electric field. The gauge invariant Kogut-Susskind Hamiltonian is obtained as an effective low energy theory. The field is then coupled to external static charges. We show that in the strong coupling limit this gives rise to 'electric flux-tubes' and to confinement. The effect can be observed by measuring the local density fluctuations of the BECs.

id: 1108.1569
title: Asymptotics of Wigner 3nj-symbols with Small and Large Angular Momenta: an Elementary Method
authors: Valentin Bonzom, Pierre Fleury
comments: 17 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 075202
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1569
abstract: Yu and Littlejohn recently studied in arXiv:1104.1499 some asymptotics of Wigner symbols with some small and large angular momenta. They found that in this regime the essential information is captured by the geometry of a tetrahedron, and gave new formulae for 9j, 12j and 15j-symbols. We present here an alternative derivation which leads to a simpler formula, based on the use of the Ponzano-Regge formula for the relevant tetrahedron. The approach is generalized to Wigner 3nj-symbols with some large and small angular momenta, where more than one tetrahedron is needed, leading to new asymptotics for Wigner 3nj-symbols. As an illustration, we present 15j-symbols with one, two and four small angular momenta, and give an alternative formula to Yu's recent 15j-symbol with three small spins.

id: 1108.1590
title: Measurement-based quantum computing with a spin ensemble coupled to a stripline cavity
authors: Yuting Ping, Erik M. Gauger, Simon C. Benjamin
comments: 17 pages, 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 013030 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1590
abstract: Recently a new form of quantum memory has been proposed. The storage medium is an ensemble of electron spins, coupled to a stripline cavity and an ancillary readout system. Theoretical studies suggest that the system should be capable of storing numerous qubits within the ensemble, and an experimental proof-of-concept has already been performed. Here we show that this minimal architecture is not limited to storage but is in fact capable of full quantum processing by employing measurement-based entanglement. The technique appears to be remarkably robust against the anticipated dominant error types. The key enabling component, namely a readout technology that non-destructively determines "are there n photons in the cavity?", has already been realised experimentally.

id: 1108.1608
title: Quantum measurements with preselection and postselection
authors: Xuanmin Zhu, Yuxiang Zhang, Shengshi Pang, Chang Qiao, Quanhui Liu, Shengjun Wu
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 84, 052111 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1608
abstract: We study quantum measurement with preselection and postselection, and derive the precise expressions of the measurement results without any restriction on the coupling strength between the system and the measuring device. For a qubit system, we derive the maximum pointer shifts by choosing appropriate initial and finial states. A significant amplification effect is obtained when the interaction between the system and the measuring device is very weak, and typical ideal quantum measurement results are obtained when the interaction is strong. The improvement of the signal-tonoise ratio (SNR) and the enhancement of the measurement sensitivity (MS) by weak measurements are studied. Without considering the probability decrease due to postselection, the SNR and the MS can be both significantly improved by weak measurements; however, neither SNR nor MS can be effectively improved when the probability decrease is considered.

id: 1108.1659
title: Quantum Computation: Particle and Wave Aspects of Algorithms
authors: Apoorva Patel
comments: 6 pages, Prepared for the issue of Resonance in honour of Richard Feynman (v2) Minor changes. Published version
journal: Resonance---Journal of Science Education, Vol 16, 821-835 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1659
abstract: The driving force in the pursuit for quantum computation is the exciting possibility that quantum algorithms can be more efficient than their classical analogues. Research on the subject has unraveled several aspects of how that can happen. Clever quantum algorithms have been discovered in recent years, although not systematically, and the field remains under active investigation. Richard Feynman was one of the pioneers who foresaw the power of quantum computers. In this issue dedicated to him, I give an introduction to how particle and wave aspects contribute to the power of quantum computers. Shor's and Grover's algorithms are analysed as examples.

id: 1108.1674
title: Many Worlds Model resolving the Einstein Podolsky Rosen paradox via a Direct Realism to Modal Realism Transition that preserves Einstein Locality
authors: Sascha Vongehr
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1674
abstract: The violation of Bell inequalities by quantum physical experiments disproves all relativistic micro causal, classically real models, short Local Realistic Models (LRM). Non-locality, the infamous "spooky interaction at a distance" (A. Einstein), is already sufficiently 'unreal' to motivate modifying the "realistic" in "local realistic". This has led to many worlds and finally many minds interpretations. We introduce a simple many world model that resolves the Einstein Podolsky Rosen paradox. The model starts out as a classical LRM, thus clarifying that the many worlds concept alone does not imply quantum physics. Some of the desired non-locality, e.g. anti-correlation at equal measurement angles, is already present, but Bell's inequality can of course not be violated. A single and natural step turns this LRM into a quantum model predicting the correct probabilities. Intriguingly, the crucial step does obviously not modify locality but instead reality: What before could have still been a direct realism turns into modal realism. This supports the trend away from the focus on non-locality in quantum mechanics towards a mature structural realism that preserves micro causality.

id: 1108.1703
title: Optimal trajectories for efficient atomic transport without final excitation
authors: Xi Chen, E. Torrontegui, Dionisis Stefanatos, Jr-Shin Li, J. G. Muga
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043415 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1703
abstract: We design optimal harmonic-trap trajectories to transport cold atoms without final excitation, combining an inverse engineering techniqe based on Lewis-Riesenfeld invariants with optimal control theory. Since actual traps are not really harmonic, we keep the relative displacement between the center of mass and the trap center bounded. Under this constraint, optimal protocols are found according to different physical criteria. The minimum time solution has a "bang-bang" form, and the minimum displacement solution is of "bang-off-bang" form. The optimal trajectories for minimizing the transient energy are also discussed.

id: 1108.1718
title: Quantum cryptography
authors: Dag Roar Hjelme, Lars Lydersen, Vadim Makarov
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1718
abstract: This is a chapter on quantum cryptography for the book "A Multidisciplinary Introduction to Information Security" to be published by CRC Press in 2011/2012. The chapter aims to introduce the topic to undergraduate-level and continuing-education students specializing in information and communication technology.

id: 1108.1761
title: Modeling electrostatic patch effects in Casimir force measurements
authors: R. O. Behunin, F. Intravaia, D. A. R. Dalvit, P. A. Maia Neto, S. Reynaud
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, version 2 includes corrections to the text and added references. Version 3 contains modified figures and text. Version 4 contains modified figures and text
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012504 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1761
abstract: Electrostatic patch potentials give rise to forces between neutral conductors at distances in the micrometer range and must be accounted for in the analysis of Casimir force experiments. In this paper we develop a quasi-local model for describing random potentials on metallic surfaces. In contrast to some previously published results, we find that patches may provide a significant contribution to the measured signal, and may render the experimental data at distances below 1 micrometer compatible with theoretical predictions based on the Drude model.

id: 1108.1807
title: Detecting Incapacity
authors: Graeme Smith, John A. Smolin
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 230507 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1807
abstract: Using unreliable or noisy components for reliable communication requires error correction. But which noise processes can support information transmission, and which are too destructive? For classical systems any channel whose output depends on its input has the capacity for communication, but the situation is substantially more complicated in the quantum setting. We find a generic test for incapacity based on any suitable forbidden transformation---a protocol for communication with a channel passing our test would also allow us to implement the associated forbidden transformation. Our approach includes both known quantum incapacity tests---positive partial transposition (PPT) and antidegradability (no cloning)---as special cases, putting them both on the same footing. We also find a physical principle explaining the nondistillability of PPT states: Any protocol for distilling entanglement from such a state would also give a protocol for implementing the forbidden time-reversal operation.

id: 1108.1829
title: Quantum Nonlocality in Weak-Thermal-Light Interferometry
authors: Mankei Tsang
comments: v2: accepted by PRL
journal: Physical Review Letters 107, 270402 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1829
abstract: In astronomy, interferometry of light collected by separate telescopes is often performed by physically bringing the optical paths together in the form of Young's double-slit experiment. Optical loss severely limits the efficiency of this so-called direct detection method, motivating the fundamental question of whether one can achieve a comparable performance using separate optical measurements at the two telescopes before combining the measurement results. Using quantum mechanics and estimation theory, here I show that any such spatially local measurement scheme, such as heterodyne detection, is fundamentally inferior to coherently nonlocal measurements, such as direct detection, for estimating the mutual coherence of bipartite thermal light when the average photon flux is low. This surprising result reveals an overlooked signature of quantum nonlocality in a classic optics experiment.

id: 1108.1875
title: Non-diffracting Optical Beams in a Three-level Raman System
authors: T. N. Dey, J. Evers
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043842 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1875
abstract: Diffractionless propagation of optical beams through atomic vapors is investigated. The atoms in the vapor are operated in a three-level Raman configuration. A suitably chosen control beam couples to one of the transitions, and thereby creates a spatially varying index of refraction modulation in the warm atomic vapor for a probe beam which couples to the other transition in the atoms. We show that a Laguerre-Gaussian control beam allows to propagate single Gaussian probe field modes as well as multi-Gaussian modes and non-Gaussian modes over macroscopic distances without diffraction. This opens perspectives for the propagation of arbitrary images through warm atomic vapors.

id: 1108.1915
title: Noise effects in the quantum search algorithm from the computational complexity point of view
authors: Piotr Gawron, Jerzy Klamka, Ryszard Winiarczyk
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1915
abstract: We analyse the resilience of the quantum search algorithm in the presence of quantum noise modelled as trace preserving completely positive maps. We study the influence of noise on computational complexity of the quantum search algorithm. We show that only for small amounts of noise the quantum search algorithm is still more efficient than any classical algorithm.

id: 1108.1931
title: Microcavities coupled to multilevel atoms
authors: S. I. Schmid, J. Evers
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053822 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1931
abstract: A three-level atom in the $\Lambda$-configuration coupled to a microcavity is studied. The two transitions of the atom are assumed couple to different counterpropagating mode pairs in the cavity. We analyze the dynamics both, in the strong-coupling and the bad cavity limit. We find that compared to a two-level setup, the third atomic state and the additional control field modes crucially modify the system dynamics and enable more advanced control schemes. All results are explained using appropriate dressed state and eigenmode representations. As potential applications, we discuss optical switching and turnstile operations and detection of particles close to the resonator surface.

id: 1108.1955
title: Multiqubit entanglement of a general input state
authors: E.C. Behrman, J.E. Steck
comments: 10 pages, 9 tables, 9 figures; submitted to Phys Rev A (August 2011)
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 13, 36-53 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1955
abstract: Measurement of entanglement remains an important problem for quantum information. We present the design and simulation of an experimental method for entanglement estimation for a general multiqubit state. The system can be in a pure or a mixed state, and it need not be "close" to any particular state. Our method, based on dynamic learning, does not require prior state reconstruction or lengthy optimization. Results for three-qubit systems compare favorably with known entanglement measures. The method is then extended to four- and five-qubit systems, with relative ease. As the size of the system grows the amount of training necessary diminishes, raising hopes for applicability to large computational systems.

id: 1108.1978
title: Spekkens's toy theory as a category of processes
authors: Bob Coecke, Bill Edwards
comments: 28 pages and many pictures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1978
abstract: We provide two mathematical descriptions of Spekkens's toy qubit theory, an inductively one in terms of a small set of generators, as well as an explicit closed form description. It is a subcategory MSpek of the category of finite sets, relations and the cartesian product. States of maximal knowledge form a subcategory Spek. This establishes the consistency of the toy theory, which has previously only been constructed for at most four systems. Our model also shows that the theory is closed under both parallel and sequential composition of operations (= symmetric monoidal structure), that it obeys map-state duality (= compact closure), and that states and effects are in bijective correspondence (= dagger structure). From the perspective of categorical quantum mechanics, this provides an interesting alternative model which enables us to describe many quantum phenomena in a discrete manner, and to which mathematical concepts such as basis structures, and complementarity thereof, still apply. Hence, the framework of categorical quantum mechanics has delivered on its promise to encompass theories other than quantum theory.

id: 1108.1998
title: More non-locality in the three-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state
authors: Tamas Vertesi, Karoly F. Pal
comments: 8 pages, 5 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042122 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1998
abstract: The non-local properties of the noisy three-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states parameterized by the visibility 0<v<1 are investigated. Based on the violation of the 2x2x2-setting Mermin inequality, the noisy three-qubit GHZ states are non-local for the parameter range 1/2<v<1. It has been posed whether additional settings would allow to lower the threshold visibility. Here we report on Bell inequalities giving a threshold value smaller than v=1/2. This rules out the possibility of a local hidden variable model in the limit of v=1/2. In particular, the lowest threshold visibility we found is v=0.496057, attainable with 5x5x5 settings, whereas the most economical one in number of settings corresponds to 3x3x4 settings. The method which enabled us to obtain these results, and in particular the about 10000 tight Bell inequalities giving v<1/2 are also discussed in detail.

id: 1108.2024
title: Autonomy all the way down: Systems and dynamics in quantum Bayesianism
authors: Chris Fields
comments: Extended commentary on arXiv:1003.5209v1 [quant-ph]; Physics and Philosophy 2012: 018
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2024
abstract: Quantum Bayesianism ("QBism") has been put forward as an approach to quantum theory that avoids foundational problems by altogether disavowing the objective existence of quantum states. It is shown that QBism suffers its own versions of the familiar foundational problems, and that these QBist versions are illuminating not just for QBism, but for more traditional foundational approaches as well.

id: 1108.2035
title: Laser cooling and optical detection of excitations in a LC electrical circuit
authors: J. M. Taylor, A. S. S?rensen, C. M. Marcus, E. S. Polzik
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 273601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2035
abstract: We explore a method for laser cooling and optical detection of excitations in a LC electrical circuit. Our approach uses a nanomechanical oscillator as a transducer between optical and electronic excitations. An experimentally feasible system with the oscillator capacitively coupled to the LC and at the same time interacting with light via an optomechanical force is shown to provide strong electro-mechanical coupling. Conditions for improved sensitivity and quantum limited readout of electrical signals with such an "optical loud speaker" are outlined.

id: 1108.2050
title: On Amplification by Weak Measurement
authors: Tatsuhiko Koike, Saki Tanaka
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062106 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2050
abstract: We analyze the amplification by the Aharonov-Albert-Vaidman weak quantum measurement on a Sagnac interferometer [P. B. Dixon et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 173601 (2009)] up to all orders of the coupling strength between the measured system and the measuring device. The amplifier transforms a small tilt of a mirror into a large transverse displacement of the laser beam. The conventional analysis has shown that the measured value is proportional to the weak value, so that the amplification can be made arbitrarily large in the cost of decreasing output laser intensity. It is shown that the measured displacement and the amplification factor are in fact not proportional to the weak value and rather vanish in the limit of infinitesimal output intensity. We derive the optimal overlap of the pre- and post-selected states with which the amplification become maximum. We also show that the nonlinear effects begin to arise in the performed experiments so that any improvements in the experiment, typically with an amplification greater than 100, should require the nonlinear theory in translating the observed value to the original displacement.

id: 1108.2065
title: Coarse Graining Makes It Hard to See Micro-Macro Entanglement
authors: Sadegh Raeisi, Pavel Sekatski, Christoph Simon
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 250401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2065
abstract: Observing quantum effects such as superpositions and entanglement in macroscopic systems requires not only a system that is well protected against environmental decoherence, but also sufficient measurement precision. Motivated by recent experiments, we study the effects of coarse-graining in photon number measurements on the observability of micro-macro entanglement that is created by greatly amplifying one photon from an entangled pair. We compare the results obtained for a unitary quantum cloner, which generates micro-macro entanglement, and for a measure-and-prepare cloner, which produces a separable micro-macro state. We show that the distance between the probability distributions of results for the two cloners approaches zero for a fixed moderate amount of coarse-graining. Proving the presence of micro-macro entanglement therefore becomes progressively harder as the system size increases.

id: 1108.2075
title: SU(N)-symmetric quasi-probability distribution functions
authors: Todd Tilma, Kae Nemoto
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures. Updated text to reflect referee comments
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 015302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2075
abstract: We present a set of N-dimensional functions, based on generalized SU(N)-symmetric coherent states, that represent finite-dimensional Wigner functions, Q-functions, and P-functions. We then show the fundamental properties of these functions and discuss their usefulness for analyzing N-dimensional pure and mixed quantum states.

id: 1108.2087
title: Fabrication of Glass Micro-Cavities for Cavity QED Experiments
authors: Arpan Roy, Murray D. Barrett
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2087
abstract: We report a process for fabricating high quality, defect-free spherical mirror templates suitable for developing high finesse optical Fabry-Perot resonators. The process utilizes the controlled reflow of borosilicate glass and differential pressure to produce mirrors with 0.3 nanometer surface roughness. The dimensions of the mirrors are in the 0.5-5mm range making them suitable candidates for integration with on-chip neutral atom and ion experiments where enhanced interaction between atoms and photons are required. Moreover the mirror curvature, dimension and placement is readily controlled and the process can easily provide an array of such mirrors. We show that cavities constructed with these mirror templates are well suited to quantum information applications such as single photon sources and atom-photon entanglement.

id: 1108.2098
title: Improved Soundness for QMA with Multiple Provers
authors: Alessandro Chiesa, Michael A. Forbes
comments: 24 pages; comments welcome
journal: Chicago Journal of Theoretical Computer Science, Vol 2013, No 1
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2098
abstract: We present three contributions to the understanding of QMA with multiple provers: 1) We give a tight soundness analysis of the protocol of [Blier and Tapp, ICQNM '09], yielding a soundness gap Omega(1/N^2). Our improvement is achieved without the use of an instance with a constant soundness gap (i.e., without using a PCP). 2) We give a tight soundness analysis of the protocol of [Chen and Drucker, ArXiV '10], thereby improving their result from a monolithic protocol where Theta(sqrt(N)) provers are needed in order to have any soundness gap, to a protocol with a smooth trade-off between the number of provers k and a soundness gap Omega(k^2/N), as long as k>=Omega(log N). (And, when k=Theta(sqrt(N)), we recover the original parameters of Chen and Drucker.) 3) We make progress towards an open question of [Aaronson et al., ToC '09] about what kinds of NP-complete problems are amenable to sublinear multiple-prover QMA protocols, by observing that a large class of such examples can easily be derived from results already in the PCP literature - namely, at least the languages recognized by a non-deterministic RAMs in quasilinear time.

id: 1108.2114
title: All-order evaluation of weak measurements: --- The cases of an operator ${\bf A}$ which satisfies the property ${\bf A}^{2}=1$ ---
authors: Kouji Nakamura, Atsushi Nishizawa, Masa-Katsu Fujimoto
comments: 17 pages, 10 figures (v1); Fig.3 and some typos are corrected (v2); Comments and references are added and some typos are corrected (v3)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012113 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2114
abstract: Some exact formulae of the expectation values and probability densities in a weak measurement for an operator ${\bf A}$ which satisfies the property ${\bf A}^{2}=1$ are derived. These formulae include all-order effects of the unitary evolution due to the von-Neumann interaction. These are valid not only in the weak measurement regime but also in the strong measurement regime and tell us the connection between these two regime. Using these formulae, arguments of the optimization of the signal amplification and the signal to noise ratio are developed in two typical experimental setups.

id: 1108.2143
title: Local-channel-induced rise of quantum correlations in continuous-variable systems
authors: Francesco Ciccarello, Vittorio Giovannetti
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022108 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2143
abstract: It was recently discovered that the quantum correlations of a pair of disentangled qubits, as measured by the quantum discord, can increase solely because of their interaction with a local dissipative bath. Here, we show that a similar phenomenon can occur in continuous-variable bipartite systems. To this aim, we consider a class of two-mode squeezed thermal states and study the behavior of Gaussian quantum discord under various local Markovian non-unitary channels. While these in general cause a monotonic drop of quantum correlations, an initial rise can take place with a thermal-noise channel.

id: 1108.2165
title: Simple Adaption of Measurements for Qudit Estimation
authors: Christof J. Happ, Matthias Freyberger
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2165
abstract: We present a strategy for estimation of d-level quantum states and for the simple adaption of corresponding measurements. The adaption method is inspired by mutually unbiased measurements, but it is also applicable in cases for which no complete set of mutually unbiased bases is known. We present results of Monte Carlo simulations, that demonstrate the fidelity gain of the adaptive strategy compared to a non-adaptive estimation.

id: 1108.2186
title: Protecting entangled states of two ions by engineering reservoir
authors: Dong Xue, Jian Zou, Lin-Guang Yang, Jun-Gang Li, Bin Shao
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 175503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2186
abstract: We present a proposal for realizing local decoherence-free evolution of given entangled states of two two-level (TL) ions. For two TL ions coupled to a single heavily damped cavity, we can use engineering reservoir scheme to obtain a decoherence-free subspace which can be nonadiabatically controlled by the system and reservoir parameters. Then the local decoherence-free evolution of the entangled states are achieved. And we also discuss the relation between the geometric phases and the entanglement of the two ions under the nonadiabatic coherent evolution.

id: 1108.2194
title: On hyperbolic interferences in the quantum--like representation algorithm for the case of triple-valued observables
authors: Peter Nyman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2194
abstract: The quantum-like representation algorithm (QLRA) was introduced by A. Khrennikov \cite{K1,K2,K3,K4,K5} to solve the "inverse Born's rule problem", i.e. to construct a representation of probabilistic data - measured in any context of science - and represent this data by a complex or more general (A Clifford algebra is introduced for this more general representation) probability amplitude which matches a generalization of Born's rule. The outcome from QLRA will introduce the formula of total probability with an additional term of trigonometric, hyperbolic or hyper-trigonometric interference and this is in fact a generalization of the familiar formula of interference of probabilities. We study representation of statistical data (of any origin) by a probability amplitude in a complex algebra and a Clifford algebra (algebra of hyperbolic numbers). The statistical datas are collected from measurements of two trichotomous observables and the complexity of the problem increased eventually compared to the case of dichotomous observables. We see that only special statistical data (satisfying a number of nonlinear constraints) have a quantum-like representation. In this paper we will present a class of statistical data which satisfy these nonlinear constraints and have a quantum-like representation. This quantum-like representation induces trigonometric-, hyperbolic- and hyper-trigonometric interferences representation.

id: 1108.2214
title: Double-Well Quantum Tunneling Visualized via Wigner's Function
authors: Dimitris Kakofengitis, Ole Steuernagel
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2214
abstract: We investigate quantum tunneling in smooth symmetric and asymmetric double-well potentials. Exact solutions for the ground and first excited states are used to study the dynamics. We introduce Wigner's quasi-probability distribution function to highlight and visualize the non-classical nature of spatial correlations arising in tunneling.

id: 1108.2233
title: On exposed positive maps: Robertson and Breuer-Hall maps
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2233
abstract: It is well known that so called Breuer-Hall positive maps used in entanglement theory are optimal. We show that these maps possess much more subtle property --- they are exposed. As a byproduct it proves that a Robertson map in the algebra of 4 x 4 complex matrices is not only extreme, which was already shown by Robertson, but also exposed.

id: 1108.2238
title: Entanglement conditions and polynomial identities
authors: E. Shchukin
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052325 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2238
abstract: We develop a rather general approach to entanglement characterization based on convexity properties and polynomial identities. This approach is applied to obtain simple and efficient entanglement conditions which work equally well in both discrete as well as continuous-variable environments. Examples of violations of our conditions are presented.

id: 1108.2244
title: Star product and ordered moments of photon creation and annihilation operators
authors: S. N. Filippov, V. I. Man'ko
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, some misprints are corrected, to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 015305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2244
abstract: We develop a star-product scheme of symbols defined by the normally ordered powers of the creation and annihilation photon operators, (a\dag)^m a^n. The corresponding phase space is a two-dimensional lattice with nodes (m,n) given by pairs of nonnegative integers. The star-product kernel of symbols on the lattice and intertwining kernels to other schemes are found in explicit form. Analysis of peculiar properties of the star-product kernel results in new sum relations for factorials. Advantages of the developed star-product scheme for describing dynamics of quantum systems are discussed and time evolution equations in terms of the ordered moments are derived.

id: 1108.2261
title: Being, Becoming and the Undivided Universe: A Dialogue between Relational Blockworld and the Implicate Order Concerning the Unification of Relativity and Quantum Theory
authors: Michael Silberstein, W.M. Stuckey, Timothy McDevitt
comments: 33 pages, 7 figures. Revised to include modified Regge calculus results. Accepted for publication in Foundations of Physics. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1106.3339
journal: Foundations of Physics 43(4), pp 502-532 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2261
abstract: In this paper two different approaches to unification will be compared, Relational Blockworld (RBW) and Hiley's implicate order. Both approaches are monistic in that they attempt to derive matter and spacetime geometry 'at once' in an interdependent and background independent fashion from something underneath both quantum theory and relativity. Hiley's monism resides in the implicate order via Clifford algebras and is based on process as fundamental while RBW's monism resides in spacetimematter via path integrals over graphs whereby space, time and matter are co-constructed per a global constraint equation. RBW's monism therefore resides in being (relational blockworld) while that of Hiley's resides in becoming (elementary processes). Regarding the derivation of quantum theory and relativity, the promises and pitfalls of both approaches will be elaborated. Finally, special attention will be paid as to how Hiley's process account might avoid the blockworld implications of relativity and the frozen time problem of canonical quantum gravity.

id: 1108.2263
title: Critical exponents of steady-state phase transitions in fermionic lattice models
authors: Michael Hoening, Matthias Moos, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 013606 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2263
abstract: We discuss reservoir induced phase transitions of lattice fermions in the non-equilibrium steady state (NESS) of an open system with local reservoirs. These systems may become critical in the sense of a diverging correlation length upon changing the reservoir coupling. We here show that the transition to a critical state is associated with a vanishing gap in the damping spectrum. It is shown that although in linear systems there can be a transition to a critical state there is no reservoir-induced quantum phase transition between distinct phases with non-vanishing damping gap. We derive the static and dynamical critical exponents corresponding to the transition to a critical state and show that their possible values, defining universality classes of reservoir-induced phase transitions are determined by the coupling range of the independent local reservoirs. If a reservoir couples to N neighboring lattice sites, the critical exponent can assume all fractions from 1 to 1/(N - 1).

id: 1108.2285
title: Quantum correlations in the thermodynamic limit: the XY-model
authors: J. Batle, A. Plastino, A.R. Plastino, M. Casas
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2285
abstract: We investigate thermal properties of quantum correlations in the thermodynamic limit with reference to the XY-model

id: 1108.2293
title: Information Causality and Extremal Tripartite Correlations
authors: Tzyh Haur Yang, Daniel Cavalcanti, Mafalda Almeida, Colin Teo, Valerio Scarani
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures. Minor corrections and improvement to the proof in appendix
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 013061
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2293
abstract: We study the principle of information causality for the set of extremal correlations in the tripartite scenario. We show that all but one nonlocal extremal correlations in this scenario violate information causality. This undetected correlation is shown to satisfy any bipartite physical principle.

id: 1108.2300
title: Quantizing preserving Noether symmetries
authors: M. C. Nucci
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2300
abstract: A procedure which obviates the constraint imposed by the conflict between consistent quantization and the invariance of the Hamiltonian description under nonlinear canonical transformation is proposed. This new quantization scheme preserves the Noether point symmetries of the underlying Lagrangian in order to construct the Schr\"odinger's equation. As an example, the quantization of the `goldfish' many-body problem extensively studied by Calogero et al. is presented.

id: 1108.2316
title: Key establishment ¨¤ la Merkle in a quantum world
authors: Gilles Brassard, Peter Hoyer, Kassem Kalach, Marc Kaplan, Sophie Laplante, Louis Salvail
comments: 32 pages, this is a December 2014 much improved and extended version of our paper "Merkle puzzles in a quantum world" from the Proceedings of CRYPTO 2011, pp. 391-410
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2316
abstract: In 1974, Ralph Merkle proposed the first unclassified scheme for secure communications over insecure channels. When legitimate communicating parties are willing to spend an amount of computational effort proportional to some parameter N, an eavesdropper cannot break into their communication without spending a time proportional to N^2, which is quadratically more than the legitimate effort. Two of us showed in 2008 that Merkle's schemes are completely insecure against a quantum adversary, but that their security can be partially restored if the legitimate parties are also allowed to use quantum computation: the eavesdropper needed to spend a time proportional to N^{3/2} to break our earlier quantum scheme. Furthermore, all previous classical schemes could be broken completely by the onslaught of a quantum eavesdropper and we conjectured that this is unavoidable. We give now two novel key establishment schemes in the spirit of Merkle's. The first one can be broken by a quantum adversary who makes an effort proportional to N^{5/3}, which is the optimal attack against this scheme. Our second scheme is purely classical, yet it cannot be broken by a quantum eavesdropper who is only willing to expend an effort proportional to that of the legitimate parties. We then introduce two families of more elaborate protocols. The first family consists in quantum protocols whose security is arbitrarily close to quadratic in the query complexity model. The second is a family of classical protocols whose security against a quantum adversary is arbitrarily close to N^{3/2} in the same model.

id: 1108.2322
title: An Approximate Solution of the Jaynes-Cummings Model with Dissipation II : Another Approach
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii, Tatsuo Suzuki
comments: Latex ; 15 pages ; no figure
journal: Int. J. Geom. Methods Mod. Phys. 9(2012) 1250036
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2322
abstract: In the preceding paper (arXiv:1103.0329 [math-ph]) we treated the Jaynes-Cummings model with dissipation and gave an approximate solution to the master equation for the density operator under the general setting by making use of the Zassenhaus expansion. However, to obtain a compact form of the approximate solution (which is in general complicated infinite series) is very hard when an initial condition is given. To overcome this difficulty we develop another approach and obtain a compact approximate solution when some initial condition is given.

id: 1108.2344
title: Evolution of Fock states in three mixed harmonic oscillators: quantum statistics
authors: Faisal A. A. El-Orany, J. Perina, M. Sebawe Abdalla
comments: 25 pages, 7 figures
journal: In. J. of Mod. Phys. B 15 (2001) 2125
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2344
abstract: In this communication we investigate the quantum statistics of three harmonic oscillators mutually interacting with each other considering the modes are initially in Fock states. After solving the equations of motion, the squeezing phenomenon, sub-Poissonian statistics and quasiprobability functions are discussed. We demonstrate that the interaction is able to produce squeezing of different types. We show also that certain types of Fock states can evolve in this interaction into thermal state and squeezed thermal state governed by the interaction parameters.

id: 1108.2370
title: Purity as a witness for initial system-environment correlations in open-system dynamics
authors: D. Z. Rossatto, T. Werlang, L. K. Castelano, C. J. Villas-Boas, F. F. Fanchini
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 84, 042113 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2370
abstract: We study the dynamics of a two-level atom interacting with a Lorentzian structured reservoir considering initial system-environment correlations. It is shown that under strong system-reservoir coupling the dynamics of purity can determine whether there are initial correlations between system and environment. Moreover, we investigate the interaction of two two-level atoms with the same reservoir. In this case, we show that besides determining if there are initial system-environment correlations, the dynamics of the purity of the atomic system allows the identification of the distinct correlated initial states. In addition, the dynamics of quantum and classical correlations is analyzed.

id: 1108.2377
title: Bell inequality test with entanglement between an atom and a coherent state in a cavity
authors: Jinwoo Park, Mark Saunders, Yong-il Shin, Kyungwon An, Hyunseok Jeong
comments: 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022120 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2377
abstract: We study Bell inequality tests with entanglement between a coherent-state field in a cavity and a two-level atom. In order to detect the cavity field for such a test, photon on/off measurements and photon number parity measurements, respectively, are investigated. When photon on/off measurements are used, at least 50% of detec- tion efficiency is required to demonstrate violation of the Bell inequality. Photon number parity measurements for the cavity field can be effectively performed using ancillary atoms and an atomic detector, which leads to large degrees of Bell violations up to Cirel'son's bound. We also analyze decoherence effects in both field and atomic modes and discuss conditions required to perform a Bell inequality test free from the locality loophole.

id: 1108.2416
title: Phonon-induced entanglement dynamics of two donor-based charge quantum bits
authors: F. Lastra, S.A. Reyes, S. Wallentowitz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2416
abstract: The entanglement dynamics of a pair of donor-based charge qubits is obtained in analytical form. The disentanglement is induced by off resonant scattering of acoustical phonons in the semiconductor host. According to our results a rather unusual recovery of entanglement occurs that depends on the geometrical configuration of the qubits. In addition, for large times a non-vanishing stationary entanglement is predicted. For the cases of one and two initial excitations a simple kinetic interpretation allows for an adequate analysis of the observed dynamics. Our results also reveal a direct relation between the disentanglement rate and the inter-donor decoherence rates.

id: 1108.2420
title: Locally Accessible Information of Multisite Quantum Ensembles Violates Monogamy
authors: Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 6 pages, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052103 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2420
abstract: Locally accessible information is a useful information-theoretic physical quantity of an ensemble of multiparty quantum states. We find it has properties akin to quantum as well as classical correlations of single multiparty quantum states. It satisfies monotonicity under local quantum operations and classical communication. However we show that it does not follow monogamy, an important property usually satisfied by quantum correlations, and actually violates any such relation to the maximal extent. Violation is obtained even for locally indistinguishable, but globally orthogonal, multisite ensembles. The results assert that while single multiparty quantum states are monogamous with respect to their shared quantum correlations, ensembles of multiparty quantum states may not be so. The results have potential implications for quantum communication systems.

id: 1108.2468
title: Asymptotically optimal data analysis for rejecting local realism
authors: Yanbao Zhang, Scott Glancy, Emanuel Knill
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures; Software implementation of the PBR analysis protocol and its user guide attached as ancillary files; minor changes (add the software disclaimer, etc.)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062118 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2468
abstract: Reliable experimental demonstrations of violations of local realism are highly desirable for fundamental tests of quantum mechanics. One can quantify the violation witnessed by an experiment in terms of a statistical p-value, which can be defined as the maximum probability according to local realism of a violation at least as high as that witnessed. Thus, high violation corresponds to small p-value. We propose a prediction-based-ratio (PBR) analysis protocol whose p-values are valid even if the prepared quantum state varies arbitrarily and local realistic models can depend on previous measurement settings and outcomes. It is therefore not subject to the memory loophole [J. Barrett et al., Phys. Rev. A 66, 042111 (2002)]. If the prepared state does not vary in time, the p-values are asymptotically optimal. For comparison, we consider protocols derived from the number of standard deviations of violation of a Bell inequality and from martingale theory [R. Gill, arXiv:quant-ph/0110137]. We find that the p-values of the former can be too small and are therefore not statistically valid, while those derived from the latter are sub-optimal. PBR p-values do not require a predetermined Bell inequality and can be used to compare results from different tests of local realism independent of experimental details.

id: 1108.2469
title: Dispersive Optical Interface Based on Nanofiber-Trapped Atoms
authors: S. T. Dawkins, R. Mitsch, D. Reitz, E. Vetsch, A. Rauschenbeutel
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 242601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2469
abstract: We dispersively interface an ensemble of one thousand atoms trapped in the evanescent field surrounding a tapered optical nanofiber. This method relies on the azimuthally-asymmetric coupling of the ensemble with the evanescent field of an off-resonant probe beam, transmitted through the nanofiber. The resulting birefringence and dispersion are significant; we observe a phase shift per atom of $\sim$\,1\,mrad at a detuning of six times the natural linewidth, corresponding to an effective resonant optical density per atom of 0.027. Moreover, we utilize this strong dispersion to non-destructively determine the number of atoms.

id: 1108.2479
title: Adversary lower bounds in the Hamiltonian oracle model
authors: David Yonge-Mallo
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2479
abstract: In this note, we show that quantum lower bounds obtained using the adversary method hold in the Hamiltonian oracle model.

id: 1108.2537
title: Enhancements to cavity quantum electrodynamics system
authors: A. D. Cimmarusti, J. A. Crawford, D. G. Norris, L. A. Orozco
comments: 19 pages, 11 figures, Quantum Optics V (QOV 2010) Conference Proceedings
journal: Rev. Mex. F\'is. S 57 (2011) 0029
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2537
abstract: We show the planned upgrade of a cavity QED experimental apparatus. The system consists of an optical cavity and an ensemble of ultracold $^{85}$Rb atoms coupled to its mode. We propose enhancements to both. First, we document the building process for a new cavity, with a planned finesse of $\sim$20000. We address problems of maintaining mirror integrity during mounting and improving vibration isolation. Second, we propose improvements to the cold atom source in order to achieve better optical pumping and control over the flux of atoms. We consider a 2-D optical molasses for atomic beam deflection, and show computer simulation results for evaluating the design. We also examine the possibility of all-optical atomic beam focusing, but find that it requires unreasonable experimental parameters.

id: 1108.2546
title: Simulations of atomic trajectories near a dielectric surface
authors: N. P. Stern, D. J. Alton, H. J. Kimble
comments: 29 pages, 10 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 085004 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2546
abstract: We present a semiclassical model of an atom moving in the evanescent field of a microtoroidal resonator. Atoms falling through whispering-gallery modes can achieve strong, coherent coupling with the cavity at distances of approximately 100 nanometers from the surface; in this regime, surface-induced Casmir-Polder level shifts become significant for atomic motion and detection. Atomic transit events detected in recent experiments are analyzed with our simulation, which is extended to consider atom trapping in the evanescent field of a microtoroid.

id: 1108.2547
title: New experimental limits on non-Newtonian forces in the micrometer-range
authors: A. O. Sushkov, W. J. Kim, D. A. R. Dalvit, S. K. Lamoreaux
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2547
abstract: We report measurements of the short-range forces between two macroscopic gold-coated plates using a torsion pendulum. The force is measured for separations between 0.7 $\mu$m and 7 $\mu$m, and is well described by a combination of the Casimir force, including the finite-temperature correction, and an electrostatic force due to patch potentials on the plate surfaces. We use our data to place constraints on the Yukawa-type "new" forces predicted by theories with extra dimensions. We establish a new best bound for force ranges 0.4 $\mu$m to 4 $\mu$m, and, for forces mediated by gauge bosons propagating in $(4+n)$ dimensions and coupling to the baryon number, extract a $(4+n)$-dimensional Planck scale lower limit of $M_*>70$ TeV.

id: 1108.2550
title: Entropic Dynamics and the Quantum Measurement Problem
authors: David T. Johnson, Ariel Caticha
comments: 9 pages. Presented at MaxEnt 2011, The 31st International Workshop on Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods in Science and Engineering, (July 10--15, 2011, Waterloo, Canada)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2550
abstract: We explore the measurement problem in the entropic dynamics approach to quantum theory. The dual modes of quantum evolution---either continuous unitary evolution or abrupt wave function collapse during measurement---are unified by virtue of both being special instances of entropic updating of probabilities. In entropic dynamics particles have definite but unknown positions; their values are not created by the act of measurement. Other types of observables are introduced as a convenient way to describe more complex position measurements; they are not attributes of the particles but of the probability distributions; their values are effectively created by the act of measurement. We discuss the Born statistical rule for position, which is trivially built into the formalism, and also for generic observables.

id: 1108.2586
title: Quantum entanglement and teleportation in pulsed cavity-optomechanics
authors: Sebastian G. Hofer, Witlef Wieczorek, Markus Aspelmeyer, Klemens Hammerer
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052327 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2586
abstract: Entangling a mechanical oscillator with an optical mode is an enticing and yet a very challenging goal in cavity optomechanics. Here we consider a pulsed scheme to create Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-type entanglement between a traveling-wave light pulse and a mechanical oscillator. The entanglement can be verified unambiguously by a pump-probe sequence of pulses. In contrast to schemes that work in a steady-state regime under a continuous-wave drive, this protocol is not subject to stability requirements that normally limit the strength of achievable entanglement. We investigate the protocol's performance under realistic conditions, including mechanical decoherence, in full detail. We discuss the relevance of a high mechanical Qf product for entanglement creation and provide a quantitative statement on which magnitude of the Qf product is necessary for a successful realization of the scheme. We determine the optimal parameter regime for its operation and show it to work in current state-of-the-art systems.

id: 1108.2595
title: Entanglement Concentration for two atomic ensembles using an effective atom-light beamsplitter
authors: Richard Tatham, Natalia Korolkova
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures, To appear in J. Phys. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2595
abstract: We present a protocol for increasing the entanglement between two atomic ensembles based on applying an approximate atom-light beamsplitter transformation to both ensembles. The effective asymmetric atom-light beamsplitter is created via a double-pass quantum non-demolition interaction between polarized light and a spin polarized atomic ensemble, derived from the linearised dipole interaction. The entanglement concentration protocol itself uses the procrustean method, similar to that first devised for light by Browne et al [2003 Phys Rev A 67 062320] and includes photon counting after the interaction as the required non-Gaussian element. We calculate the output logarithmic negativity in this scheme and show that entanglement between macroscopic ensembles can be increased with probabilities comparable with those for the light scheme even if on-off detectors of low efficiency are used.

id: 1108.2617
title: Spectroscopy of mechanical dissipation in micro-mechanical membranes
authors: Andreas J?ckel, Matthew T. Rakher, Maria Korppi, Stephan Camerer, David Hunger, Matthias Mader, Philipp Treutlein
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 99, 143109 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2617
abstract: We measure the frequency dependence of the mechanical quality factor (Q) of SiN membrane oscillators and observe a resonant variation of Q by more than two orders of magnitude. The frequency of the fundamental mechanical mode is tuned reversibly by up to 40% through local heating with a laser. Several distinct resonances in Q are observed that can be explained by coupling to membrane frame modes. Away from the resonances, the background Q is independent of frequency and temperature in the measured range.

id: 1108.2629
title: Momentum and Uncertainty Relations in the Entropic Approach to Quantum Theory
authors: Shahid Nawaz, Ariel Caticha
comments: Presented at MaxEnt 2011, the 31st International Workshop on Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods in Science and Engineering, (July 10--15, 2011, Waterloo, Canada)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2629
abstract: In the Entropic Dynamics (ED) approach to quantum theory the particles have well-defined positions but since they follow non differentiable Brownian trajectories they cannot be assigned an instantaneous momentum. Nevertheless, four different notions of momentum can be usefully introduced. We derive relations among them and the corresponding uncertainty relations. The main conclusion is that momentum is a statistical concept: in ED the momenta are not properties of the particles; they are attributes of the probability distributions.

id: 1108.2647
title: Ancilla-assisted sequential approximation of nonlocal unitary operations
authors: Hamed Saberi
comments: Slightly improved version as published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 032323 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2647
abstract: We consider the recently proposed "no-go" theorem of Lamata et al [Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 180506 (2008)] on the impossibility of sequential implementation of global unitary operations with the aid of an itinerant ancillary system and view the claim within the language of Kraus representation. By virtue of an extremely useful tool for analyzing entanglement properties of quantum operations, namely, operator-Schmidt decomposition, we provide alternative proof to the "no-go" theorem and also study the role of initial correlations between the qubits and ancilla in sequential preparation of unitary entanglers. Despite the negative response from the "no-go" theorem, we demonstrate explicitly how the matrix-product operator(MPO) formalism provides a flexible structure to develop protocols for sequential implementation of such entanglers with an optimal fidelity. The proposed numerical technique, that we call variational matrix-product operator (VMPO), offers a computationally efficient tool for characterizing the "globalness" and entangling capabilities of nonlocal unitary operations.

id: 1108.2681
title: Effect of Interatomic Separation on Entanglement Dynamics in a Two-Atom Two-Mode Model
authors: K. Sinha, N. I. Cummings, B. L. Hu
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures, extended version of arXiv:1004.1834v2
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 (2012) 035503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2681
abstract: We analyze the time evolution of quantum entanglement in a model consisting of two two-level atoms interacting with a two-mode electromagnetic field for a variety of initial states and interatomic separations. We study two specific atomic separations which give rise to symmetric atom-field couplings. For general atomic distances we consider a subset of initial states analytically, and then treat the more general situation numerically. We examine a variety of qualitative features such as entanglement sudden death, dynamical generation, protection, and transfer between subsystems. Our analysis shows a stark contrast in features of entanglement between the two special coupling schemes often considered; further, these features are uncharacteristic of those arising for general distances, due to the high degree of symmetry present in the special cases. The variety of behaviors in these two-mode cases suggest the importance of considering atomic separation carefully for any model where two atoms interact with a common field.

id: 1108.2682
title: Uncertainty relations in the realm of classical dynamics
authors: A. R. Usha Devi, H. S. Karthik
comments: 8 pages, RevTeX, no figures
journal: Am. J. Phys. 80, 708 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2682
abstract: It is generally believed that classical regime emerges as a limiting case of quantum theory. Exploring such quantum-classical correspondences in a more transparent manner is central to the deeper understanding of foundational aspects and has attracted a great deal of attention - starting from the early days of quantum theory. While it is often highlighted that quantum to classical transition occurs in the limit hbar tending to zero, several objections have been raised about its suitability in some physical contexts. Ehrenfest's theorem is another widely discussed classical limit - however, its inadequacy has also been pointed out in specific examples. It has been proposed that since a quantum mechanical wave function inherits an intrinsic statistical behavior, its classical limit must correspond to a classical ensemble - not an individual particle. This opens up the question "how would uncertainty relations of canonical observables compare themselves in quantum and classical realms?" In this paper we explore parallels between uncertainty relations in stationary states of quantum systems and that in the corresponding classical ensemble. We confine ourselves to one dimensional conservative systems and show, with the help of suitably defined dimensionless physical quantities, that first and second moments of the canonical observables match with each other in classical and quantum descriptions - resulting in an identical structure for uncertainty relations in both the realms.

id: 1108.2693
title: Optimized Heralding Schemes for Single Photons
authors: Yu-Ping Huang, Joseph B. Altepeter, Prem Kumar
comments: 7 pages and 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2693
abstract: A major obstacle to a practical, heralded source of single photons is the fundamental trade-off between high heralding efficiency and high production rate. To overcome this difficulty, we propose applying sequential spectral and temporal filtering on the signal photons before they are detected for heralding. Based on a multimode theory that takes into account the effect of simultaneous multiple photon-pair emission, we find that these filters can be optimized to yield both a high heralding efficiency and a high production rate. While the optimization conditions vary depending on the underlying photon-pair spectral correlations, all correlation profiles can lead to similarly high performance levels when optimized filters are employed. This suggests that a better strategy for improving the performance of heralded single-photon sources is to adopt an appropriate measurement scheme for the signal photons, rather than tailoring the properties of the photon-pair generation medium.

id: 1108.2699
title: Detecting nonclassical system-environment correlations by local operations
authors: Manuel Gessner, Heinz-Peter Breuer
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 180402 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2699
abstract: We develop a general strategy for the detection of nonclassical system-environment correlations in the initial states of an open quantum system. The method employs a dephasing map which operates locally on the open system and leads to an experimentally accessible witness for genuine quantum correlations, measuring the Hilbert-Schmidt distance between pairs of open system states. We further derive the expectation value of the witness for various random matrix ensembles modeling generic features of complex quantum systems. This expectation value is shown to be proportional to a measure for the quantum discord which reduces to the concurrence for pure initial states.

id: 1108.2729
title: Annular wave packets at Dirac points and probability oscillation in graphene
authors: Ji Luo, Junqiang Lu, Daniel Valencia
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 135, 224707 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2729
abstract: Wave packets in graphene whose central wave vector is at Dirac points are investigated by numerical calculations. Starting from an initial Gaussian function, these wave packets form into annular peaks that propagate to all directions like ripple-rings on water surface. At the beginning, electronic probability alternates between the central peak and the ripple-rings and transient oscillation occurs at the center. As time increases, the ripple-rings propagate at the fixed Fermi speed, and their widths remain unchanged. The axial symmetry of the energy dispersion leads to the circular symmetry of the wave packets. The fixed speed and widths, however, are attributed to the linearity of the energy dispersion. Interference between states that respectively belong to two branches of the energy dispersion leads to multiple ripple-rings and the probability-density oscillation. In a magnetic field, annular wave packets become confined and no longer propagate to infinity. If the initial Gaussian width differs greatly from the magnetic length, expanding and shrinking ripple-rings form and disappear alternatively in a limited spread, and the wave packet resumes the Gaussian form frequently. The probability thus oscillates persistently between the central peak and the ripple-rings. If the initial Gaussian width is close to the magnetic length, the wave packet retains the Gaussian form and its height and width oscillate with a period determined by the first Landau energy. The wave-packet evolution is determined jointly by the initial state and the magnetic field, through the electronic structure of graphene in a magnetic field.

id: 1108.2747
title: Optimal entanglement manipulation via coherent-state transmission
authors: Koji Azuma, Go Kato
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2747
abstract: We derive an optimal bound for arbitrary entanglement manipulation based on the transmission of a pulse in coherent states over a lossy channel followed by local operations and unlimited classical communication (LOCC). This stands on a theorem to reduce LOCC via a local unital qubit channel to local filtering. We also present an optimal protocol based on beam splitters and a quantum nondemolition (QND) measurement on photons. Even if we replace the QND measurement with photon detectors, the protocol outperforms known entanglement generation schemes.

id: 1108.2763
title: Comparison theorems for the position-dependent mass Schroedinger equation
authors: D. A. Kulikov
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: ISRN Mathematical Physics, Vol. 2012 (2012) 461452
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2763
abstract: The following comparison rules for the discrete spectrum of the position-dependent mass (PDM) Schroedinger equation are established. (i) If a constant mass $m_0$ and a PDM $m(x)$ are ordered everywhere, that is either $m_0\leq m(x)$ or $m_0\geq m(x)$, then the corresponding eigenvalues of the constant-mass Hamiltonian and of the PDM Hamiltonian with the same potential and the BenDaniel-Duke ambiguity parameters are ordered. (ii) The corresponding eigenvalues of PDM Hamiltonians with the different sets of ambiguity parameters are ordered if $\nabla^2 (1/m(x))$ has a definite sign. We prove these statements by using the Hellmann-Feynman theorem and offer examples of their application.

id: 1108.2768
title: Quantum phase transition of two-mode Bose-Einstein condensates with an entanglement order parameter
authors: Wei Fan, Yan Xu. Bing Chen, Zhaoyang Chen, Xunli Feng, C. H. Oh
comments: 4 figures, accepted by Phys. Rev. A, 2012
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013645 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2768
abstract: The ground state entanglement of the two-mode Bose-Einstein condensate is investigated through a quantum phase transition approach. The entanglement measure is taken as the order parameter and this is a non-local order parameter, which is different from the conventional order parameter of the Mott insulator-superfluid phase transitions. For this non-local order parameter, scaling behavior corresponding to a continuous phase transition is obtained and a power-law divergence near the critical region follows it. This scaling behavior of quantum entanglement is analyzed by the finite-size scaling and the critical exponents are obtained as $\nu = 1.01$ and $\gamma = 0.86$. A close connection between quantum fluctuations and the phase transition of entanglement is also obtained.

id: 1108.2785
title: Sub shot-noise interferometry from measurements of the one-body density
authors: Jan Chwedenczuk, Philipp Hyllus, Francesco Piazza, Augusto Smerzi
comments: 19 pages. 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2785
abstract: We derive the asymptotic maximum-likelihood phase estimation uncertainty for any interferometric protocol where the positions of the probe particles are measured to infer the phase, but where correlations between the particles are not accessible. First, we apply our formula to the estimation of the phase acquired in the Mach-Zehnder interferometer and recover the well-know momentum formula for the phase sensitivity. Then, we apply our results to interferometers with two spatially separated modes, which could be implemented with a Bose-Einstein condensate trapped in a double-well potential. We show that in a simple protocol which estimates the phase from an interference pattern a sub shot-noise phase uncertainty of up to $\Delta\theta\propto N^{-2/3}$ can be achieved. One important property of this estimation protocol is that its sensitivity does not depend on the value of the phase $\theta$, contrary to the sensitivity given by the momentum formula for the Mach-Zehnder transformation. Finally, we study the experimental implementation of the above protocol in detail, by numerically simulating the full statistics as well as by considering the main sources of detection noise, and argue that the shot-noise limit could be surpassed with current technology.

id: 1108.2792
title: Lattice oscillator model, scattering theory and a many-body problem
authors: Manuel Valiente
comments: 3 Figures. Version accepted in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 465303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2792
abstract: We propose a model for the quantum harmonic oscillator on a discrete lattice which can be written in supersymmetric form, in contrast with the more direct discretization of the harmonic oscillator. Its ground state is easily found to be annihilated by the annihilation operator defined here, and its excitation spectrum is obtained numerically. The versatility of the model is then used to calculate, in a simple way, the generalized position-dependent scattering length for a particle colliding with a single static impurity in a periodic potential and the exact ground state of an interacting many-body problem in a one-dimensional ring.

id: 1108.2879
title: Unconditionally Secure Bit Commitment by Transmitting Measurement Outcomes
authors: Adrian Kent
comments: Discussion expanded pedagogically in response to referee comments
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett.109, 130501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2879
abstract: We propose a new unconditionally secure bit commitment scheme based on Minkowski causality and the properties of quantum information. The receiving party sends a number of randomly chosen BB84 qubits to the committer at a given point in space-time. The committer carries out measurements in one of the two BB84 bases, depending on the committed bit value, and transmits the outcomes securely at light speed in opposite directions to remote agents. These agents unveil the bit by returning the outcomes to adjacent agents of the receiver. The security proofs rely only on simple properties of quantum information and the impossibility of superluminal signalling.

id: 1108.2887
title: Unconditionally-secure and reusable public-key authentication
authors: Lawrence M. Ioannou, Michele Mosca
comments: to appear in Proceedings of the 6th Conference on the Theory of Quantum Computation, Communication and Cryptography (TQC 2011)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2887
abstract: We present a quantum-public-key identification protocol and show that it is secure against a computationally-unbounded adversary. This demonstrates for the first time that unconditionally-secure and reusable public-key authentication is possible in principle with (pure-state) public keys.

id: 1108.2979
title: Spectral Analysis of a Four Mode Cluster State
authors: S. L. W. Midgley, M. K. Olsen
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2979
abstract: We theoretically evaluate the squeezed joint operators produced in a single optical parametric oscillator which generates quadripartite entangled outputs, as demonstrated experimentally by Pysher et al. \cite{pysher}[Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 030505 (2011)]. Using a linearized fluctuation analysis we calculate the squeezing of the joint quadrature operators below threshold for a range of local oscillator phases and frequencies. These results add to the existing theoretical understanding of this potentially important system.

id: 1108.2984
title: Quantum logic gates for superconducting resonator qudits
authors: Frederick W. Strauch
comments: 10 pages, 14 figures, decoherence calculations added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2984
abstract: We study quantum information processing using superpositions of Fock states in superconducting resonators, as quantum $d$-level systems (qudits). A universal set of single and coupled logic gates is theoretically proposed for resonators coupled by superconducting circuits of Josephson juctions. These gates use experimentally demonstrated interactions, and provide an attractive route to quantum information processing using harmonic oscillator modes.

id: 1108.2985
title: Convergence to equilibrium under a random Hamiltonian
authors: Fernando G.S.L. Brand?o, Piotr ?wikli¨½ski, Micha? Horodecki, Pawe? Horodecki, Jaros?aw Korbicz, Marek Mozrzymas
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure, v1-v3: some minor errors and typos corrected and new references added; v4: results for the degenerated spectrum added; v5: reorganized and rewritten version; to appear in PRE
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86, 031101 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2985
abstract: We analyze equilibration times of subsystems of a larger system under a random total Hamiltonian, in which the basis of the Hamiltonian is drawn from the Haar measure. We obtain that the time of equilibration is of the order of the inverse of the arithmetic average of the Bohr frequencies. To compute the average over a random basis, we compute the inverse of a matrix of overlaps of operators which permute four systems. We first obtain results on such a matrix for a representation of an arbitrary finite group and then apply it to the particular representation of the permutation group under consideration.

id: 1108.2987
title: Nonequilibrium Quantum Phase Transitions in the Dicke Model
authors: V. M. Bastidas, C. Emary, B. Regler, T. Brandes
comments: 4 pages, 3 Figures, and supplementary material. This new version contains corrected typos, new references and new versions of the figures. Published by Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 043003 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2987
abstract: We establish a set of nonequilibrium quantum phase transitions in the Dicke model by considering a monochromatic nonadiabatic modulation of the atom-field coupling. For weak driving the system exhibits a set of sidebands which allow the circumvention of the no-go theorem which otherwise forbids the occurence of superradiant phase transitions. At strong driving we show that the system exhibits a rich multistable structure and exhibits both first- and second-order nonequilibrium quantum phase transitions.

id: 1108.2998
title: Particle addition and subtraction as a test of bosonic quality
authors: Pawel Kurzynski, Ravishankar Ramanathan, Akihito Soeda, Tan Kok Chuan, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 5 pages
journal: New Journal of Physics 14, 093047 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2998
abstract: We propose a test to measure the bosonic quality of particles with respect to physical operations of single-particle addition and subtraction. We apply our test to investigate bosonic properties of composite particles made of an even number of fermions and suggest its experimental implementation. Furthermore, we discuss features of the processes of particle addition and subtraction in terms of optimal quantum operations.

id: 1108.3004
title: Exact dynamics of finite Glauber-Fock photonic lattices
authors: B. M. Rodr¨ªguez-Lara
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053845 (2011) [6 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3004
abstract: The dynamics of Glauber-Fock lattice of size N is given through exact diagonalization of the corresponding Hamiltonian; the spectra $\{\lambda_{k}\}$ is given as the roots of the $N$-th Hermite polynomial, $H_{N}(\lambda_k/\sqrt{2})=0$, and the eigenstates are given in terms of Hermite polynomials evaluated at these roots. The exact dynamics is used to study coherent phenomena in discrete lattices. Due to the symmetry and spacing of the eigenvalues $\{\lambda_{k}\}$, oscillatory behavior with highly localized spectra, that is, near complete revivals of the photon number and partial recovery of the initial state at given waveguides, is predicted.

id: 1108.3011
title: Entanglement Dissipation: Unitary and Non-unitary Processes
authors: Allan I. Solomon
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, Symmetries in Science XV (Bregenz Symposiun 2011)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3011
abstract: Dissipative processes in physics are usually associated with non-unitary actions. However, the important resource of entanglement is not invariant under general unitary transformations, and is thus susceptible to unitary "dissipation". In this note we discuss both unitary and non-unitary dissipative processes, showing that the former is ultimately of value, since reversible, and enables the production of entanglement; while even in the presence of the latter, more conventional non-unitary and non-reversible, process there exist nonetheless invariant entangled states.

id: 1108.3022
title: Quantum Algorithm for k-distinctness with Prior Knowledge on the Input
authors: Aleksandrs Belovs, Troy Lee
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3022
abstract: It is known that the dual of the general adversary bound can be used to build quantum query algorithms with optimal complexity. Despite this result, not many quantum algorithms have been designed this way. This paper shows another example of such algorithm. We use the learning graph technique from arXiv:1105.4024 to give a quantum algorithm for $k$-distinctness problem that runs in $o(n^{3/4})$ queries, for a fixed $k$, given some prior knowledge on the structure of the input. The best known quantum algorithm for the unconditional problem uses $O(n^{k/(k+1)})$ queries.

id: 1108.3026
title: Quantum Renormalization Group for Ground-State Fidelity
authors: A. Langari, A. T. Rezakhani
comments: 5 pages and 5 figures (revised)
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 053014, http://stacks.iop.org/1367-2630/14/053014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3026
abstract: Ground-state fidelity (GSF) and quantum renormalization group theory (QRG) have proven useful tools in the study of quantum critical systems. Here we lay out a general, unified formalism of GSF and QRG; specifically, we propose a method to calculate GSF through QRG, obviating the need for calculating or approximating ground states. This method thus enhances characterization of quantum criticality as well as scaling analysis of relevant properties with system size. We illustrate the formalism in the one-dimensional Ising model in a transverse field and the anisotropic spin-1/2 Heisenberg model.

id: 1108.3037
title: Salecker-Wigner-Peres clock and average tunneling times
authors: Jos¨¦ T. Lunardi, Luiz A. Manzoni, Andrew T. Nystrom
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 375 (2011) 415-421
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3037
abstract: The quantum clock of Salecker-Wigner-Peres is used, by performing a post-selection of the final state, to obtain average transmission and reflection times associated to the scattering of localized wave packets by static potentials in one dimension. The behavior of these average times is studied for a gaussian wave packet, centered around a tunneling wave number, incident on a rectangular barrier and, in particular, on a double delta barrier potential. The regime of opaque barriers is investigated and the results show that the average transmission time does not saturate, showing no evidence of the Hartman effect (or its generalized version).

id: 1108.3135
title: The Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle and the Nyquist-Shannon Sampling Theorem
authors: Pierre A. Millette
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3135
abstract: The derivation of the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle (HUP) from the Uncertainty Theorem of Fourier Transform theory demonstrates that the HUP arises from the dependency of momentum on wave number that exists at the quantum level. It also establishes that the HUP is purely a relationship between the effective widths of Fourier transform pairs of variables (i.e. conjugate variables). We note that the HUP is not a quantum mechanical measurement principle per se. We introduce the Quantum Mechanical equivalent of the Nyquist-Shannon Sampling Theorem of Fourier Transform theory, and show that it is a better principle to describe the measurement limitations of Quantum Mechanics. We show that Brillouin zones in Solid State physics are a manifestation of the Nyquist-Shannon Sampling Theorem at the quantum level. By comparison with other fields where Fourier Transform theory is used, we propose that we need to discern between measurement limitations and inherent limitations when interpreting the impact of the HUP on the nature of the quantum level. We further propose that while measurement limitations result in our perception of indeterminism at the quantum level, there is no evidence that there are any inherent limitations at the quantum level, based on the Nyquist-Shannon Sampling Theorem.

id: 1108.3144
title: The focusing effect of cold atomic cloud with a red-detuned Gaussian beam
authors: Zhenglu Duan, Shuyu Zhou, Tao Hong, Yuzhu Wang
comments: 5 pages,6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3144
abstract: We have demonstrated an atom-optical lens, with the advantage of a small scale and flexible adjustment of the parameters, realized by a far red-detuned Gaussian laser beam perpendicular to the propagation direction of the cold atomic cloud. The one-dimensional transverse focusing effect of cold atomic clouds at the temperature order of 1 $\mu$K freely falling through the atom-optical lens on the micron scale have been studied theoretically and then verified experimentally. It is found that theory and experiment are in good agreement.

id: 1108.3162
title: On the genesis and evolution of Integrated Quantum Optics
authors: S¨¦bastien Tanzilli, Anthony Martin, Florian Kaiser, Marc De Micheli, Olivier Alibart, Daniel Barry Ostrowsky
comments: 
journal: Laser & Photonics Reviews 6, Volume 6 (1), 115-143 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3162
abstract: Applications of Integrated Optics to quantum sources, detectors, interfaces, memories and linear optical quantum computing are described in this review. By their inherent compactness, efficiencies, and interconnectability, many of the demonstrated individual devices can clearly serve as building blocks for more complex quantum systems, that could also profit from the incorporation of other guided wave technologies.

id: 1108.3184
title: Interrelation between the distributions of kinetic energy release and emitted electron energy following a decay of electronic states
authors: Ying-Chih Chiang, Frank Otto, Hans-Dieter Meyer, Lorenz S. Cederbaum
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3184
abstract: In an electronic decay process followed by fragmentation the kinetic energy release and electron spectra can be measured. Classically they are the mirror image of each other, a fact which is often used in practice. Quantum expressions are derived for both spectra and analyzed. It is demonstrated that these spectra carry complementary quantum information and are related to the nuclear dynamics in different participating electronic states. Illustrative examples show that the classical picture of mirror image can break down and shed light on the underlying physics.

id: 1108.3200
title: Entanglement Storage Units
authors: T. Caneva, T. Calarco, S. Montangero
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 093041
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3200
abstract: We introduce a protocol based on optimal control to drive many body quantum systems into long-lived entangled states, protected from decoherence by big energy gaps, without requiring any apriori knowledge of the system. With this approach it is possible to implement scalable entanglement-storage units. We test the protocol in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model, a prototype many-body quantum system that describes different experimental setups, and in the ordered Ising chain, a model representing a possible implementation of a quantum bus.

id: 1108.3218
title: Roofs and Convexity
authors: Armin Uhlmann
comments: 
journal: Entropy 2010, 12, 1799 - 1832
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3218
abstract: Convex roof extensions are widely used to create entanglement measures in quantum information theory. The aim of the article is to present some tools which could be helpful for their treatment. Sections 2 and 3 introduce into the subject. It follows descriptions of Wootter's method, of the "subtraction procedure", and examples on how to use symmetries.

id: 1108.3270
title: Digital Quantum Simulation of the Statistical Mechanics of a Frustrated Magnet
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Man-Hong Yung, Raymond Laflamme, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik, Jonathan Baugh
comments: 7 pages for the main text plus 6 pages for the supplementary materials
journal: Nature Communications 3, 880 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3270
abstract: Many interesting problems in physics, chemistry, and computer science are equivalent to problems of interacting spins. However, most of these problems require computational resources that are out of reach by classical computers. A promising solution to overcome this challenge is to exploit the laws of quantum mechanics to perform simulation. Several "analog" quantum simulations of interacting spin systems have been realized experimentally. However, relying on adiabatic techniques, these simulations are limited to preparing ground states only. Here we report the first experimental results on a "digital" quantum simulation on thermal states; we simulated a three-spin frustrated magnet, a building block of spin ice, with an NMR quantum information processor, and we are able to explore the phase diagram of the system at any simulated temperature and external field. These results serve as a guide for identifying the challenges for performing quantum simulation on physical systems at finite temperatures, and pave the way towards large scale experimental simulations of open quantum systems in condensed matter physics and chemistry.

id: 1108.3303
title: Algorithmic approach to adiabatic quantum optimization
authors: Neil G. Dickson, Mohammad H. Amin
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3303
abstract: It is believed that the presence of anticrossings with exponentially small gaps between the lowest two energy levels of the system Hamiltonian, can render adiabatic quantum optimization inefficient. Here, we present a simple adiabatic quantum algorithm designed to eliminate exponentially small gaps caused by anticrossings between eigenstates that correspond with the local and global minima of the problem Hamiltonian. In each iteration of the algorithm, information is gathered about the local minima that are reached after passing the anticrossing non-adiabatically. This information is then used to penalize pathways to the corresponding local minima, by adjusting the initial Hamiltonian. This is repeated for multiple clusters of local minima as needed. We generate 64-qubit random instances of the maximum independent set problem, skewed to be extremely hard, with between 10^5 and 10^6 highly-degenerate local minima. Using quantum Monte Carlo simulations, it is found that the algorithm can trivially solve all the instances in ~10 iterations.

id: 1108.3309
title: Generating, manipulating and measuring entanglement and mixture with a reconfigurable photonic circuit
authors: P. J. Shadbolt, M. R. Verde, A. Peruzzo, A. Politi, A. Laing, M. Lobino, J. C. F. Matthews, M. Thompson, J. L. O'Brien
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 6, 45--49 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3309
abstract: Entanglement is the quintessential quantum mechanical phenomenon understood to lie at the heart of future quantum technologies and the subject of fundamental scientific investigations. Mixture, resulting from noise, is often an unwanted result of interaction with an environment, but is also of fundamental interest, and is proposed to play a role in some biological processes. Here we report an integrated waveguide device that can generate and completely characterize pure two-photon states with any amount of entanglement and arbitrary single-photon states with any amount of mixture. The device consists of a reconfigurable integrated quantum photonic circuit with eight voltage controlled phase shifters. We demonstrate that for thousands of randomly chosen configurations the device performs with high fidelity. We generate maximally and non-maximally entangled states, violate a Bell-type inequality with a continuum of partially entangled states, and demonstrate generation of arbitrary one-qubit mixed states.

id: 1108.3318
title: Quantum Walk of Nonclassical Light in Glauber-Fock photonic lattices
authors: Amit Rai
comments: The paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3318
abstract: The paper is being updated.

id: 1108.3319
title: The classical skeleton of open quantum chaotic maps
authors: Lisandro A. Raviola, Alejandro M.F. Rivas, Gabriel G. Carlo
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, accepted in Physica D
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3319
abstract: We have studied two complementary decoherence measures purity and fidelity for a generic diffusive noise in two different chaotic systems (the baker and the cat maps). For both quantities, we have found classical structures in quantum mechanics - the scar functions - that are specially stable when subjected to environmental perturbations. We show that these quantum states constructed on classical invariants are the most robust significant quantum distributions in generic dissipative maps.

id: 1108.3397
title: Violation of the "information-disturbance relationship" in finite-time quantum measurements
authors: A. Thilagam
comments: 13 pages, 8 figs, Minor modifications made according to referee comments
journal: Quant. Information Processing, Vol. 13, 151-169 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3397
abstract: The effect of measurement attributes (quantum level of precision, finite duration) on the classical and quantum correlations is analysed for a pair of qubits immersed in a common reservoir. We show that the quantum discord is enhanced as the precision of the measuring instrument is increased, and both the classical correlation and the quantum discord experience noticeable changes during finite-time measurements performed on a neighboring partition of the entangled system. The implications of these results on the "information-disturbance relationship" are examined, with critical analysis of the delicate roles played by quantum non-locality and non-Markovian dynamics in the violation of this relationship, which appears surprisingly for a range of measurement attributes. This work highlights that the fundamental limits of quantum mechanical measurements can be altered by exchanges of non-classical correlations such as the quantum discord with external sources, which has relevance for cryptographic technology.

id: 1108.3406
title: Quantum phases and dynamics of geometric phase in a quantum spin chain system under linear quench
authors: Sujit Sarkar, B. Basu
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, one reference added. arXiv admin note: significant text overlap with arXiv:0908.3299
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3406
abstract: We study the quantum phases of anisotropic XY spin chain system in presence and absence of adiabatic quench. A connection between geometric phase and criticality is established from the dynamical behaviour of the geometric phase for a quench induced quantum phase transition in a quantum spin chain. We predict XX criticality associated with a sequence of non-contractible geometric phases.

id: 1108.3411
title: Implementation of Two Way Free Space Quantum Key Distribution
authors: M. F. Abdul Khir, M. N. Mohd Zain, Suryadi, S. Saharudin, S. Shaari
comments: To appear in the April 2012 issue of Optical Engineering (Vol. 51, No. 04)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3411
abstract: We report an implementation over free space medium of a two way four states quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol namely the LM05. The fully automated setup demonstrated a secure key generation rate of 3.54 kbits per second and quantum bit error rate (QBER) of 3.34% at mean photon number ({\mu}) = 0.15. The maximum tolerable channel loss for secure key generation considering Photon Number Splitting (PNS) attack, was 5.68 [dB]. The result successfully demonstrated the feasibility of a two way QKD protocol implementation over free space medium.

id: 1108.3442
title: Quantum-control approach to realizing a Toffoli gate in circuit QED
authors: Vladimir M. Stojanovic, A. Fedorov, A. Wallraff, C. Bruder
comments: accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 054504 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3442
abstract: We study the realization of a Toffoli gate with superconducting qubits in a circuit-QED setup using quantum-control methods. Starting with optimized piecewise-constant control fields acting on all qubits and typical strengths of XY-type coupling between the qubits, we demonstrate that the optimal gate fidelities are affected only slightly by a "low-pass" filtering of these fields with the typical cutoff frequencies of microwave driving. Restricting ourselves to the range of control-field amplitudes for which the leakage to the non-computational states of a physical qubit is heavily suppressed, we theoretically predict that in the absence of decoherence and leakage, within 75 ns a Toffoli gate can be realized with intrinsic fidelities higher than 90%, while fidelities above 99% can be reached in about 140 ns.

id: 1108.3452
title: Suppression of quantum oscillations and the dependence on site energies in electronic excitation transfer in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson trimer
authors: G. Ritschel, J. Roden, W. T. Strunz, A. Aspuru-Guzik, A. Eisfeld
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2, 2912 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3452
abstract: Energy transfer in the photosynthetic complex of the Green Sulfur Bacteria known as the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) complex is studied theoretically taking all three subunits (monomers) of the FMO trimer and the recently found eighth bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) molecule into account. We find that in all considered cases there is very little transfer between the monomers. Since it is believed that the eighth BChl is located near the main light harvesting antenna we look at the differences in transfer between the situation when BChl 8 is initially excited and the usually considered case when BChl 1 or 6 is initially excited. We find strong differences in the transfer dynamics, both qualitatively and quantitatively. When the excited state dynamics is initialized at site eight of the FMO complex, we see a slow exponential-like decay of the excitation. This is in contrast to the oscillations and a relatively fast transfer that occurs when only seven sites or initialization at sites 1 and 6 is considered. Additionally we show that differences in the values of the electronic transition energies found in the literature lead to a large difference in the transfer dynamics.

id: 1108.3500
title: Quantum Secret Authentication Code
authors: Tong-Xuan Wei, Tzonelih Hwang, Chia-Wei Tsai
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3500
abstract: This study proposes a quantum secret authentication code for protecting the integrity of secret quantum states. Since BB84[1] was first proposed, the eavesdropper detection strategy in almost all quantum cryptographic protocols is based on the random sample discussion, in which the probability of eavesdropper detection is depending on the number of check qubits eavesdropped by the eavesdropper. Hence, if the eavesdropper interferes only a few qubits of the transmitted quantum sequence, then the detection probability will be very low. This study attempts to propose a quantum secret authentication code to solve this problem. With the use of quantum secret authentication code, not only is the probability of eavesdropper detection guaranteed to be evenly distributed no matter how many qubits had been eavesdropped, but also can the quantum transmission efficiency be highly enhanced.

id: 1108.3518
title: Time-Energy Uncertainty Relation for a Quantum Clock as a Control Device
authors: Takayuki Miyadera
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3518
abstract: A quantum clock working as a control device is examined. The quality of the control process is characterized by the magnitude of deviation of perturbed state from unperturbed state of the controlled system. Uncertainty relations that relate the time duration of the process and energy of the clock to the quality of the control are presented.

id: 1108.3530
title: Ab initio properties of Li-Group-II molecules for ultracold matter studies
authors: Svetlana Kotochigova, Jacek K?os, Alexander Petrov, Maria Linnik, Paul S. Julienne
comments: the manuscript has 10 pages and 7 figures; accepted by J. Chem. Phys. (November 2011)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3530
abstract: We perform a systematic investigation of the electronic properties of the $^2\Sigma^+$ ground state of Li-alkaline-earth dimers. These molecules are proposed as possible candidates for quantum simulation of lattice-spin models. We apply powerful quantum chemistry coupled-cluster methods with large basis sets to calculate potential energies, permanent dipole moment, and electron density distributions for LiBe, LiMg, LiCa, LiSr, and LiYb. Our results reveal a surprising irregularity in the dissociation energy and bond length with an increase in the reduced mass of the molecule. At the same time the permanent dipole moment at the equilibrium separation has the smallest value between 0.01 a.u. and 0.1 a.u. for the heaviest (LiSr and LiYb) molecules and increases to 1.4 a.u. for the lightest (LiBe), where 1 a.u. is one atomic unit of dipole moment. We consider our study of the $^2\Sigma^+$ molecules a first step towards a comprehensive analysis of their interactions in an optical trap.

id: 1108.3569
title: Entangled and sequential quantum protocols with dephasing
authors: Sergio Boixo, Chris Heunen
comments: 6 pages, many figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 108:120402, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3569
abstract: Sequences of commuting quantum operators can be parallelized using entanglement. This transformation is behind some optimal quantum metrology protocols and recent results on quantum circuit complexity. We show that dephasing quantum maps in arbitrary dimension can also be parallelized. This implies that for general dephasing noise the protocol with entanglement is not more fragile than the corresponding sequential protocol and, conversely, the sequential protocol is not less effective than the entangled one. We derive this result using tensor networks. Furthermore, we only use transformations strictly valid within string diagrams in dagger compact closed categories. Therefore, they apply verbatim to other theories, such as geometric quantization and topological quantum field theory. This clarifies and characterizes to some extent the role of entanglement in general quantum theories.

id: 1108.3583
title: Hidden assumptions in the derivation of the Theorem of Bell
authors: Karl Hess, Hans De Raedt, Kristel Michielsen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3583
abstract: John Bell's inequalities have already been considered by Boole in 1862. Boole established a one-to-one correspondence between experimental outcomes and mathematical abstractions of his probability theory. His abstractions are two-valued functions that permit the logical operations AND, OR and NOT and are the elements of an algebra. Violation of the inequalities indicated to Boole an inconsistency of definition of the abstractions and/or the necessity to revise the algebra. It is demonstrated in this paper, that a violation of Bell's inequality by Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen type of experiments can be explained by Boole's ideas. Violations of Bell's inequality also call for a revision of the mathematical abstractions and corresponding algebra. It will be shown that this particular view of Bell's inequalities points toward an incompleteness of quantum mechanics, rather than to any superluminal propagation or influences at a distance.

id: 1108.3594
title: Remote state preparation of spatial qubits
authors: M. A. Sol¨ªs-Prosser, L. Neves
comments: 17 pages, 8 figures. Published version
journal: Physical Review A 84, 012330 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3594
abstract: We study the quantum communication protocol of remote state preparation (RSP) for pure states of qubits encoded in single photons transmitted through a double slit, the so-called spatial qubits. Two measurement strategies that one can adopt to remotely prepare the states are discussed. The first strategy is the well-known spatial postselection, where a single-pixel detector measures the transverse position of the photon between the focal and the image plane of a lens. The second strategy, proposed by ourselves, is a generalized measurement divided into two steps: the implementation of a two-outcome positive operator-valued measurement (POVM) followed by the spatial postselection at the focal plane of the lens by a two-pixel detector in each output of the POVM. In both cases we analyze the effects of the finite spatial resolution of the detectors over three figures of merit of the protocol, namely, the probability of preparation, the fidelity and purity of the remotely prepared states. It is shown that our strategy improves these figures compared with spatial postselection, at the expense of increasing the classical communication cost as well as the required experimental resources. In addition, we present a modified version of our strategy for RSP of spatial qudits which is able to prepare arbitrary pure states, unlike spatial postselection alone. We expect that our study may also be extended for RSP of the angular spectrum of a single-photon field as an alternative for quantum teleportation which requires very inefficient nonlinear interactions.

id: 1108.3612
title: Two-photon super bunching of thermal light via multiple two-photon-path interference
authors: Peilong Hong, Jianbin Liu, Guoquan Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 86, 013807 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3612
abstract: We propose a novel scheme to achieve two-photon super bunching of thermal light through multiple two-photon-path interference, in which two mutually first-order incoherent optical channels are introduced by inserting a modified Michelson interferometer into a traditional two-photon HBT interferometer, and the bunching peak-to-background ratio can reach 3 theoretically. Experimentally, the super bunching peak-to-background ratio was measured to be 2.4, much larger than the ratio 1.7 measured with the same thermal source in a traditional HBT interferometer. The peak-to-background ratio of two-photon super bunching of thermal light can be increased up to $2\times1.5^n$ by inserting cascadingly $n$ pairs of mutually first-order incoherent optical channels into the traditional two-photon HBT interferometer. The two-photon super bunching of thermal light should be of great significance in improving the visibility of classical ghost imaging.

id: 1108.3644
title: What role does the third law of thermodynamics play in Szilard engines?
authors: Kang-Hwan Kim, Sang Wook Kim
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3644
abstract: The role of the third law of thermodynamics in the Szilard engine has been addressed. If the ground state is non-degenerate, the entropy production defined as the work extractable from the engine divided by temperature vanishes as temperature approaches zero due to the third law. The degenerate ground state induced by the symmetry or by accidence gives rise to non-zero entropy production at zero temperature associated with the residual entropy. Various physical situations such as the SZE consisting of bosons or fermions either with or without interaction have been investigated.

id: 1108.3649
title: Criteria for measures of quantum correlations
authors: Aharon Brodutch, Kavan Modi
comments: 22 pages, closer to published version
journal: Quantum Information & Computation 12, 0721 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3649
abstract: Entanglement does not describe all quantum correlations and several authors have shown the need to go beyond entanglement when dealing with mixed states. Various different measures have sprung up in the literature, for a variety of reasons, to describe bipartite and multipartite quantum correlations; some are known under the collective name quantum discord. Yet, in the same sprit as the criteria for entanglement measures, there is no general mechanism that determines whether a measure of quantum and classical correlations is a proper measure of correlations. This is partially due to the fact that the answer is a bit muddy. In this article we attempt tackle this muddy topic by writing down several criteria for a "good" measure of correlations. We breakup our list into necessary, reasonable, and debatable conditions. We then proceed to prove several of these conditions for generalized measures of quantum correlations. However, not all conditions are met by all measures; we show this via several examples. The reasonable conditions are related to continuity of correlations, which has not been previously discussed. Continuity is an important quality if one wants to probe quantum correlations in the laboratory. We show that most types of quantum discord are continuous but none are continuous with respect to the measurement basis used for optimization.

id: 1108.3663
title: Weak vs. approximate values in quantum state determination
authors: Erkka Haapasalo, Pekka Lahti, Jussi Schultz
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052107 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3663
abstract: We generalize the concept of a weak value of a quantum observable to cover arbitrary real positive operator measures. We show that the definition is operationally meaningful in the sense that it can be understood within the quantum theory of sequential measurements. We then present a detailed analysis of the recent experiment of Lundeen et al. concerning the reconstruction of the state of a photon using weak measurements. We compare their method with the reconstruction method through informationally complete phase space measurements and show that it lacks the generality of the phase space method. In particular, a completely unknown state can never be reconstructed using the method of weak measurements.

id: 1108.3681
title: Spooky action at a distance in general probabilistic theories
authors: Giacomo M. D'Ariano, Franco Manessi, Paolo Perinotti
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, elsart, significantly revised version
journal: Phys. Lett. A 376 (2012), pp 2926--2930
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3681
abstract: We call a probabilistic theory "complete" if it cannot be further refined by no-signaling hidden-variable models, and name a theory "spooky" if every equivalent hidden-variable model violates Shimony's Outcome Independence. We prove that a complete theory is spooky if and only if it admits a pure steering state in the sense of Schr\"odinger. Finally we show that steering of complementary states leads to a Schr\"odinger's cat-like paradox.

id: 1108.3763
title: Non-Markovian Open Quantum Systems: Input-Output Fields, Memory, Monitoring
authors: Lajos Di¨®si
comments: 5 pages, 3 postscript figures; version with brief important improvements
journal: Phys.Rev. A85 (2012) 034101-(5)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3763
abstract: Principles of monitoring non-Markovian open quantum systems are analyzed. We use the field representation of the environment (Gardiner and Collet, 1985) for the separation of its memory and detector part, respectively. We claim the system-plus-memory compound becomes Markovian, the detector part is tractable by standard Markovian monitoring. Because of non-Markovianity, only the mixed state of the system can be predicted, the pure state of the system can be retrodicted. We present the corresponding non-Markovian stochastic Schr\"odinger equation.

id: 1108.3803
title: Material Science for Quantum Computing with Atom Chips
authors: Ron Folman
comments: Written for a special issue of the Journal for Quantum Information Processing on QIP with neutral particles
journal: Quantum Information Processing 10 (6), 995 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3803
abstract: In its most general form, the atom chip is a device in which neutral or charged particles are positioned in an isolating environment such as vacuum (or even a carbon solid state lattice) near the chip surface. The chip may then be used to interact in a highly controlled manner with the quantum state. I outline the importance of material science to quantum computing (QC) with atom chips, where the latter may be utilized for many, if not all, suggested implementations of QC. Material science is important both for enhancing the control coupling to the quantum system for preparation and manipulation as well as measurement, and for suppressing the uncontrolled coupling giving rise to low fidelity through static and dynamic effects such as potential corrugations and noise. As a case study, atom chips for neutral ground state atoms are analyzed and it is shown that nanofabricated wires will allow for more than $10^4$ gate operations when considering spin-flips and decoherence. The effects of fabrication imperfections and the Casimir-Polder force are also analyzed. In addition, alternative approaches to current-carrying wires are briefly described. Finally, an outlook of what materials and geometries may be required is presented, as well as an outline of directions for further study.

id: 1108.3804
title: From Bargmann's superselection rule to quantum Newtonian spacetime
authors: H. Hernandez-Coronado
comments: 
journal: Foundations of Physics October 2012, Volume 42, Issue 10, pp 1350-1364
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3804
abstract: Bargmann's superselection rule, which forbids the existence of superpositions of states with different mass and, therefore, implies the impossibility of describing unstable particles in non-relativistic quantum mechanics, arises as a consequence of demanding Galilean covariance of Schr\"odinger's equation. However, the usual Galilean transformations inadequately describe the symmetries of non-relativistic quantum mechanics since they fail to take into account relativistic time contraction effects which can produce non-relativistic phases in the wavefunction. In this paper we describe the incompatibility between Bargmann's rule and Lorentz transformations in the low-velocities limit, we analyze its classical origin and we show that the Extended Galilei group characterizes better the symmetries of the theory. Furthermore, we claim that a proper description of non-relativistic quantum mechanics requires a modification of the notion of spacetime in the corresponding limit, which is noticeable only for quantum particles.

id: 1108.3814
title: Control of molecular rotation with a chiral train of ultrashort pulses
authors: S. Zhdanovich, A. A. Milner, C. Bloomquist, J. Flo?, I. Sh. Averbukh, J. W. Hepburn, V. Milner
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3814
abstract: Trains of ultrashort laser pulses separated by the time of rotational revival (typically, tens of picoseconds) have been exploited for creating ensembles of aligned molecules. In this work we introduce a chiral pulse train - a sequence of linearly polarized pulses with the polarization direction rotating from pulse to pulse by a controllable angle. The chirality of such a train, expressed through the period and direction of its polarization rotation, is used as a new control parameter for achieving selectivity and directionality of laser-induced rotational excitation. The method employs chiral trains with a large number of pulses separated on the time scale much shorter than the rotational revival (a few hundred femtosecond), enabling the use of conventional pulse shapers.

id: 1108.3815
title: Nonlinearity in Single Photon Detection: Modeling and Quantum Tomography
authors: Mohsen K. Akhlaghi, A. Hamed Majedi, Jeff S. Lundeen
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 19, Issue 22, pp. 21305-21312 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3815
abstract: Single Photon Detectors are integral to quantum optics and quantum information. Superconducting Nanowire based detectors exhibit new levels of performance, but have no accepted quantum optical model that is valid for multiple input photons. By performing Detector Tomography, we improve the recently proposed model [M.K. Akhlaghi and A.H. Majedi, IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond. 19, 361 (2009)] and also investigate the manner in which these detectors respond nonlinearly to light, a valuable feature for some applications. We develop a device independent model for Single Photon Detectors that incorporates this nonlinearity.

id: 1108.3818
title: Fine-grained uncertainty relation and nonlocality of tripartite systems
authors: T. Pramanik, A. S. Majumdar
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3818
abstract: The upper bound of the fine-grained uncertainty relation is different for classical physics, quantum physics and no-signaling theories with maximal nonlocality (supper quantum correlation), as was shown in the case of bipartite systems [J. Oppenheim and S. Wehner, Science 330, 1072 (2010)]. Here, we extend the fine-grained uncertainty relation to the case of tripartite systems. We show that the fine-grained uncertainty relation determines the nonlocality of tripartite systems as manifested by the Svetlichny inequality, discriminating between classical physics, quantum physics and super quantum correlations.

id: 1108.3828
title: Shannon entropy as a measure of uncertainty in positions and momenta
authors: ?ukasz Rudnicki
comments: Contribution to the proceedings after the 12th ICSSUR/Feynfest Conference held in Foz do Iguacu (Brazil)
journal: J. Russ. Laser Res. 32, 393 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3828
abstract: This paper is prepared as a contribution to the proceedings after the 12th ICSSUR/Feynfest Conference held in Foz do Iguacu (Brazil) from 2 to 6 May 2011. In the first part I briefy report the topic of entropic uncertainty relations for position and momentum variables. Then I investigate the discrete Shannon entropies related to the case of fnite number of detectors set to measure probability distributions in position and momentum spaces. I derive an uncertainty relation for the sum of the Shannon entropies which generalizes previous approaches [Phys. Lett. 103 A, 253 (1984)] based on an infnite number of detectors (bins).

id: 1108.3844
title: Quantum interferometry with and without an external phase reference
authors: Marcin Jarzyna, Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures (formulas corrected, conclusions unchanged)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 011801(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3844
abstract: We discuss the role of an external phase reference in quantum interferometry. We point out inconsistencies in the literature with regard to the use of the quantum Fisher information (QFI) in phase estimation interferometric schemes. We discuss the interferometric schemes with and without an external phase reference and show a proper way to use QFI in both situations.

id: 1108.3845
title: Disorder-assisted error correction in Majorana chains
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Robert Koenig
comments: 50 pages, 7 figures
journal: Comm. Math. Phys., 316 (3), 641-692 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3845
abstract: It was recently realized that quenched disorder may enhance the reliability of topological qubits by reducing the mobility of anyons at zero temperature. Here we compute storage times with and without disorder for quantum chains with unpaired Majorana fermions - the simplest toy model of a quantum memory. Disorder takes the form of a random site-dependent chemical potential. The corresponding one-particle problem is a one-dimensional Anderson model with disorder in the hopping amplitudes. We focus on the zero-temperature storage of a qubit encoded in the ground state of the Majorana chain. Storage and retrieval are modeled by a unitary evolution under the memory Hamiltonian with an unknown weak perturbation followed by an error-correction step. Assuming dynamical localization of the one-particle problem, we show that the storage time grows exponentially with the system size. We give supporting evidence for the required localization property by estimating Lyapunov exponents of the one-particle eigenfunctions. We also simulate the storage process for chains with a few hundred sites. Our numerical results indicate that in the absence of disorder, the storage time grows only as a logarithm of the system size. We provide numerical evidence for the beneficial effect of disorder on storage times and show that suitably chosen pseudorandom potentials can outperform random ones.

id: 1108.3853
title: Beating the efficiency of both quantum and classical simulations with semiclassics
authors: Cesare Mollica, Jiri Vanicek
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 214101 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3853
abstract: While rigorous quantum dynamical simulations of many-body systems are extremely difficult (or impossible) due to the exponential scaling with dimensionality, corresponding classical simulations completely ignore quantum effects. Semiclassical methods are generally more efficient but less accurate than quantum methods, and more accurate but less efficient than classical methods. We find a remarkable exception to this rule by showing that a semiclassical method can be both more accurate and faster than a classical simulation. Specifically, we prove that for the semiclassical dephasing representation the number of trajectories needed to simulate quantum fidelity is independent of dimensionality and also that this semiclassical method is even faster than the most efficient corresponding classical algorithm. Analytical results are confirmed with simulations of quantum fidelity in up to 100 dimensions with 2^1700-dimensional Hilbert space.

id: 1108.3893
title: Parabolic Sturmians approach to the three-body continuum Coulomb problem
authors: S.A. Zaytsev, Yu.V. Popov, B. Piraux
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3893
abstract: The three-body continuum Coulomb problem is treated in terms of the generalized parabolic coordinates. Approximate solutions are expressed in the form of a Lippmann-Schwinger type equation, where the Green's function includes the leading term of the kinetic energy and the total potential energy, whereas the potential contains the non-orthogonal part of the kinetic energy operator. As a test of this approach, the integral equation for the $(e^-,\, e^-,\, {{He}^{++}})$ system is solved numerically by using the parabolic Sturmian basis representation of the (approximate) potential. Convergence of the expansion coefficients of the solution is obtained as the basis set used to describe the potential is enlarged.

id: 1108.3896
title: Localized qubits in curved spacetimes
authors: Matthew C. Palmer, Maki Takahashi, Hans F. Westman
comments: 53 pages, 7 figures; v2: published version with further corrections. v3: some references and equation typesetting fixed
journal: Annals of Physics 327 (2012) pp. 1078-1131
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3896
abstract: We provide a systematic and self-contained exposition of the subject of localized qubits in curved spacetimes. This research was motivated by a simple experimental question: if we move a spatially localized qubit, initially in a state |\psi_1>, along some spacetime path \Gamma from a spacetime point x_1 to another point x_2, what will the final quantum state |\psi_2> be at point x_2? This paper addresses this question for two physical realizations of the qubit: spin of a massive fermion and polarization of a photon. Our starting point is the Dirac and Maxwell equations that describe respectively the one-particle states of localized massive fermions and photons. In the WKB limit we show how one can isolate a two-dimensional quantum state which evolves unitarily along \Gamma. The quantum states for these two realizations are represented by a left-handed 2-spinor in the case of massive fermions and a four-component complex polarization vector in the case of photons. In addition we show how to obtain from this WKB approach a fully general relativistic description of gravitationally induced phases. We use this formalism to describe the gravitational shift in the COW 1975 experiment. In the non-relativistic weak field limit our result reduces to the standard formula in the original paper. We provide a concrete physical model for a Stern-Gerlach measurement of spin and obtain a unique spin operator which can be determined given the orientation and velocity of the Stern-Gerlach device and velocity of the massive fermion. Finally, we consider multipartite states and generalize the formalism to incorporate basic elements from quantum information theory such as quantum entanglement, quantum teleportation, and identical particles. The resulting formalism provides a basis for exploring precision quantum measurements of the gravitational field using techniques from quantum information theory.

id: 1108.3926
title: No-signaling, perfect bipartite dichotomic correlations and local randomness
authors: M.P. Seevinck
comments: Published in 'Proceedings of the International Conference Advances in Quantum Theory', AIP Conference Proceedings, vol. 1327, 2011. pp. 36-53
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1327, 36-53 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3926
abstract: The no-signaling constraint on bi-partite correlations is reviewed. It is shown that in order to obtain non-trivial Bell-type inequalities that discern no-signaling correlations from more general ones, one must go beyond considering expectation values of products of observables only. A new set of nontrivial no-signaling inequalities is derived which have a remarkably close resemblance to the CHSH inequality, yet are fundamentally different. A set of inequalities by Roy and Singh and Avis et al., which is claimed to be useful for discerning no-signaling correlations, is shown to be trivially satisfied by any correlation whatsoever. Finally, using the set of newly derived no-signaling inequalities a result with potential cryptographic consequences is proven: if different parties use identical devices, then, once they have perfect correlations at spacelike separation between dichotomic observables, they know that because of no-signaling the local marginals cannot but be completely random.

id: 1108.3963
title: Statistical ensembles and X-probability
authors: V. A. Skrebnev
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3963
abstract: We show insurmountable contradictions which arise if statistical ensembles are considered a consequence of the influence of the environment of the physical systems. We regard the multiplicity of states with a definite energy value as a result of internal probabilistic processes in the macrosystem; these internal probabilistic processes are not taken into account by quantum mechanics. On a simple example it is demonstrated, that canonical distribution is not independent and equal to microcanonical one, but is a result of averaging by microcanonical ensemble.

id: 1108.3966
title: Implementation of a Toffoli Gate with Superconducting Circuits
authors: Arkady Fedorov, Lars Steffen, Matthias Baur, M.P. da Silva, Andreas Wallraff
comments: 4 pages, 5figures
journal: Nature 481, 170-172 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3966
abstract: The quantum Toffoli gate allows universal reversible classical computation. It is also an important primitive in many quantum circuits and quantum error correction schemes. Here we demonstrate the realization of a Toffoli gate with three superconducting transmon qubits coupled to a microwave resonator. By exploiting the third energy level of the transmon qubit, the number of elementary gates needed for the implementation of the Toffoli gate, as well as the total gate time can be reduced significantly in comparison to theoretical proposals using two-level systems only. We characterize the performance of the gate by full process tomography and Monte Carlo process certification. The gate fidelity is found to be $68.5\pm0.5$%.

id: 1108.4001
title: Witnessing nonclassical multipartite states
authors: A. Saguia, C. C. Rulli, Thiago R. de Oliveira, M. S. Sarandy
comments: V2: 6 pages, 4 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042123 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4001
abstract: We investigate a witness for nonclassical multipartite states based on their disturbance under local measurements. The witness operator provides a sufficient condition for nonclassicality that coincides with a nonvanishing global quantum discord, but it does not demand an extremization procedure. Moreover, for the case of Z_2-symmetric systems, we rewrite the witness in terms of correlation functions so that classicality is found to necessarily require either vanishing magnetization in the invariant axis or isotropy of the two-point function in the transverse spin plane. We illustrate our results in quantum spin chains, where a characterization of factorized ground states (with spontaneously broken Z_2 symmetry) is achieved. As a by-product, the witness will also be shown to indicate a second-order quantum phase transitions, which will be illustrated both for the XY and Ashkin-Teller spin chains.

id: 1108.4024
title: Decoherence, entanglement decay, and equilibration produced by chaotic environments
authors: Gabriela Barreto Lemos, Fabricio Toscano
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 84, 016220 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4024
abstract: We investigate decoherence in quantum systems coupled via dephasing-type interactions to an arbitrary environment with chaotic underlying classical dynamics. The coherences of the reduced state of the central system written in the preferential energy eigenbasis are quantum Loschmidt echoes, which in the strong coupling regime are characterized at long times scales by fluctuations around a constant mean value. We show that due to the chaotic dynamics of the environment, the mean value and the width of the Loschmidt echo fluctuations are inversely proportional to the quantity we define as the effective Hilbert space dimension of the environment, which in general is smaller than the dimension of the entire available Hilbert space. Nevertheless, in the semiclassical regime this effective Hilbert space dimension is in general large, in which case even a chaotic environment with few degrees of freedom produces decoherence without revivals. Moreover we show that in this regime the environment leads the central system to equilibrate to the time average of its reduced density matrix, which corresponds to a diagonal state in the preferential energy eigenbasis. For the case of two uncoupled, initially entangled central systems that interact with identical local quantum environments with chaotic underlying classical dynamics, we show that in the semiclassical limit the equilibration state is arbitrarily close to a separable state. We confirm our results with numerical simulations in which the environment is modeled by the quantum kicked rotor in the chaotic regime.

id: 1108.4073
title: All maximally entangling unitary gates
authors: Scott M. Cohen
comments: 7 pages, no figures
journal: Physical Review A 84, 052308 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4073
abstract: We characterize all maximally entangling bipartite unitary operators, acting on systems $A,B$ of arbitrary finite dimensions $d_A\le d_B$, when use of ancillary systems by both parties is allowed. Several useful and interesting consequences of this characterization are discussed, including an understanding of why the entangling and disentangling capacities of a given (maximally entangling) unitary can differ and a proof that these capacities must be equal when $d_A=d_B$.

id: 1108.4095
title: Nonsingular potentials from excited state factorization of a quantum system with position dependent mass
authors: Bikashkali Midya
comments: Improved version accepted in J. Phys. A
journal: Journal of Physics A 44 (2011) 435306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4095
abstract: The modified factorization technique of a quantum system characterized by position-dependent mass Hamiltonian is presented. It has been shown that the singular superpotential defined in terms of a mass function and a excited state wave function of a given position-dependent mass Hamiltonian can be used to construct non-singular isospectral Hamiltonians. The method has been illustrated with the help of a few examples.

id: 1108.4143
title: Non-locality of Foldy-Wouthuysen and related transformations for the Dirac equation
authors: Tomasz M. Rusin, Wlodek Zawadzki
comments: 7 pages, two figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062124 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4143
abstract: Non-localities of Foldy-Wouthuysen and related transformations, which are used to separate positive and negative energy states in the Dirac equation, are investigated. Second moments of functional kernels generated by the transformations are calculated, the transformed functions and their variances are computed. It is shown that all the transformed quantities are smeared in the coordinate space by the amount comparable to the Compton wavelength $\lambda_c=\hbar/mc$.

id: 1108.4153
title: Atoms Talking to SQUIDs
authors: J. E. Hoffman, J. A. Grover, Z. Kim, A. K. Wood, J. R. Anderson, A. J. Dragt, M. Hafezi, C. J. Lobb, L. A. Orozco, S. L. Rolston, J. M. Taylor, C. P. Vlahacos, F. C. Wellstood
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures, Quantum Optics V (QOV V) conference proceedings
journal: J. E. Hoffman et. al Rev. Mex. F\'{\i}s. {\bf 57} (3) 1-5 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4153
abstract: We present a scheme to couple trapped $^{87}$Rb atoms to a superconducting flux qubit through a magnetic dipole transition. We plan to trap atoms on the evanescent wave outside an ultrathin fiber to bring the atoms to less than 10 $\mu$m above the surface of the superconductor. This hybrid setup lends itself to probing sources of decoherence in superconducting qubits. Our current plan has the intermediate goal of coupling the atoms to a superconducting LC resonator.

id: 1108.4163
title: Error free Quantum Reading by Quasi Bell State of Entangled Coherent States
authors: Osamu Hirota
comments: Title has been modified and the description of the results has been improved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4163
abstract: Non-classical states of light field have been exploited to provide marvellous results in quantum information science. Effectiveness of nonclassical states depends on whether physical parameter as signal is continuous or digital. Here we present an investigation on the potential of quasi Bell state of entangled coherent states in quantum reading of the classical digital memory which was pioneered by Pirandola. This is a typical example of discrete quantum discrimination. We show that the quasi Bell state gives the error free performance in the quantum reading that cannot be obtained by any classical state.

id: 1108.4166
title: Quantum Nature of Relaxation of Paramagnetic and Optical Systems by Strong Dipole-Photon and Dipole-Phonon Coupling
authors: D.Yearchuck, A.Dovlatova, V.Stelmakh
comments: 13 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4166
abstract: Matrix-operator difference-differential equations for dynamics of spectroscopic transitions in 1D multiqubit exchange coupled (para)magnetic and optical systems by strong dipole-photon and dipole-phonon coupling are derived within the framework of quantum electrodynamics and quantum phonon field theory. It has been established, that in the model considered the relaxation processes are of pure quantum character, which is determined by the formation of the coherent system of the resonance phonons and by the appearence along with absorption process of EM-field energy the coherent emission process, acompanying by phonon Rabi quantum oscillation, which can be time-shared. For the case of radiospectroscopy it corresponds to the possibility of the simultaneous observation along with (para)magntic spin resonance the acoustic spin resonance. Theoretical conclusions are confirmed experimentally in radiospectroscopy. It has been found in particular, that the lifetime of coherent state of collective subsystem of resonance phonons in disordered carbon samples - anthracites of medium-scale metamorphism - is very long and even by room temperature it is evaluated in $\sim 10$ ms. The phenomenon of the formation of the coherent system of the resonance phonons can be used in a number of practical applications, in particular by elaboration of logic quantum systems including quantum computers and quantum communication systems.

id: 1108.4174
title: Witness to Detect The Genuine Multipartite Semiquantum for Arbitrary N Partite Quantum State
authors: Zhi-Hao Ma, Zhi-Hua Chen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4174
abstract: we get a witness to detect the genuine multipartite semiquantum for arbitrary N partite quantum state.

id: 1108.4175
title: How Can the No-Collapse and the Collapse Interpretations of Quantum-Mechanics Give the Same Description?
authors: Fedor Herbut
comments: 32 pages in pdf
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4175
abstract: It is shown that no-collapse and collapse interpretations of quantum mechanics give equal object states (which predict everything that is observable) if one bases the relevant relations on the Von Neumann-L\"uders 'projection'. This connection is elaborated in detail from simple to most general cases. Distinguishability of the two approaches, which exists in principle, is also discussed. In the very simple illustration of passing one slit physical-insight difficulties in the collapse approach are indicated. For the purpose of interference between the two wavefunction components also the Maxh-Zehnder interferometer is discussed.

id: 1108.4241
title: Probabilistic Cloning of Coherent States without a Phase Reference
authors: Christian R. M¨¹ller, Christoffer Wittmann, Petr Marek, Radim Filip, Christoph Marquardt, Gerd Leuchs, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 65, 042324 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4241
abstract: We present a probabilistic cloning scheme operating independently of any phase reference. The scheme is based solely on a phase-randomized displacement and photon counting, omitting the need for non-classical resources and non-linear materials. In an experimental implementation, we employ the scheme to clone coherent states from a phase covariant alphabet and demonstrate that the cloner is capable of outperforming the hitherto best-performing deterministic scheme. An analysis of the covariances between the output states shows that uncorrelated clones can be approached asymptotically. An intriguing feature is that the trade-off between success rate and achieved fidelity can be optimized even after the cloning procedure.

id: 1108.4254
title: Transport efficiency in topologically disordered networks with environmentally induced diffusion
authors: Petrus Schijven, Johannes Kohlberger, Alexander Blumen, Oliver Muelken
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 215003 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4254
abstract: We study transport in topologically disordered networks that are subjected to an environment that induces classical diffusion. The dynamics is phenomenologically described within the framework of the recently introduced quantum stochastic walk, allowing to study the crossover between coherent transport and purely classical diffusion. We find that the coupling to the environment removes all effects of localization and quickly leads to classical transport. Furthermore, we find that on the level of the transport efficiency, the system can be well described by reducing it to a two-node network (a dimer).

id: 1108.4282
title: The invalidity of a strong capacity for a quantum channel with memory
authors: Tony Dorlas, Ciara Morgan
comments: 7 pages, double column. Comments welcome. Repeated equation removed and one reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A, vol. 84, 042318, (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4282
abstract: The strong capacity of a particular channel can be interpreted as a sharp limit on the amount of information which can be transmitted reliably over that channel. To evaluate the strong capacity of a particular channel one must prove both the direct part of the channel coding theorem and the strong converse for the channel. Here we consider the strong converse theorem for the periodic quantum channel and show some rather surprising results. We first show that the strong converse does not hold in general for this channel and therefore the channel does not have a strong capacity. Instead, we find that there is a scale of capacities corresponding to error probabilities between integer multiples of the inverse of the periodicity of the channel. A similar scale also exists for the random channel.

id: 1108.4289
title: Decoherence through Spin Chains: Toy Model
authors: Marcin Wie?niak
comments: 4.1 pages, 4 figures. v2: Important references added thanks to Readers' comments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4289
abstract: The description of the dynamics of closed quantum systems, governed by the Schroedinger equation at first sight seems incompatible with the Lindblad equation describing open ones. By analyzing closed dynamics of a spin-1/2 chain we reconstruct exponential decays characteristic for the latter model. We identify all necessary ingredients to efficiently model this behavior, such as an infinitely large environment and the coupling to the system weak in comparison to the internal couplings in the bath.

id: 1108.4304
title: Quantum limit for avian magnetoreception: How sensitive can a chemical compass be?
authors: Jianming Cai, Filippo Caruso, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, comments are welcome,new references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 040304(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4304
abstract: The chemical compass model, based on radical pair reactions, is a fascinating idea to explain avian magnetoreception. At present, questions concerning the key ingredients responsible for the high sensitivity of a chemical compass and the possible role of quantum coherence and decoherence remain unsolved. Here, we investigate the optimized hyperfine coupling for a chemical compass in order to achieve the best magnetic field sensitivity. We show that its magnetic sensitivity limit can be further extended by simple quantum control and may benefit from additional decoherence. With this, we clearly demonstrate how quantum coherence can be exploited in the functioning of a chemical compass. The present results also provide new routes towards the design of a biomimetic weak magnetic field sensor.

id: 1108.4306
title: On QMA Protocols with Two Short Quantum Proofs
authors: Francois Le Gall, Shota Nakagawa, Harumichi Nishimura
comments: 12pages
journal: Quantum Information & Computation 12(7&8) pp.0589-0600 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4306
abstract: This paper gives a QMA (Quantum Merlin-Arthur) protocol for 3-SAT with two logarithmic-size quantum proofs (that are not entangled with each other) such that the gap between the completeness and the soundness is Omega(1/n polylog(n)). This improves the best completeness/soundness gaps known for NP-complete problems in this setting.

id: 1108.4318
title: Quantum-circuit design for efficient simulations of many-body quantum dynamics
authors: Sadegh Raeisi, Nathan Wiebe, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 20 Pages, 6 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 103017 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4318
abstract: We construct an efficient autonomous quantum-circuit design algorithm for creating efficient quantum circuits to simulate Hamiltonian many-body quantum dynamics for arbitrary input states. The resultant quantum circuits have optimal space complexity and employ a sequence of gates that is close to optimal with respect to time complexity. We also devise an algorithm that exploits commutativity to optimize the circuits for parallel execution. As examples, we show how our autonomous algorithm constructs circuits for simulating the dynamics of Kitaev's honeycomb model and the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer model of superconductivity. Furthermore we provide numerical evidence that the rigorously proven upper bounds for the simulation error here and in previous work may sometimes overestimate the error by orders of magnitude compared to the best achievable performance for some physics-inspired simulations.

id: 1108.4323
title: Witness for a measure of genuine multipartite quantum discord for arbitrary N partite quantum state
authors: Zhi-Hao Ma, Zhi-Hua Chen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4323
abstract: We propose a Witness for a measure of genuine multipartite quantum discord for arbitrary N partite quantum state.

id: 1108.4335
title: The Quantification of Quantum Nonlocality by Characteristic Function
authors: Wei Wen, Shu-Shen Li
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4335
abstract: Quantum nonlocal correlation (QNC) is thought to be more general than quantum entanglement correlation, but the strength of it has not been well defined. We propose a way to measure the strength of QNC basing on the characteristic function. The characteristic function of QNC in a composite system is defined as a response function under the local quantum measurement. It is explored that once a characteristic function is given, the state of a composite system, with just a local trace-preserving quantum operation uncertainty, will be determined. We show that the strength of QNC basing on the characteristic function is a half-positive-definite function and does not change under any LU operation. For a two-partite pure state, the strength of QNC is equivalent to the quantum entanglement. Generally, we give a new definition for quantum entanglement using the strength function. Furthermore, we also give a separability-criterion for 2\timesm-dimensional mixed real matrix. This letter proposes an alternate way for QNC further research.

id: 1108.4350
title: Solving the Einstein-Podolksy-Rosen puzzle: a possible origin of non-locality
authors: Werner A. Hofer
comments: Corrected some (very minor) typos. 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4350
abstract: So far no mechanism is known, which could connect the two measurements in a Bell-type experiment with a speed beyond the speed of light, commonly considered the ultimate limit of propagation of any field-like interaction. Here, we suggest such a mechanism, based on the phase of a photon field during its propagation. We show that two measurements, corresponding to two independent rotations of the fields, are connected, even if no signal passes from one point of measurement to the other. The non-local connection of a photon pair is the result of its origin at a common source, where the two fields acquire a well defined phase difference. Therefore, it is not actually a non-local effect in any conventional sense.

id: 1108.4359
title: On Minimum Uncertainty States
authors: Pankaj Sharan
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4359
abstract: Necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of a minimum uncertainty state for an arbitrary pair of observables is given.

id: 1108.4447
title: Klein-Tunneling of a Quasirelativistic Bose-Einstein Condensate in an Optical Lattice
authors: Tobias Salger, Sebastian Kling, Christopher Grossert, Martin Weitz
comments: main: 4 pages, 4 figures supplement: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 240401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4447
abstract: Optical lattices have proven to be powerful systems for quantum simulations of solid state physics effects. Here we report a proof-of-principle experiment simulating effects predicted by relativistic wave equations with ultracold atoms in a bichromatic optical lattice that allows for a tailoring of the dispersion relation. We observe the analog of Klein-tunneling, the penetration of relativistic particles through a potential barrier without the exponential damping that is characteristic for nonrelativistic quantum tunneling. Both linear (relativistic) and quadratic (nonrelativistic) dispersion relations are investigated, and significant barrier transmission is observed only for the relativistic case.

id: 1108.4515
title: Photon scattering from strongly driven atomic ensembles
authors: Lu-ling Jin, Joerg Evers, Mihai Macovei
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043812 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4515
abstract: The second order correlation function for light emitted from a strongly and near-resonantly driven dilute cloud of atoms is discussed. Because of the strong driving, the fluorescence spectrum separates into distinct peaks, for which the spectral properties can be defined individually. It is shown that the second-order correlations for various combinations of photons from different spectral lines exhibit bunching together with super- or sub-Poissonian photon statistics, tunable by the choice of the detector positions. Additionally, a Cauchy-Schwarz inequality is violated for photons emitted from particular spectral bands. The emitted light intensity is proportional to the square of the number of particles, and thus can potentially be intense. Three different averaging procedures to model ensemble disorder are compared.

id: 1108.4517
title: Hohenberg-Kohn Theorem for Coulomb Type Systems
authors: Aihui Zhou
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4517
abstract: Density functional theory (DFT) has become a basic tool for the study of electronic structure of matter, in which the Hohenberg-Kohn theorem plays a fundamental role in the development of DFT. Unfortunately, the existing proofs are incomplete even incorrect; besides, the statement of the Hohenberg-Kohn theorem for many-electron Coulomb systems is not perfect. In this paper, we shall restate the Hohenberg-Kohn theorem for Coulomb type systems and present a rigorous proof by using the Fundamental Theorem of Algebra.

id: 1108.4525
title: Formation of supermodes in atom-microcavity chains
authors: Sandra Isabelle Schmid, Joerg Evers
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4525
abstract: A chain of atom-microcavity systems coupled by a common fiber is considered. We analyze the formation of supermodes and focus on the dependence of this effect on the chain geometry and the number of atom-cavity subsystems. We show that the significance of supermodes to the transmission increases with the number of atom-cavity subsystems. We identify spectral ranges in which the chain geometry decides whether supermodes are formed, and ranges which are insensitive to the geometry. Furthermore, we show that the reflection signal allows to identify which cavities couple to atoms, which is a crucial information in experimental realizations of longer atom-cavity chain systems.

id: 1108.4540
title: General Quantum Key Distribution in Higher Dimension
authors: Zhao-Xi Xiong, Han-Duo Shi, Yi-Nan Wang, Li Jing, Jin Lei, Liang-Zhu Mu, Heng Fan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012334 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4540
abstract: We study a general quantum key distribution protocol in higher dimension. In this protocol, quantum states in arbitrary $g+1$ ($1\le g\le d$) out of all $d+1$ mutually unbiased bases in a d-dimensional system can be used for the key encoding. This provides a natural generalization of the quantum key distribution in higher dimension and recovers the previously known results for $g=1$ and $d$. In our investigation, we study Eve's attack by two slightly different approaches. One is considering the optimal cloner for Eve, and the other, defined as the optimal attack, is maximizing Eve's information. We derive results for both approaches and show the deviation of the optimal cloner from the optimal attack. With our systematic investigation of the quantum key distribution protocols in higher dimension, one may balance the security gain and the implementation cost by changing the number of bases in the key encoding. As a side product, we also prove the equivalency between the optimal phase covariant quantum cloning machine and the optimal cloner for the $g=d-1$ quantum key distribution.

id: 1108.4549
title: Tsirelson's bound from a Generalised Data Processing Inequality
authors: Oscar C. O. Dahlsten, Daniel Lercher, Renato Renner
comments: 5+3 pages, 1 figure. Replaced with version close to that published. Similar results were independently obtained in arXiv:1107.4031
journal: New J. Phys. 14 063024 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4549
abstract: The strength of quantum correlations is bounded from above by Tsirelson's bound. We establish a connection between this bound and the fact that correlations between two systems cannot increase under local operations, a property known as the data processing inequality. More specifically, we consider arbitrary convex probabilistic theories. These can be equipped with an entropy measure that naturally generalizes the von Neumann entropy, as shown recently in [Short and Wehner, Barnum et al.]. We prove that if the data processing inequality holds with respect to this generalized entropy measure then the underlying theory necessarily respects Tsirelson's bound. We moreover generalise this statement to any entropy measure satisfying certain minimal requirements. A consequence of our result is that not all of the entropic relations used to derive Tsirelson's bound via information causality in [Pawlowski et al.] are necessary.

id: 1108.4650
title: Scattering-matrix approach to Casimir-Lifshitz force and heat transfer out of thermal equilibrium between arbitrary bodies
authors: Riccardo Messina, Mauro Antezza
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042102 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4650
abstract: We study the radiative heat transfer and the Casimir-Lifshitz force occurring between two bodies in a system out of thermal equilibrium. We consider bodies of arbitrary shape and dielectric properties, held at two different temperatures, and immersed in a environmental radiation at a third different temperature. We derive explicit closed-form analytic expressions for the correlations of the electromagnetic field, and for the heat transfer and Casimir-Lifshitz force, in terms of the bodies scattering matrices. We then consider some particular cases which we investigate in detail: the atom-surface and the slab-slab configurations.

id: 1108.4680
title: Measurement of the quantum zero-point motion of a nanomechanical resonator
authors: Amir H. Safavi-Naeini, Jasper Chan, Jeff T. Hill, T. P. Mayer Alegre, Alex Krause, Oskar Painter
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 033602 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4680
abstract: We present optical sideband spectroscopy measurements of a mesoscopic mechanical oscillator cooled near its quantum ground state. The mechanical oscillator, corresponding to a 3.99GHz acoustic mode of a patterned silicon nanobeam, is coupled via radiation pressure to a pair of co-localized 200THz optical modes. The mechanical mode is cooled close to its quantum ground state from a bath temperature of 18K using radiation pressure back-action stemming from the optical pumping of one of the optical cavity resonances. An optical probe beam, resonant with the second optical cavity resonance, is used to transduce the mechanical motion and determine the phonon occupancy of the mechanical mode. Measurement of the asymmetry between up-converted and down-converted photons of the probe beam yields directly the displacement noise power associated with the quantum zero-point motion of the mechanical oscillator, and provides an absolute calibration of the average phonon occupancy of the mechanical mode.

id: 1108.4699
title: Distilling Quantum Entanglement via Mode-Matched Filtering
authors: Yu-Ping Huang, Prem Kumar
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4699
abstract: We propose a new avenue towards distillation of quantum entanglement that is implemented by directly passing the entangled qubits through a mode-matched filter. This approach can be applied to a common class of entanglement impurities appearing in photonic systems where the impurities inherently occupy different spatiotemporal modes than the entangled qubits. As a specific application, we show that our method can be used to significantly purify the telecom-band entanglement generated via the Kerr nonlinearity in single-mode fibers where a substantial amount of Raman-scattering noise is concomitantly produced.

id: 1108.4717
title: Qutrit squeezing via semiclassical evolution
authors: Andrei B. Klimov, Hossein Tavakoli Dinani, Zachari E.D. Medendorp, Hubert de Guise
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 13 113033 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4717
abstract: We introduce a concept of squeezing in collective qutrit systems through a geometrical picture connected to the deformation of the isotropic fluctuations of su(3) operators when evaluated in a coherent state. This kind of squeezing can be generated by Hamiltonians non-linear in the generators of su(3) algebra. A simple model of such a non-linear evolution is analyzed in terms of semiclassical evolution of the SU(3) Wigner function.

id: 1108.4741
title: Measurement-based quantum computation in a 2D phase of matter
authors: Andrew S. Darmawan, Gavin K. Brennen, Stephen D. Bartlett
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, comments welcome. v2: published version
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 013023 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4741
abstract: Recently it has been shown that the non-local correlations needed for measurement based quantum computation (MBQC) can be revealed in the ground state of the Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki (AKLT) model involving nearest neighbor spin-3/2 interactions on a honeycomb lattice. This state is not singular but resides in the disordered phase of ground states of a large family of Hamiltonians characterized by short-range-correlated valence bond solid states. By applying local filtering and adaptive single particle measurements we show that most states in the disordered phase can be reduced to a graph of correlated qubits that is a scalable resource for MBQC. At the transition between the disordered and Neel ordered phases we find a transition from universal to non-universal states as witnessed by the scaling of percolation in the reduced graph state.

id: 1108.4756
title: Weak+Vacuum and One Decoy State with Two Way Quantum Key Distribution Protocol
authors: M. F. Abdul Khir, Iskandar Bahari, S. Ali, S. Shaari
comments: 
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 20, 1350010 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4756
abstract: We present relevant bounds for the case of weak+vacuum decoy state and one decoy state for a two way four states Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) protocol. The numerical simulation result was significant given that an improvement in maximum secure distance of nearly double is achieved.

id: 1108.4759
title: Symmetry-Enhanced Performance of Dynamical Decoupling
authors: S. Pasini, G. S. Uhrig
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Physical Review A 84, 042336 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4759
abstract: We consider a system with general decoherence and a quadratic dynamical decoupling sequence (QDD) for the coherence control of a qubit coupled to a bath of spins. We investigate the influence of the geometry and of the initial conditions of the bath on the performance of the sequence. The overall performance is quantified by a distance norm $d$. It is expected that $d$ scales with $T$, the total duration of the sequence, as $T^{\min \{N_x,N_z\}+1}$, where $N_x$ and $N_z$ are the number of pulses of the outer and of the inner sequence, respectively. We show both numerically and analytically that the state of the bath can boost the performance of QDD under certain conditions: The scaling of QDD for a given number of pulses can be enhanced by a factor of 2 if the bath is prepared in a highly symmetric state and if the system Hamiltonian is SU(2) invariant.

id: 1108.4765
title: Quantum properties of superposition states, squeezed states, and of some parametric processes
authors: Faisal Aly Aly El-Orany
comments: 151 pages, 36 figures; PhD Thesis. Department of Optics, Faculty of Natural Sciences, Palacky University, Olomouc, Czech Republic, July (2001). PhD Advisor: Prof. RNDr. Jan Perina, DrSc
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4765
abstract: In this doctoral thesis we have studied the quantum properties of several models which have been classified as statical and dynamical systems. The first part has been devoted to investigate the properties of the statical models including the superposition of squeezed displaced number states with and without thermal noise. Also we have developed a new type of multidimensional squeeze operator including two different squeezing mechanisms. In the second part the dynamical models were given to show the interaction between modes in the nonlinear optical coupler.

id: 1108.4781
title: Semi-relativistic effects in spin-1/2 quantum plasmas
authors: F. A. Asenjo, J. Zamanian, M. Marklund, G. Brodin, P. Johansson
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4781
abstract: Emerging possibilities for creating and studying novel plasma regimes, e.g. relativistic plasmas and dense systems, in a controlled laboratory environment also requires new modeling tools for such systems. This brings motivation for theoretical studies of the kinetic theory governing the dynamics of plasmas for which both relativistic and quantum effects occur simultaneously. Here, we investigate relativistic corrections to the Pauli Hamiltonian in the context of a scalar kinetic theory for spin-1/2 quantum plasmas. In particular, we formulate a quantum kinetic theory that takes such effects as spin-orbit coupling and Zitterbewegung into account for the collective motion of electrons. We discuss the implications and possible applications of our findings.

id: 1108.4798
title: Generalized Bell Inequality Experiments and Computation
authors: Matty J. Hoban, Joel J. Wallman, Dan E. Browne
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures, supplemental material available upon request. Typos corrected and references added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062107 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4798
abstract: We consider general settings of Bell inequality experiments with many parties, where each party chooses from a finite number of measurement settings each with a finite number of outcomes. We investigate the constraints that Bell inequalities place upon the correlations possible in a local hidden variable theories using a geometrical picture of correlations. We show that local hidden variable theories can be characterized in terms of limited computational expressiveness, which allows us to characterize families of Bell inequalities. The limited computational expressiveness for many settings (each with many outcomes) generalizes previous results about the many-party situation each with a choice of two possible measurements (each with two outcomes). Using this computational picture we present generalizations of the Popescu-Rohrlich non-local box for many parties and non-binary inputs and outputs at each site. Finally, we comment on the effect of pre-processing on measurement data in our generalized setting and show that it becomes problematic outside of the binary setting, in that it allows local hidden variable theories to simulate maximally non-local correlations such as those of these generalised Popescu-Rohrlich non-local boxes.

id: 1108.4823
title: Communication loophole in a Bell-EPR-Bohm experiment: standard no-signaling may not always be enough to exclude local realism
authors: David Rodriguez
comments: 2nd version: references and comment on recent work added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4823
abstract: Assuming perfect detection efficiency, we present an (indeterministic) model for an EPR-Bohm experiment which reproduces the singlet correlations, without contradicting Bell's original locality condition. In this model we allow the probability distribution $\rho_{\lambda}$ of the state $\lambda$ at the source to depend parametrically on the orientation $\xi$ of one of the measuring devices: $\rho_{\lambda}(\lambda,\xi)$. In a Bell experiment, no-signaling between the source and each one of the devices would seem clearly sufficient to rule such an influence; however, not even schemes where the choice of observables takes place during the on-flight time of the particles can prevent, in some situations, a model of this type from violating the local bounds. In particular, a random shift $\rho_{\lambda}(\lambda,\xi_1) \rightarrow \rho_{\lambda}(\lambda,\xi_2) \rightarrow...\rightarrow \rho_{\lambda}(\lambda,\xi_n)$ allows the model to perform a "subensemble selection" for each of the terms involved in the inequality (analogous to what goes on with the efficiency loophole), whenever some correlation of those $\rho_{\lambda}$-shifts with the sequence of measurement choices is allowed. That correlation does not necessarily imply signaling during the photon on-flight time.

id: 1108.4842
title: Demonstration of sufficient control for two rounds of quantum error correction in a solid state ensemble quantum information processor
authors: Osama Moussa, Jonathan Baugh, Colm A. Ryan, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 
journal: PRL 107, 160501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4842
abstract: We report the implementation of a 3-qubit quantum error correction code (QECC) on a quantum information processor realized by the magnetic resonance of Carbon nuclei in a single crystal of Malonic Acid. The code corrects for phase errors induced on the qubits due to imperfect decoupling of the magnetic environment represented by nearby spins, as well as unwanted evolution under the internal Hamiltonian. We also experimentally demonstrate sufficiently high fidelity control to implement two rounds of quantum error correction. This is a demonstration of state-of-the-art control in solid state nuclear magnetic resonance, a leading test-bed for the implementation of quantum algorithms.

id: 1108.4865
title: If physics is an information science, what is an observer?
authors: Chris Fields
comments: 30 pages, comments welcome; v2 significant revisions - results unchanged
journal: Information 2012, 3(1), 92-123
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4865
abstract: Interpretations of quantum theory have traditionally assumed a "Galilean" observer, a bare "point of view" implemented physically by a quantum system. This paper investigates the consequences of replacing such an informationally-impoverished observer with an observer that satisfies the requirements of classical automata theory, i.e. an observer that encodes sufficient prior information to identify the system being observed and recognize its acceptable states. It shows that with reasonable assumptions about the physical dynamics of information channels, the observations recorded by such an observer will display the typical characteristics predicted by quantum theory, without requiring any specific assumptions about the observer's physical implementation.

id: 1108.4906
title: Filtering of the absolute value of photon-number difference for two-mode macroscopic quantum superpositions
authors: Magdalena Stobi¨½ska, Falk T?ppel, Pavel Sekatski, Adam Buraczewski, Marek ?ukowski, Maria V. Chekhova, Gerd Leuchs, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 063823 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4906
abstract: We discuss a device capable of filtering out two-mode states of light with mode populations differing by more than a certain threshold, while not revealing which mode is more populated. It would allow engineering of macroscopic quantum states of light in a way which is preserving specific superpositions. As a result, it would enhance optical phase estimation with these states as well as distinguishability of "macroscopic" qubits. We propose an optical scheme, which is a relatively simple, albeit non-ideal, operational implementation of such a filter. It uses tapping of the original polarization two-mode field, with a polarization neutral beam splitter of low reflectivity. Next, the reflected beams are suitably interfered on a polarizing beam splitter. It is oriented such that it selects unbiased polarization modes with respect to the original ones. The more an incoming two-mode Fock state is unequally populated, the more the polarizing beam splitter output modes are equally populated. This effect is especially pronounced for highly populated states. Additionally, for such states we expect strong population correlations between the original fields and the tapped one. Thus, after a photon-number measurement of the polarizing beam splitter outputs, a feed-forward loop can be used to let through a shutter the field, which was transmitted by the tapping beam splitter. This happens only if the counts at the outputs are roughly equal. In such a case, the transmitted field differs strongly in occupation number of the two modes, while information on which mode is more populated is non-existent (a necessary condition for preserving superpositions).

id: 1108.4909
title: Strategies for measurement-based quantum computation with cluster states transformed by stochastic local operations and classical communication
authors: Adam G. D'Souza, David L. Feder
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4909
abstract: We examine cluster states transformed by stochastic local operations and classical communication, as a resource for deterministic universal computation driven strictly by projective measurements. We identify circumstances under which such states in one dimension constitute resources for random length single-qubit rotations, in one case quasi-deterministically (N-U-N states) and in another probabilistically (B-U-B states). In contrast to the cluster states, the N-U-N states exhibit spin correlation functions that decay exponentially with distance, while the B-U-B states can be arbitrarily locally pure. A two-dimensional square N-U-N lattice is a universal resource for quasideterministic measurement-based quantum computation. Measurements on cubic B-U-B states yield two-dimensional cluster states with bond defects, whose connectivity exceeds the percolation threshold for a critical value of the local purity.

id: 1108.4940
title: Quantum rate distortion, reverse Shannon theorems, and source-channel separation
authors: Nilanjana Datta, Min-Hsiu Hsieh, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures; v2: proof that the entanglement-assisted quantum rate distortion function is a single-letter lower bound on the unassisted quantum rate distortion function; v3: accepted into IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory vol. 59, no. 1, pp. 615-630 (January 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4940
abstract: We derive quantum counterparts of two key theorems of classical information theory, namely, the rate distortion theorem and the source-channel separation theorem. The rate-distortion theorem gives the ultimate limits on lossy data compression, and the source-channel separation theorem implies that a two-stage protocol consisting of compression and channel coding is optimal for transmitting a memoryless source over a memoryless channel. In spite of their importance in the classical domain, there has been surprisingly little work in these areas for quantum information theory. In the present paper, we prove that the quantum rate distortion function is given in terms of the regularized entanglement of purification. We also determine a single-letter expression for the entanglement-assisted quantum rate distortion function, and we prove that it serves as a lower bound on the unassisted quantum rate distortion function. This implies that the unassisted quantum rate distortion function is non-negative and generally not equal to the coherent information between the source and distorted output (in spite of Barnum's conjecture that the coherent information would be relevant here). Moreover, we prove several quantum source-channel separation theorems. The strongest of these are in the entanglement-assisted setting, in which we establish a necessary and sufficient codition for transmitting a memoryless source over a memoryless quantum channel up to a given distortion.

id: 1108.4981
title: Preservation of entanglement in a two-qubit-spin coupled system
authors: Yu-Chen Hou, Guo-feng Zhang, Yan Chen, Heng Fan
comments: Accepted by Annals of Physics
journal: Annals of Physics 327 (2012) 292-296
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4981
abstract: A theoretical scheme to preserve the entanglement in a two-qubit-spin coupled system in the presence of Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (DM) anisotropic antisymmetric interaction is proposed. Based on a sequence of operations performed periodically on the system, the scheme can preserve the entanglement of the system starting from any initial state with any high precision for any long duration.

id: 1108.5036
title: All photons are equal but some photons are more equal than others
authors: Falk T?ppel, Andrea Aiello, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 13 pages, 2 figure, extended version, to be published in New Journal of Physics
journal: Falk T\"oppel , Andrea Aiello and Gerd Leuchs, New J. Phys. 14, 093051 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5036
abstract: Two photons are said to be identical when they are prepared in the same quantum state. Given the latter, there is a unique way to achieve this. Conversely, there are many different manners to prepare two non-identical photons: they may have different frequency, polarization, amplitude, etc. Therefore, photon distinguishability depends upon the specific degree of freedom being varied. By means of a careful analysis of the coincidence probability distribution in a Hong-Ou-Mandel experiment, we can show that photon distinguishability can be actually quantified by the rate of distinguishability of photons, an experimentally measurable parameter that crucially depends on both the photon quantum state and the degree of freedom under control.

id: 1108.5061
title: Counter-polarized single-photon generation from the auxiliary cavity of a weakly nonlinear photonic molecule
authors: Motoaki Bamba, Cristiano Ciuti
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics Letters 99 (2011) 171111
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5061
abstract: We propose a scheme for the resonant generation of counter-polarized single photons in double asymmetric cavities with a small Kerr optical nonlinearity (as that created by a semiconductor quantum well) compared to the mode broadening. Due to the interplay between spatial intercavity tunneling and polarization coupling, by weakly exciting with circularly polarized light one of the cavities, we predict strong antibunching of counter-polarized light emission from the non-pumped auxiliary cavity. This scheme due to quantum interference is robust against surface scattering of pumping light, which can be suppressed both by spatial and polarization filters.

id: 1108.5065
title: Entropy of quantum channel in the theory of quantum information
authors: Wojciech Roga
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5065
abstract: Quantum channels, also called quantum operations, are linear, trace preserving and completely positive transformations in the space of quantum states. Such operations describe discrete time evolution of an open quantum system interacting with an environment. The thesis contains an analysis of properties of quantum channels and different entropies used to quantify the decoherence introduced into the system by a given operation. Part I of the thesis provides a general introduction to the subject. In Part II, the action of a quantum channel is treated as a process of preparation of a quantum ensemble. The Holevo information associated with this ensemble is shown to be bounded by the entropy exchanged during the preparation process between the initial state and the environment. A relation between the Holevo information and the entropy of an auxiliary matrix consisting of square root fidelities between the elements of the ensemble is proved in some special cases. Weaker bounds on the Holevo information are also established. The entropy of a channel, also called the map entropy, is defined as the entropy of the state corresponding to the channel by the Jamiolkowski isomorphism. In Part III of the thesis, the additivity of the entropy of a channel is proved. The minimal output entropy, which is difficult to compute, is estimated by an entropy of a channel which is much easier to obtain. A class of quantum channels is specified, for which additivity of channel capacity is conjectured. The last part of the thesis contains characterization of Davies channels, which correspond to an interaction of a state with a thermal reservoir in the week coupling limit, under the condition of quantum detailed balance and independence of rotational and dissipative evolutions. The Davies channels are characterized for one-qubit and one-qutrit systems.

id: 1108.5089
title: Again on coherent states in magnetic-solenoid field
authors: V. G. Bagrov, S. P. Gavrilov, D. M. Gitman, K. Gorska
comments: 9 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 244008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5089
abstract: This article completes our study of coherent states in the so-called magnetic-solenoid field (a colinear combination of a constant uniform magnetic field and Aharonov-Bohm solenoid field) presented in JPA 2010 and 2011. Here we succeeded to prove nontrivial completeness relations for non-relativistic and relativistic coherent states in such a field. In addition, we solve here the relevant Stieltjes moment problem and present a comparative analysis of our coherent states and the well-known in the case of pure uniform magnetic field Malkin-Man'ko coherent states.

id: 1108.5090
title: Toward protocols for quantum-ensured privacy and secure voting
authors: Marianna Bonanome, Vladimir Buzek, Mark Hillery, Mario Ziman
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: Physical Review A 84, 022331 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5090
abstract: We present a number of schemes that use quantum mechanics to preserve privacy, in particular, we show that entangled quantum states can be useful in maintaining privacy. We further develop our original proposal [see Phys. Lett. A 349, 75 (2006)] for protecting privacy in voting, and examine its security under certain types of attacks, in particular dishonest voters and external eavesdroppers. A variation of these quantum-based schemes can be used for multi-party function evaluation. We consider functions corresponding to group multiplication of $N$ group elements, with each element chosen by a different party. We show how quantum mechanics can be useful in maintaining the privacy of the choices group elements.

id: 1108.5097
title: Quantum toroidal moments of an elliptic toroidal helix in a constant magnetic field
authors: J. Williamson, M. Encinosa
comments: 21 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5097
abstract: An effective one-dimensional Schr\"odinger equation for a spinless particle constrained to motion near a toroidal helix immersed in an arbitrarily oriented constant magnetic field is developed. The dependence of the induced toroidal moments on the magnetic flux through the helix is presented. The magnitude of the moments depend strongly on the component of the field normal to the toroidal plane. A strong dependence on coil eccentricity is also indicated. It is also shown that field-curvature coupling potential terms are necessary to preserve the Hermiticity of the minimal prescription Hamiltonian.

id: 1108.5105
title: SU(2) Invariants of Symmetric Qubit States
authors: Swarnamala Sirsi, Veena Adiga
comments: 7 pages, 1 fig
journal: JRLR, Volume32, No. 5 , 495-501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5105
abstract: Density matrix for N-qubit symmetric state or spin-j state (j = N/2) is expressed in terms of the well known Fano statistical tensor parameters. Employing the multiaxial representation [1], wherein a spin-j density matrix is shown to be characterized by j(2j+1) axes and 2j real scalars, we enumerate the number of invariants constructed out of these axes and scalars. These invariants are explicitly calculated in the particular case of pure as well as mixed spin-1 state.

id: 1108.5107
title: Waveguide single-photon detectors for integrated quantum photonic circuits
authors: J.P. Sprengers, A. Gaggero, D. Sahin, S. Jahanmiri Nejad, F. Mattioli, R. Leoni, J. Beetz, M. Lermer, M. Kamp, S. H?fling, R. Sanjines, A. Fiore
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5107
abstract: The generation, manipulation and detection of quantum bits (qubits) encoded on single photons is at the heart of quantum communication and optical quantum information processing. The combination of single-photon sources, passive optical circuits and single-photon detectors enables quantum repeaters and qubit amplifiers, and also forms the basis of all-optical quantum gates and of linear-optics quantum computing. However, the monolithic integration of sources, waveguides and detectors on the same chip, as needed for scaling to meaningful number of qubits, is very challenging, and previous work on quantum photonic circuits has used external sources and detectors. Here we propose an approach to a fully-integrated quantum photonic circuit on a semiconductor chip, and demonstrate a key component of such circuit, a waveguide single-photon detector. Our detectors, based on superconducting nanowires on GaAs ridge waveguides, provide high efficiency (20%) at telecom wavelengths, high timing accuracy (60 ps), response time in the ns range, and are fully compatible with the integration of single-photon sources, passive networks and modulators.

id: 1108.5109
title: Heat-Bath Cooling of Spins in Two Amino Acids
authors: Yuval Elias, Haggai Gilboa, Tal Mor, Yossi Weinstein
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, presented at the International Society for Magnetic Resonance (ISMAR) in Florence, 2010
journal: Chem. Phys. Lett. 517, 126-131 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5109
abstract: Heat-bath cooling is a component of practicable algorithmic cooling of spins, an approach which might be useful for in vivo 13C spectroscopy, in particular for prolonged metabolic processes where substrates that are hyperpolarized ex-vivo are not effective. We applied heat-bath cooling to 1,2-13C2-amino acids, using the alpha protons to shift entropy from selected carbons to the environment. For glutamate and glycine, both carbons were cooled by about 2.5-fold, and in other experiments the polarization of C1 nearly doubled while all other spins had equilibrium polarization, indicating reduction in total entropy. The effect of adding Magnevist, a gadolinium contrast agent, on heat-bath cooling of glutamate was investigated.

id: 1108.5136
title: Scalable Architecture for Quantum Information Processing with Atoms in Optical Micro-Structures
authors: Malte Schlosser, Sascha Tichelmann, Jens Kruse, Gerhard Birkl
comments: Review for special issue of "Quantum Information Processing" on "Quantum Information with Neutral Particles"
journal: Quantum Information Processing, volume 10, number 6, 907-924 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5136
abstract: We review recent experimental progress towards quantum information processing and quantum simulation using neutral atoms in two-dimensional (2D) arrays of optical microtraps as 2D registers of qubits. We describe a scalable quantum information architecture based on micro-fabricated optical elements, simultaneously targeting the important issues of single-site addressability and scalability. This approach provides flexible and integrable configurations for quantum state storage, manipulation, and retrieval. We present recent experimental results on the initialization and coherent one-qubit rotation of up to 100 individually addressable qubits, the coherent transport of atomic quantum states in a scalable quantum shift register, and discuss the feasibility of two-qubit gates in 2D microtrap arrays.

id: 1108.5138
title: Dynamics of a qubit as a classical stochastic process with time-correlated noise: minimal measurement invasiveness
authors: Alberto Montina
comments: Minor changes. Added hyperlinks in the bibliography
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 160501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5138
abstract: So far it has been shown that the quantum dynamics cannot be described as a classical Markov process unless the number of classical states is uncountably infinite. In this paper, we present a stochastic model with time-correlated noise that exactly reproduces any unitary evolution of a qubit and requires just four classical states. The invasive updating of just one bit during a measurement accounts for the quantum violation of the Leggett-Garg inequalities. Unlike in a pilot wave theory, the stochastic forces governing the jumps among the four states do not depend on the quantum state, but only on the unitary evolution. This model is used to derive a local hidden variable model, augmented by one bit of classical communication, for simulating entangled Bell states.

id: 1108.5146
title: Penetration through a wall: Is it reality?
authors: B. Ivlev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5146
abstract: A tennis ball is not expected to penetrate through a brick wall since a motion under a barrier is impossible in classical mechanics. With quantum effects a motion of a particle through a barrier is allowed due to quantum tunneling. According to usual theories of tunneling, the particle density decays inside a classical barrier resulting in an extremely slow pentration process. However, there are no general laws forbidding fast motion through classical barriers. The problem addressed is investigation of unusual features o quantum tunneling through a classic static barrier which is at least two-dimensional. Here we show that penetration through such barrier can be not slow. When the barrier satisfies the certain conditions, a regime of quantum lens is possible with formation of caustics. De Broglie waves are reflected from the caustics, interfere, and result in a not small flux from under the barrier. This strongly contrasts to the usual scenario with a decaying under-barrier density. We construct a particular example of fast motion through a classical barrier. One can unexectedly conclude that, in principle, nature allows fast penetration through classical barriers which against common sense. The phenomenon may be responsible for a variety of processes in labs and nature. For example, tunneling in solids may occur with a different scenario, in biophysics and chemistry one can specify conditions for unusual reactions, and evanescent optical waves may strongly change their properties. In condensed matter and cosmic physics there are phenomena with misterious reasons of an energy emission, for instance, gamma-ray bursts. One can try to treat them in the context of fast escape from under some barriers.

id: 1108.5165
title: Correlated photon emission from multi--atom Rydberg dark states
authors: J. D. Pritchard, C. S. Adams, K. M?lmer
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 043601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5165
abstract: We consider three level atoms driven by two resonant light fields in a ladder scheme where the upper level is a highly excited Rydberg state. We show that the dipole--dipole interactions between Rydberg excited atoms prevents the formation of single particle dark states and leads to strongly correlated photon emission from atoms separated by distances large compared to the emission wavelength. For two atoms, correlated photon pairs are emitted with an angular distribution given by a coherent sum of the independent dipolar fields.

id: 1108.5168
title: Conditions for Monogamy of Quantum Discord: Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger versus W states
authors: R. Prabhu, Arun Kumar Pati, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 4 (+ epsilon) pages, 3 eps figures, RevTeX4; v2: results unchanged, figure-size reduced; v3: notations improved, typos corrected; v4: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 040102(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5168
abstract: Quantum correlations are expected to respect all the conditions required for them to be good measures of quantumness in the bipartite scenario. In a multipartite setting, sharing entanglement between several parties is restricted by the monogamy of entanglement. We take over the concept of monogamy to an information-theoretic quantum correlation measure, and find that it violates monogamy in general. Using the notion of interaction information, we identify necessary and sufficient conditions for the measure to obey monogamy, for arbitrary pure and mixed quantum states. We show that while three-qubit generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states follow monogamy, generalized W states do not.

id: 1108.5183
title: Entanglement from longitudinal and scalar photons
authors: J.D. Franson
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 033809 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5183
abstract: The covariant quantization of the electromagnetic field in the Lorentz gauge gives rise to longitudinal and scalar photons in addition to the usual transverse photons. It is shown here that the exchange of longitudinal and scalar photons can produce entanglement between two distant atoms or harmonic oscillators. The form of the entangled states produced in this way is very different from that obtained in the Coulomb gauge, where the longitudinal and scalar photons do not exist. A generalized gauge transformation is used to show that all physically observable effects are the same in the two gauges, despite the differences in the form of the entangled states. An approach of this kind may be useful for a covariant description of the dynamics of quantum information processing.

id: 1108.5222
title: Experimental Two Way Quantum Key Distribution with Decoy State
authors: Mohd Fared Abdul Khir, Mohd Norzaliman Mohd Zain, Iskandar Bahari, Suryadi Soekardjo, Sahbudin Shaari
comments: 
journal: Optics Communications, Volume 285, Issue 5, 1 March 2012, Pages 842-845
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5222
abstract: We report on the first demonstration of a two way Quantum Key Distribution protocol with decoy state. The experiment was conducted over free space medium and exhibits a significant increase in the maximum secure distance.

id: 1108.5261
title: On the limits of quantum theory: contextuality and the quantum-classical cut
authors: George F. R. Ellis
comments: 65 pages, 10 diagrams. Revised in response to referee comments; to appear in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals of Physics 327 (2012) 1890-1932
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5261
abstract: This paper is based on four assumptions: 1. Physical reality is made of linearly behaving components combined in non-linear ways. 2. Higher level behaviour emerges from this lower level structure. 3. The way the lower level elements behaves depends on the context in which they are imbedded. 4. Quantum theory applies to the lower level entities. An implication is that higher level effective laws, based in the outcomes of non-linear combinations of lower level linear interactions, will generically not be unitary; hence the applicability of quantum theory at higher levels is strictly limited. This leads to the view that both state vector preparation and the quantum measurement process are crucially based in top-down causal effects, and helps provide criteria for the Heisenberg cut that challenge some views on Schroedinger's cat.

id: 1108.5303
title: Equality conditions for internal entropies of certain classical and quantum models
authors: Peter Gmeiner
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5303
abstract: Mathematical models use information from past observations to generate predictions about the future. If two models make identical predictions the one that needs less information from the past to do this is preferred. It is already known that certain classical models (certain Hidden Markov Models called \epsilon-machines which are often optimal classical models) are not in general the preferred ones. We extend this result and show that even optimal classical models (models with minimal internal entropy) in general are not the best possible models (called ideal models). Instead of optimal classical models we can construct quantum models which are significantly better but not yet the best possible ones (i.e. they have a strictly smaller internal entropy). In this paper we show conditions when the internal entropies between classical models and specific quantum models coincide. Furthermore it turns out that this situation appears very rarely. An example shows that our results hold only for the specific quantum model construction and in general not for alternative constructions. Furthermore another example shows that classical models with minimal internal entropy need not to be related to quantum models with minimal internal entropy.

id: 1108.5306
title: Efficient fluorescence collection and ion imaging with the "tack" ion trap
authors: G.Shu, C.-K.Chou, N.Kurz, M.R.Dietrich, B.B.Blinov
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5306
abstract: Trapped, laser-cooled ions produce intense fluorescence. Detecting this fluorescence enables efficient measurement of quantum state of qubits based on trapped atoms. It is desirable to collect a large fraction of the photons to make the detection faster and more reliable. Additionally, efficient fluorescence collection can improve speed and fidelity of remote ion entanglement and quantum gates. Here we show a novel ion trap design that incorporates metallic spherical mirror as the integral part of the trap itself, being its RF electrode. The mirror geometry enables up to 35% solid angle collection of trapped ion fluorescence; we measure a 25% effective solid angle, likely limited by imperfections of the mirror surface. We also study properties of the images of single ions formed by the mirror and apply aberration correction. Owing to the simplicity of its design, this trap structure can be adapted for micro-fabrication and integration into more complex trap architectures.

id: 1108.5329
title: Reliable Quantum State Tomography
authors: Matthias Christandl, Renato Renner
comments: 5 pages + supplemental information (as in the journal version) + additional material about the representation of symmetric states and functions of states (not contained in the journal version)
journal: Physical Review Letters 109, 120403 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5329
abstract: Quantum state tomography is the task of inferring the state of a quantum system by appropriate measurements. Since the frequency distributions of the outcomes of any finite number of measurements will generally deviate from their asymptotic limits, the estimates computed by standard methods do not in general coincide with the true state, and therefore have no operational significance unless their accuracy is defined in terms of error bounds. Here we show that quantum state tomography, together with an appropriate data analysis procedure, yields reliable and tight error bounds, specified in terms of confidence regions - a concept originating from classical statistics. Confidence regions are subsets of the state space in which the true state lies with high probability, independently of any prior assumption on the distribution of the possible states. Our method for computing confidence regions can be applied to arbitrary measurements including fully coherent ones; it is practical and particularly well suited for tomography on systems consisting of a small number of qubits, which are currently in the focus of interest in experimental quantum information science.

id: 1108.5349
title: The Link between Entropic Uncertainty and Nonlocality
authors: Marco Tomamichel, Esther H?nggi
comments: Completely revised manuscript; extended result to uncertainty relations in terms of smooth entropies
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 055301, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5349
abstract: Two of the most intriguing features of quantum physics are the uncertainty principle and the occurrence of nonlocal correlations. The uncertainty principle states that there exist pairs of incompatible measurements on quantum systems such that their outcomes cannot both be predicted. On the other hand, nonlocal correlations of measurement outcomes at different locations cannot be explained by classical physics, but appear in the presence of entanglement. Here, we show that these two fundamental quantum effects are quantitatively related. Namely, we provide an entropic uncertainty relation for the outcomes of two binary measurements, where the lower bound on the uncertainty is quantified in terms of the maximum Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt value that can be achieved with these measurements. We discuss applications of this uncertainty relation in quantum cryptography, in particular, to certify quantum sources using untrusted devices.

id: 1108.5357
title: Entanglement Cost of Quantum Channels
authors: Mario Berta, Fernando Brandao, Matthias Christandl, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures, new result about Q_2 (two-way classical communication assisted quantum capacity), additional examples, improved notation
journal: IEEE Trans. Info. Theo. 59, 6779 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5357
abstract: The entanglement cost of a quantum channel is the minimal rate at which entanglement (between sender and receiver) is needed in order to simulate many copies of a quantum channel in the presence of free classical communication. In this paper we show how to express this quantity as a regularized optimization of the entanglement formation over states that can be generated between sender and receiver. Our formula is the channel analog of a well-known formula for the entanglement cost of quantum states in terms of the entanglement of formation; and shares a similar relation to the recently shattered hope for additivity. The entanglement cost of a quantum channel can be seen as the analog of the quantum reverse Shannon theorem in the case where free classical communication is allowed. The techniques used in the proof of our result are then also inspired by a recent proof of the quantum reverse Shannon theorem and feature the one-shot formalism for quantum information theory, the post-selection technique for quantum channels as well as von Neumann's minimax theorem. We discuss two applications of our result. First, we are able to link the security in the noisy-storage model to a problem of sending quantum rather than classical information through the adversary's storage device. This not only improves the range of parameters where security can be shown, but also allows us to prove security for storage devices for which no results were known before. Second, our result has consequences for the study of the strong converse quantum capacity. Here, we show that any coding scheme that sends quantum information through a quantum channel at a rate larger than the entanglement cost of the channel has an exponentially small fidelity.

id: 1108.5424
title: Quantum Algorithms for Invariants of Triangulated Manifolds
authors: Gorjan Alagic, Edgar A. Bering IV
comments: 19 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Geometric Topology (math.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5424
abstract: One of the apparent advantages of quantum computers over their classical counterparts is their ability to efficiently contract tensor networks. In this article, we study some implications of this fact in the case of topological tensor networks. The graph underlying these networks is given by the triangulation of a manifold, and the structure of the tensors ensures that the overall tensor is independent of the choice of internal triangulation. This leads to quantum algorithms for additively approximating certain invariants of triangulated manifolds. We discuss the details of this construction in two specific cases. In the first case, we consider triangulated surfaces, where the triangle tensor is defined by the multiplication operator of a finite group; the resulting invariant has a simple closed-form expression involving the dimensions of the irreducible representations of the group and the Euler characteristic of the surface. In the second case, we consider triangulated 3-manifolds, where the tetrahedral tensor is defined by the so-called Fibonacci anyon model; the resulting invariant is the well-known Turaev-Viro invariant of 3-manifolds.

id: 1108.5490
title: Low-complexity quantum codes designed via codeword-stabilized framework
authors: Alexey A. Kovalev, Ilya Dumer, Leonid P. Pryadko
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062319 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5490
abstract: We consider design of the quantum stabilizer codes via a two-step, low-complexity approach based on the framework of codeword-stabilized (CWS) codes. In this framework, each quantum CWS code can be specified by a graph and a binary code. For codes that can be obtained from a given graph, we give several upper bounds on the distance of a generic (additive or non-additive) CWS code, and the lower Gilbert-Varshamov bound for the existence of additive CWS codes. We also consider additive cyclic CWS codes and show that these codes correspond to a previously unexplored class of single-generator cyclic stabilizer codes. We present several families of simple stabilizer codes with relatively good parameters.

id: 1108.5496
title: Relaxation to quantum equilibrium for Dirac fermions in the de Broglie-Bohm pilot-wave theory
authors: Samuel Colin
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5496
abstract: Numerical simulations indicate that the Born rule does not need to be postulated in the de Broglie-Bohm pilot-wave theory, but arises dynamically (relaxation to quantum equilibrium). These simulations were done for a particle in a two-dimensional box whose wave-function obeys the non-relativistic Schroedinger equation and is therefore scalar. The chaotic nature of the de Broglie-Bohm trajectories, thanks to the nodes of the wave-function which act as vortices, is crucial for a fast relaxation to quantum equilibrium. For spinors, we typically do not expect any node. However, in the case of the Dirac equation, the de Broglie-Bohm velocity field has vorticity even in the absence of nodes. This observation raises the question of the origin of relaxation to quantum equilibrium for fermions. In this article, we provide numerical evidence to show that Dirac particles also undergo relaxation, by simulating the evolution of various non-equilibrium distributions for two-dimensional systems (the 2D Dirac oscillator and the Dirac particle in a spherical 2D box).

id: 1108.5503
title: Deformed photon-added nonlinear coherent states and their nonclassical properties
authors: O Safaeian, M K Tavassoly
comments: 21 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 225301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5503
abstract: In this paper, we will try to present a general formalism for the construction of {\it deformed photon-added nonlinear coherent states} (DPANCSs) $|\alpha, f, m>$, which in special case lead to the well-known photon-added coherent state (PACS) $|\alpha, m>$. Some algebraic structures of the introduced DPANCSs are studied and particularly the resolution of the identity, as the most important property of generalized coherent states, is investigated. Meanwhile, it will be demonstrated that, the introduced states can also be classified in the $f$-deformed coherent states, with a special nonlinearity function. Next, we will show that, these states can be produced through a simple theoretical scheme. A discussion on the DPANCSs with negative values of $m$, i.e., $|\alpha, f, -m>$, is then presented. Our approach, has the potentiality to be used for the construction of a variety of new classes of DPANCSs, corresponding to any nonlinear oscillator with known nonlinearity function, as well as arbitrary solvable quantum system with known discrete, nondegenerate spectrum. Finally, after applying the formalism to a particular physical system known as P\"oschl-Teller (P-T) potential and the nonlinear coherent states corresponding to a specific nonlinearity function $f(n)=\sqrt n$, some of the nonclassical properties such as Mandel parameter, second order correlation function, in addition to first and second-order squeezing of the corresponding states will be investigated, numerically.

id: 1108.5517
title: Two-Way Quantum Communication: `Secure Quantum Information Exchange'-II. Generalization to Arbitrary Number of Qubits
authors: Ajay K Maurya, Manoj K Mishra, Hari Prakash
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5517
abstract: In this paper, we generalize the secure quantum information exchange (SQIE) protocol, originally proposed by the authors [J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 115504] for secure exchange of one qubit information with each of Alice and Bob, to the case of secure exchange of quantum information of arbitrary qubits with Alice and Bob. We also discuss security of the original and generalized SQIE protocols with respect to the number of qubits with controller, Charlie.

id: 1108.5536
title: Auxiliary quantization constraints on the von Roos ordering-ambiguity at zero binding energies; azimuthally symmetrized cylindrical coordinates
authors: Omar Mustafa
comments: 7 pages no figure
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A, Vol. 28, No. 19 (2013) 1350082
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5536
abstract: Using azimuthally symmetrized cylindrical coordinates, we report the consequences of zero-energy quantal states on the von Roos Hamiltonian. A position-dependent mass M({\rho},\phi,z)=bz^{j}{\rho}^{2\u{psion}+1}/2 is used. We show that the zero-energy setting not only offers an additional degree of freedom towards feasible separability for the von Roos Hamiltonian, but also manifestly yields auxiliary quantized ambiguity parametric constraints.

id: 1108.5541
title: Reducing the quantum communication cost of quantum secret sharing
authors: Ben Fortescue, Gilad Gour
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure; v2: Corrected typos and acknowledgements. v3: New, rewritten final section (on optimal schemes), incorporates more intuitive stabiliser-based construction for the (3,4) scheme and a new (5,6) scheme
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Th. 58(10), pp. 6659 - 6666 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5541
abstract: We demonstrate a new construction for perfect quantum secret sharing (QSS) schemes based on imperfect "ramp" secret sharing combined with classical encryption, in which the individual parties' shares are split into quantum and classical components, allowing the former to be of lower dimension than the secret itself. We show that such schemes can be performed with smaller quantum components and lower overall quantum communication than required for existing methods. We further demonstrate that one may combine both imperfect quantum and imperfect classical secret sharing to produce an overall perfect QSS scheme, and that examples of such scheme (which we construct) can have the smallest quantum and classical share components possible for their access structures, something provably not achievable using perfect underlying schemes. Our construction has significant potential for being adapted to other QSS schemes based on stabiliser codes.

id: 1108.5542
title: Engineering integrated pure narrow-band photon sources
authors: Enrico Pomarico, Bruno Sanguinetti, Clara I. Osorio, Harald Herrmann, Rob Thew
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 14, 033008 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5542
abstract: Engineering and controlling well defined states of light for quantum information applications is of increasing importance as the complexity of quantum systems grows. For example, in quantum networks high multi-photon interference visibility requires properly devised single mode sources. In this paper we propose a spontaneous parametric down conversion source based on an integrated cavity-waveguide, where single narrow-band, possibly distinct, spectral modes for the idler and the signal fields can be generated. This mode selection takes advantage of the clustering effect, due to the intrinsic dispersion of the nonlinear material. In combination with a CW laser and fast detection, our approach provides a means to engineer a source that can efficiently generate pure photons, without filtering, that is compatible with long distance quantum communication. Furthermore, it is extremely flexible and could easily be adapted to a wide variety of wavelengths and applications.

id: 1108.5553
title: On two misconceptions in current relativistic quantum information
authors: Kamil Bradler
comments: 11 pages v2: private communication clarified, some points further stressed out, typos fixed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5553
abstract: We describe two problems current relativistic quantum information suffers from. The first point is an explanation of an alleged ambiguity of entropic quantities detected in a number of publications and incorrectly resolved in [M. Montero and E. Martin-Martinez, Physical Review A 83, 062323 (2011)]. We found that the problem arises due to wrong algebraic manipulations with fermions and ignoring the superselection rule for bosons and fermions. This leads to a misinterpretation of certain entropic quantities when applied to fermion fields. The second discussed point is to alert to a conceptual misunderstanding of the role of entanglement (and quantum correlations in general) in some of the studied relativistic scenarios. Instead, we argue in favor of investigating capacities of quantum channels induced by the relevant physical processes as dictated by quantum Shannon theory.

id: 1108.5556
title: Dimensional Scaling Treatment with Relativistic Corrections for Stable Multiply Charged Atomic Ions in High-Frequency Super-Intense Laser Fields
authors: Ross D. Hoehn, Jiaxiang Wang, Sabre Kais
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5556
abstract: We present a theoretical framework which describes multiply-charged atomic ions, their stability within super-intense laser fields,also lay corrections to the systems due to relativistic effects. Dimensional scaling calculations with relativistic corrections for systems: H, H$^{-}$, H$^{2-}$, He, He$^{-}$, He$^{2-}$, He$^{3-}$ within super-intense laser fields were completed. Also completed were three-dimensional self consistent field calculations to verify the dimensionally scaled quantities. With the aforementioned methods the system's ability to stably bind 'additional' electrons through the development of multiple isolated regions of high potential energy leading to nodes of high electron density is shown. These nodes are spaced far enough from each other to minimized the electronic repulsion of the electrons, while still providing adequate enough attraction so as to bind the excess elections into orbitals. We have found that even with relativistic considerations these species are stably bound within the field. It was also found that performing the dimensional scaling calculations for systems within the confines of laser fields to be a much simpler and more cost-effective method than the supporting D=3 SCF method. The dimensional scaling method is general and can be extended to include relativistic corrections to describe the stability of simple molecular systems in super-intense laser fields.

id: 1108.5571
title: Universal Blind Quantum Computing with Weak Coherent Pulses
authors: Vedran Dunjko, Elham Kashefi, Anthony Leverrier
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 200502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5571
abstract: The recently proposed Universal Blind Quantum Computation (UBQC) protocol allows a client to perform an arbitrary quantum computation on a remote server such that perfect privacy is guaranteed if the client is capable of producing random separable single qubit states. While from a theoretical point of view, this arguably constitutes the lowest possible quantum requirement, from a pragmatic point of view, generation of random single qubits which can be sent along long distances without loss is quite challenging and can never be achieved perfectly. In analogy to the concept of approximate security developed for other cryptographic protocols, we introduce here the concept of approximate blindness for UBQC, allowing us to characterize the robustness of the protocol to possible imperfections. Following this, we present a remote blind single qubit preparation protocol, by which a client with access to realistic quantum devices (such as coherent laser light) can in a delegated fashion prepare quantum states arbitrarily close to perfect random single qubit states. We finally prove that access to coherent states is sufficient to efficiently achieve approximate blindness with arbitrary small security parameter.

id: 1108.5601
title: Quantum theory from the geometry of evolving probabilities
authors: Marcel Reginatto, Michael J. W. Hall
comments: 12 pages. Presented at MaxEnt 2011, the 31st International Workshop on Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods in Science and Engineering, July 10-15, 2011, Waterloo, Canada. Updated version: the affiliation of one of the authors was updated, minor changes were made to the text
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5601
abstract: We consider the space of probabilities {P(x)}, where the x are coordinates of a configuration space. Under the action of the translation group there is a natural metric over the space of parameters of the group given by the Fisher-Rao metric. This metric induces a metric over the space of probabilities. Our next step is to set the probabilities in motion. To do this, we introduce a canonically conjugate field S and a symplectic structure; this gives us Hamiltonian equations of motion. We show that it is possible to extend the metric structure to the full space of the {P,S} and this leads in a natural way to a Kaehler structure; i.e., a geometry that includes compatible symplectic, metric and complex structures. The simplest geometry that describes these spaces of evolving probabilities has remarkable properties: the natural, canonical variables are precisely the wave functions of quantum mechanics; the Hamiltonian for the quantum free particle can be derived from a representation of the Galilean group using purely geometrical arguments; and it is straightforward to associate with this geometry a Hilbert space which turns out to be the Hilbert space of quantum mechanics. We are led in this way to a reconstruction of quantum theory based solely on the geometry of probabilities in motion.

id: 1108.5636
title: Classification of the Entangled states L\times N\times N
authors: Jun-Li Li, Shi-Yuan Li, Cong-Feng Qiao
comments: 21 pages; published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys.Rev.A85:012301,2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5636
abstract: We presented a general classification scheme for the tripartite $L\times N\times N$ entangled system under stochastic local operation and classical communication. The whole classification procedure consists of two correlated parts: the simultaneous similarity transformation of a commuting matrix pair into a canonical form and the study of internal symmetry of parameters in the canonical form. Based on this scheme, a concrete example of entanglement classification for a $3\times N\times N$ system is given.

id: 1108.5647
title: Explicit lower and upper bounds on the entangled value of multiplayer XOR games
authors: Jop Briet, Thomas Vidick
comments: Major improvements in presentation; results identical
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5647
abstract: XOR games are the simplest model in which the nonlocal properties of entanglement manifest themselves. When there are two players, it is well known that the bias --- the maximum advantage over random play --- of entangled players can be at most a constant times greater than that of classical players. Recently, P\'{e}rez-Garc\'{i}a et al. [Comm. Math. Phys. 279 (2), 2008] showed that no such bound holds when there are three or more players: the advantage of entangled players over classical players can become unbounded, and scale with the number of questions in the game. Their proof relies on non-trivial results from operator space theory, and gives a non-explicit existence proof, leading to a game with a very large number of questions and only a loose control over the local dimension of the players' shared entanglement. We give a new, simple and explicit (though still probabilistic) construction of a family of three-player XOR games which achieve a large quantum-classical gap (QC-gap). This QC-gap is exponentially larger than the one given by P\'{e}rez-Garc\'{i}a et. al. in terms of the size of the game, achieving a QC-gap of order $\sqrt{N}$ with $N^2$ questions per player. In terms of the dimension of the entangled state required, we achieve the same (optimal) QC-gap of $\sqrt{N}$ for a state of local dimension $N$ per player. Moreover, the optimal entangled strategy is very simple, involving observables defined by tensor products of the Pauli matrices. Additionally, we give the first upper bound on the maximal QC-gap in terms of the number of questions per player, showing that our construction is only quadratically off in that respect. Our results rely on probabilistic estimates on the norm of random matrices and higher-order tensors which may be of independent interest.

id: 1108.5652
title: Entangled Photon Polarimetry
authors: Joseph B. Altepeter, Neal N. Oza, Milja Medic, Evan R. Jeffrey, Prem Kumar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5652
abstract: We construct an entangled photon polarimeter capable of monitoring a two-qubit quantum state in real time. Using this polarimeter, we record a nine frames-per-second video of a two-photon state's transition from separability to entanglement.

id: 1108.5696
title: Observation of the Thermal Casimir Force is Open to Question
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, M. Bordag, E. Fischbach, D. Krause, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Int. J. Mod. Phys. A
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A, v.26, No.22, pp.3918-3929 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5696
abstract: We discuss theoretical predictions for the thermal Casimir force and compare them with available experimental data. Special attention is paid to the recent claim of the observation of that effect, as predicted by the Drude model approach. We show that this claim is in contradiction with a number of experiments reported so far. We suggest that the experimental errors, as reported in support of the observation of the thermal Casimir force, are significantly underestimated. Furthermore, the experimental data at separations above $3\,\mu$m are shown to be in agreement not with the Drude model approach, as is claimed, but with the plasma model. The seeming agreement of the data with the Drude model at separations below $3\,\mu$m is explained by the use of an inadequate formulation of the proximity force approximation.

id: 1108.5727
title: On the quantum information entropies and squeezing associated with the eigenstates of isotonic oscillator
authors: A Ghasemi, M R Hooshmandasl, M K Tavassoly
comments: 11 pages, 4 groups of 4 figures
journal: Phys. Scr. 84 (2011) 035007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5727
abstract: In this paper we calculate the position and momentum space information entropies for the quantum states associated with a particular physical system, i.e. the isotonic oscillator Hamiltonian. We present our results for its ground states, as well as for its excited states. We observe that the lower bound of the sum of the position and momentum entropies expressed by the Beckner, Bialynicki-Birula and Mycielski (BBM) inequality is satisfied. Moreover, there exist eigenstates that exhibit squeezing in the position information entropy. In fact, entropy squeezing, which occurs in position, will be compensated for by an increase in momentum entropy, such that the BBM inequality is guaranteed. To complete our study we investigate the amplitude squeezing in $x$ and $p$-quadratures corresponding to the eigenstates of the isotonic oscillator and show that amplitude squeezing, again in $x$, will be revealed as expected, while the Heisenberg uncertainty relationship is also satisfied. Finally, our numerical calculations of the entropy densities will be presented graphically.

id: 1108.5730
title: The quantum walk temperature
authors: Alejandro Romanelli
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5730
abstract: A thermodynamic theory is developed to describe the behavior of the entanglement between the coin and position degrees of freedom of the quantum walk on the line. This theory shows that, in spite of the unitary evolution, a steady state is established after a Markovian transient stage. This study suggests that if a quantum dynamics is developed in a composite Hilbert space (i.e. the tensor product of several sub-spaces) then the behavior of an operator that only belongs to one of the sub-spaces may camouflage the unitary character of the global evolution.

id: 1108.5738
title: Fault-tolerant quantum computing with color codes
authors: Andrew J. Landahl, Jonas T. Anderson, Patrick R. Rice
comments: 28 pages, color figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5738
abstract: We present and analyze protocols for fault-tolerant quantum computing using color codes. We present circuit-level schemes for extracting the error syndrome of these codes fault-tolerantly. We further present an integer-program-based decoding algorithm for identifying the most likely error given the syndrome. We simulated our syndrome extraction and decoding algorithms against three physically-motivated noise models using Monte Carlo methods, and used the simulations to estimate the corresponding accuracy thresholds for fault-tolerant quantum error correction. We also used a self-avoiding walk analysis to lower-bound the accuracy threshold for two of these noise models. We present and analyze two architectures for fault-tolerantly computing with these codes: one with 2D arrays of qubits are stacked atop each other and one in a single 2D substrate. Our analysis demonstrates that color codes perform slightly better than Kitaev's surface codes when circuit details are ignored. When these details are considered, we estimate that color codes achieve a threshold of 0.082(3)%, which is higher than the threshold of $1.3 \times 10^{-5}$ achieved by concatenated coding schemes restricted to nearest-neighbor gates in two dimensions but lower than the threshold of 0.75% to 1.1% reported for the Kitaev codes subject to the same restrictions. Finally, because the behavior of our decoder's performance for two of the noise models we consider maps onto an order-disorder phase transition in the three-body random-bond Ising model in 2D and the corresponding random-plaquette gauge model in 3D, our results also answer the Nishimori conjecture for these models in the negative: the statistical-mechanical classical spin systems associated to the 4.8.8 color codes are counterintuitively more ordered at positive temperature than at zero temperature.

id: 1108.5743
title: Reciprocity in quantum, electromagnetic and other wave scattering
authors: L¨¢szl¨® De¨¢k, Tam¨¢s F¨¹l?p
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures. Note1: Eq. 139 has a typo in the journal version, here it's correct. Note2: antiskewsymmetric matrices are also called skew Hamiltonian
journal: Annals of Physics 327 (2012) 1050-1077
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5743
abstract: The reciprocity principle is that, when an emitted wave gets scattered on an object, the scattering transition amplitude does not change if we interchange the source and the detector - in other words, if incoming waves are interchanged with appropriate outgoing ones. Reciprocity is sometimes confused with time reversal invariance, or with invariance under the rotation that interchanges the location of the source and the location of the detector. Actually, reciprocity covers the former as a special case, and is fundamentally different from - but can be usefully combined with - the latter. Reciprocity can be proved as a theorem in many situations and is found violated in other cases. The paper presents a general treatment of reciprocity, discusses important examples, shows applications in the field of photon (M\"ossbauer) scattering, and establishes a fruitful connection with a recently developing area of mathematics.

id: 1108.5774
title: Measurement-based quantum computation--a quantum-mechanical toy model for spacetime?
authors: R. Raussendorf, P. Sarvepalli, T.-C. Wei, P. Haghnegahdar
comments: 33 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5774
abstract: We propose measurement-based quantum computation (MBQC) as a quantum mechanical toy model for spacetime. Within this framework, we discuss the constraints on possible temporal orders enforced by certain symmetries present in every MBQC. We provide a classification for all MBQC temporal relations compatible with a given initial quantum state and measurement setting, in terms of a matroid. Further, we find a symmetry transformation related to local complementation that leaves the temporal relations invariant. After light cones and closed time-like curves have previously been found to have MBQC counterparts, we identify event horizons as a third piece of the phenomenology of General Relativity that has an analogue in MBQC.

id: 1108.5833
title: Distribution of entanglement in networks of bi-partite full-rank mixed states
authors: G. J. Lapeyre Jr., S. Perseguers, M. Lewenstein, A. Ac¨ªn
comments: 15 pages, 19 figures. New version includes improvements suggested in referee report
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5833
abstract: We study quantum entanglement distribution on networks with full-rank bi-partite mixed states linking qubits on nodes. In particular, we use entanglement swapping and purification to partially entangle widely separated nodes. The simplest method consists of performing entanglement swappings along the shortest chain of links connecting the two nodes. However, we show that this method may be improved upon by choosing a protocol with a specific ordering of swappings and purifications. A priori, the design that produces optimal improvement is not clear. However, we parametrize the choices and find that the optimal values depend strongly on the desired measure of improvement. As an initial application, we apply the new improved protocols to the Erd\"os--R\'enyi network and obtain results including low density limits and an exact calculation of the average entanglement gained at the critical point.

id: 1108.5835
title: Cooling of a mirror in cavity optomechanics with a chirped pulse
authors: Jie-Qiao Liao, C. K. Law
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053838 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5835
abstract: We investigate the response of a harmonically confined mirror to an optical pulse in cavity optomechanics. We show that when the pulsed coupling strength takes the form of a chirped pulse, thermal fluctuations of the mirror can be significantly transferred to the cavity field. In addition, the frequency modulation of the pulse could enable a better cooling performance by suppressing the sensitivity of the dependence of detuning and pulse areas. Using numerical investigations, we find that the pulsed-cooling is mainly limited by the cavity-field decay rate.

id: 1108.5848
title: An Efficient Deterministic Quantum Algorithm for the Integer Square-free Decomposition Problem
authors: Jun Li, Xinhua Peng, Jiangfeng Du, Dieter Suter
comments: 19 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5848
abstract: Quantum computers are known to be qualitatively more powerful than classical computers, but so far only a small number of different algorithms have been discovered that actually use this potential. It would therefore be highly desirable to develop other types of quantum algorithms that widen the range of possible applications. Here we propose an efficient and deterministic quantum algorithm for finding the square-free part of a large integer - a problem for which no efficient classical algorithm exists. The algorithm relies on properties of Gauss sums and uses the quantum Fourier transform. We give an explicit quantum network for the algorithm. Our algorithm introduces new concepts and methods that have not been used in quantum information processing so far and may be applicable to a wider class of problems.

id: 1108.5868
title: On Dirac equation for a Coulomb scalar, vector, and tensor interaction
authors: Omar Mustafa
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5868
abstract: In their recent paper (Inter. J. Mod. Phys. A 26 (2011) 1011), Zarrinkamar and coauthors have considered the radial Dirac equation for a Coulomb scalar, vector and tensor interaction. The exact solutions for the energy eigenvalues they have reported for spin-symmetry and pseudo-spin symmetry were mishandled and are incorrect eigenvalues, therefore.

id: 1108.5884
title: Optimal photon-pair single mode coupling in narrow-band spontaneous parametric down-conversion with arbitrary pump profile
authors: Jean-Loup Smirr, Matthieu Deconinck, Robert Frey, Imad Agha, Eleni Diamanti, Isabelle Zaquine
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures, 2 appendices
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5884
abstract: A theoretical study of the performance of single-mode coupled spontaneous parametric downconversion sources is proposed, which only requires very few assumptions of practical interest : narrow-bandwidth and quasi-degenerate collinear generation. Other assumptions like pump beam spatial and temporal envelopes, target single-mode profile and size, and non-linear susceptibility distribution, are only taken into account in the final step of the computation, thus making the theory general and flexible. Figures of merit for performance include absolute collected brightness, pair collection efficiency and heralding ratio. The optimization of these values is investigated through functions that only depend on dimensionless parameters, allowing for deducing from the results the best experimental configuration for a whole range of design choices (e.g. crystal length, pump power). A particular application of the theory is validated by an experimental optimization obtained under compatible assumptions. A comparison with other works and proposals for numerically implementing the theory in its most generality are also provided.

id: 1108.5902
title: Quantum algorithm for obtaining the energy spectrum of a physical system
authors: Hefeng Wang, S. Ashhab, Franco Nori
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062304 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5902
abstract: We present a polynomial-time quantum algorithm for obtaining the energy spectrum of a physical system, i.e. the differences between the eigenvalues of the system's Hamiltonian, provided that the spectrum of interest contains at most a polynomially increasing number of energy levels. A probe qubit is coupled to a quantum register that represents the system of interest such that the probe exhibits a dynamical response only when it is resonant with a transition in the system. By varying the probe's frequency and the system-probe coupling operator, any desired part of the energy spectrum can be obtained. The algorithm can also be used to deterministically prepare any energy eigenstate. As an example, we have simulated running the algorithm and obtained the energy spectrum of the water molecule.

id: 1108.5918
title: Efficient Quantum State Estimation with Over-complete Tomography
authors: Chi Zhang, Guo-Yong Xiang, Yong-Sheng Zhang, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5918
abstract: It is widely accepted that the selection of measurement bases can affect the efficiency of quantum state estimation methods, precision of estimating an unknown state can be improved significantly by simply introduce a set of symmetrical measurement bases. Here we compare the efficiencies of estimations with different numbers of measurement bases by numerical simulation and experiment in optical system. The advantages of using a complete set of symmetrical measurement bases are illustrated more clearly.

id: 1108.5922
title: Trapped-Ion State Detection through Coherent Motion
authors: D. B. Hume, C. W. Chou, D. R. Leibrandt, M. J. Thorpe, D. J. Wineland, T. Rosenband
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Replaced with published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 243902 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5922
abstract: We demonstrate a general method for state detection of trapped ions that can be applied to a large class of atomic and molecular species. We couple a "spectroscopy" ion (Al+) to a "control" ion (Mg+) in the same trap and perform state detection through off-resonant laser excitation of the spectroscopy ion that induces coherent motion. The motional amplitude, dependent on the spectroscopy ion state, is measured either by time-resolved photon counting, or by resolved sideband excitations on the control ion. The first method provides a simplified way to distinguish "clock" states in Al+, which avoids ground state cooling and sideband transitions. The second method reduces spontaneous emission and optical pumping on the spectroscopy ion, which we demonstrate by nondestructively distinguishing Zeeman sublevels in the 1S0 ground state of Al+.

id: 1108.5923
title: PT Symmetric, Hermitian and P-Self-Adjoint Operators Related to Potentials in PT Quantum Mechanics
authors: Tomas Azizov, Carsten Trunk
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5923
abstract: In the recent years a generalization $H=p^2 +x^2(ix)^\epsilon$ of the harmonic oscillator using a complex deformation was investigated, where \epsilon\ is a real parameter. Here, we will consider the most simple case: \epsilon even and x real. We will give a complete characterization of three different classes of operators associated with the differential expression H: The class of all self-adjoint (Hermitian) operators, the class of all PT symmetric operators and the class of all P-self-adjoint operators. Surprisingly, some of the PT symmetric operators associated to this expression have no resolvent set.

id: 1108.5951
title: Proposed solid-state Faraday anomalous-dispersion optical filter
authors: Wei-Bin Lin, Zong-Quan Zhou, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages,3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 84, 055803 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5951
abstract: We propose a Faraday anomalous dispersion optical filter (FADOF) based on a rare-earth ion doped crystal. We present theoretical analyses for the solid-state FADOF transmission. Our theoretical model predicts a maximum transmission efficiency of 71% and a double-peaked transmission spectrum with a bandwidth of 6 GHz under current experimental conditions. Our proposal may have important applications in optical communications.

id: 1108.6002
title: Useful Multiparticle Entanglement and Sub-Shot-Noise Sensitivity in Experimental Phase Estimation
authors: Roland Krischek, Christian Schwemmer, Witlef Wieczorek, Harald Weinfurter, Philipp Hyllus, Luca Pezz¨¦, Augusto Smerzi
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 080504 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6002
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a general criterion to identify entangled states useful for the estimation of an unknown phase shift with a sensitivity higher than the shot-noise limit. We show how to exploit this entanglement on the examples of a maximum likelihood as well as of a Bayesian phase estimation protocol. Using an entangled four-photon state we achieve a phase sensitivity clearly beyond the shot-noise limit. Our detailed comparison of methods and quantum states for entanglement enhanced metrology reveals the connection between multiparticle entanglement and sub-shot-noise uncertainty, both in a frequentist and in a Bayesian phase estimation setting.

id: 1108.6065
title: Intensity-resolved ionization yileds of aniline with femtosecond laser pulses
authors: J. Strohaber, T. Mohamed, N. Hart, F. Zhu, R. Nava, F. Pham, A. A. Kolomenskii, H. Schroeder, G. G. Paulus, H. A. Schuessler
comments: 18 pages, 1 equation and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6065
abstract: We present experimental results for the ionization of aniline and benzene molecules subjected to intense ultrashort laser pulses. Measured parent molecular ions yields were obtained using a recently developed technique capable of three-dimensional imaging of ion distributions within the focus of a laser beam. By selecting ions originating from the central region of the focus, where the spatial intensity distribution is nearly uniform, volumetric-free intensity-dependent ionization yields were obtained. The measured data revealed a previously unseen resonant-like multiphoton ionization process. Comparison of benzene, aniline and Xe ion yields demonstrate that the observed intensity dependent structures are not due to geometric artifacts in the focus. Finally we attribute the ionization of aniline to a stepwise process going through the pi-sigma^star state which sits 3 photons above the ground state and 2 photons below the continuum.

id: 1108.6074
title: Comment on "On two misconceptions in current relativistic quantum information"
authors: M. Montero, E. Martin-Martinez
comments: 5 pages, added Journal reference (PRA reply to Phys. Rev. A 85, 016301 (2012) ) with the title "Reply to 'Comment on "Fermionic entanglement ambiguity in noninertial frames" ' ". The article is a reply to both [K. Bradler, (2011), arXiv:1108.5553] and [K. Bradler and R. Jauregui, (2012) ,arXiv:1201.1045] since the contents of the second reference are mostly contained in the first one
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 016302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6074
abstract: We show that, contrarily to the claims in [K. Bradler, (2011), arXiv:1108.5553] (and arXiv:1201.1045), the reference [Phys. Rev. A 83, 062323 (2011)] is devoid of flaws or mistakes. We show that the criticism comes from a misunderstanding of part of our work. We also discuss the claims made in arXiv:1108.5553 about entanglement measures as a valid tool in relativistic quantum information.

id: 1108.6083
title: Origin of maximal symmetry breaking in even PT-symmetric lattices
authors: Yogesh N. Joglekar, Jacob L. Barnett
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 024103 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6083
abstract: By investigating a parity and time-reversal (PT) symmetric, $N$-site lattice with impurities $\pm i\gamma$ and hopping amplitudes $t_0 (t_b)$ for regions outside (between) the impurity locations, we probe the origin of maximal PT-symmetry breaking that occurs when the impurities are nearest neighbors. Through a simple and exact derivation, we prove that the critical impurity strength is equal to the hopping amplitude between the impurities, $\gamma_c=t_b$, and the simultaneous emergence of $N$ complex eigenvalues is a robust feature of any PT-symmetric hopping profile. Our results show that the threshold strength $\gamma_c$ can be widely tuned by a small change in the global profile of the lattice, and thus have experimental implications.

id: 1108.6156
title: Atomic quantum transistor based on swapping operation
authors: Sergey A. Moiseev, Sergey N. Andrianov, Eugene S. Moiseev
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6156
abstract: We propose an atomic quantum transistor based on exchange by virtual photons between two atomic systems through the control gate-atom. The quantum transistor is realized in two QED cavities coupled in nano-optical scheme. We have found novel effect in quantum dynamics of coupled three-node atomic system which provides control-SWAP(\theta) processes in quantum transistor operation. New possibilities of quantum entanglement in an example of bright and dark qubit states have been demonstrated for quantum transport in the atomic chain. Potentialities of the proposed nano-optical design for quantum computing and fundamental issues of multi-atomic physics are also discussed.

id: 1108.6169
title: Rephasing processes and quantum memory for light: reversibility issues and how to fix them
authors: Sergey A. Moiseev, J.-L. Le Gou?t
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, was presented in 20th International Laser Physics Workshop (LPHYS'11), July 11-15, 2011, Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6169
abstract: Time reversibility is absent from some recently proposed quantum memory protocols such as Absorption Frequency Comb (AFC). Focusing on AFC memory, we show that quantum efficiency and fidelity are reduced dramatically, as a consequence of non-reversibility, when the spectral width of the incoming signal approaches the memory bandwidth. Non-reversibility is revealed through spectral dispersion, giving rise to phase mismatching. We propose a modified AFC scheme that restores reversibility. This way, signals can be retrieved with excellent efficiency over the entire memory bandwidth. This study could be extended to other quantum memory rephasing schemes in inhomogeneously broadened absorbing media.

id: 1108.6176
title: Parabolic Coordinates and the Hydrogen Atom in Spaces H_{3} and S_{3}
authors: V.M. Red'kov, E.M. Ovsiyuk
comments: 28 pages, 2 figures, 60 references
journal: J-NPCS Vol. 14, no 2. (2011) pp 1-20
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6176
abstract: The Coulomb problem for Schr\"{o}dinger equation is examined, in spaces of constant curvature, Lobachevsky H_{3} and Riemann S_{3} models, on the base of generalized parabolic coordinates. In contrast to the hyperbolic case, in spherical space S_{3} such parabolic coordinates turn to be complex-valued, with additional constraint on them. The technique of the use of such real and complex coordinates in two space models within the method of separation of variables in Schr\"{o}dinger equation with Kepler potential is developed in detail; the energy spectra and corresponding wave functions for bound states have been constructed in explicit form for both spaces; connections with Runge-Lenz operators in both curved space models are described.

id: 1108.6178
title: Fractional-Time Schr?dinger Equation: Fractional Dynamics on a Comb
authors: Alexander Iomin
comments: 
journal: Chaos, Solitons & Fractals 44 (2011) 348-352
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6178
abstract: The physical relevance of the fractional time derivative in quantum mechanics is discussed. It is shown that the introduction of the fractional time Scr\"odinger equation (FTSE) in quantum mechanics by analogy with the fractional diffusion $\frac{\prt}{\prt t}\rightarrow \frac{\prt^{\alpha}}{\prt t^{\alpha}}$ can lead to an essential deficiency in the quantum mechanical description, and needs special care. To shed light on this situation, a quantum comb model is introduced. It is shown that for $\alpha=1/2$, the FTSE is a particular case of the quantum comb model. This \textit{exact} example shows that the FTSE is insufficient to describe a quantum process, and the appearance of the fractional time derivative by a simple change $\frac{\prt}{\prt t}\rightarrow \frac{\prt^{\alpha}}{\prt t^{\alpha}}$ in the Schr\"odinger equation leads to the loss of most of the information about quantum dynamics.

id: 1108.6183
title: Security analysis of the time-coding quantum key distribution protocols
authors: Thierry Debuisschert, Simon Fossier
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 11, No. 11&12 (2011) 0968-0987
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6183
abstract: We report the security analysis of time-coding quantum key distribution protocols. The protocols make use of coherent single-photon pulses. The key is encoded in the photon time-detection. The use of coherent superposition of states allows to detect eavesdropping of the key. We give a mathematical model of a first protocol from which we derive a second, simpler, protocol. We derive the security analysis of both protocols and find that the secure rates can be similar to those obtained with the BB84 protocol. We then calculate the secure distance for those protocols over standard fibre links. When using low-noise superconducting single photon detectors, secure distances over 200 km can be foreseen. Finally, we analyse the consequences of photon-number splitting attacks when faint pulses are used instead of single photon pulses. A decoy states technique can be used to prevent such attacks.

id: 1108.6249
title: Underlining some limitations of the statistical formalism in quantum mechanics
authors: Filippo Fratini, Armen G. Hayrapetyan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Scr. 84, 035008 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6249
abstract: We show that two chosen ensembles of spin states, which are differently prepared but are described by the same density matrix in quantum mechanics, do not fully share the same measurable characteristics. One characteristic on which they differ is shown to be the variance of the spin along a given direction. We conclude that the statistical description of an ensemble of states as given by its density matrix, although sufficient in many cases, should be considered incomplete, as it does not fully describe the measurable characteristics of the ensemble. A discussion a posteriori on the problem is provided.

id: 1108.6313
title: Superposition Attacks on Cryptographic Protocols
authors: Ivan Damgaard, Jakob Funder, Jesper Buus Nielsen, Louis Salvail
comments: 29 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6313
abstract: Attacks on classical cryptographic protocols are usually modeled by allowing an adversary to ask queries from an oracle. Security is then defined by requiring that as long as the queries satisfy some constraint, there is some problem the adversary cannot solve, such as compute a certain piece of information. In this paper, we introduce a fundamentally new model of quantum attacks on classical cryptographic protocols, where the adversary is allowed to ask several classical queries in quantum superposition. This is a strictly stronger attack than the standard one, and we consider the security of several primitives in this model. We show that a secret-sharing scheme that is secure with threshold $t$ in the standard model is secure against superposition attacks if and only if the threshold is lowered to $t/2$. We use this result to give zero-knowledge proofs for all of NP in the common reference string model. While our protocol is classical, it is sound against a cheating unbounded quantum prover and computational zero-knowledge even if the verifier is allowed a superposition attack. Finally, we consider multiparty computation and show that for the most general type of attack, simulation based security is not possible. However, putting a natural constraint on the adversary, we show a non-trivial example of a protocol that can indeed be simulated.

id: 1108.0005
title: Gaussian state for the bouncing quantum cosmology
authors: Jakub Mielczarek, Wlodzimierz Piechocki
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures; matches version published in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys. Rev. D 86 (2012) 083508
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0005
abstract: We present results concerning propagation of the Gaussian state across the cosmological quantum bounce. The reduced phase space quantization of loop quantum cosmology is applied to the Friedman-Robertson-Walker universe with a free massless scalar field. Evolution of quantum moments of the canonical variables is investigated. The covariance turns out to be a monotonic function so it may be used as an evolution parameter having quantum origin. We show that for the Gaussian state the Universe is least quantum at the bounce. We propose explanation of this counter-intuitive feature using the entropy of squeezing. The obtained time dependence of entropy is in agreement with qualitative predictions based on von Neumann entropy for mixed states. We show that, for the considered Gaussian state, semiclassicality is preserved across the bounce, so there is no cosmic forgetfulness.

id: 1108.0014
title: Is nature OO?
authors: Guy Barrand
comments: 26 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0014
abstract: What exists "out there"? What does "doing physics" mean? What are the axiomatic ideas for microphysics? What is a particle? What is an apparatus made of? We show that Quantum Mechanics textbooks cannot truly answer this kind of question whereas they should. By adopting a pure "hitological" point of view for microphysics, we introduce the Hit in Apparatuses Theory (HAT) and the Vacuum of Apparatuses (VA) that restore, through Object Orientation (OO), an intuitive ontology to deal with this kind of physics. Through a review of what it means to "observe" and what relativism means in Special and General Relativities (SR and GR), we address the problem of finding common maths for GR and QM. Finally, with our new HAT, we address the measurement problem in QM and propose two possible approaches.

id: 1108.0173
title: Breaking the exponential wall in classical simulations of fidelity
authors: Cesare Mollica, Tomas Zimmermann, Jiri Vanicek
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 84, 066205 (2011)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0173
abstract: We analyze the efficiency of available algorithms for the simulation of classical fidelity and show that their computational costs increase exponentially with the number of degrees of freedom for almost all initial states. Then we present an algorithm whose cost is independent of the system's dimensionality and show that, within a continuous family of algorithms, our algorithm is the only one with this property. Simultaneously we propose a general analytical approach to estimate efficiency of trajectory-based methods.

id: 1108.0195
title: Repulsive Casimir-Polder forces from cosmic strings
authors: A.A. Saharian, A.S. Kotanjyan
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. C 71 (2011) 1765
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0195
abstract: We investigate the Casimir-Polder force acting on a polarizable microparticle in the geometry of a straight cosmic string. In order to develop this analysis we evaluate the electromagnetic field Green tensor on the imaginary frequency axis. The expression for the Casimir-Polder force is derived in the general case of anisotropic polarizability. In dependence of the eigenvalues for the polarizability tensor and of the orientation of its principal axes, the Casimir-Polder force can be either repulsive or attractive. Moreover, there are situations where the force changes the sign with separation. We show that for an isotropic polarizability tensor the force is always repulsive. At large separations between the microparticle and the string, the force varies inversely as the fifth power of the distance. In the non-retarded regime, corresponding to separations smaller than the relevant transition wavelengths, the force decays as the inverse fourth power of the distance. In the case of anisotropic polarizability, the dependence of the Casimir-Polder potential on the orientation of the polarizability tensor principal axes also leads to the moment of force acting on the particle.

id: 1108.0223
title: BQP and PPAD
authors: Yang D. Li
comments: 18 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0223
abstract: We initiate the study of the relationship between two complexity classes, BQP (Bounded-Error Quantum Polynomial-Time) and PPAD (Polynomial Parity Argument, Directed). We first give a conjecture that PPAD is contained in BQP, and show a necessary and sufficient condition for the conjecture to hold. Then we prove that the conjecture is not true under the oracle model. In the end, we raise some interesting open problems/future directions.

id: 1108.0309
title: Softening the "crystal-scaffold" for life's emergence
authors: Gargi Mitra-Delmotte, Asoke Nath Mitra
comments: 26 pages, pdf file. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1008.2362
journal: Physics Research International, vol. 2012, Article ID 232864, 13 pages, 2012
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0309
abstract: Del Giudice's group study how water can organize on hydrophilic surfaces forming coherent domains (loaning energy from the quantum vacuum), plus quasi-free electrons, whose excitations produce cold vortices, aligning to ambient fields. Their electric and magnetic dipolar modes can couple to oscillatory (electric-organic-dipoles), and/or rotary (magnetic-mineral-dipoles), besides responding to magnetic potentials. Thus, imprinted electromagnetic patterns of catalytic colloids - c.f. Cairns-Smith's "crystal-scaffold"- on their structured water partners could have equipped the latter with a selection-basis for 'choosing' their context-based "soft-matter" (de Gennes) replacements. We consider the potential of the scenario of an external control on magnetic colloids forming in the Hadean hydrothermal setting (of Russell and coworkers) - via a magnetic-rock-field - conceptually enabling self-assembly, induction of asymmetries, response effects towards close-to-equilibrium dynamics, associative-networks, besides providing a coherent environment for stabilizing associated symmetry-broken quanta, and their feedback-interactions with those of coherent water-domains, to address the emergence of metabolism and replication.

id: 1108.0455
title: Multiple scattering theory of quasiparticles on a topological insulator surface
authors: Zhen-Guo Fu, Ping Zhang, Zhigang Wang, Shu-Shen Li
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 99, 232109 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0455
abstract: A general partial-wave multiple scattering theory for scattering from cylindrically symmetric potentials on a topological insulator (TI) surface is developed. As an application, the cross sections for a single scatterer and two scatterers are discussed. We find that the symmetry of differential cross section is reduced and the backscattering is allowed for massive Dirac fermions on gapped TI surface. Remarkably, a sharp resonance peak at the band edge of the gapped TI is found in the total cross section $\Lambda_{tot}$, which may offer a useful way to determine the gap (as well as the effective mass of quasiparticles) on TI surface. We show that the interference effect is obvious in cross sections during the quasiparticle scattering between the scatterer pair, and additional resonance peaks are introduced in $\Lambda_{tot}$ when the higher partial waves are taken into account.

id: 1108.0469
title: Formal Analysis of Quantum Systems using Process Calculus
authors: Timothy A.S. Davidson, Simon J. Gay, Rajagopal Nagarajan
comments: In Proceedings ICE 2011, arXiv:1108.0144
journal: EPTCS 59, 2011, pp. 104-110
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0469
abstract: Quantum communication and cryptographic protocols are well on the way to becoming an important practical technology. Although a large amount of successful research has been done on proving their correctness, most of this work does not make use of familiar techniques from formal methods, such as formal logics for specification, formal modelling languages, separation of levels of abstraction, and compositional analysis. We argue that these techniques will be necessary for the analysis of large-scale systems that combine quantum and classical components, and summarize the results of initial investigation using behavioural equivalence in process calculus. This paper is a summary of Simon Gay's invited talk at ICE'11.

id: 1108.0480
title: N-fold Supersymmetry in Quantum Mechanical Matrix Models
authors: Toshiaki Tanaka
comments: 9 pages, no figures; minor revision
journal: Mod.Phys.Lett.A 27 (2012) 1250051
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0480
abstract: We formulate N-fold supersymmetry in quantum mechanical matrix models. As an example, we construct general two-by-two Hermitian matrix 2-fold supersymmetric quantum mechanical systems. We find that there are two inequivalent such systems, both of which are characterized by two arbitrary scalar functions, and one of which does not reduce to the scalar system. The obtained systems are all weakly quasi-solvable.

id: 1108.0497
title: Engineering of radiation of optically active molecules with chiral nano-meta-particles
authors: Vasily V. Klimov, Dmitry V. Guzatov, Martial Ducloy
comments: 6 pages 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0497
abstract: The radiation of optically active (chiral) molecule placed near chiral nanoparticle is investigated. The optimal conditions for engineering of radiation of optically active (chiral) molecules with the help of chiral nanoparticles are derived. It is shown that for this purpose, the substance of the chiral particle must have both \epsilon_and \mu_negative (double negative material (DNG)) or negative \mu_and positive \epsilon_(\mu_negative material (MNG)). Our results pave the way to an effective engineering of radiation of "left" and "right" molecules and to creating pure optical devices for separation of drugs enantiomers.

id: 1108.0560
title: Adiabatic Quantum Computing
authors: Sebastian D. Pinski
comments: Masters Thesis of Sebastian D. Pinski
journal: 
subjects: Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0560
abstract: Adiabatic Quantum Computing (AQC) is a relatively new subject in the world of quantum computing, let alone Physics. Inspiration for this project has come from recent controversy around D-Wave Systems in British Columbia, Canada, who claim to have built a working AQC which is now commercially available and hope to be distributing a 1024 qubit chip by the end of 2008. Their 16 qubit chip was demonstrated online for the Supercomputing 2007 conference within which a few small problems were solved; although the explanations that journalists and critics received were minimal and very little was divulged in the question and answer session. This 'unconvincing' demonstration has caused physicists and computer scientists to hit back at D-Wave. The aim of this project is to give an introduction to the historic advances in classical and quantum computing and to explore the methods of AQC. Through numerical simulations an algorithm for the Max Independent Set problem is empirically obtained.

id: 1108.0665
title: Eternal Inflation, Global Time Cutoff Measures, and a Probability Paradox
authors: Alan H. Guth, Vitaly Vanchurin
comments: 32 pages, 10 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0665
abstract: The definition of probabilities in eternally inflating universes requires a measure to regulate the infinite spacetime volume, and much of the current literature uses a global time cutoff for this purpose. Such measures have been found to lead to paradoxical behavior, and recently Bousso, Freivogel, Leichenauer, and Rosenhaus have argued that, under reasonable assumptions, the only consistent interpretation for such measures is that time must end at the cutoff. Here we argue that there is an alternative, consistent formulation of such measures, in which time extends to infinity. Our formulation begins with a mathematical model of the infinite multiverse, which can be constructed without the use of a measure. Probabilities, which obey all the standard requirements for a probability measure, can then be defined by mathematical limits. They have a peculiar feature, however, which we call time-delay bias: if the outcome of an experiment is reported with a time delay that depends on the outcome, then the observation of the reports will be biased in favor of the shorter time delay. We show how the paradoxes can be resolved in this interpretation of the measure.

id: 1108.0679
title: A characterization of entanglement-assisted quantum low-density parity-check codes
authors: Yuichiro Fujiwara, Vladimir D. Tonchev
comments: 7 pages, no figures, final accepted version for publication in the IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory 59 (2013) 3347-3353
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0679
abstract: As in classical coding theory, quantum analogues of low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes have offered good error correction performance and low decoding complexity by employing the Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS) construction. However, special requirements in the quantum setting severely limit the structures such quantum codes can have. While the entanglement-assisted stabilizer formalism overcomes this limitation by exploiting maximally entangled states (ebits), excessive reliance on ebits is a substantial obstacle to implementation. This paper gives necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of quantum LDPC codes which are obtainable from pairs of identical LDPC codes and consume only one ebit, and studies the spectrum of attainable code parameters.

id: 1108.0744
title: Hyperentropic systems and the generalized second law of thermodynamics
authors: Shahar Hod
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys.Lett.B700:75-78,2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0744
abstract: The holographic bound asserts that the entropy $S$ of a system is bounded from above by a quarter of the area ${\cal A}$ of a circumscribing surface measured in Planck areas: $S\leq {\cal A}/4{\ell^2_P}$. This bound is widely regarded a desideratum of any fundamental theory. Moreover, it was argued that the holographic bound is necessary for the validity of the generalized second law (GSL) of thermodynamics. However, in this work we explicitly show that hyperentropic systems (those violating the holographic entropy bound) do exist in higher-dimensional spacetimes. We resolve this apparent violation of the GSL and derive an upper bound on the area of hyperentropic objects.

id: 1108.0756
title: Relative Phase States in Quantum-Atom Optics
authors: B J Dalton
comments: 22 pages plus 11 page Appendix. 11 figures. Submitted for publication. Figures revised
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0756
abstract: Relative phase is treated as a physical quantity for two mode systems in quantum atom optics, adapting the Pegg-Barnett treatment of quantum optical phase to define a linear Hermitian relative phase operator via first introducing a complete orthonormal set of relative phase eigenstates. These states are contrasted with other so-called phase states. Other approaches to treating phase and previous attempts to find a Hermitian phase operator are discussed. The relative phase eigenstate has maximal two mode entanglement, it is a fragmented state with its Bloch vector lying inside the Bloch sphere and is highly spin squeezed. The relative phase states are applied to describing interferometry experiments with Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC), particularly in the context of a proposed Heisenberg limited interferometry experiment. For a relative phase eigenstate the fractional fluctuation in one spin operator component perpendicular to the Bloch vector is essentially only of order 1/N, so if such a highly spin squeezed state could be prepared it may be useful for Heisenberg limited interferometry. An approach for preparing a BEC in a state close to a relative phase state is suggested, based on adiabatically changing parameters in the Josephson Hamiltonian starting from a suitable energy eigenstate in the Rabi regime.

id: 1108.0847
title: Quantum Bose liquids with logarithmic nonlinearity: Self-sustainability and emergence of spatial extent
authors: Alexander V. Avdeenkov, Konstantin G. Zloshchastiev
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures. Updates: v2: minor corrections (published version)
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 195303
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Solar and Stellar Astrophysics (astro-ph.SR); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0847
abstract: The Gross-Pitaevskii (GP) equation is a long-wavelength approach widely used to describe the dilute Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC). However, in many physical situations, such as higher densities, this approximation unlikely suffices hence one might need models which would account for long-range correlations and multi-body interactions. We show that the Bose liquid described by the logarithmic wave equation has a number of drastic differences from the GP one. It possesses the self-sustainability property: while the free GP condensate tends to spill all over the available volume the logarithmic one tends to form a Gaussian-type droplet - even in the absence of an external trapping potential. The quasi-particle modes of the logarithmic BEC are shown to acquire a finite size despite the bare particles being assumed point-like, i.e., the spatial extent emerges here as a result of quantum many-body correlations. Finally, we study the elementary excitations and demonstrate that the background density changes the topological structure of their momentum space which, in turn, affects their dispersion relations. Depending on the density the latter can be of the massive relativistic, massless relativistic, tachyonic and quaternionic type.

id: 1108.0850
title: Diamond Processing by Focused Ion Beam - Surface Damage and Recovery
authors: Igal Bayn, Asaf Bolker, Catherine Cytermann, Boris Meyler, Vladimir Richter, Joseph Salzman, Rafi Kalish
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 99, 183109 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0850
abstract: The Nitrogen Vacancy color center (NV-) in diamond is of great interest for novel photonic applications. Diamond nano-photonic structures are often implemented using Focused-Ion-Beam (FIB) processing, leaving a damaged surface which has a detrimental effect on the color center luminescence. The FIB processing effect on single crystal diamond surfaces and their photonic properties is studied by Time of Flight Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometry (TOF-SIMS) and photoluminescence (PL). Exposing the processed surface to hydrogen plasma, followed by chemical etching, drastically decreases implanted Ga concentration, resulting in a recovery of the NV- photo-emission and in a significant increase of the NV-/NV0 ratio.

id: 1108.0856
title: Quantum graph vertices with permutation-symmetric scattering probabilities
authors: Ond?ej Turek, Taksu Cheon
comments: 9 pages, a few typographical errors corrected
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375 (2011), 3775-3780
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0856
abstract: Boundary conditions in quantum graph vertices are generally given in terms of a unitary matrix $U$. Observing that if $U$ has at most two eigenvalues, then the scattering matrix $\mathcal{S}(k)$ of the vertex is a linear combination of the identity matrix and a fixed Hermitian unitary matrix, we construct vertex couplings with this property: For all momenta $k$, the transmission probability from the $j$-th edge to $\ell$-th edge is independent of $(j,\ell)$, and all the reflection probabilities are equal. We classify these couplings according to their scattering properties, which leads to the concept of generalized $\delta$ and $\delta'$ couplings.

id: 1108.0886
title: Quantum Capillary Waves at the Superfluid--Mott Insulator Interface
authors: Steffen Patrick Rath, Boris Spivak, Wilhelm Zwerger
comments: published version + two additional references
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 155703 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0886
abstract: We discuss quantum fluctuations of the interface between a superfluid and a Mott-insulating state of ultracold atoms in a trap. The fluctuations of the boundary are due to a new type of surface modes, whose spectrum is similar (but not identical) to classical capillary waves. The corresponding quantum capillary length sets the scale for the penetration of the superfluid into the Mott-insulating regime by the proximity effect and may be on the order of several lattice spacings. It determines the typical magnitude of the interface width due to quantum fluctuations, which may be inferred from single site imaging of ultracold atoms in an optical lattice.

id: 1108.0928
title: Alternatives to Eigenstate Thermalization
authors: Marcos Rigol, Mark Srednicki
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, as published
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 110601 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0928
abstract: An isolated quantum many-body system in an initial pure state will come to thermal equilibrium if it satisfies the eigenstate thermalization hypothesis (ETH). We consider alternatives to ETH that have been proposed. We first show that von Neumann's quantum ergodic theorem relies on an assumption that is essentially equivalent to ETH. We also investigate whether, following a sudden quench, special classes of pure states can lead to thermal behavior in systems that do not obey ETH, namely, integrable systems. We find examples of this, but only for initial states that obeyed ETH before the quench.

id: 1108.0942
title: Affine Gravity, Palatini Formalism and Charges
authors: Joseph Katz, Gideon I. Livshits
comments: The work is dedicated to Joshua Goldberg from whom I learned and got interested in conservation laws in General Relativity (J.K)
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0942
abstract: Affine gravity and the Palatini formalism contribute both to produce a simple and unique formula for calculating charges at spatial and null infinity for Lovelock type Lagrangians whose variational derivatives do not depend on second-order derivatives of the field components. The method is based on the covariant generalization due to Julia and Silva of the Regge-Teitelboim procedure that was used to define properly the mass in the classical formulation of Einstein's theory of gravity. Numerous applications reproduce standard results obtained by other secure but mostly specialized methods. As a novel application we calculate the Bondi energy loss in five dimensional gravity, based on the asymptotic solution given by Tanabe, Tanahashi and Shiromizu, and obtain, as expected, the same result. We also give the superpotential for Einstein-Gauss-Bonnet gravity and find the superpotential for Lovelock theories of gravity when the number of dimensions tends to infinity with maximally symmetrical boundaries. The paper is written in standard component formalism.

id: 1108.0973
title: Photon polarization and geometric phase in general relativity
authors: Aharon Brodutch, Tommaso F. Demarie, Daniel R. Terno
comments: 17 pages; published version of a companion paper to arXiv:1107.1274
journal: Phys. Rev. D 84, 104043 (2011)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.0973
abstract: Rotation of polarization in an external gravitational field is one of the effects of general relativity that can serve as a basis for its precision tests. A careful analysis of reference frames is crucial for a proper evaluation of this effect. We introduce an operationally-motivated local reference frame that allows for a particularly simple description. We present a solution of null geodesics in Kerr space-time that is organized around a new expansion parameter, allowing a better control of the series, and use it to calculate the resulting polarization rotation. While this rotation depends on the reference-frame convention, we demonstrate a gauge-independent geometric phase for closed paths in general space-times.

id: 1108.1013
title: Qualitative difference between the angular anisotropy parameters in fast electron scattering and photoionization
authors: M. Ya. Amusia, L. V. Chernysheva, E. Z. Liverts
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1012.5465
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1013
abstract: It is demonstrated for the first time that in spite of well known big similarities between atomic ionization by photons and fast electrons, a qualitative difference exists in angular anisotropy parameters of electrons knocked out in these processes. The difference is disclosed here and attributed to distinction between normal (transverse) and virtual (longitudinal) photons. Formulas are derived for dipole and non-dipole angular anisotropy parameters in fast electronatom scattering. The ratio of quadrupole-to-dipole matrix elements is determined by the parameter \omega R/v << 1 where \omega is the transferred in collision energy, R is the ionized shell radius and v is the speed of projectile. This factor can be much bigger than in the case of photoionization, where one has the speed of light c that is much bigger than v . We illustrate general formulas by concrete results for outer s-subshells of noble gas atoms Ar and Xe. Even for very small transferred momentum q, in the so-called optical limit, the deviation from photoionization case is prominent and instructive.

id: 1108.1238
title: Vortex structures of rotating spin-orbit coupled Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Xiang-Fa Zhou, Jing Zhou, Congjun Wu
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, two figures are added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 063624 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1238
abstract: We consider the quasi-2D two-component Bose-Einstein condensates with Rashba spin-orbit (SO) coupling in a rotating trap. An external Zeeman term favoring spin polarization along the radial direction is also considered, which has the same form as the non-canonical part of the mechanical angular momentum. The rotating condensate exhibits rich structures as varying the strengths of trapping potential and interaction. With a strong trapping potential, the condensate exhibits a half-quantum vortex-lattice configuration. Such a configuration is driven to the normal one by introducing the external radial Zeeman field. In the case of a weak trap potential, the condensate exhibits a multi-domain pattern of plane-wave states under the external radial Zeeman field.

id: 1108.1244
title: Exactly solvable models for multiatomic molecular Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: G. Santos
comments: 11 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 345003
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1244
abstract: I introduce two family of exactly solvable models for multiatomic hetero-nuclear and homo-nuclear molecular Bose-Einstein condensates through the algebraic Bethe ansatz method. The conserved quantities of the respective models are also showed.

id: 1108.1251
title: Phase space theory of Bose-Einstein condensates and time-dependent modes
authors: B. J. Dalton
comments: 83 pages. 0 figures. Version 3. Details to Appendices, typos corrected, field theory treatment highlighted. To be published in Annals of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1251
abstract: A phase space theory approach for treating dynamical behaviour of Bose-Einstein condensates applicable to situations such as interferometry with BEC in time-dependent double well potentials is presented. Time-dependent mode functions are used, chosen so that one, two,.. highly occupied modes describe well the physics of interacting condensate bosons in time dependent potentials at well below the transition temperature. Time dependent mode annihilation, creation operators are represented by time dependent phase variables, but time independent total field annihilation, creation operators are represented by time independent field functions. Two situations are treated, one (mode theory) is where specific mode annihilation, creation operators and their related phase variables and distribution functions are dealt with, the other (field theory) is where only field creation, annihilation operators and their related field functions and distribution functionals are involved. The paper focuses on the hybrid approach, where the modes are divided up between condensate (highly occupied) modes and non-condensate (sparsely occupied) modes. It is found that there are extra terms in the Ito stochastic equations both for the stochastic phases and stochastic fields, involving coupling coefficients defined via overlap integrals between mode functions and their time derivatives. For the hybrid approach both the Fokker-Planck and functional Fokker-Planck equations differ from those derived via the correspondence rules, the drift vectors are unchanged but the diffusion matrices contain additional terms involving the coupling coefficients. Results are also presented for the combined approach where all the modes are treated as one set.

id: 1108.1354
title: Construction of analytical many body wave functions for correlated bosons in a harmonic trap
authors: Ioannis Brouzos, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 4 pages, 2 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1354
abstract: We develop an analytical many-body wave function to accurately describe the crossover of a one-dimensional bosonic system from weak to strong interactions in a harmonic trap. The explicit wave function, which is based on the exact two-body states, consists of symmetric multiple products of the corresponding parabolic cylinder functions, and respects the analytically known limits of zero and infinite repulsion for arbitrary number of particles. For intermediate interaction strengths we demonstrate, that the energies, as well as the reduced densities of first and second order, are in excellent agreement with large scale numerical calculations.

id: 1108.1400
title: Frustration and glassiness in spin models with cavity-mediated interactions
authors: Sarang Gopalakrishnan, Benjamin L. Lev, Paul M. Goldbart
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 277201 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1400
abstract: We show that the effective spin-spin interaction between three-level atoms confined in a multimode optical cavity is long-ranged and sign-changing, like the RKKY interaction; therefore, ensembles of such atoms subject to frozen-in positional randomness can realize spin systems having disordered and frustrated interactions. We argue that, whenever the atoms couple to sufficiently many cavity modes, the cavity-mediated interactions give rise to a spin glass. In addition, we show that the quantum dynamics of cavity-confined spin systems is that of a Bose-Hubbard model with strongly disordered hopping but no on-site disorder; this model exhibits a random-singlet glass phase, absent in conventional optical-lattice realizations. We briefly discuss experimental signatures of the realizable phases.

id: 1108.1402
title: Dynamics, disorder effects, and PT-symmetry breaking in waveguide lattices with localized eigenstates
authors: Harsha Vemuri, Vaibhav Vavilala, Theja Bhamidipati, Yogesh N. Joglekar
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043826 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1402
abstract: Recently, waveguide lattices with non-uniform tunneling amplitudes have been explored due to their myriad tunable properties, many of which arise from the extended nature of their eigenstates in the absence of disorder. Here, we investigate the dynamics, localization, and parity- and time-reversal-($\mP\mT$) symmetry breaking in lattices that support only localized eigenstates in the disorder-free limit. We propose three families of tunneling profiles that lead to qualitatively different single-particle time evolution, and show that the effects of weak disorder contain signatures of the localized or extended nature of clean-lattice eigenstates. We show that in lattices with localized eigenstates, the signatures of $\mP\mT$-symmetry breaking are acutely sensitive to the initial form of the wave packet. Our results suggest that waveguide lattices with localized eigenstates will exhibit a wide array of phenomena that are absent in traditional systems.

id: 1108.1431
title: Inelastic collisions and density-dependent excitation suppression in a ${}^{87}$Sr optical lattice clock
authors: Michael Bishof, Michael J Martin, Matthew D. Swallows, Craig Benko, Yige Lin, Goulven Qu¨¦m¨¦ner, Ana Maria Rey, Jun Ye
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052716 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1431
abstract: We observe two-body loss of ${}^3P_0$ ${}^{87}$Sr atoms trapped in a one-dimensional optical lattice. We measure loss rate coefficients for atomic samples between 1 and 6 $\mu$K that are prepared either in a single nuclear-spin-sublevel or with equal populations in two sublevels. The measured temperature and nuclear spin preparation dependence of rate coefficients agree well with calculations and reveal that rate coefficients for distinguishable atoms are only slightly enhanced over those of indistinguishable atoms. We further observe a suppression of excitation and losses during interrogation of the ${}^1S_0$-${}^3P_0$ transition as density increases and Rabi frequency decreases, which suggests the presence of strong interactions in our dynamically driven many-body system.

id: 1108.1495
title: Simplicial quantum dynamics
authors: David Ritz Finkelstein
comments: 25 pages. 1 table. Conference of the International Association for Relativistic Dynamics, Taiwan, 2010
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1495
abstract: Present-day quantum field theory can be regularized by a decomposition into quantum simplices. This replaces the infinite-dimensional Hilbert space by a high-dimensional spinor space and singular canonical Lie groups by regular spin groups. It radically changes the uncertainty principle for small distances. Gaugeons, including the gravitational, are represented as bound fermion-pairs, and space-time curvature as a singular organized limit of quantum non-commutativity. Keywords: Quantum logic, quantum set theory, quantum gravity, quantum topology, simplicial quantization.

id: 1108.1537
title: Topological Geometric Entanglement
authors: Roman Orus, Tzu-Chieh Wei
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, 1 appendix. Revised version, including an analytical analysis of robustness, and a correction to the bipartition in Fig.2.a
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1537
abstract: Here we show the connection between topological order and the geometric entanglement, as measured by the logarithm of the overlap between a given state and its closest product state of blocks, for the topological universality class of the toric code model. As happens for the entanglement entropy, we find that for large block sizes the geometric entanglement is, up to possible subleading corrections, the sum of two contributions: a non-universal bulk contribution obeying a boundary law times the number of blocks, and a universal contribution quantifying the underlying pattern of long-range entanglement of a topologically-ordered state.

id: 1108.1567
title: Quantum interference controlled resonance profiles: From lasing without inversion to photo-detection
authors: Konstantin E. Dorfman, Pankaj K. Jha, Sumanta Das
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053803 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1567
abstract: In this work we report a quantum interference mediated control of the resonance profiles in a generic three-level system and investigate its effect on key quantum interference (QI) phenomena. Namely in a three level configuration with doublets in the ground or excited states, we show control over enhancement and suppression of the emission (absorption) profiles. This is achieved by manipulation of the strength of QI and the energy spacing of the doublets. We analyze the application of such QI induced control of the resonance profile in the framework of two limiting cases of lasing without inversion and photo-detection.

id: 1108.1588
title: No Drama Quantum Electrodynamics?
authors: Andrey Akhmeteli
comments: 9 pages, no figures. Published in European Physical Journal C. A typo corrected. A discussion of a modification related to Barut's self-field electrodynamics is added in the preprint version. The journal version is at this http URL (open access)
journal: European Physical Journal C (2013) 73:2371
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1588
abstract: This article builds on recent work (A. Akhmeteli, Int'l Journ. of Quantum Information, vol. 9, Suppl. (2011) p. 17, and A. Akhmeteli, Journ. Math. Phys., vol. 52 (2011) p. 082303), providing a theory that is based on spinor electrodynamics, is described by a system of partial differential equations in 3+1 dimensions, but reproduces unitary evolution of a quantum field theory in the Fock space. To this end, after introduction of a complex four-potential of electromagnetic field, which generates the same electromagnetic fields as the initial real four-potential, spinor field is algebraically eliminated from the equations of spinor electrodynamics. It is proven that the resulting equations for electromagnetic field describe independent evolution of the latter and can be embedded into a quantum field theory using a generalized Carleman linearization procedure. The theory provides a simple and at least reasonably realistic model, valuable for interpretation of quantum theory. The issues related to the Bell theorem are discussed.

id: 1108.1594
title: Nonlinear interferometry approach to photonic sequential logic
authors: Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1594
abstract: Motivated by rapidly advancing capabilities for extensive nanoscale patterning of optical materials, I propose an approach to implementing photonic sequential logic that exploits circuit-scale phase coherence for efficient realizations of fundamental components such as a NAND-gate-with-fanout and a bistable latch. Kerr-nonlinear optical resonators are utilized in combination with interference effects to drive the binary logic. Quantum-optical input-output models are characterized numerically using design parameters that yield attojoule-scale energy separation between the latch states.

id: 1108.1595
title: Tensor network simulation of phase diagram of frustrated J1-J2 Heisenberg model on a checkerboard lattice
authors: Yang-hao Chan, Yong-jian Han, Luming Duan
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 224407(2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1595
abstract: We use the recently developed tensor network algorithm based on infinite projected entangled pair states (iPEPS) to study the phase diagram of frustrated antiferromagnetic J1-J2 Heisenberg model on a checkerboard lattice. The simulation indicates a Neel ordered phase when J2 < 0.88J1, a plaquette valence bond solid state when 0.88 < J2/J1 < 1.11, and a stripe phase when J2 > 1.11J1, with two first-order transitions across the phase boundaries. The calculation shows the cross-dimer state proposed before is unlikely to be the ground state of the model, although such a state indeed arises as a metastable state in some parameter region.

id: 1108.1607
title: Exact Eigenfunctions of $N$-Body system with Quadratic Pair Potential
authors: Zhaoliang Wang, Anmin Wang, Yang Yang, Xuechao Li
comments: 7 pages,1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1607
abstract: We obtain all the exact eigenvalues and the corresponding eigenfunctions of $N$-body Bose and Fermi systems with Quadratic Pair Potentials in one dimension. The originally existed first excited state level is missing in one dimension, which results from the operation of symmetry or antisymmetry of identical particles. In two and higher dimensions, we give all the eigenvalues and the analytical ground state wave functions and the number of degeneracy. Through the comparison with Avinash Khare's results, we have perfected his results.

id: 1108.1639
title: Multipolar Black Body Radiation Shifts for the Single Ion Clocks
authors: Bindiya Arora, D. K. Nandy, B. K. Sahoo
comments: 1 figure, 4 tables
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1639
abstract: Appraising the projected $10^{-18}$ fractional uncertainty in the optical frequency standards using singly ionized ions, we estimate the black-body radiation (BBR) shifts due to the magnetic dipole (M1) and electric quadrupole (E2) multipoles of the magnetic and electric fields, respectively. Multipolar scalar polarizabilities are determined for the singly ionized calcium (Ca$^+$) and strontium (Sr$^+$) ions using the relativistic coupled-cluster method; though the theory can be exercised for any single ion clock proposal. The expected energy shifts for the respective clock transitions are estimated to be $4.38(3) \times 10^{-4}$ Hz for Ca$^+$ and $9.50(7) \times 10^{-5}$ Hz for Sr$^+$. These shifts are large enough and may be prerequisite for the frequency standards to achieve the foreseen $10^{-18}$ precision goal.

id: 1108.1672
title: Internal time, test clocks and singularity resolution in dust-filled quantum cosmology
authors: Ian D. Lawrie
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1672
abstract: The problem of time evolution in quantum cosmology is studied in the context of a dust-filled, spatially flat Friedmann-Robertson-Walker universe. In this model, two versions of the commonly-adopted notion of internal time can be implemented in the same quantization, and are found to yield contradictory views of the same quantum state: with one choice, the big-bang singularity appears to be resolved, but with another choice it does not. This and other considerations lead to the conclusion that the notion of internal time as it is usually implemented has no satisfactory physical interpretation. A recently proposed variant of the relational-time construction, using a test clock that is regarded as internal to a specific observer, appears to provide an improved account of time evolution relative to the proper time that elapses along the observer's worldline. This construction permits the derivation of consistent joint probability densities for observable quantities, which can be viewed either as evolving with proper time or as describing correlations in a timeless manner. Section I reveals whether the singularity is resolved or not.

id: 1108.1719
title: Non-Hermitian multi-particle systems from complex root spaces
authors: Andreas Fring, Monique Smith
comments: 29 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 085203
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1719
abstract: We provide a general construction procedure for antilinearly invariant complex root spaces. The proposed method is generic and may be applied to any Weyl group allowing to take any element of the group as a starting point for the construction. Worked out examples for several specific Weyl groups are presented, focusing especially on those cases for which no solutions were found previously. When applied in the defining relations of models based on root systems this usually leads to non-Hermitian models, which are nonetheless physically viable in a self-consistent sense as they are antilinearly invariant by construction. We discuss new types of Calogero models based on these complex roots. In addition we propose an alternative construction leading to q-deformed roots. We employ the latter type of roots to formulate a new version of affine Toda field theories based on non-simply laced roots systems. These models exhibit on the classical level a strong-weak duality in the coupling constant equivalent to a Lie algebraic duality, which is known for the quantum version of the undeformed case.

id: 1108.1734
title: Exact Zero Modes in Closed Systems of Interacting Fermions
authors: Garry Goldstein, Claudio Chamon
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure,v2 4.5 pages 1 figure some corrections and extensions,v3 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1734
abstract: We show that for closed finite sized systems with an odd number of real fermionic modes, even in the presence of interactions, there are always at least two fermionic operators that commute with the Hamiltonian.There is a zero mode corresponding to the fermion parity operator, as shown by Akhmerov, as well as additional linearly independent zero modes, one of which is 1) the one that is continuously connected to the Majorana mode solution in the non-interacting limit, and 2) less prone to decoherence when the system is opened to contact with an infinite bath. We also show that in the idealized situation where there are two or more well separated zero modes each associated with a finite number of fermions at a localized vortex, these modes have non-Abelian Ising statistics under braiding. Furthermore the algebra of the zero mode operators makes them useful for fermionic quantum computation.

id: 1108.1736
title: Anharmonic Waves in Field Theory
authors: F. J. Himpsel
comments: 30 pages, 4 figures, updated Ref. [25], at the bottom of p. 13 replaced (2m+1) by |2m+1| (twice), corrected typos
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1736
abstract: This work starts from the premise that sinusoidal plane waves cease to be solutions of field theories when turning on an interaction. A nonlinear interaction term generates harmonics analogous to those observed in nonlinear optical media. This calls for a generalization to anharmonic waves in both classical and quantum field theory. Three simple requirements make anharmonic waves compatible with relativistic field theory and quantum physics. Some non-essential concepts have to be abandoned, such as orthogonality, the superposition principle, and the existence of single-particle energy eigenstates. The most general class of anharmonic waves allows for a zero frequency term in the Fourier series, which corresponds to a quantum field with a non-zero vacuum expectation value. Anharmonic quantum fields are defined by generalizing the expansion of a field operator into creation and annihilation operators. This method provides a framework for handling exact quantum fields, which define exact single particle states.

id: 1108.1740
title: Some comments to the quantum fluctuation theorems
authors: Yu.E.Kuzovlev
comments: 3 pages, no figures, latex2e revtex4-1
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1740
abstract: It is demonstrated that today's quantum fluctuation theorems are component part of old quantum fluctuation-dissipation relations [Sov.Phys.-JETP 45, 125 (1977)], and typical misunderstandings in this area are pointed out.

id: 1108.1779
title: Quantum Shock Waves and Domain Walls in the Real-Time Dynamics of a Superfluid Unitary Fermi Gas
authors: Aurel Bulgac, Yuan-Lung, Kenneth J. Roche
comments: published version, 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 150401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1779
abstract: We show that in the collision of two superfluid fermionic atomic clouds one observes the formation of quantum shock waves as discontinuities in the number density and collective flow velocity. Domain walls, which are topological excitations of the superfluid order parameter, are also generated and exhibit abrupt phase changes by $\pi$ and slower motion than the shock waves. The domain walls are distinct from the gray soliton train or number density ripples formed in the wake of the shock waves and observed in the collisions of superfluid bosonic atomic clouds. Domain walls with opposite phase jumps appear to collide elastically.

id: 1108.1791
title: Why Philosophers Should Care About Computational Complexity
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 58 pages, to appear in "Computability: G\"odel, Turing, Church, and beyond," MIT Press, 2012. Some minor clarifications and corrections; new references added
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1791
abstract: One might think that, once we know something is computable, how efficiently it can be computed is a practical question with little further philosophical importance. In this essay, I offer a detailed case that one would be wrong. In particular, I argue that computational complexity theory---the field that studies the resources (such as time, space, and randomness) needed to solve computational problems---leads to new perspectives on the nature of mathematical knowledge, the strong AI debate, computationalism, the problem of logical omniscience, Hume's problem of induction, Goodman's grue riddle, the foundations of quantum mechanics, economic rationality, closed timelike curves, and several other topics of philosophical interest. I end by discussing aspects of complexity theory itself that could benefit from philosophical analysis.

id: 1108.1881
title: Asymptotic Limits of the Wigner $12J$-Symbol in Terms of the Ponzano-Regge Phases
authors: Liang Yu
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial overlap with arXiv:1104.3275
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1881
abstract: There are two types of asymptotic formulas for the $12j$ symbol with one small and 11 large angular momenta. We have derived the first type of formula previously in [L. Yu, Phys. Rev. A84 022101 (2011)]. We will derive the second type in this paper. We find that this second asymptotic formula for the $12j$ symbol is expressed in terms of the vector diagram associated with two $6j$ symbols, namely, the vector diagram of two adjacent tetrahedra sharing a common face. As a result, two sets of Ponzano-Regge phases appear in the asymptotic formula. This work contributes another asymptotic formula of the Wigner $12j$ symbol to the re-coupling theory of angular momenta.

id: 1108.1907
title: Localization of Dirac-like excitations in graphene in the presence of smooth inhomogeneous magnetic fields
authors: Pratim Roy, Tarun Kanti Ghosh, Kaushik Bhattacharya
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, to appear in Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter
journal: Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 24, 055301 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1907
abstract: The present article discusses magnetic confinement of the Dirac excitations in graphene in presence of inhomogeneous magnetic fields. In the first case a magnetic field directed along the z axis whose magnitude is proportional to $1/r$ is chosen. In the next case we choose a more realistic magnetic field which does not blow up at the origin and gradually fades away from the origin. The magnetic fields chosen do not have any finite/infinite discontinuity for finite values of the radial coordinate. The novelty of the two magnetic fields is related to the equations which are used to find the excited spectra of the excitations. It turns out that the bound state solutions of the two-dimensional hydrogen atom problem are related to the spectra of graphene excitations in presence of the $1/r$ (inverse-radial) magnetic field. For the other magnetic field profile one can use the knowledge of the bound state spectrum of a two-dimensional cut-off Coulomb potential to dictate the excitation spectra of the states of graphene. The spectrum of the graphene excitations in presence of the inverse-radial magnetic field can be exactly solved while the other case cannot be. In the later case we give the localized solutions of the zero-energy states in graphene.

id: 1108.1935
title: The absolute positive partial transpose property for random induced states
authors: Benoit Collins, Ion Nechita, Deping Ye
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure
journal: Random Matrices: Theory Appl. 01, 1250002 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1935
abstract: In this paper, we first obtain an algebraic formula for the moments of a centered Wishart matrix, and apply it to obtain new convergence results in the large dimension limit when both parameters of the distribution tend to infinity at different speeds. We use this result to investigate APPT (absolute positive partial transpose) quantum states. We show that the threshold for a bipartite random induced state on $\C^d=\C^{d_1} \otimes \C^{d_2}$, obtained by partial tracing a random pure state on $\C^d \otimes \C^s$, being APPT occurs if the environmental dimension $s$ is of order $s_0=\min(d_1, d_2)^3 \max(d_1, d_2)$. That is, when $s \geq Cs_0$, such a random induced state is APPT with large probability, while such a random states is not APPT with large probability when $s \leq cs_0 $. Besides, we compute effectively $C$ and $c$ and show that it is possible to replace them by the same sharp transition constant when $\min(d_1, d_2)^{2}\ll d$.

id: 1108.1962
title: Violation of the zeroth law of thermodynamics for a non-ergodic interaction
authors: B. Gaveau, L. S. Schulman
comments: 
journal: J. Stat. Phys. 145, 1458 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1962
abstract: The phenomenon described by our title should surprise no one. What may be surprising though is how easy it is to produce a quantum system with this feature; moreover, that system is one that is often used for the purpose of showing how systems equilibrate. The violation can be variously manifested. In our detailed example, bringing a detuned 2-level system into contact with a monochromatic reservoir does not cause it to relax to the reservoir temperature; rather, the system acquires the reservoir's level-occupation-ratio.

id: 1108.1988
title: Time-asymmetry of probabilities versus relativistic causal structure: an arrow of time
authors: Bob Coecke, Raymond Lal
comments: 4 pages, some figures; replaces arXiv:1010.4572 [quant-ph]
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 200403 (2012)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.1988
abstract: There is an incompatibility between the symmetries of causal structure in relativity theory and the signaling abilities of probabilistic devices with inputs and outputs: while time-reversal in relativity will not introduce the ability to signal between spacelike separated regions, this is not the case for probabilistic devices with space-like separated input-output pairs. We explicitly describe a non-signaling device which becomes a perfect signaling device under time-reversal, where time-reversal can be conceptualized as playing backwards a videotape of an agent manipulating the device. This leads to an arrow of time that is identifiable when studying the correlations of events for spacelike separated regions. Somewhat surprisingly, although time-reversal of Popuscu-Roerlich boxes also allows agents to signal, it does not yield a perfect signaling device. Finally, we realize time-reversal using post-selection, which could lead experimental implementation.

id: 1108.2013
title: Trapped surfaces and emergent curved space in the Bose-Hubbard model
authors: Francesco Caravelli, Alioscia Hamma, Fotini Markopoulou, Arnau Riera
comments: 16 pages two columns, 12 figures; references added, typos corrected
journal: Phys.Rev. D85 (2012) 044046
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2013
abstract: A Bose-Hubbard model on a dynamical lattice was introduced in previous work as a spin system analogue of emergent geometry and gravity. Graphs with regions of high connectivity in the lattice were identified as candidate analogues of spacetime geometries that contain trapped surfaces. We carry out a detailed study of these systems and show explicitly that the highly connected subgraphs trap matter. We do this by solving the model in the limit of no back-reaction of the matter on the lattice, and for states with certain symmetries that are natural for our problem. We find that in this case the problem reduces to a one-dimensional Hubbard model on a lattice with variable vertex degree and multiple edges between the same two vertices. In addition, we obtain a (discrete) differential equation for the evolution of the probability density of particles which is closed in the classical regime. This is a wave equation in which the vertex degree is related to the local speed of propagation of probability. This allows an interpretation of the probability density of particles similar to that in analogue gravity systems: matter inside this analogue system sees a curved spacetime. We verify our analytic results by numerical simulations. Finally, we analyze the dependence of localization on a gradual, rather than abrupt, fall-off of the vertex degree on the boundary of the highly connected region and find that matter is localized in and around that region.

id: 1108.2047
title: Helical fluctuations in the Raman response of the topological insulator Bi2Se3
authors: V. Gnezdilov, Yu. G. Pashkevich, H. Berger, E. Pomjakushina, K. Conder, P. Lemmens
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2047
abstract: The topological insulator Bi2Se3 shows a Raman scattering response related to topologically protected surface states amplified by a resonant interband transition. Most significantly this signal has a characteristic Lorentzian lineshape and spin-helical symmetry due to collision dominated scattering of Dirac states at the Fermi level E_F on bulk valence states. Its resonance energy, temperature and doping dependence points to a high selectivity of this process. Its scattering rate (Gamma=40 cm-1=5 meV) is comparable to earlier observations, e.g. in spin-polaron systems. Although the observation of topological surface states in Raman scattering is limited to resonance conditions, this study represents a quite clean case which is not polluted by symmetry forbidden contributions from the bulk

id: 1108.2051
title: Topological Quantum Glassiness
authors: Claudio Castelnovo, Claudio Chamon
comments: (18 pages, 4 figures, v2: typos and updated figure); Philosophical Magazine (2011)
journal: Philosophical Magazine 29, 1 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2051
abstract: Quantum tunneling often allows pathways to relaxation past energy barriers which are otherwise hard to overcome classically at low temperatures. However, this is not always the case. In this paper we provide simple exactly solvable examples where the barriers each system encounters on its approach to lower and lower energy states become increasingly large and eventually scale with the system size. If the environment couples locally to the physical degrees of freedom in the system, tunnelling under large barriers requires processes whose order in perturbation theory is proportional to the width of the barrier. This results in quantum relaxation rates that are exponentially suppressed in system size: For these quantum systems, no physical bath can provide a mechanism for relaxation that is not dynamically arrested at low temperatures. The examples discussed here are drawn from three dimensional generalizations of Kitaev's toric code, originally devised in the context of topological quantum computing. They are devoid of any local order parameters or symmetry breaking and are thus examples of topological quantum glasses. We construct systems that have slow dynamics similar to either strong or fragile glasses. The example with fragile-like relaxation is interesting in that the topological defects are neither open strings or regular open membranes, but fractal objects with dimension $d^* = ln 3/ ln 2$.

id: 1108.2055
title: Universal Signatures of Fractionalized Quantum Critical Points
authors: Sergei V. Isakov, Roger G. Melko, Matthew B. Hastings
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures (+ supplemental)
journal: Science 335 (2012) 193-195
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2055
abstract: Groundstates of certain materials can support exotic excitations with a charge that's a fraction of the fundamental electron charge. The condensation of these fractionalized particles has been predicted to drive novel quantum phase transitions, which haven't yet been observed in realistic systems. Through numerical and theoretical analysis of a physical model of interacting lattice bosons, we establish the existence of such an exotic critical point, called XY*. We measure a highly non-classical critical exponent eta = 1.49(2), and construct a universal scaling function of winding number distributions that directly demonstrates the distinct topological sectors of an emergent Z_2 gauge field. The universal quantities used to establish this exotic transition can be used to detect other fractionalized quantum critical points in future model and material systems.

id: 1108.2296
title: Discrete Quantum Gravity
authors: Stan Gudder
comments: 19 pages which includes 3 figures created in LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2296
abstract: We discuss the causal set approach to discrete quantum gravity. We begin by describing a classical sequential growth process in which the universe grows one element at a time in discrete steps. At each step the process has the form of a causal set and the "completed" universe is given by a path through a discretely growing chain of causal sets. We then introduce a method for quantizing this classical formalism to obtain a quantum sequential growth process which may lead to a viable model for a discrete quantum gravity. We also give a method for quantizing random variables in the classical process to obtain observables in the corresponding quantum process. The paper closes by showing that a discrete isometric process can be employed to construct a quantum sequential growth process.

id: 1108.2303
title: Feshbach-resonant Raman photoassociation in a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Matt Mackie, Pierre Phou, Heather Boyce, Mannix Shinn, Lev Katz
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, 42+ references; v2 adds analytical approximation, editorial title change; accepted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043614 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2303
abstract: We model the formation of stable heteronuclear molecules via pulsed Raman photoassociation of a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate near a strong Feshbach resonance, for both counterintuitive and intuitive pulse sequencing. Compared to lasers alone, weak Raman photoassociation is enhanced by as much as a factor of ten (five) for a counterintuitive (intuitive) pulse sequence, whereas strong Raman photoassociation is barely enhanced at all--regardless of pulse sequence. Stronger intra-atom, molecule, or atom-molecule collisions lead to an expected decrease in conversion efficiency, but stronger ambient inter-atom collisions lead to an unexpected increase in the efficiency of stable molecule production. Numerical results agree reasonably with an analytical approximation.

id: 1108.2327
title: SU(N) magnetism in chains of ultracold alkaline-earth-metal atoms: Mott transitions and quantum correlations
authors: Salvatore R. Manmana, Kaden R. A. Hazzard, Gang Chen, Adrian E. Feiguin, Ana Maria Rey
comments: 19 pages, 13 figures and 2 tables; slightly revised version as published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2327
abstract: We investigate one dimensional SU$(N)$ Hubbard chains at zero temperature, which can be emulated with ultracold alkaline earth atoms, by using the density matrix renormalization group (DMRG), Bethe ansatz (BA), and bosonization. We compute experimental observables and use the DMRG to benchmark the accuracy of the Bethe ansatz for $N>2$ where the BA is only approximate. In the worst case, we find a relative error $\epsilon \lesssim 4%$ in the BA ground state energy for $N \leq 4$ at filling 1/N, which is due to the fact that BA improperly treats the triply and higher occupied states. Using the DMRG for $N \leq 4$ and the BA for large $N$, we determine the regimes of validity of strong- and weak-coupling perturbation theory for all values of $N$ and in particular, the parameter range in which the system is well described by a SU$(N)$ Heisenberg model at filling 1/N. We find this depends only weakly on $N$. We investigate the Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless phase transition from a Luttinger liquid to a Mott-insulator by computing the fidelity susceptibility and the Luttinger parameter $K_\rho$ at 1/N filling. The numerical findings give strong evidence that the fidelity susceptibility develops a minimum at a critical interaction strength which is found to occur at a finite positive value for $N>2$.

id: 1108.2343
title: Decoherence and dynamical decoupling control of nitrogen-vacancy center electron spins in nuclear spin baths
authors: Nan Zhao, Sai-Wah Ho, Ren-Bao Liu
comments: 18 pages, 17 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 115303 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2343
abstract: We theoretically study the decoherence and the dynamical decoupling control of nitrogen-vacancy center electron spins in high-purity diamond, where the hyperfine interaction with $^{13}$C nuclear spins is the dominating decoherence mechanism. The decoherence is formulated as the entanglement between the electron spin and the nuclear spins, which is induced by nuclear spin bath evolution conditioned on the electron spin state. The nuclear spin bath evolution is driven by elementary processes such as single spin precession and pairwise flip-flops. The importance of different elementary processes in the decoherence depends on the strength of the external magnetic field.

id: 1108.2376
title: Heisenberg uncertainty relation and statistical measures in the square well
authors: Ricardo Lopez-Ruiz, Jaime Sanudo
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2376
abstract: A non stationary state in the one-dimensional infinite square well formed by a combination of the ground state and the first excited one is considered. The statistical complexity and the Fisher-Shannon entropy in position and momentum are calculated with time for this system. These measures are compared with the Heisenberg uncertainty relation, \Delta x\Delta p. It is observed that the extreme values of \Delta x\Delta p coincide in time with extreme values of the other two statistical magnitudes.

id: 1108.2491
title: A Field Theoretic Approach to Roughness Corrections
authors: Hua Yao Wu, Martin Schaden
comments: 24 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2491
abstract: We develop a systematic field theoretic description for the roughness correction to the Casimir free energy of parallel plates. Roughness is modeled by specifying a generating functional for correlation functions of the height profile, the two-point correlation function being characterized by the variance, \sigma^2, and correlation length, \ell, of the profile. We obtain the partition function of a massless scalar quantum field interacting with the height profile of the surface via a \delta-function potential. The partition function of this model is also given by a holographic reduction to three coupled scalar fields on a two-dimensional plane. The original three-dimensional space with a parallel plate at separation 'a' is encoded in the non-local propagators of the surface fields on its boundary. Feynman rules for this equivalent 2+1-dimensional model are derived and its counter terms constructed. The two-loop contribution to the free energy of this model gives the leading roughness correction. The absolute separation to a rough plate is measured to an effective plane that is displaced a distance \rho\propto \sigma^2/\ell from the mean of its profile. This definition of the separation eliminates corrections to the free energy of order 1/a^4 and results in a unitary model. We derive an effective low-energy theory in the limit \ell\ll a. It gives the scattering matrix and effective planar surface of a very rough plate in terms of the single length scale \rho. The Casimir force on a rough plate is found to always weaken with decreasing correlation length \ell. The two-loop approximation to the free energy interpolates between the free energy of the effective low-energy model and that obtained in proximity force approximation -- the force on a very rough plate with \sigma\gtrsim 0.5\ell being weaker than on a flat plate at any separation.

id: 1108.2527
title: Semiclassical wave functions in billiards built on classical trajectories. Energy quantization, scars and periodic orbits
authors: Stefan Giller, Jaros?aw Janiak
comments: 53 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2527
abstract: A way of construction of semiclassical wave function (SWF) based on the Maslov - Fedoriuk approach is proposed which appears to be appropriate also for systems with chaotic classical limits. Some classical constructions called skeletons are considered. The skeletons are generalizations of Arnolds' tori able to gather chaotic dynamics. SWF's are continued by caustic singularities in the configuration space rather then in the phase space using complex time method. The skeleton formulation provides us with a new algorithm for the semiclassical approximation method which is applied to construct SWF's as well as to calculate energy spectra for the circular and rectangular billiards as well as to construct the simplest SWF's and the respective spectrum for the Bunimovich stadium. The scar phenomena are considered and a possibility of their description by the skeleton method is discussed. PACS number(s): 03.65.-w, 03.65.Sq, 02.30.Jr, 02.30.Lt, 02.30.Mv Key Words: Schr\"odinger equation, semiclassical expansion, Lagrange manifolds, classical trajectories, chaotic dynamics, quantum chaos, scars

id: 1108.2561
title: Bosenova and three-body loss in a Rb-85 Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: P. A. Altin, G. R. Dennis, G. D. McDonald, D. D?ring, J. E. Debs, J. D. Close, C. M. Savage, N. P. Robins
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 033632 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2561
abstract: Collapsing Bose-Einstein condensates are rich and complex quantum systems for which quantitative explanation by simple models has proved elusive. We present new experimental data on the collapse of high density Rb-85 condensates with attractive interactions and find quantitative agreement with the predictions of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation. The collapse data and measurements of the decay of atoms from our condensates allow us to put new limits on the value of the Rb-85 three-body loss coefficient K_3 at small positive and negative scattering lengths.

id: 1108.2569
title: Non-commutative Quantum Mechanics in Three Dimensions and Rotational Symmetry
authors: Debabrata Sinha, Biswajit Chakraborty, Frederik G Scholtz
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2569
abstract: We generalize the formulation of non-commutative quantum mechanics to three dimensional non-commutative space. Particular attention is paid to the identification of the quantum Hilbert space in which the physical states of the system are to be represented, the construction of the representation of the rotation group on this space, the deformation of the Leibnitz rule accompanying this representation and the implied necessity of deforming the co-product to restore the rotation symmetry automorphism. This also implies the breaking of rotational invariance on the level of the Schroedinger action and equation as well as the Hamiltonian, even for rotational invariant potentials. For rotational invariant potentials the symmetry breaking results purely from the deformation in the sense that the commutator of the Hamiltonian and angular momentum is proportional to the deformation.

id: 1108.2597
title: Quantum fidelity for one-dimensional Dirac fermions and two-dimensional Kitaev model in the thermodynamic limit
authors: Victor Mukherjee, Amit Dutta, Diptiman Sen
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 024301 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2597
abstract: We study the scaling behavior of the fidelity ($F$) in the thermodynamic limit using the examples of a system of Dirac fermions in one dimension and the Kitaev model on a honeycomb lattice. We show that the thermodynamic fidelity inside the gapless as well as gapped phases follow power-law scalings, with the power given by some of the critical exponents of the system. The generic scaling forms of $F$ for an anisotropic quantum critical point for both thermodynamic and non-thermodynamic limits have been derived and verified for the Kitaev model. The interesting scaling behavior of $F$ inside the gapless phase of the Kitaev model is also discussed. Finally, we consider a rotation of each spin in the Kitaev model around the z axis and calculate $F$ through the overlap between the ground states for angle of rotation $\eta$ and $\eta+d\eta$, respectively. We thereby show that the associated geometric phase vanishes. We have supplemented our analytical calculations with numerical simulations wherever necessary.

id: 1108.2615
title: Pair creation by time-dependent electric fields: Analytic solutions
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula, ?ukasz Rudnicki, Albert Wienczek
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2615
abstract: Exact analytical solutions are presented for the time evolution of the density of pairs produced in the QED vacuum by a uniform electric field that is adiabatically switched on starting at minus infinity. Pair production is described by the Dirac-Heisenberg-Wigner function introduced before [Phys. Rev. D 44, 1825 (1991)]. The explicit solution is obtained by an extension of the method of the spinorial decomposition to deal with a time-varying electric field. The main result of this work is that the pair density is an analytic function of the field strength; it can be expanded into a convergent power series. Therefore, the essential singularity present in the Schwinger formula is to be attributed to the infinitely long duration of the process of pair creation by a time-independent field.

id: 1108.2652
title: Universal spatial correlations in random spinor fields
authors: Juan Diego Urbina, Michael Wimmer, Dominik Bauernfeind, Diego Espitia, Inanc Adagideli, Klaus Richter
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 042115 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2652
abstract: We identify universal spatial fluctuations in systems with non trivial spin dynamics. To this end we calculate by exact numerical diagonalization a variety of experimentally relevant correlations between spinor amplitudes, spin polarizations and spin currents both in the bulk and near the boundary of a confined two-dimensional clean electron gas in the presence of spin-orbit interaction and a single magnetic impurity. We support or claim of universality with the excellent agreement between the numerical results and system-independent spatial correlations of a random field defined on both the spatial and spin degrees of freedom. A rigorous identity relating our universal predictions with response functions provides a direct physical interpretation of our results in the framework of linear response theory.

id: 1108.2669
title: High-Q, low index-contrast polymeric photonic crystal nanobeam cavities
authors: Qimin Quan, Ian B. Burgess, Sindy K. Y. Tang, Daniel L. Floyd, Marko Loncar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2669
abstract: We present the design, fabrication and characterization of high-\emph{Q} (\emph{Q}=36,000) polymeric photonic crystal nanobeam cavities made of two polymers that have an ultra-low index contrast (ratio=1.15) and observed thermo-optical bistability at hundred microwatt power level. Due to the extended evanescent field and small mode volumes, polymeric nanobeam cavities are ideal platform for ultra-sensitive biochemical sensing. We demonstrate that these sensors have figures of merit (FOM=9190) two orders of magnitude greater than surface plasmon resonance based sensors, and outperform the commercial Biacore$^{\mathrm{TM}}$ sensors. The demonstration of high-Q cavity in low-index-contrast polymers can open up versatile applications using a broad range of functional and flexible polymeric materials.

id: 1108.2675
title: Deterministic design of wavelength scale, ultra-high Q photonic crystal nanobeam cavities
authors: Qimin Quan, Marko Loncar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2675
abstract: Photonic crystal nanobeam cavities are versatile platforms of interest for optical communications, optomechanics, optofluidics, cavity QED, etc. In a previous work \cite{quan10}, we proposed a deterministic method to achieve ultrahigh \emph{Q} cavities. This follow-up work provides systematic analysis and verifications of the deterministic design recipe and further extends the discussion to air-mode cavities. We demonstrate designs of dielectric-mode and air-mode cavities with $Q>10^9$, as well as cavities with both high-\emph{Q} ($>10^7$) and high on-resonance transmissions ($T>95%$).

id: 1108.2700
title: It was twenty years ago today ...
authors: Paul Ginsparg
comments: 9 pages. v2: additional edifying comments interspersed throughout
journal: 
subjects: Digital Libraries (cs.DL); Instrumentation and Methods for Astrophysics (astro-ph.IM); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); History and Overview (math.HO); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2700
abstract: To mark the 20th anniversary of the (14 Aug 1991) commencement of hep-th@xxx.lanl.gov (now arXiv.org), I've adapted this article from one that first appeared in Physics World (2008), was later reprinted (with permission) in Learned Publishing (2009), but never appeared in arXiv. I trace some historical context and early development of the resource, its later trajectory, and close with some thoughts about the future. This version is closer to my original draft, with some updates for this occasion, plus an astounding $2^5$ added footnotes.

id: 1108.2703
title: A time and spatially resolved quench of the fermionic Hubbard model showing restricted equilibration
authors: Florian Goth, Fakher F. Assaad
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 085129, 2012
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2703
abstract: We investigate the quench of half-filled 1D and 2D fermionic Hubbard models to models without Coulomb interaction. Since the time propagation is gaussian we can use a variety of time-dependent quantum Monte Carlo methods to tackle this problem without generating a dynamical sign problem. Using a continuous time quantum Monte Carlo method (CTQMC) we achieve a system size of 128 sites in 1D, and using a Blankenbecler-Scalapino-Sugar (BSS) type algorithm we were able to simulate 20 x 20 square lattices. Applying these methods to study the dynamics after the quench, we observe that the final state of the system can be reasonably well described by a thermal single-particle density matrix that takes the initial single particle conservation laws into account. The characteristic decay towards this limit is found to be oscillatory with an additional power law decay that depends on the dimensionality. This numerically exact result is shown to compare favorable to mean-field approximations as well as to perturbation theory. Furthermore we observe the information propagation in the 1D-case in the charge charge and spin spin correlations and find that it is linear with a velocity of roughly v = 4 in units of the hopping amplitude.

id: 1108.2705
title: Coherent Control of a Superconducting Qubit with Dynamically Tunable Qubit-cavity Coupling
authors: Anthony J. Hoffman, Srikanth J. Srinivasan, Jay M. Gambetta, Andrew A. Houck
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 184515 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2705
abstract: We demonstrate coherent control and measurement of a superconducting qubit coupled to a superconducting coplanar waveguide resonator with a dynamically tunable qubit-cavity coupling strength. Rabi oscillations are measured for several coupling strengths showing that the qubit transition can be turned off by a factor of more than 1500. We show how the qubit can still be accessed in the off state via fast flux pulses. We perform pulse delay measurements with synchronized fast flux pulses on the device and observe $T_1$ and $T_2$ times of 1.6 and 1.9 $\mu$s, respectively. This work demonstrates how this qubit can be incorporated into quantum computing architectures.

id: 1108.2709
title: Quantum Uncertainties in the Schmidt Basis Given by Decoherence
authors: Don N. Page
comments: 16 pages, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2709
abstract: A common misconception is that decoherence gives the eigenstates that we observe to be fairly definite about a subsystem (e.g., approximate eigenstates of position) as the elements of the Schmidt basis in which the density matrix of the subsystem is diagonal. Here I show that in simple examples of linear systems with gaussian states, the Schmidt basis states have as much mean uncertainty about position as the full density matrix with its combination of different possibilities.

id: 1108.2782
title: Non exponential decays of hadrons
authors: Giuseppe Pagliara, Francesco Giacosa
comments: Prepared for the Proceedings of the Workshop "Excited QCD 2011", Les Houches (France), 20-25 February 2011; 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2782
abstract: We analyze the survival probability of unstable particles in the context of quantum field theory. After introducing the spectral function of resonances, we show that deviations from the exponential decay law occur at short times after the creation of the unstable particle. For hadronic decays, these deviations are sizable and could lead to observable effects.

id: 1108.2819
title: Qubit-wannabe Neural Networks
authors: John Robert Burger
comments: Re-worked algorithms concerning function classification and satisfiability
journal: 
subjects: Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2819
abstract: Recurrent neurons, or "simulated" qubits, can store simultaneous true and false with probabilistic behaviors usually reserved for the qubits of quantum physics. Although possible to construct artificially, simulated qubits are intended to explain biological mysteries. It is shown below that they can simulate certain quantum computations and, although less potent than the qubits of quantum physics, they nevertheless are shown to significantly exceed the capabilities of classical deterministic circuits.

id: 1108.2832
title: A spin chain with spiral orders: perspectives of quantum information and mechanical response
authors: Shi-Jian Gu, Wing-Chi Yu, Hai-Qing Lin
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2832
abstract: In this paper, we study the ground state of a one-dimensional exactly solvable model with a spiral order. While the model's energy spectra is the same as the one-dimensional transverse field Ising model, its ground state manifests spiral order with various periods. The quantum phase transition from a spiral-order phase to a paramagnetic phase is investigated in perspectives of quantum information science and mechanics. We show that the modes of the ground-state fidelity and its susceptibility can tell the change of periodicity around the critical point. We study also the spin torsion modulus which defines the coefficient of the potential energy stored under a small rotation. We find that at the critical point, it is a constant; while away from the critical point, the spin torsion modulus tends to zero.

id: 1108.2884
title: A superconvergent representation of the Gersten-Nitzan and Ford-Webber nonradiative rates
authors: Alexander Moroz
comments: 30 pages including 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. Chem. C 115(40), 19546-19556 (2011)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2884
abstract: An alternative representation of the quasistatic nonradiative rates of Gersten and Nitzan [J. Chem. Phys. 1981, 75, 1139] and Ford and Weber [Phys. Rep. 1984, 113, 195] is derived for the respective parallel and perpendicular dipole orientations. Given the distance d of a dipole from a sphere surface of radius a, the representations comprise four elementary analytic functions and a modified multipole series taking into account residual multipole contributions. The analytic functions could be arranged hierarchically according to decreasing singularity at the short distance limit d ---> 0, ranging from d^{-3} over d^{-1} to ln (d/a). The alternative representations exhibit drastically improved convergence properties. On keeping mere residual dipole contribution of the modified multipole series, the representations agree with the converged rates on at least 99.9% for all distances, arbitrary particle sizes and emission wavelengths, and for a broad range of dielectric constants. The analytic terms of the representations reveal a complex distance dependence and could be used to interpolate between the familiar d^{-3} short-distance and d^{-6} long-distance behaviors with an unprecedented accuracy. Therefore, the representations could be especially useful for the qualitative and quantitative understanding of the distance behavior of nonradiative rates of fluorophores and semiconductor quantum dots involving nanometal surface energy transfer in the presence of metallic nanoparticles or nanoantennas. As a byproduct, a complete short-distance asymptotic of the quasistatic nonradiative rates is derived. The above results for the nonradiative rates translate straightforwardly to the so-called image enhancement factors Delta, which are of relevance for the surface-enhanced Raman scattering.

id: 1108.2973
title: Sine-square deformation of free fermion systems in one and higher dimensions
authors: Isao Maruyama, Hosho Katsura, Toshiya Hikihara
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures. v2: accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 165132 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.2973
abstract: We study free fermion systems with the sine-square deformation (SSD), in which the energy scale of local Hamiltonians is modified according to the scaling function f(x)=sin^2[\pi(x-1/2)/L], where x is the position of the local Hamiltonian and L is the length of the system in the x direction. It has been revealed that when applied to one-dimensional critical systems the SSD realizes the translationally-invariant ground state which is the same as that of the uniform periodic system. In this paper, we propose a simple theory to explain how the SSD maintains the translational invariance in the ground-state wave function. In particular, for a certain one-dimensional system with SSD, it is shown that the ground state is exactly identical with the Fermi sea of the uniform periodic chain. We also apply the SSD to two-dimensional systems and show that the SSD is able to suppress the boundary modulations from the open edges extremely well, demonstrating that the SSD works in any dimensions and in any directions.

id: 1108.3013
title: Multi-orbital and density-induced tunneling of bosons in optical lattices
authors: D.-S. L¨¹hmann, O. J¨¹rgensen, K. Sengstock
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 033021 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3013
abstract: We show that multi-orbital and density-induced tunneling have a significant impact on the phase diagram of bosonic atoms in optical lattices. Off-site interactions lead to density-induced hopping, the so-called bond-charge interactions, which can be identified with an effective tunneling potential and can reach the same order of magnitude as conventional tunneling. In addition, interaction-induced higher-band processes also give rise to strongly modified tunneling, on-site and bond-charge interactions. We derive an extended occupation-dependent Hubbard model with multi-orbitally renormalized processes and compute the corresponding phase diagram. It substantially deviates from the single-band Bose-Hubbard model and predicts strong changes of the superfluid to Mott-insulator transition. In general, the presented beyond-Hubbard physics plays an essential role in bosonic lattice systems and has an observable influence on experiments with tunable interactions.

id: 1108.3053
title: Strongly correlated photons on a chip
authors: Andreas Reinhard, Thomas Volz, Martin Winger, Antonio Badolato, Kevin J. Hennessy, Evelyn L. Hu, Atac Imamoglu
comments: 
journal: A. Reinhard, T. Volz, et al. Nature Photonics 6, 93-96 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3053
abstract: Optical non-linearities at the single-photon level are key ingredients for future photonic quantum technologies. Prime candidates for the realization of strong photon-photon interactions necessary for implementing quantum information processing tasks as well as for studying strongly correlated photons in an integrated photonic device setting are quantum dots embedded in photonic crystal nanocavities. Here, we report strong quantum correlations between photons on picosecond timescales. We observe (a) photon antibunching upon resonant excitation of the lowest-energy polariton state, proving that the first cavity photon blocks the subsequent injection events, and (b) photon bunching when the laser field is in two-photon resonance with the polariton eigenstates of the second Jaynes-Cummings manifold, demonstrating that two photons at this color are more likely to be injected into the cavity jointly, than they would otherwise. Together,these results demonstrate unprecedented strong single-photon non-linearities, paving the way for realizing a single-photon transistor or a quantum optical Josephson interferometer.

id: 1108.3080
title: How unitary cosmology generalizes thermodynamics and solves the inflationary entropy problem
authors: Max Tegmark
comments: Updated to match accepted PRD version, including Quantum Bayes Theorem derivation and rigorous proof that decoherence increases von Neumann entropy. 20 pages, 5 figs
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3080
abstract: We analyze cosmology assuming unitary quantum mechanics, using a tripartite partition into system, observer and environment degrees of freedom. This generalizes the second law of thermodynamics to "The system's entropy can't decrease unless it interacts with the observer, and it can't increase unless it interacts with the environment." The former follows from the quantum Bayes Theorem we derive. We show that because of the long-range entanglement created by cosmological inflation, the cosmic entropy decreases exponentially rather than linearly with the number of bits of information observed, so that a given observer can reduce entropy by much more than the amount of information her brain can store. Indeed, we argue that as long as inflation has occurred in a non-negligible fraction of the volume, almost all sentient observers will find themselves in a post-inflationary low-entropy Hubble volume, and we humans have no reason to be surprised that we do so as well, which solves the so-called inflationary entropy problem. An arguably worse problem for unitary cosmology involves gamma-ray-burst constraints on the "Big Snap", a fourth cosmic doomsday scenario alongside the "Big Crunch", "Big Chill" and "Big Rip", where an increasingly granular nature of expanding space modifies our life-supporting laws of physics. Our tripartite framework also clarifies when it is valid to make the popular quantum gravity approximation that the Einstein tensor equals the quantum expectation value of the stress-energy tensor, and how problems with recent attempts to explain dark energy as gravitational backreaction from super-horizon scale fluctuations can be understood as a failure of this approximation.

id: 1108.3120
title: Current-Controlled Negative Differential Resistance due to Joule Heating in TiO2
authors: A. S. Alexandrov, A. M. Bratkovsky, B. Bridle, S. E. Savel'ev, D. B. Strukov, R. Stanley Williams
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: Applied Physics Letters 99, 202104 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3120
abstract: We show that Joule heating causes current-controlled negative differential resistance (CC-NDR) in TiO2 by constructing an analytical model of the voltage-current V(I) characteristic based on polaronic transport for Ohm's Law and Newton's Law of Cooling, and fitting this model to experimental data. This threshold switching is the 'soft breakdown' observed during electroforming of TiO2 and other transition-metal-oxide based memristors, as well as a precursor to 'ON' or 'SET' switching of unipolar memristors from their high to their low resistance states. The shape of the V(I) curve is a sensitive indicator of the nature of the polaronic conduction.

id: 1108.3216
title: A time dependent Markovian master equation for adiabatic systems and its application to the Cooper pair pumping
authors: I. Kamleitner, A. Shnirman
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 235140 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3216
abstract: For adiabatically and periodically manipulated dissipative quantum systems we derive, using Floquet theory, a simple Markovian master equation. Contrary to some previous works we explicitly take into account the time dependence of the Hamiltonian and, therefore, obtain a master equation with a time-dependent dissipative part. We illustrate our theory with two examples and compare our results with the previously proposed master equations. In particular, we consider the problem of Cooper pair pumping and demonstrate the inadequacy of the secular (rotating wave) approximation when calculating the pumped charge. The secular approximation producing a master equation of the Lindblad type approximates well the quantum state (density matrix) of the system, while to determine the pumped charge a non-Lindblad master equation beyond the rotating wave approximation is necessary.

id: 1108.3225
title: Heralded Single-Photon Emission from the Mollow Triplet Sidebands of a Quantum Dot
authors: Ata Ulhaq, Stefanie Weiler, Sven M. Ulrich, Robert Ro?bach, Michael Jetter, Peter Michler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3225
abstract: Emission from a resonantly excited quantum emitter is a fascinating research topic within quantum optics and a useful source for different types of quantum light fields. The resonance spectrum consists of a single spectral line below saturation of a quantum emitter which develops into a triplet at powers above saturation of the emitter. The spectral properties of the triplet strongly depends on pump power and detuning of the excitation laser. The three closely spaced photon channels from the resonance fluorescence have different photon statistical signatures. We present a detailed photon-statistics analysis of the resonance fluorescence emission triplet from a solid state-based artificial atom, i.e. a semiconductor quantum dot. The photon correlation measurements demonstrate both 'single' and 'heralded' photon emission from the Mollow triplet sidebands. The ultra-bright and narrowband emission (5.9 MHz into the first lens) can be conveniently frequency-tuned by laser detuning over 15 times its linewidth ({\Delta \nu} \approx 1.0 GHz). These unique properties make the Mollow triplet sideband emission a valuable light source for, e.g.quantum light spectroscopy and quantum information applications.

id: 1108.3276
title: Number fluctuations of cold spatially split bosonic objects
authors: Kaspar Sakmann, Alexej I. Streltsov, Ofir E. Alon, Lorenz S. Cederbaum
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053622, (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3276
abstract: We investigate the number fluctuations of spatially split many-boson systems employing a theorem about the maximally and minimally attainable variances of an observable. The number fluctuations of many-boson systems are given for different numbers of lattice sites and both mean-field and many-body wave functions. It is shown which states maximize the particle number fluctuations, both in lattices and double-wells. The fragmentation of the states is discussed, and it is shown that the number fluctuations of some fragmented states are identical to those of fully condensed states.

id: 1108.3317
title: Observation of Correlated Particle-Hole Pairs and String Order in Low-Dimensional Mott Insulators
authors: M. Endres, M. Cheneau, T. Fukuhara, C. Weitenberg, P. Schauss, C. Gross, L. Mazza, M.C. Banuls, L. Pollet, I. Bloch, S. Kuhr
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Science 334, 200 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3317
abstract: Quantum phases of matter are characterized by the underlying correlations of the many-body system. Although this is typically captured by a local order parameter, it has been shown that a broad class of many-body systems possesses a hidden non-local order. In the case of bosonic Mott insulators, the ground state properties are governed by quantum fluctuations in the form of correlated particle-hole pairs that lead to the emergence of a non-local string order in one dimension. Using high-resolution imaging of low-dimensional quantum gases in an optical lattice, we directly detect these pairs with single-site and single-particle sensitivity and observe string order in the one-dimensional case.

id: 1108.3377
title: Entanglement Dynamics between Inertial and Non-uniformly Accelerated Detectors
authors: David C. M. Ostapchuk, Shih-Yuin Lin, Robert B. Mann, B. L. Hu
comments: 20 pages, 15 figures; References added; More analysis given in Appendix C; Typos corrected
journal: JHEP07 (2012) 072
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3377
abstract: We study the time-dependence of quantum entanglement between two Unruh-DeWitt detectors, one at rest in a Minkowski frame, the other non-uniformly accelerated in some specified way. The two detectors each couple to a scalar quantum field but do not interact directly. The primary challenge in problems involving non-uniformly accelerated detectors arises from the fact that an event horizon is absent and the Unruh temperature is ill-defined. By numerical calculation we demonstrate that the correlators of the accelerated detector in the weak coupling limit behaves like those of an oscillator in a bath of time-varying "temperature" proportional to the instantaneous proper acceleration of the detector, with oscillatory modifications due to non-adiabatic effects. We find that in this setup the acceleration of the detector in effect slows down the disentanglement process in Minkowski time due to the time dilation in that moving detector

id: 1108.3380
title: The Utility of Affine Variables and Affine Coherent States
authors: John R. Klauder
comments: 25 pages, contribution to special J. Phys. A issue on coherent states
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3380
abstract: Affine coherent states are generated by affine kinematical variables much like canonical coherent states are generated by canonical kinematical variables. Although all classical and quantum formalisms normally entail canonical variables, it is shown that affine variables can serve equally well for many classical and quantum studies. This general purpose analysis provides tools to discuss two major applications: (1) the completely successful quantization of a nonrenormalizable scalar quantum field theory by affine techniques, in complete contrast to canonical techniques which only offer triviality; and (2) a formulation of the kinematical portion of quantum gravity that favors affine kinematical variables over canonical kinematical variables, and which generates a framework in which a favorable analysis of the constrained dynamical issues can take place. All this is possible because of the close connection between the affine and the canonical stories, while the few distinctions can be used to advantage when appropriate.

id: 1108.3469
title: Fabrication of submicron La$_{2-x}$Sr$_{x}$CuO$_{4}$ intrinsic Josephson junction stacks
authors: Yuimaru Kubo, Yamaguchi Takahide, Takayoshi Tanaka, Shinya Ueda, Satoshi Ishii, Shunsuke Tsuda, A. T. M. Nazmul Islam, Isao Tanaka, Yoshihiko Takano
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Journal of Applied Physics 109, 033912 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3469
abstract: Intrinsic Josephson junction (IJJ) stacks of cuprate superconductors have potential to be implemented as intrinsic phase qubits working at relatively high temperatures. We report success in fabricating submicron La$_{2-x}$Sr$_{x}$CuO$_{4}$ (LSCO) IJJ stacks carved out of single crystals. We also show a new fabrication method in which argon ion etching is performed after focused ion beam etching. As a result, we obtained an LSCO IJJ stack in which resistive multi-branches appeared. It may be possible to control the number of stacked IJJs with an accuracy of a single IJJ by developing this method.

id: 1108.3504
title: Spatial entanglement and massive neutrino oscillations produced by orbital electron capture decay
authors: I. M. Pavlichenkov
comments: 9 pages, no figures. Revised version of the article published in Phys. Rev. D 84, 073005
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3504
abstract: The two-particle wave function of neutrino and recoil nucleus is found as a solution of an initial value problem in the far zone for a time longer than the electron capture decay lifetime of a hydrogenlike ion. The neutrino-recoil entanglement arising in such a process is a consequence of the momentum conservation and is closely related to the wave packet structure of the state. Because of neutrino mixing, the joint wave packet involves the coherent superposition of the neutrino mass eigenstate packets. This is the new physical realization of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen thought experiment, which has no analogue in quantum optics and quantum informatics. A class of possible experiments for the registration of a neutrino and a recoil nucleus is proposed. It is shown that due to spatial correlations neutrino oscillations can be observed in the coincidence experiment with the recoil.

id: 1108.3537
title: Flows of Renyi entropies
authors: Yuli V. Nazarov
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 205437 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3537
abstract: We demonstrate that the condensed matter quantum systems encompassing two reservoirs connected by a junction permit a natural definition of flows of conserved measures, Renyi entropies. Such flows are similar to the flows of physical conserved quantities such as charge and energy. We develop a perturbation technique that permits efficient computation of Renyi entropy flows and analyze second- and fourth order contributions. Second-order approximation was shown to correspond directly to the transition events in the system and thereby to posess a set of "intuitive" features. The analysis of fourth-order corrections reveals a more complicated picture: the "intuitive" relations do not hold anymore, and the corrections exhibit divergencies in low-temperature limit manifesting an intriguing non-analytical dependence of the flows on coupling strength in the limit of weak couplings and vanishing temperatures.

id: 1108.3568
title: Momentum-space entanglement and renormalization in quantum field theory
authors: Vijay Balasubramanian, Michael B. McDermott, Mark Van Raamsdonk
comments: 31 pages, LaTeX, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3568
abstract: The degrees of freedom of any interacting quantum field theory are entangled in momentum space. Thus, in the vacuum state, the infrared degrees of freedom are described by a density matrix with an entanglement entropy. We derive a relation between this density matrix and the conventional Wilsonian effective action. We argue that the entanglement entropy of and mutual information between subsets of field theoretic degrees of freedom at different momentum scales are natural observables in quantum field theory and demonstrate how to compute these in perturbation theory. The results may be understood heuristically based on the scale-dependence of the coupling strength and number of degrees of freedom. We measure the rate at which entanglement between degrees of freedom declines as their scales separate and suggest that this decay is related to the property of decoupling in quantum field theory.

id: 1108.3591
title: Electronically excited cold ion crystals
authors: Weibin Li, Igor Lesanovsky
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 023003 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3591
abstract: The laser excitation of an ion crystal to high lying and long-lived electronic states is a genuine many-body process even if in fact only a single ion is excited. This is a direct manifestation of the strong coupling between internal and external dynamics and becomes most apparent in the vicinity of a structural phase transition. Here we show that utilizing highly excited states offers a new approach to the coherent manipulation of ion crystals. This permits the study of phenomena which rely on a strong coupling between electronic and vibrational dynamics and opens up a route towards the quantum simulation of molecular processes in a Paul trap.

id: 1108.3650
title: The 2-Transitive Transplantable Isospectral Drums
authors: Jeroen Schillewaert, Koen Thas
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 7 (2011), 080, 8 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3650
abstract: For Riemannian manifolds there are several examples which are isospectral but not isometric, see e.g. J. Milnor [Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 51 (1964), 542]; in the present paper, we investigate pairs of domains in ${\mathbb R}^2$ which are isospectral but not congruent. All known such counter examples to M. Kac's famous question can be constructed by a certain tiling method ("transplantability") using special linear operator groups which act 2-transitively on certain associated modules. In this paper we prove that if any operator group acts 2-transitively on the associated module, no new counter examples can occur. In fact, the main result is a corollary of a result on Schreier coset graphs of 2-transitive groups.

id: 1108.3682
title: Scaling of Dynamical Decoupling for Spin Qubits
authors: J. Medford, L. Cywinski, C. Barthel, C. M. Marcus, M. P. Hanson, A. C. Gossard
comments: related articles at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 086802 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3682
abstract: We investigate scaling of coherence time, T2, with the number of {\pi}-pulses, n_{\pi}, in a singlet- triplet spin qubit using Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill (CPMG) and concatenated dynamical decoupling (CDD) pulse sequences. For an even numbers of CPMG pulses, we find a power law, T2 = (n_{\pi})^({\gamma}_e), with {\gamma}_e = 0.72\pm0.01, essentially independent of the envelope function used to extract T2. From this surprisingly robust value, a power-law model of the noise spectrum of the environment, S({\omega}) ~ {\omega}^(-{\beta}), yields {\beta} = {\gamma}_e/(1 - {\gamma}_e) = 2.6 \pm 0.1. Model values for T2(n_{\pi}) using {\beta} = 2.6 for CPMG with both even and odd n_{\pi} up to 32 and CDD orders 3 through 6 compare very well with experiment.

id: 1108.3712
title: Encoding a qubit with Majorana modes in superconducting circuits
authors: J. Q. You, Z. D. Wang, Wenxian Zhang, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures; an enlarged version of arXiv: 1108.3712v1
journal: Scientific Reports 4, 5535 (2014)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3712
abstract: Majorana fermions are long-sought exotic particles that are their own antiparticles. Here we propose to utilize superconducting circuits to construct two superconducting-qubit arrays where Majorana modes can occur. A so-called Majorana qubit is encoded by using the unpaired Majorana modes, which emerge at the left and right ends of the chain in the Majorana-fermion representation. We also show this Majorana qubit in the spin representation and its advantage, over a single superconducting qubit, regarding quantum coherence. Moreover, we propose to use four superconducting qubits as the smallest system to demonstrate the braiding of Majorana modes and show how the states before and after braiding Majoranas can be discriminated.

id: 1108.3723
title: Exact equivalence between one-dimensional Bose gases interacting via hard-sphere and zero-range potentials
authors: Manuel Valiente
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Final published version
journal: EPL 98, 10010 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3723
abstract: We prove the equivalence between the hard-sphere Bose gas and a system with momentum-dependent zero-range interactions in one spatial dimension, which we call extended hard-sphere Bose gas. The two-body interaction in the latter model has the advantage of being a regular pseudopotential. The most immediate consequence is the existence of its Fourier transform, permitting the formulation of the problem in momentum space, not possible with the original hard-core interaction. In addition, in the extended system, interactions are defined in terms of the scattering length, positive or negative, identified with the hard-sphere diameter only when it is positive. We are then able to obtain, directly in the thermodynamic limit, the ground state energy of the strongly repulsive Lieb-Liniger gas and, more importantly, the energy of the lowest-lying super Tonks-Girardeau gas state with finite, strongly attractive interactions, in perturbation theory from the novel extended hard-sphere Bose gas. Tan relations involving the large-momentum behavior of the Lieb-Liniger gas are also derived, and then applied to the super Tonks-Girardeau gas within our perturbative approach.

id: 1108.3743
title: Fluorescence and polarization spectroscopy of single silicon vacancy centers in heteroepitaxial nanodiamonds on iridium
authors: Elke Neu, Martin Fischer, Stefan Gsell, Matthias Schreck, Christoph Becher
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures, v3 slightly revised, accepted by Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 205211 (2011)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3743
abstract: We introduce an advanced material system for the production and spectroscopy of single silicon vacancy (SiV) color centers in diamond. We use microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition to synthesize heteroepitaxial nanodiamonds of approx. 160 nm in lateral size with a thickness of approx. 75 nm. These oriented 'nanoislands' combine the enhanced fluorescence extraction from subwavelength sized nanodiamonds with defined crystal orientation. The investigated SiV centers display narrow zero-phonon-lines down to 0.7 nm in the wavelength range 730-750 nm. We investigate in detail the phonon-coupling and vibronic sidebands of single SiV centers, revealing significant inhomogeneous effects. Polarization measurements reveal polarized luminescence and preferential absorption of linearly polarized light.

id: 1108.3898
title: Mixed States from Anomalies
authors: A. P. Balachandran, Amilcar R. de Queiroz
comments: 22 pages; v2: A new subsection "Relation to Lagrangian Approach" added to section II, other minor improvements. Published in PRD
journal: Phys. Rev., 2012, D85, 025017
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3898
abstract: There are several instances where quantum anomalies of continuous and discrete classical symmetries play an important role in fundamental physics. Examples come from chiral anomalies in the Standard Model of fundamental interactions and gravitational anomalies in string theories. Their generic origin is the fact that classical symmetries may not preserve the domains of quantum operators like the Hamiltonian. In this work, we show by simple examples that anomalous symmetries can often be implemented at the expense of working with mixed states having non-zero entropies. In particular there is the result on color breaking by non-abelian magnetic monopoles. This anomaly can be rectified by using impure states. We also argue that non-abelian groups of twisted bundles are always anomalous for pure states sharpening an earlier argument of Sorkin and Balachandran. This is the case of mapping class groups of geons indicating that "large" diffeos are anomalous for pure states in the presence of geons. Nevertheless diffeo invariance may be restored by using impure states. This work concludes with examples of these ideas drawn from molecular physics. The above approach using impure states is entirely equivalent to restricting all states to the algebra of observables invariant under the anomalous symmetries. For anomalous gauge groups such as color, this would mean that we work with observables singlet under global gauge transformations. For color, this will mean that we work with color singlets, a reasonable constraint.

id: 1108.3903
title: Optical injection and terahertz detection of the macroscopic Berry curvature
authors: Kuljit S. Virk, J. E. Sipe
comments: 4 pages, accepted in Physical Review Letters
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3903
abstract: We propose an experimental scheme to probe the Berry curvature of solids. Our method is sensitive to arbitrary regions of the Brillouin zone, and employs only basic optical and terahertz techniques to yield a background free signal. Using semiconductor quantum wells as a prototypical system, we discuss how to inject Berry curvature macroscopically, and probe it in a way that provides information about the underlying microscopic Berry curvature.

id: 1108.3942
title: Universal logarithmic terms in the entanglement entropy of 2d, 3d and 4d random transverse-field Ising models
authors: Istv¨¢n A. Kov¨¢cs, Ferenc Igl¨®i
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: EPL 97, 67009 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3942
abstract: The entanglement entropy of the random transverse-field Ising model is calculated by a numerical implementation of the asymptotically exact strong disorder renormalization group method in 2d, 3d and 4d hypercubic lattices for different shapes of the subregion. We find that the area law is always satisfied, but there are analytic corrections due to E-dimensional edges (1<=E<=d-2). More interesting is the contribution arising from corners, which is logarithmically divergent at the critical point and its prefactor in a given dimension is universal, i.e. independent of the form of disorder.

id: 1108.3984
title: Process Dimension of Classical and Non-Commutative Processes
authors: Wolfgang L?hr, Arleta Szko?a, Nihat Ay
comments: 8 pages
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 19(1), 2012
subjects: Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3984
abstract: We treat observable operator models (OOM) and their non-commutative generalisation, which we call NC-OOMs. A natural characteristic of a stochastic process in the context of classical OOM theory is the process dimension. We investigate its properties within the more general formulation, which allows to consider process dimension as a measure of complexity of non-commutative processes: We prove lower semi-continuity, and derive an ergodic decomposition formula. Further, we obtain results on the close relationship between the canonical OOM and the concept of causal states which underlies the definition of statistical complexity. In particular, the topological statistical complexity, i.e. the logarithm of the number of causal states, turns out to be an upper bound to the logarithm of process dimension.

id: 1108.3991
title: Mechanism of Molecular Orientation by Single-cycle Pulses
authors: Juan Ortigoso
comments: Published version may be found at (URL:this http URL). Substantial changes with respect to previous versions, including new title
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 137, 044303 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.3991
abstract: Significant molecular orientation can be achieved by time-symmetric single-cycle pulses of zero area, in the THz region. We show that in spite of the existence of a combined time-space symmetry operation, not only large peak instantaneous orientations but also nonzero time-average orientations over a rotational period can be obtained. We show that this unexpected phenomenon is due to interferences among eigenstates of the time-evolution operator, as was described previously for transport phenomena in quantum ratchets. This mechanism also works for sequences of identical pulses, spanning a rotational period. This fact can be used to obtain a net average molecular orientation regardless of the magnitude of the rotational constant.

id: 1108.4038
title: Entanglement Entropy of Gapped Phases and Topological Order in Three dimensions
authors: Tarun Grover, Ari M. Turner, Ashvin Vishwanath
comments: 16.5 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 195120 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4038
abstract: We discuss entanglement entropy of gapped ground states in different dimensions, obtained on partitioning space into two regions. For trivial phases without topological order, we argue that the entanglement entropy may be obtained by integrating an `entropy density' over the partition boundary that admits a gradient expansion in the curvature of the boundary. This constrains the expansion of entanglement entropy as a function of system size, and points to an even-odd dependence on dimensionality. For example, in contrast to the familiar result in two dimensions, a size independent constant contribution to the entanglement entropy can appear for trivial phases in any odd spatial dimension. We then discuss phases with topological entanglement entropy (TEE) that cannot be obtained by adding local contributions. We find that in three dimensions there is just one type of TEE, as in two dimensions, that depends linearly on the number of connected components of the boundary (the `zeroth Betti number'). In D > 3 dimensions, new types of TEE appear which depend on the higher Betti numbers of the boundary manifold. We construct generalized toric code models that exhibit these TEEs and discuss ways to extract TEE in D >=3.

id: 1108.4106
title: Kadanoff-Baym approach to double-excitations in finite systems
authors: N. S?kkinen, M. Manninen, R. van Leeuwen
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 013032 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4106
abstract: We benchmark many-body perturbation theory by studying neutral, as well as non-neutral, excitations of finite lattice systems. The neutral excitation spectra are obtained by time-propagating the Kadanoff-Baym equations in the Hartree-Fock and second Born approximations. Our method is equivalent to solving the Bethe-Salpeter equation with a high-level kernel while respecting self-consistently, which guarantees the fulfillment of a frequency sum rule. As a result, we find that a time-local method, such as Hartree-Fock, can give incomplete spectra, while already the second Born, which is the simplest time-nonlocal approximation, reproduces well most of the additional excitations, which are characterized as double-excitations.

id: 1108.4134
title: Geometry of the local equivalence of states
authors: Adam Sawicki, Marek Ku?
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4134
abstract: We present a description of locally equivalent states in terms of symplectic geometry. Using the moment map between local orbits in the space of states and coadjoint orbits of the local unitary group we reduce the problem of local unitary equivalence to an easy part consisting of identifying the proper coadjoint orbit and a harder problem of the geometry of fibers of the moment map. We give a detailed analysis of the properties of orbits of "equally entangled states". In particular we show connections between certain symplectic properties of orbits such as their isotropy and coisotropy with effective criteria of local unitary equivalence.

id: 1108.4149
title: Limit Theorems For the Grover Walk Without Memory
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: 15 pages, contains an extreme open problem
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4149
abstract: We consider the Grover walk as a 4-state quantum walk without memory in one dimension. The walker in our 4-state quantum walk moves to the left or right. We compute the stationary distribution of the walk, in addition, we obtain the weak limit theorem

id: 1108.4210
title: Relaxation and Readout Visibility of a Singlet-Triplet Qubit in an Overhauser Field Gradient
authors: C. Barthel, J. Medford, H. Bluhm, A. Yacoby, C. M. Marcus, M. P. Hanson, A. C. Gossard
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 035306 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4210
abstract: Using single-shot charge detection in a GaAs double quantum dot, we investigate spin relaxation time T_1 and readout visibility of a two-electron singlet-triplet qubit following single-electron dynamic nuclear polarization (DNP). For magnetic fields up to 2 T, the DNP cycle is in all cases found to increase Overhauser field gradients, which in turn decrease T_1 and consequently reduce readout visibility. This effect was previously attributed to a suppression of singlet-triplet dephasing under a similar DNP cycle. A model describing relaxation after singlet-triplet mixing agrees well with experiment. Effects of pulse bandwidth on visibility are also investigated.

id: 1108.4212
title: Vortices in spin-orbit-coupled Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Juraj Radic, Tigran Sedrakyan, Ian Spielman, Victor Galitski
comments: 16 pages, 12 color figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 063604 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4212
abstract: Realistic methods to create vortices in spin-orbit-coupled Bose-Einstein condensates are discussed. It is shown that, contrary to common intuition, rotation of the trap containing a spin-orbit condensate does not lead to an equilibrium state with static vortex structures, but gives rise instead to non-equilibrium behavior described by an intrinsically time-dependent Hamiltonian. We propose here the following alternative methods to induce thermodynamically stable static vortex configurations: (1) to rotate both the lasers and the anisotropic trap; and (2) to impose a synthetic Abelian field on top of synthetic spin-orbit interactions. Effective Hamiltonians for spin-orbit condensates under such perturbations are derived for most currently known realistic laser schemes that induce synthetic spin-orbit couplings. The Gross-Pitaevskii equation is solved for several experimentally relevant regimes. The new interesting effects include spatial separation of left- and right-moving spin-orbit condensates, the appearance of unusual vortex arrangements, and parity effects in vortex nucleation where the topological excitations are predicted to appear in pairs. All these phenomena are shown to be highly non-universal and depend strongly on a specific laser scheme and system parameters.

id: 1108.4283
title: Turbulent Vortex Flow Responses at the AB Interface in Rotating Superfluid 3He-B
authors: P.M. Walmsley, V.B. Eltsov, P.J. Heikkinen, J.J. Hosio, R. Hanninen, M. Krusius
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review B, 84, 184532/1-7 (2011)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4283
abstract: In a rotating two-phase sample of 3He-B and magnetic-field stabilized 3He-A the large difference in mutual friction dissipation at 0.20 Tc gives rise to unusual vortex flow responses. We use noninvasive NMR techniques to monitor spin down and spin up of the B-phase superfluid component to a sudden change in the rotation velocity. Compared to measurements at low field with no A-phase, where these responses are laminar in cylindrically symmetric flow, spin down with vortices extending across the AB interface is found to be faster, indicating enhanced dissipation from turbulence. Spin up in turn is slower, owing to rapid annihilation of remanent vortices before the rotation increase. As confirmed by both our NMR signal analysis and vortex filament calculations, these observations are explained by the additional force acting on the B-phase vortex ends at the AB interface.

id: 1108.4407
title: Compact Frequency Standard Based on an Intra-cavity Sample Cold Cesium Atoms
authors: Stella Torres Muller, Daniel Varela Magalhaes, Renato Ferracini Alves, Vanderlei Salvador Bagnato
comments: submitted to J. Opt. Soc. Am. B - 15 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4407
abstract: We have demonstrated the possibility for a compact frequency standard based on a sample of cold cesium atoms. In a cylindrical microwave cavity, the atoms are cooled and interrogated during a free expansion and then detected. The operation of this experiment is different from conventional atomic fountains, since all the steps are sequentially performed in the same position of space. In this paper we report the analysis of a Ramsey pattern observed to present a 47 Hz linewidth and a stability of 5x10^-13 for an integration time longer than 100s. Some of the main limitations of the standard are analyzed. This present report demonstrates considerable improvement of our previous work (S. T. Muller et al, J. Opt. Soc. Am. B, v.25, p.909, 2008) where the atoms were in a free space and not inside a microwave cavity.

id: 1108.4437
title: A robust, scanning quantum system for nanoscale sensing and imaging
authors: P. Maletinsky, S. Hong, M.S. Grinolds, B. Hausmann, M.D.Lukin, R.-L. Walsworth, M. Loncar, A. Yacoby
comments: 
journal: Nature Nanotechnology 7, 320-324 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4437
abstract: Controllable atomic-scale quantum systems hold great potential as sensitive tools for nanoscale imaging and metrology. Possible applications range from nanoscale electric and magnetic field sensing to single photon microscopy, quantum information processing, and bioimaging. At the heart of such schemes is the ability to scan and accurately position a robust sensor within a few nanometers of a sample of interest, while preserving the sensor's quantum coherence and readout fidelity. These combined requirements remain a challenge for all existing approaches that rely on direct grafting of individual solid state quantum systems or single molecules onto scanning-probe tips. Here, we demonstrate the fabrication and room temperature operation of a robust and isolated atomic-scale quantum sensor for scanning probe microscopy. Specifically, we employ a high-purity, single-crystalline diamond nanopillar probe containing a single Nitrogen-Vacancy (NV) color center. We illustrate the versatility and performance of our scanning NV sensor by conducting quantitative nanoscale magnetic field imaging and near-field single-photon fluorescence quenching microscopy. In both cases, we obtain imaging resolution in the range of 20 nm and sensitivity unprecedented in scanning quantum probe microscopy.

id: 1108.4503
title: Multistep DBT and regular rational extensions of the isotonic oscillator
authors: Yves Grandati
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4503
abstract: In some recent articles we developed a new systematic approach to generate solvable rational extensions of primary translationally shape invariant potentials. In this generalized SUSY QM partnership, the DBT are built on the excited states Riccati-Schr\"odinger (RS) functions regularized via specific discrete symmetries of the considered potential. In the present paper, we prove that this scheme can be extended in a multistep formulation. Applying this scheme to the isotonic oscillator, we obtain new towers of regular rational extensions of this potential which are strictly isospectral to it. We give explicit expressions for their eigenstates which are associated to the recently discovered exceptional Laguerre polynomials and show explicitely that these extensions inherit of the shape invariance properties of the original potential.

id: 1108.4577
title: Algebras of Quantum Variables for Loop Quantum Gravity, I. Overview
authors: Diana Kaminski
comments: 45 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4577
abstract: The operator algebraic framework plays an important role in mathematical physics. Many different operator algebras exist for example for a theory of quantum mechanics. In Loop Quantum Gravity only two algebras have been introduced until now. In the project about 'Algebras of Quantum Variables (AQV) for LQG' the known holonomy-flux *-algebra and the Weyl C*-algebra will be modified and a set of new algebras will be proposed and studied. The idea of the construction of these algebras is to establish a finite set of operators, which generates (in the sense of Woronowicz, Schm\"udgen and Inoue) the different O*- or C*-algebras of quantum gravity and to use inductive limits of these algebras. In the Loop Quantum Gravity approach usually the basic classical variables are connections and fluxes. Studying the three constraints appearing in the canonical quantisation of classical general relativity in the ADM-formalism some other variables like curvature appear. Consequently the main difficulty of a quantisation of gravity is to find a suitable replacement of the set of elementary classical variables and constraints. The algebra of quantum gravity is supposed to be generated by a set of the operators associated to holonomies, fluxes and in some cases even the curvature. There are two reasonable choices for this algebra: The set of constraints of Quantum Gravity are contained in or at least the constraints are affilliated with this algebra. Secondly, the algebra of quantum variables is said to be physical if it contains complete observables. In the project of 'Algebras of Quantum Variables for LQG' different algebras will be studied with respect to the property of being a physical algebra. Furthermore the existence of KMS-states on these algebras will be argued.

id: 1108.4578
title: AQV II. A new formulation of the Weyl C*-algebra
authors: Diana Kaminski
comments: 71 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4578
abstract: In this article a new formulation of the Weyl C*-algebra, which has been invented by Fleischhack, in terms of C*-dynamical systems is presented. The quantum configuration variables are given by the holonomies along paths in a graph. Functions depending on these quantum variables form the analytic holonomy C*-algebra. Each classical flux variable is quantised as an element of a flux group associated to a certain surface set and a graph. The quantised spatial diffeomorphisms are elements of the group of bisections of a finite graph system. Then different actions of the flux group associated to surfaces and the group of bisections on the analytic holonomy C*-algebra are studied. The Weyl C*-algebra for surfaces is generated by unitary operators, which implements the group-valued quantum flux operators, and certain functions depending on holonomies along paths that satisfy canonical commutation relations. Furthermore there is a unique pure state on the commutative Weyl C*-algebra for surfaces, which is a path- or graph-diffeomorphism invariant.

id: 1108.4579
title: AQV III. The holonomy-flux cross-product C*-algebra
authors: Diana Kaminski
comments: 49 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4579
abstract: In this article a new C*-algebra derived from the basic quantum variables: holonomies along paths and group-valued quantum flux operators in the framework of Loop Quantum Gravity is constructed. This development is based on the theory of cross-products and C*-dynamical systems. The author has presented a set of actions of the flux group associated to a surface set on the analytic holonomy C*-algebra, which define C*-dynamical systems. These objects are used to define the holonomy-flux cross-product C*-algebra associated to a surface set. Furthermore surface-preserving path- and graph-diffeomorphism-invariant states of the new C*-algebra are analysed. Finally the holonomy-flux cross-product C*-algebra is extended such that the graph-diffeomorphisms generate among other operators the holonomy-flux-graph-diffeomorphism cross-product C*-algebra associated to a surface set.

id: 1108.4580
title: AQV IV. A new formulation of the holonomy-flux *-algebra
authors: Diana Kaminski
comments: 46 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4580
abstract: In this article the holonomy-flux *-algebra, which has been introduced by Lewandowski, Okolow, Sahlmann and Thiemann, is modificated. The new *-algebra is called the holonomy-flux cross-product *-algebra. This algebra is an abstract cross-product *-algebra. It is given by the universal algebra of the algebra of continuous and differentiable functions on the configuration space of generalised connections and the universal enveloping flux algebra associated to a surface set, and some canonical commutator relations. There is a uniqueness result for a certain path- and graph-diffeomorphism invariant state of the holonomy-flux cross-product *-algebra. This new *-algebra is not the only *-algebra, which is generated by the algebra of certain continuous and differentiable functions on the configuration space of generalised connections and the universal enveloping flux algebra associated to a surface set. The theory of abstract cross-product algebras allows to define different new *-algebras. Some of these algebras are presented in this article.

id: 1108.4581
title: AQV V. The localised holonomy-flux cross-product *-algebra
authors: Diana Kaminski
comments: 44 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4581
abstract: In the project AQV the issue of quantum constraints, KMS-states and algebras of quantum configuration and momentum variables in Loop Quantum Gravity has been argued. There a physical algebra has been required to contain complete observables and the quantum constraints, or at least the quantum constraints are affilliated with this algebra. In this context a first conjecture for a physical algebra is presented in this article. A new *-algebra for LGQ, which is called the localised holonomy-flux cross-product *-algebra, is studied. A suggestion for a physical *-algebra, which contains the localised holonomy-flux cross-product *-algebra, a modified quantum Hamilton constraint, a localised quantum diffeomorphism constraint and even a modified quantum Master constraint, is given.

id: 1108.4582
title: AQV VI. A holonomy groupoid formulation
authors: Diana Kaminski
comments: 27 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4582
abstract: The philosophy of the Loop Quantum Gravity approach is to construct the canonical variables by using the duality of infinitesimal connections and holonomies along loops. Based on this fundamental property for example the holonomy-flux *-algebra has been formulated. A generalisation of the one-to-one correspondence between infinitesimal objects: connections and curvature and path based objects: holonomy maps and parallel transports is used to replace the configuration space of the theory. This generalised duality is related to the concept of path connections and holonomy groupoids, which originally has been invented by Mackenzie and which is presented shortly in this article. Finally these objects are used to propose some new algebras of quantum variables for Loop Quantum Gravity.

id: 1108.4583
title: Interaction between polar molecules subject to a far-off-resonant optical field: Entangled dipoles up- or down-holding each other
authors: Mikhail Lemeshko, Bretislav Friedrich
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures, 1 table. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1104.1046
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4583
abstract: We show that the electric dipole-dipole interaction between a pair of polar molecules undergoes an all-out transformation when superimposed by a far-off resonant optical field. The combined interaction potential becomes tunable by variation of wavelength, polarization and intensity of the optical field and its dependence on the intermolecular separation exhibits a crossover from an inverse-power to an oscillating behavior. The ability thereby offered to control molecular interactions opens up avenues toward the creation and manipulation of novel phases of ultracold polar gases among whose characteristics is a long-range entanglement of the dipoles' mutual orientation. We devised an accurate analytic model of such optical-field-dressed dipole-dipole interaction potentials, which enables a straightforward access to the optical-field parameters required for the design of intermolecular interactions in the laboratory.

id: 1108.4607
title: Simple characterizations for commutativity of quantum weakest preconditions
authors: Tianrong Lin
comments: Re-written, comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4607
abstract: In a recent letter [Information Processing Letters~104 (2007) 152-158], it has shown some sufficient conditions for commutativity of quantum weakest preconditions. This paper provides some alternative and simple characterizations for the commutativity of quantum weakest preconditions, i.e., Theorem 3.1, Theorem 3.2 and Proposition 3.3 in what follows. We also show that to characterize the commutativity of quantum weakest preconditions in terms of $[M,N]$ ($=MN-NM$) is hard in the sense of Proposition 4.1 and Proposition 4.2.

id: 1108.4683
title: Majorana modes in time-reversal invariant s-wave topological superconductors
authors: Shusa Deng, Lorenza Viola, Gerardo Ortiz
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 036803 (2012)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4683
abstract: We present a time-reversal invariant s-wave superconductor supporting Majorana edge modes. The multi-band character of the model together with spin-orbit coupling are key to realizing such a topological superconductor. We characterize the topological phase diagram by using a partial Chern number sum, and show that the latter is physically related to the parity of the fermion number of the time-reversal invariant modes. By taking the self-consistency constraint on the s-wave pairing gap into account, we also establish the possibility of a direct topological superconductor-to-topological insulator quantum phase transition.

id: 1108.4743
title: Controlled tuning of whispering gallery modes of GaN/InGaN microdisk cavities
authors: Igor Aharonovich, Nan Niu, Fabian Rol, Kasey J Russell, Alexander Woolf, Haitham A. R. El-Ella, Menno J. Kappers, Rachel A Oliver, Evelyn L. Hu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4743
abstract: Controlled tuning of the whispering gallery modes of GaN/InGaN {\mu}-disk cavities is demonstrated. The whispering gallery mode (WGM) tuning is achieved at room temperature by immersing the {\mu}-disks in water and irradiating with ultraviolet (UV) laser. The tuning rate can be controlled by varying the laser excitation power, with a nanometer precision accessible at low excitation power (~ several {\mu}W). The selective oxidation mechanism is proposed to explain the results and supported by theoretical analysis. The tuning of WGMs in GaN/InGaN {\mu}-disk cavities may have important implication in cavity quantum electrodynamics and the development of efficient light emitting devices.

id: 1108.4871
title: Microwave state transfer and adiabatic dynamics of magnetically trapped polar molecules
authors: Benjamin K. Stuhl, Mark Yeo, Brian C. Sawyer, Matt Hummon, Jun Ye
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures plus supplementary material
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4871
abstract: Cold and ultracold polar molecules with nonzero electronic angular momentum are of great interest for studies in quantum chemistry and control, investigations of novel quantum systems, and precision measurement. However, in mixed electric and magnetic fields, these molecules are generically subject to a large set of avoided crossings among their Zeeman sublevels; in magnetic traps, these crossings lead to distorted potentials and trap loss from electric bias fields. We have characterized these crossings in OH by microwave-transferring trapped OH molecules from the upper |f; M = +3/2> parity state to the lower |e; +3/2> state and observing their trap dynamics under an applied electric bias field. Our observations are very well described by a simple Landau-Zener model, yielding insight to the rich spectra and dynamics of polar radicals in mixed external fields.

id: 1108.4946
title: On the similarity of Sturm-Liouville operators with non-Hermitian boundary conditions to self-adjoint and normal operators
authors: D. Krejcirik, P. Siegl, J. Zelezny
comments: 27 pages
journal: Complex Anal. Oper. Theory 8 (2014), 255-281
subjects: Spectral Theory (math.SP); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4946
abstract: We consider one-dimensional Schroedinger-type operators in a bounded interval with non-self-adjoint Robin-type boundary conditions. It is well known that such operators are generically conjugate to normal operators via a similarity transformation. Motivated by recent interests in quasi-Hermitian Hamiltonians in quantum mechanics, we study properties of the transformations in detail. We show that they can be expressed as the sum of the identity and an integral Hilbert-Schmidt operator. In the case of parity and time reversal boundary conditions, we establish closed integral-type formulae for the similarity transformations, derive the similar self-adjoint operator and also find the associated "charge conjugation" operator, which plays the role of fundamental symmetry in a Krein-space reformulation of the problem.

id: 1108.4964
title: Transmission properties in waveguides: An optical streamline analysis
authors: A. S. Sanz, J. Campos-Martinez, S. Miret-Artes
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 29, 695 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4964
abstract: A novel approach to study transmission through waveguides in terms of optical streamlines is presented. This theoretical framework combines the computational performance of beam propagation methods with the possibility to monitor the passage of light through the guiding medium by means of these sampler paths. In this way, not only the optical flow along the waveguide can be followed in detail, but also a fair estimate of the transmitted light (intensity) can be accounted for by counting streamline arrivals with starting points statistically distributed according to the input pulse. Furthermore, this approach allows to elucidate the mechanism leading to energy losses, namely a vortical dynamics, which can be advantageously exploited in optimal waveguide design.

id: 1108.5005
title: Para-Grassmannian Coherent and Squeezed States for Pseudo-Hermitian q-Oscillator and their Entanglement
authors: Yusef Maleki
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 7:084,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5005
abstract: In this parer, q-deformed oscillator for pseudo-Hermitian systems is investigated and pseudo-Hermitian appropriate coherent and squeezed states are studied. Also, some basic properties of these states is surveyed. The over-completeness property of the para-Grassmannian pseudo-Hermitian coherent states (PGPHCSs) examined, and also the stability of coherent and squeezed states discussed. The pseudo-Hermitian supercoherent states as the product of a pseudo-Hermitian bosonic coherent state and a para-Grassmannian pseudo-Hermitian coherent state introduced, and the method also developed to define pseudo-Hermitian supersqueezed states. It is also argued that, for q-oscillator algebra of $k+1$ degree of nilpotency based on the changed ladder operators, defined in here, we can obtain deformed $SU_{q^2}(2)$ and $SU_{q^{2k}}(2)$ and also $SU_{q^{2k}}(1,1)$. Moreover, the entanglement of multi-level para-Grassmannian pseudo-Hermitian coherent state will be considered. This is done by choosing an appropriate weight function, and integrating over tensor product of PGPHCSs.

id: 1108.5035
title: Polariton Mott insulator with trapped ions or circuit QED
authors: M. Hohenadler, M. Aichhorn, L. Pollet, S. Schmidt
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013810 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5035
abstract: We consider variants of the Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard model of lattice polaritons, taking into account next-nearest-neighbor, diagonal and long-range photon hopping in one and two dimensions. These models are relevant for potential experimental realizations of polariton Mott insulators based on trapped ions or microwave stripline resonators. We obtain the Mott-superfluid phase boundary and calculate excitation spectra in the Mott phase using numerical and analytical methods. Including the additional hopping terms leads to a larger Mott phase in the case of trapped ions, and to a smaller Mott phase in the case of stripline resonators, compared to the original model with nearest-neighbor hopping only. The critical hopping for the transition changes by up to about 50 percent in one dimension, and by up to about 20 percent in two dimensions. In contrast, the excitation spectra remain largely unaffected.

id: 1108.5198
title: Limit Theorems for the Fibonacci Quantum Walk
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: Contains an extreme problem
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5198
abstract: We study the discrete-time quantum walk in one-dimension governed by the Fibonacci transformation .We show localization does not occur for the Fibonacci quantum walk by investigating the stationary distribution of the walk, in addition, we obtain the weak limit theorem.

id: 1108.5220
title: Optimal Quantum Estimation for Gravitation
authors: T. G. Downes, G. J. Milburn, C. M. Caves
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5220
abstract: Here we describe the quantum limit to measurement of the classical gravitational field. Specifically, we write down the optimal quantum Cramer-Rao lower bound, for any single parameter describing a metric for spacetime. The standard time-energy and Heisenberg uncertainty relations are shown to be special cases of the uncertainty relation for the spacetime metric. Four key examples are given, describing quantum limited estimation for: acceleration, black holes, gravitational waves and cosmology. We employ the locally covariant formulation of quantum field theory in curved spacetime, which allows for a manifestly spacetime independent derivation. The result is an uncertainty relation applicable to all causal spacetime manifolds.

id: 1108.5225
title: Interpretive Themes in Quantum Physics: Curriculum Development and Outcomes
authors: Charles Baily, Noah D. Finkelstein
comments: Supporting materials available at this http URL
journal: Physics Education Research Conference (PERC) Proceedings, Summer 2011
subjects: Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5225
abstract: A common learning goal for modern physics instructors is for students to recognize a difference between the experimental uncertainty of classical physics and the fundamental uncertainty of quantum mechanics. Our prior work has shown that student perspectives on the physical interpretation of quantum mechanics can be characterized, and are differentially influenced by the myriad ways instructors approach interpretive themes in their introductory courses. We report how a transformed modern physics curriculum (recently implemented at the University of Colorado) has positively impacted student perspectives on quantum physics, by making questions of classical and quantum reality a central theme of the course, but also by making the beliefs of students (and not just those of scientists) an explicit topic of discussion.

id: 1108.5226
title: Interpretation in Quantum Physics as Hidden Curriculum
authors: Charles Baily, Noah D. Finkelstein
comments: 
journal: Physics Education Research Conference (PERC) Proceedings, Summer 2010
subjects: Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5226
abstract: Prior research has demonstrated how the realist perspectives of classical physics students can translate into specific beliefs about quantum phenomena when taking an introductory modern physics course. Student beliefs regarding the interpretation of quantum mechanics often vary by context, and are most often in alignment with instructional goals in topic areas where instructors are explicit in promoting a particular perspective. Moreover, students are more likely to maintain realist perspectives in topic areas where instructors are less explicit in addressing interpretive themes, thereby making such issues part of a hidden curriculum. We discuss various approaches to addressing student perspectives and interpretive themes in a modern physics course, and explore the associated impacts on student thinking.

id: 1108.5297
title: Quantum Coherent Dynamics at Ambient Temperature in Photosynthetic Molecules
authors: Zachary B. Walters
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5297
abstract: Photosynthetic antenna complexes are responsible for absorbing energy from sunlight and transmitting it to remote locations where it can be stored. Recent experiments have found that this process involves long-lived quantum coherence between pigment molecules, called chromophores, which make up these complexes. Expected to decay within 100 fs at room temperature, these coherences were instead found to persist for picosecond time scales, despite having no apparent isolation from the thermal environment of the cell. This paper derives a quantum master equation which describes the coherent evolution of a system in strong contact with a thermal environment. Conditions necessary for long coherence lifetimes are identified, and the role of coherence in efficient energy transport is illuminated. Static spectra and exciton transfer rates for the PE545 complex of the cryptophyte algae CS24 are calculated and shown to have good agreement with experiment.

id: 1108.5299
title: High Speed and High Efficiency Travelling Wave Single-Photon Detectors Embedded in Nanophotonic Circuits
authors: W. Pernice, C. Schuck, O. Minaeva, M. Li, G. N. Goltsman, A. V. Sergienko, H. X. Tang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5299
abstract: Ultrafast, high quantum efficiency single photon detectors are among the most sought-after elements in modern quantum optics and quantum communication. High photon detection efficiency is essential for scalable measurement-based quantum computation, quantum key distribution, and loophole-free Bell experiments. However, imperfect modal matching and finite photon absorption rates have usually limited the maximum attainable detection efficiency of single photon detectors. Here we demonstrate a superconducting nanowire detector atop nanophotonic waveguides which allows us to drastically increase the absorption length for incoming photons. When operating the detectors close to the critical current we achieve high on-chip single photon detection efficiency up to 91% at telecom wavelengths, with uncertainty dictated by the variation of the waveguide photon flux. We also observe remarkably low dark count rates without significant compromise of detection efficiency. Furthermore, our detectors are fully embedded in a scalable silicon photonic circuit and provide ultrashort timing jitter of 18ps. Exploiting this high temporal resolution we demonstrate ballistic photon transport in silicon ring resonators. The direct implementation of such a detector with high quantum efficiency, high detection speed and low jitter time on chip overcomes a major barrier in integrated quantum photonics.

id: 1108.5334
title: Very large optical rotation generated by Rb vapor in a multi-pass cell
authors: S. Li, P. Vachaspati, D. Sheng, N. Dural, M. V. Romalis
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5334
abstract: Paramagnetic Faraday rotation is a powerful technique for atom sensing widely used in quantum non-demolition measurements, fundamental symmetry tests, and other precision measurements. We demonstrate the use of a multi-pass optical cell for Faraday rotation spectroscopy and observe polarization rotation in excess of 100 radians from spin-polarized Rb vapor. Unlike optical cavities, multi-pass cells have a deterministic number of light passes and can be used to measure large optical rotations. We also observe a 10-fold suppression of transverse spin relaxation when Rb atoms are placed in a coherent superposition state immune to spin-exchange collisions.

id: 1108.5339
title: Density conditions for quantum propositions
authors: Hans Havlicek, Karl Svozil
comments: 
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 37, 5337-5341 (1996)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5339
abstract: As has already been pointed out by Birkhoff and von Neumann, quantum logic can be formulated in terms of projective geometry. In three-dimensional Hilbert space, elementary logical propositions are associated with one-dimensional subspaces, corresponding to points of the projective plane. It is shown that, starting with three such propositions corresponding to some basis $\{{\vec u},{\vec v},{\vec w}\}$, successive application of the binary logical operation $(x,y)\mapsto (x\vee y)^\perp$ generates a set of elementary propositions which is countable infinite and dense in the projective plane if and only if no vector of the basis $\{{\vec u},{\vec v},{\vec w}\}$ is orthogonal to the other ones.

id: 1108.5353
title: Quantum state tomography and quantum logical operations in a three qubits NMR quadrupolar system
authors: A. G. Araujo-Ferreira, Carlos Alexandre Brasil, D. O. Soares-Pinto, E. R. deAzevedo, T. J. Bonagamba, J. Teles
comments: 24 pages, 8 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information (2012) 10: 02
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5353
abstract: In this work, we present an implementation of quantum logic gates and algorithms in a three effective qubits system, represented by a (I = 7/2) NMR quadrupolar nuclei. To implement these protocols we have used the strong modulating pulses (SMP). The various stages of each implementation were verified by quantum state tomography (QST). It is presented here the results for the computational base states, Toffolli logic gates, and Deutsch-Jozsa and Grover algorithms. Also, we discuss the di?culties and advantages of implementing such protocols using the SMP technique in quadrupolar systems.

id: 1108.5378
title: Dipole coupling of a double quantum dot to a microwave resonator
authors: T. Frey, P. J. Leek, M. Beck, A. Blais, T. Ihn, K. Ensslin, A. Wallraff
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 046807 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5378
abstract: Quantum coherence in solid-state systems has been demonstrated in superconducting circuits and in semiconductor quantum dots. This has paved the way to investigate solid-state systems for quantum information processing with the potential benefit of scalability compared to other systems based on atoms, ions and photons. Coherent coupling of superconducting circuits to microwave photons, circuit quantum electrodynamics (QED), has opened up new research directions and enabled long distance coupling of qubits. Here we demonstrate how the electromagnetic field of a superconducting microwave resonator can be coupled to a semiconductor double quantum dot. The charge stability diagram of the double dot, typically measured by direct current (DC) transport techniques, is investigated via dispersive frequency shifts of the coupled resonator. This hybrid all-solid-state approach offers the potential to coherently couple multiple quantum dot and superconducting qubits together on one chip, and offers a method for high resolution spectroscopy of semiconductor quantum structures.

id: 1108.5702
title: Implicit ladder summation in the Hartree-Fock-Bogoliubov approach
authors: Ludovic Pricoupenko
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84 (2011) 053602
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5702
abstract: The fully variational Hartree Fock Bogoliubov approach for bosons is studied in the limit of zero range forces in two- and three-dimensions. The equation of state obtained in two-dimensions is expressed in a parametric form. It is shown that the $\Lambda$ potential permits to perform an implicit summation of the ladder diagrams without leaving the variational scheme, restoring thus the consistency of this approximation.

id: 1108.5712
title: Density of States of Quantum Spin Systems from Isotropic Entanglement
authors: Ramis Movassagh, Alan Edelman
comments: 4+ pages, content is as in the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 097205 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5712
abstract: We propose a method which we call "Isotropic Entanglement" (IE), that predicts the eigenvalue distribution of quantum many body (spin) systems (QMBS) with generic interactions. We interpolate between two known approximations by matching fourth moments. Though, such problems can be QMA-complete, our examples show that IE provides an accurate picture of the spectra well beyond what one expects from the first four moments alone. We further show that the interpolation is universal, i.e., independent of the choice of local terms.

id: 1108.5720
title: Conjugate Variables as a Resource in Signal and Image Processing
authors: Michael N?lle, Martin Suda
comments: 22 pages, 2 tables, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (cs.CV); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5720
abstract: In this paper we develop a new technique to model joint distributions of signals. Our technique is based on quantum mechanical conjugate variables. We show that the transition probability of quantum states leads to a distance function on the signals. This distance function obeys the triangle inequality on all quantum states and becomes a metric on pure quantum states. Treating signals as conjugate variables allows us to create a new approach to segment them. Keywords: Quantum information, transition probability, Euclidean distance, Fubini-study metric, Bhattacharyya coefficients, conjugate variable, signal/sensor fusion, signal and image segmentation.

id: 1108.5777
title: Spin Accumulation Encoded in Electronic Noise for Mesoscopic Billiards with Finite Tunneling Rates
authors: J. G. G. S. Ramos, A. L. R. Barbosa, D. Bazeia, M. S. Hussein
comments: New version, 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 115123 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5777
abstract: We study the effects of spin accumulation (inside reservoirs) on electronic transport with tunneling and reflections at the gates of a quantum dot. Within the stub model, the calculation focus on the current-current correlation function for the flux of electrons injected into the quantum dot. The linear response theory used allows to obtain the noise power in the regime of thermal crossover as a function of parameters that reveal the spin polarization at the reservoirs. The calculation is performed employing diagrammatic integration within the universal groups (ensembles of Dyson) for a non-ideal, non-equilibrium chaotic quantum dot. We show that changes in the spin distribution determines significant alteration in noise behavior at values of the tunneling rates close to zero, in the regime of strong reflection at the gates.

id: 1108.5800
title: Refined Characterization of Student Perspectives on Quantum Physics
authors: Charles Baily, Noah D. Finkelstein
comments: 24 pages, 31 references, 1 Appendix (5 pages)
journal: Physical Review: Special Topics Physics Education Research 6, 020113 (2010)
subjects: Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5800
abstract: The perspectives of introductory classical physics students can often negatively influence how those students later interpret quantum phenomena when taking an introductory course in modern physics. A detailed exploration of student perspectives on the interpretation of quantum physics is needed, both to characterize student understanding of physics concepts, and to inform how we might teach traditional content. Our previous investigations of student perspectives on quantum physics have indicated they can be highly nuanced, and may vary both within and across contexts. In order to better understand the contextual and often seemingly contradictory stances of students on matters of interpretation, we interviewed 19 students from four introductory modern physics courses taught at the University of Colorado. We find that students have attitudes and opinions that often parallel the stances of expert physicists when arguing for their favored interpretations of quantum mechanics, allowing for more nuanced characterizations of student perspectives in terms of three key interpretive themes. We present a framework for characterizing student perspectives on quantum mechanics, and demonstrate its utility in interpreting the sometimes-contradictory nature of student responses to previous surveys. We further find that students most often vacillate in their responses when what makes intuitive sense to them is not in agreement with what they consider to be a correct response, underscoring the need to distinguish between the personal and the public perspectives of introductory modern physics students.

id: 1108.5858
title: On the wave functions and energy spectrum for a spin 1 particle in external Coulomb field
authors: V.V. Kisel, E.M. Ovsiyuk, V.M. Red'kov
comments: 19 pages
journal: NPCS (Nonlinear Phenomena in Complex Systems). 2010. Vol. 13, No 4, P. 352-367
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5858
abstract: Quantum-mechanical system -- spin 1 particle in external Coulomb field is studied on the base of the matrix Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau formalism with the use of the tetrad technique. Separation of the variables is performed with the help of Wigner functions. With the help of parity operator, the radial 10-equation system is divided into two subsystem of 4 and 6 equations that correspond to parity P=(-1)^{j+1} and P= (-1)^{j} respectively. The system of 4 equation is reduced to a second order differential equation which coincides with that arising in the case of a scalar particle in Coulomb potential. It is shown that the 6-equation system reduces to two different second order differential equations for a "main" function. One main equation reduces to a confluent Heun equation and provides us with energy spectrum. Another main equation is a more complex one, and any solutions for it are not constructed.

id: 1108.5867
title: Effective noise theory for the Nonlinear Schr?dinger Equation with disorder
authors: Erez Michaely, Shmuel Fishman
comments: 17 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5867
abstract: For the Nonlinear Shr\"odinger Equation with disorder it was found numerically that in some regime of the parameters Anderson localization is destroyed and subdiffusion takes place for a long time interval. It was argued that the nonlinear term acts as random noise. In the present work the properties of this effective noise are studied numerically. Some assumptions made in earlier work were verified, the dependence of various quantities on the localization length of the linear problem were computed. A scenario for the possible breakdown of the theory for a very long time is outlined.

id: 1108.5991
title: Decoherent Histories Analysis of Minisuperspace Quantum Cosmology
authors: J.J.Halliwell
comments: To appear in Proceedings of the 2010 DICE Conference
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser.. 306: 012023 (2011)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5991
abstract: Recent results on the decoherent histories quantization of simple cosmological models (minisuperspace models) are described. The most important issue is the construction, from the wave function, of a probability distribution answering various questions of physical interest, such as the probability of the system entering a given region of configuration space at any stage in its entire history. A standard but heuristic procedure is to use the flux of (components of) the wave function in a WKB approximation as the probability. This gives sensible semiclassical results but lacks an underlying operator formalism. Here, we supply the underlying formalism by deriving probability distributions linked to the Wheeler-DeWitt equation using the decoherent histories approach to quantum theory, building on the generalized quantum mechanics formalism developed by Hartle. The key step is the construction of class operators characterizing questions of physical interest. Taking advantage of a recent decoherent histories analysis of the arrival time problem in non-relativistic quantum mechanics, we show that the appropriate class operators in quantum cosmology are readily constructed using a complex potential. The class operator for not entering a region of configuration space is given by the $S$-matrix for scattering off a complex potential localized in that region. We thus derive the class operators for entering one or more regions in configuration space. The class operators commute with the Hamiltonian, have a sensible classical limit and are closely related to an intersection number operator. The corresponding probabilities coincide, in a semiclassical approximation, with standard heuristic procedures.

id: 1108.5993
title: A Strongly Dipolar Bose-Einstein Condensate of Dysprosium
authors: Mingwu Lu, Nathaniel Q. Burdick, Seo Ho Youn, Benjamin L. Lev
comments: 4 pages plus refs on fifth, 3 figures; new version includes edits based on referee's comments
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 190401 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.5993
abstract: We report the Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) of the most magnetic atom, dysprosium. The Dy BEC is the first for an open f-shell lanthanide (rare-earth) element and is produced via forced evaporation in a crossed optical dipole trap loaded by an unusual, blue-detuned and spin-polarized narrow-line magneto-optical trap. Nearly pure condensates of 1.5x10^4 164Dy atoms form below T = 30 nK. We observe that stable BEC formation depends on the relative angle of a small polarizing magnetic field to the axis of the oblate trap, a property of trapped condensates only expected in the strongly dipolar regime. This regime was heretofore only attainable in Cr BECs via a Feshbach resonance accessed at high magnetic field.

id: 1108.6005
title: No quantum gravity signature from the farthest quasars
authors: Fabrizio Tamburini, Carmine Cuofano, Massimo Della Valle, Roberto Gilmozzi
comments: 5 pages 6 figures
journal: Astron.Astrophys.533:A71,2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6005
abstract: Context: Strings and other alternative theories describing the quantum properties of space-time suggest that space-time could present a foamy structure and also that, in certain cases, quantum gravity (QG) may manifest at energies much below the Planck scale. One of the observable effects could be the degradation of the diffraction images of distant sources. Aims: We searched for this degradation effect, caused by QG fluctuations, in the light of the farthest quasars (QSOs) observed by the Hubble Space Telescope with the aim of setting new limits on the fluctuations of the space-time foam and QG models. Methods: We developed a software that estimates and compares the phase variation in the interference patterns of the high-redshift QSOs, taken from the snapshot survey of HST-SDSS, with those of stars that are expected to not be affected by QG effects. We used a two-parameter function to determine, for each test star and QSO, the maximum of the diffraction pattern and to calculate the Strehl ratio. Results: Our results go far beyond those already present in the literature. By adopting the most conservative approach where the correction terms, that describe the possibility for space-time fluctuations cumulating across long distances and partially compensate for the effects of the phase variations, are taken into account. We exclude the random walk model and most of the holographic models of the space-time foam. Without considering these correction terms, all the main QG scenarios are excluded. Finally, our results show the absence of any directional dependence of QG effects and the validity of the cosmological principle with an independent method; that is, viewed on a large scale, the properties of the Universe are the same for all observers, including the effects of space-time fluctuations.

id: 1108.6023
title: On the quantum Coulomb field
authors: Bogdan Damski, Piotr Marecki
comments: 9 pages, no figures, final version
journal: Acta Phys. Pol. B 43, 381 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6023
abstract: The quantum theory of the Coulomb field has been developed by Staruszkiewicz in the long series of papers. This theory explains the universality and quantization of the electric charge observed in Nature. Moreover, the efforts have been made to determine the value of the elementary charge from its mathematical structure. Nonetheless, no other immediate applications of this theory have been proposed. We make such an attempt by (i) considering the classical energy operator and defining its counterpart in the quantum theory of the Coulomb field; (ii) determining the eigenstates of the energy operator and assigning energy to the excitations of the theory; and (iii) proposing a simple theoretical scheme to estimate the effect of the quantum fluctuations of the Coulomb field on the energy levels of hydrogen-like atoms. We argue that the recent experimental advances in hydrogen and muonic-hydrogen spectroscopy may provide the unique window of opportunity for the verification of the Staruszkiewicz's theory.

id: 1108.6036
title: Models for Discrete Quantum Gravity
authors: Stan Gudder
comments: 15 pages which include 2 figures which were created using LaTeX and contained in the file
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6036
abstract: We first discuss a framework for discrete quantum processes (DQP). It is shown that the set of q-probability operators is convex and its set of extreme elements is found. The property of consistency for a DQP is studied and the quadratic algebra of suitable sets is introduced. A classical sequential growth process is "quantized" to obtain a model for discrete quantum gravity called a quantum sequential growth process (QSGP). Two methods for constructing concrete examples of QSGP are provided.

id: 1108.6078
title: Depletion of nitrogen-vacancy color centers in diamond via hydrogen passivation
authors: A. Stacey, T.J. Karle, L.P. McGuinness, B.C. Gibson, K. Ganesan, S. Tomljenovic-Hanic, A.D. Greentree, S. Prawer, R.G. Beausoleil, A. Hoffman
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6078
abstract: We show a marked reduction in the emission from nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color centers in single crystal diamond due to exposure of the diamond to hydrogen plasmas ranging from 700{\deg}C to 1000{\deg}C. Significant fluorescence reduction was observed beneath the exposed surface to at least 80mm depth after ~10 minutes, and did not recover after post-annealing in vacuum for seven hours at 1100{\deg}C. We attribute the fluorescence reduction to the formation of NVH centers by the plasma induced diffusion of hydrogen. These results have important implications for the formation of nitrogen-vacancy centers for quantum applications, and inform our understanding of the conversion of nitrogen-vacancy to NVH, whilst also providing the first experimental evidence of long range hydrogen diffusion through intrinsic high-purity diamond material.

id: 1108.6089
title: Fluctuation Relations for Current Components in Mesoscopic Electric Circuits
authors: Sriram Ganeshan, N. A. Sinitsyn
comments: 8 pages; Phys. Rev. B (2011)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 245405 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6089
abstract: We present a new class of fluctuation relations, to which we will refer as Fluctuation Relations for Current Components (FRCCs). FRCCs can be used to estimate system parameters when complete information about nonequilibrium many-body electron interactions is unavailable. We show that FRCCs are often robust in the sense that they do not depend on some basic types of electron interactions and some quantum coherence effects.

id: 1108.6110
title: Limit Theorems for the Disordered Quantum Walk
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: Contains an open problem
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6110
abstract: We study the disordered quantum walk in one dimension, and obtain the weak limit theorem.

id: 1108.6116
title: Spontaneous Parametric Down-Conversion and Quantum Walks in Arrays of Quadratic Nonlinear Waveguides
authors: Alexander S. Solntsev, Andrey A. Sukhorukov, Dragomir N. Neshev, Yuri S. Kivshar
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 023601(1-5) (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6116
abstract: We analyze the process of simultaneous photon pair generation and quantum walks realized by spontaneous parametric down conversion of a pump beam in a quadratic nonlinear waveguide array. We demonstrate that this flexible platform allows for creating quantum states with different spatial correlations. In particular, we predict that the output photon correlations can be switched from photon bunching to antibunching controlled entirely classically by varying the temperature of the array or the spatial profile of the pump beam.

id: 1108.6140
title: A Proposal for Experimental Detection of Amplitude nth-Power Squeezing
authors: Ranjana Prakash, Ajay K. Yadav
comments: 6 pages,1 figure
journal: Optics Communications, Vol. 285, Year 2012, pp. 2387--2391
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6140
abstract: Recently, in several theoretical investigations, amplitude nth-power squeezing has been studied with $n = 2,~3,~4,~5$. In the present paper, we give a proposal for experimental detection of amplitude $n$th-power squeezing using ordinary homodyning with coherent light for arbitrary power $n$ and discuss in detail its theory. The proposed scheme requires only repeated measurements of the factorial moments of number of photons in the light obtained after homodyning, with various shifts of phase of coherent light, and involves no approximations, whatsoever. This has advantage over the method proposed by Shchukin and Vogel [Phys. Rev. A 72 (2005) 043808] in that our method requires only one beam splitter and only one photodetector, and also lesser number of repetitions of experiment with phase-shifted coherent light.

id: 1108.6188
title: Analytical approach to the two-site Bose-Hubbard model: from Fock states to Schr?dinger cat states and entanglement entropy
authors: Luca Dell'Anna
comments: 34 pages, 11 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053608 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6188
abstract: We study the interpolation from occupation number Fock states to Schr\"odinger cat states on systems modeled by two-mode Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian, like, for instance, bosons in a double well or superconducting Cooper pair boxes. In the repulsive interaction regime, by a simplified single particle description, we calculate, analytically, energy, number fluctuations, stability under coupling to a heat bath, entanglement entropy and Fisher information, all in terms of hypergeometric polynomials of the single particle overlap parameter. Our approach allows us to find how those quantities scale with the number of bosons. In the attractive interaction regime we calculate the same physical quantities in terms of the imbalance parameter, and find that the symmetry breaking, occurring at interaction Uc, predicted by a semiclassical approximation, is valid only in the limit of infinite number of bosons. For a large but finite number, we determine a characteristic strength of interaction, Uc*, which can be promoted as the crossover point from coherent to incoherent regimes and can be identified as the collapse threshold. Moreover, we find that the Fisher information is always in direct ratio to the variance of on-site number of bosons, for both positive and negative interactions. We finally show that the entanglement entropy is maximum close to Uc* and exceeds its coherent value within the whole range of interaction between 2Uc and zero.

id: 1108.6216
title: Strong back-action of a linear circuit on a single electronic quantum channel
authors: F.D. Parmentier, A. Anthore, S. Jezouin, H. le Sueur, U. Gennser, A. Cavanna, D. Mailly, F. Pierre
comments: 11 pages including supplementary information, to be published in Nature Physics
journal: Nature Physics 7, 935-938 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6216
abstract: What are the quantum laws of electricity in mesoscopic circuits? This very fundamental question has also direct implications for the quantum engineering of nanoelectronic devices. Indeed, when a quantum coherent conductor is inserted into a circuit, its transport properties are modified. In particular, its conductance is reduced because of the circuit back-action. This phenomenon, called environmental Coulomb blockade, results from the granularity of charge transfers across the coherent conductor. Although extensively studied for a tunnel junction in a linear circuit, it is only fully understood for arbitrary short coherent conductors in the limit of small circuit impedances and small conductance reduction. Here, we investigate experimentally the strong back-action regime, with a conductance reduction of up to 90%. This is achieved by embedding a single quantum channel of tunable transmission in an adjustable on-chip circuit of impedance comparable to the resistance quantum $R_K=h/e^2$ at microwave frequencies. The experiment reveals important deviations from calculations performed in the weak back-action framework, and matches with recent theoretical results. From these measurements, we propose a generalized expression for the conductance of an arbitrary quantum channel embedded in a linear circuit.

id: 1108.6247
title: Dispersion Interaction of Atoms with Single-Walled Carbon Nanotubes described by the Dirac Model
authors: Yu. V. Churkin, G. L. Klimchitskaya, A. B. Fedortsov, V. A. Yurova
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Int. J. Mod. Phys. A
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A, v.26, N22, pp.3958-3966 (2011)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1108.6247
abstract: We calculate the interaction energy and force between atoms and molecules and single-walled carbon nanotubes described by the Dirac model of graphene. For this purpose the Lifshitz-type formulas adapted for the case of cylindrical geometry with the help of the proximity force approximation are used. The results obtained are compared with those derived from the hydrodymanic model of graphene. Numerical computations are performed for hydrogen atoms and molecules. It is shown that the Dirac model leads to larger values of the van der Waals force than the hydrodynamic model. For a hydrogen molecule the interaction energy and force computed using both models are larger than for a hydrogen atom.

