id: 1109.0026
title: Molecular Response in One-Photon Absorption via Natural Thermal Light vs Pulsed Laser Excitation
authors: Paul Brumer, Moshe Shapiro
comments: Revised (now published) manuscript: Replaces ArXiv:1109.0026
journal: Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 109, 19575 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0026
abstract: Photoinduced biological processes occur via one photon absorption in natural light, which is weak, CW and incoherent, but are often studied in the laboratory using pulsed coherent light. Here we compare the response of a molecule to these two very different sources within a quantized radiation field picture. The latter is shown to induce coherent time evolution in the molecule, whereas the former does not. As a result, the coherent time dependence observed in the laboratory experiments will not be relevant to the natural biological process. Emphasis is placed on resolving confusions regarding this issue that are shown to arise from aspects of quantum measurement and from a lack of appreciation of the proper description of the absorbed photon.

id: 1109.0041
title: Localization and entanglement through scattering measurements
authors: James S. Douglas, Keith Burnett
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0041
abstract: We study the emergence of localization and entanglement in many-body systems as a result of scattering measurements. We show that consecutive scattering measurements on a many-body system can produce superposition states in position space. The resulting states are signaled in the scattering distribution and these states are robust under continued scattering. We also show that the average scattering distribution for an ensemble of experiments gives the initial state scattering distribution even when the initial state is completely destroyed by the scattering process.

id: 1109.0060
title: Mutually unbiased bases for quantum states defined over p-adic numbers
authors: Wim van Dam, Alexander Russell
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0060
abstract: We describe sets of mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) for quantum states defined over the p-adic numbers Q_p, i.e. the states that can be described as elements of the (rigged) Hilbert space L2(Q_p). We find that for every prime p>2 there are at least p+1 MUBs, which is in contrast with the situation for quantum states defined over the real line R for which only 3 MUBs are known. We comment on the possible reason for the difference regarding MUBs between these two infinite dimensional Hilbert spaces.

id: 1109.0079
title: Wronskian differential formula for confluent supersymmetric quantum mechanics
authors: David Bermudez, David J. Fernandez C., Nicolas Fernandez-Garcia
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 376 (2012) 692-696
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0079
abstract: A Wronskian differential formula, useful for applying the confluent second-order SUSY transformations to arbitrary potentials, will be obtained. This expression involves a parametric derivative with respect to the factorization energy which, in many cases, is simpler for calculations than the previously found integral equation. This alternative mechanism shall be applied to the free particle and the single-gap Lame potential.

id: 1109.0120
title: Photon statistics as an experimental test discriminating between theories of spin-selective radical-ion-pair reactions
authors: A. T. Dellis, I. K. Kominis
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Chem. Phys. Lett. 543, 170 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0120
abstract: Radical-ion-pair reactions were recently shown to represent a rich biophysical laboratory for the application of quantum measurement theory methods and concepts. We here propose a concrete experimental test that can clearly discriminate among the fundamental master equations currently attempting to describe the quantum dynamics of these reactions. The proposed measurement based on photon statistics of fluorescing radical pairs is shown to be model-independent and capable of elucidating the singlet-triplet decoherence inherent in the radical-ion-pair recombination process.

id: 1109.0122
title: Spatially dependent decoherence and anomalous diffussion of quantum walks
authors: A. Perez, A. Romanelli
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0122
abstract: We analyze the long time behavior of a discrete time quantum walk subject to decoherence with a strong spatial dependence, acting on one half of the lattice. We show that, except for limiting cases on the decoherence parameter, the quantum walk at late times behaves sub-ballistically, meaning that the characteristic features of the quantum walk are not completely spoiled. Contrarily to expectations, the asymptotic behavior is non Markovian, and depends on the amount of decoherence. This feature can be clearly shown on the long time value of the Generalized Chiral Distribution (GCD).

id: 1109.0133
title: Non-Markovian effects on non-locality of a qubit-oscillator system
authors: Jie Li, Gerard McKeown, Fernando L. Semiao, Mauro Paternostro
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022116 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0133
abstract: Non-Markovian evolutions are responsible for a wide variety of physically interesting effects. Here, we study non-locality of the non-classical state of a system consisting of a qubit and an oscillator exposed to the effects of non-Markovian evolutions. We find that the different facets of non-Markovianity affect non-locality in different and non-obvious ways: ranging from pronounced insensitivity of the Bell function to quite a spectacular evidence of information kick-back.

id: 1109.0146
title: Control of inhomogeneous atomic ensembles of hyperfine qudits
authors: Brian E. Mischuck, Seth T. Merkel, Ivan H. Deutsch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0146
abstract: We study the ability to control d-dimensional quantum systems (qudits) encoded in the hyperfine spin of alkali-metal atoms through the application of radio- and microwave-frequency magnetic fields in the presence of inhomogeneities in amplitude and detuning. Such a capability is essential to the design of robust pulses that mitigate the effects of experimental uncertainty and also for application to tomographic addressing of particular members of an extended ensemble. We study the problem of preparing an arbitrary state in the Hilbert space from an initial fiducial state. We prove that inhomogeneous control of qudit ensembles is possible based on a semi-analytic protocol that synthesizes the target through a sequence of alternating rf and microwave-driven SU(2) rotations in overlapping irreducible subspaces. Several examples of robust control are studied, and the semi-analytic protocol is compared to a brute force, full numerical search. For small inhomogeneities, < 1%, both approaches achieve average fidelities greater than 0.99, but the brute force approach performs superiorly, reaching high fidelities in shorter times and capable of handling inhomogeneities well beyond experimental uncertainty. The full numerical search is also applied to tomographic addressing whereby two different nonclassical states of the spin are produced in two halves of the ensemble.

id: 1109.0147
title: Decoherence and the Nature of System-Environment Correlations
authors: A. Pernice, W. T. Strunz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0147
abstract: We investigate system-environment correlations based on the exact dynamics of a qubit and its environment in the framework of pure decoherence (phase damping). We focus on the relation of decoherence and the build-up of system-reservoir entanglement for an arbitrary (possibly mixed) initial qubit state. In the commonly employed regime where the qubit dynamics can be described by a Markov master equation of Lindblad type, we find that for almost all qubit initial states inside the Bloch sphere, decoherence is complete while the total state is still separable - no entanglement is involved. In general, both "separable" and "entangling" decoherence occurs, depending on temperature and initial qubit state. Moreover, we find situations where classical and quantum correlations periodically alternate as a function of time in the regime of low temperatures.

id: 1109.0150
title: Casimir Effect : Optomechanics in Quantum Vacuum
authors: Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: Invited contribution to the 20th International Conference on Laser Spectroscopy (ICOLS 2011)
journal: Laser Spectroscopy XX (Logos Verlag, 2011) p.197-207
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0150
abstract: The Casimir effect results from the optomechanical coupling between field fluctuations and mirrors in quantum vacuum. This contribution to the 20th International Conference on Laser Spectroscopy (ICOLS 2011) discusses the current status in the comparison between theory and experiments.

id: 1109.0153
title: Geometric Momentum for a Particle on a Curved Surface
authors: Q. H. Liu
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, typos added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0153
abstract: When a two-dimensional curved surface is conceived as a limiting case of a curved shell of equal thickness d, where the limit d\rightarrow0 is then taken, the well-known geometric potential is induced by the kinetic energy operator, in fact by the second order partial derivatives. Applying this confining procedure to the momentum operator, in fact to the first order partial derivatives, we find the so-called geometric momentum instead. This momentum is compatible with the Dirac's canonical quantization theory on system with second-class constraints. The distribution amplitudes of the geometric momentum on the spherical harmonics are analytically determined, and they are experimentally testable for rotational states of spherical molecules such as C_{60}.

id: 1109.0184
title: Time dependence of quantum entanglement in the collision of two particles
authors: Mihaly G. Benedict, Judit Kovacs, Attila Czirjak
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0184
abstract: We follow the emergence of quantum entanglement in a scattering event between two initially uncorrelated distinguishable quantum particles interacting via a delta potential. We calculate the time dependence of the Neumann entropy of the one-particle reduced density matrix. By using the exact propagator for the delta potential, we derive an approximate analytic formula for the asymptotic form of the two-particle wave function which is sufficiently accurate to account for the entanglement features of the system.

id: 1109.0194
title: Detector imperfections in photon-pair source characterization
authors: P. Sekatski, N. Sangouard, F. Bussieres, C. Clausen, N. Gisin, H. Zbinden
comments: 9 pages, 11 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45, 124016 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0194
abstract: We analyze how imperfections in single-photon detectors impact the characterization of photon-pair sources. We perform exact calculations to reveal the effects of multi-pair emissions and of noisy, non-unit efficiency, non photon-number resolving detections on the Cauchy-Schwarz parameter, on the second order auto-correlation and cross-correlation functions, and on the visibilities of both Hong-Ou-Mandel and Bell-like interferences. We consider sources producing either two-mode squeezed states or states with a Poissonian photon distribution. The proposed formulas are useful in practice to determine the impacts of multi-pair emissions and dark counts in standard tests used in quantum optics.

id: 1109.0206
title: Sub-shot noise sensitivities without entanglement
authors: Fabio Benatti, Daniel Braun
comments: 16 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0206
abstract: It is commonly maintained that entanglement is necessary to beat the shot noise limit in the sensitivity with which certain parameters can be measured in interferometric experiments. Here we show that, with a fluctuating number of two-mode bosons, the shot-noise limit can be beaten by non-entangled bosonic states with all bosons in one mode. For a given finite maximum number of bosons, we calculate the optimal one- and two-mode bosonic states, and show that in the absence of losses, NOON states are the optimal two-mode bosonic states.

id: 1109.0208
title: Quantum state preparation and control of single molecular ions
authors: D. Leibfried
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, reformatted for resubmission
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0208
abstract: Preparing molecules at rest and in a highly pure quantum state is a long standing dream in chemistry and physics, so far achieved only for a select set of molecules in dedicated experimental setups. Here, a quantum-limited combination of mass spectrometry and Raman spectroscopy is proposed that should be applicable to a wide range of molecular ions. Excitation of electrons in the molecule followed by uncontrolled decay and branching into several lower energy states is avoided. Instead, the molecule is always connected to rotational states within the electronic and vibrational ground-state manifold, while a co-trapped atomic ion provides efficient entropy removal and allows for extraction of information on the molecule. The outlined techniques might enable preparation, manipulation and measurement of a large multitude of molecular ion species with the same instrument, with applications including, but not limited to, precise determination of molecular properties and fundamental tests of physics.

id: 1109.0209
title: Simulating accelerated atoms coupled to a quantum field
authors: M. del Rey, D. Porras, E. Martin-Martinez
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, revtex 4-1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022511 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0209
abstract: We show an analogy between static quantum emitters coupled to a single mode of a quantum field and accelerated Unruh-DeWitt detectors. We envision a way to simulate a variety of relativistic quantum field settings beyond the reach of current computational power, such as high number of qubits coupled to a quantum field following arbitrary non-inertial trajectories. Our scheme may be implemented with trapped ions and circuit QED set-ups.

id: 1109.0215
title: The minimum distance of classical and quantum turbo-codes
authors: Mamdouh Abbara, Jean-Pierre Tillich
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0215
abstract: We present a theory of quantum stabilizer turbo-encoders with unbounded minimum distance. This theory is presented under a framework common to both classical and quantum turbo-encoding theory. The main conditions to have an unbounded minimum distance are that the inner seed encoder has to be recursive, and either systematic or with a totally recursive truncated decoder. This last condition has been introduced in order to obtain a theory viable in the quantum stabilizer case, since it was known that in this case the inner seed encoder could not be recursive and systematic in the same time.

id: 1109.0221
title: Algebraic Geometry tools for the study of entanglement: an application to spin squeezed states
authors: Alessandra Bernardi, Iacopo Carusotto
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 105304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Commutative Algebra (math.AC); Algebraic Geometry (math.AG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0221
abstract: A short review of Algebraic Geometry tools for the decomposition of tensors and polynomials is given from the point of view of applications to quantum and atomic physics. Examples of application to assemblies of indistinguishable two-level bosonic atoms are discussed using modern formulations of the classical Sylvester's algorithm for the decomposition of homogeneous polynomials in two variables. In particular, the symmetric rank and symmetric border rank of spin squeezed states is calculated as well as their Schr\"odinger-cat-like decomposition as the sum of macroscopically different coherent spin states; Fock states provide an example of states for which the symmetric rank and the symmetric border rank are different.

id: 1109.0225
title: Nonsignaling as the consistency condition for local quasi classical probability modelling of a general multipartite correlation scenario
authors: Elena R. Loubenets
comments: 11 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 185306 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0225
abstract: We specify for a general correlation scenario a particular type of a local quasi hidden variable (LqHV) model [J. Math. Phys. 53 (2012), 022201] -- a deterministic LqHV model, where all joint probability distributions of a correlation scenario are simulated via a single measure space with a normalized bounded real-valued measure not necessarily positive and random variables, each depending only on a setting of the corresponding measurement at the corresponding site. We prove that an arbitrary multipartite correlation scenario admits a deterministic LqHV model if and only if all its joint probability distributions satisfy the consistency condition constituting the general nonsignaling condition formulated in [J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008), 445303]. This mathematical result specifies a new probability model that has the measure-theoretic structure resembling the structure of the classical probability model but incorporates the latter only as a particular case. The local version of this quasi classical probability model covers the probabilistic description of every nonsignaling correlation scenario, in particular, each correlation scenario on an multipartite quantum state.

id: 1109.0242
title: Quantifying non-Markovianity of continuous variable Gaussian dynamical maps
authors: Ruggero Vasile, Sabrina Maniscalco, Matteo G. A. Paris, Heinz-Peter Breuer, Jyrki Piilo
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0242
abstract: We introduce a non-Markovianity measure for continuous variable open quantum systems based on the idea put forward in H.-P. Breuer et al., Phys. Rev. Lett.\textbf{103}, 210401 (2009), i.e., by quantifying the flow of information from the environment back to the open system. Instead of the trace distance we use here the fidelity to assess distinguishability of quantum states. We employ our measure to evaluate non-Markovianity of two paradigmatic Gaussian channels: the purely damping channel and the quantum Brownian motion channel with Ohmic environment. We consider different classes of Gaussian states and look for pairs of states maximizing the backflow of information. For coherent states we find simple analytical solutions, whereas for squeezed states we provide both exact numerical and approximate analytical solutions in the weak coupling limit.

id: 1109.0291
title: Encoded Universality of Quantum Computations on the Multi-Atomic Ensembles in the QED Cavity
authors: Farid Ablayev, Sergey Andrianov, Sergey Moiseev, Alexander Vasiliev
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0291
abstract: We propose an effective set of elementary quantum gates which provide an encoded universality and demonstrate the physical feasibility of these gates for the solid-state quantum computer based on the multi-atomic systems in the QED cavity. We use the two-qubit encoding and swapping-based operations to simplify a physical realization of universal quantum computing and add the immunity to a number of errors. This approach allows to implement any encoded single-qubit operation by three elementary gates and the encoded controlled- NOT operation can be performed in a single step. The considerable advantages are also shown for implementing some commonly used controlled gates.

id: 1109.0325
title: Quantum adiabatic machine learning
authors: Kristen L. Pudenz, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Learning (cs.LG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0325
abstract: We develop an approach to machine learning and anomaly detection via quantum adiabatic evolution. In the training phase we identify an optimal set of weak classifiers, to form a single strong classifier. In the testing phase we adiabatically evolve one or more strong classifiers on a superposition of inputs in order to find certain anomalous elements in the classification space. Both the training and testing phases are executed via quantum adiabatic evolution. We apply and illustrate this approach in detail to the problem of software verification and validation.

id: 1109.0339
title: Topological Berry phase of a pumped three-level atom in the presence of dispersing and absorbing dielectric bodies: application to a half-space dielectric surface
authors: M. S. Ateto
comments: 22 pages, 21 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0339
abstract: Within the framework of exact quantum electrodynamics in dielectric, we study the topological Berry phase of a classically pumped $\Lambda$-type three-level atom, prepared initially in a superposition of its two pumped levels and located near a planar dielectric half-space with model permittivity of Lorentz type, interacts with a vacuum field. The effects of material losses, expressed in terms of the Green tensor of the dielectric-matter formation including dispersion and absorption, on the topological Berry phase of the photon transition between the pumped levels have been studied. The outcomes are compared with that of an atom in free space. We expect, the additional noise due to presence of the dielectric will modify, in a unified way, the behavior and values measured of the phase shift between the wavefunction evolution and its original state. It is shown that for small separation distance between atom and the dielectric surface, the angle separation between the wavefunction evolution and the original state reduced noticeably that is of strong applications in construction of the universal quantum logic gates. Further, the study opens routes for new challenging applications of atomically systems as various sources of coherent light emitted by pumped atoms in dielectric surroundings.

id: 1109.0349
title: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-like correlation on a coherent-state basis and inseparability of two-mode Gaussian states
authors: Ryo Namiki
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures. A part of the materials in Sec. VI B of previous versions was moved into another paper: Journal of Atomic, Molecular, and Optical Physics, 2012, 854693 (2012). this http URL
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 82, 014001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0349
abstract: The strange property of the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) correlation between two remote physical systems is a primitive object on the study of quantum entanglement. In order to understand the entanglement in canonical continuous-variable systems, a pair of the EPR-like uncertainties is an essential tool. Here, we consider a normalized pair of the EPR-like uncertainties and introduce a state-overlap to a classically correlated mixture of coherent states. The separable condition associated with this state-overlap determines the strength of the EPR-like correlation on a coherent-state basis in order that the state is entangled. We show that the coherent-state-based condition is capable of detecting the class of two-mode Gaussian entangled states. We also present an experimental measurement scheme for estimation of the state-overlap by a heterodyne measurement and a photon detection with a feedforward operation.

id: 1109.0372
title: Quantum Money with Classical Verification
authors: Dmitry Gavinsky
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0372
abstract: We propose and construct a quantum money scheme that allows verification through classical communication with a bank. This is the first demonstration that a secure quantum money scheme exists that does not require quantum communication for coin verification. Our scheme is secure against adaptive adversaries - this property is not directly related to the possibility of classical verification, nevertheless none of the earlier quantum money constructions is known to possess it.

id: 1109.0379
title: Exact solutions for a quantum-mechanical particle with spin 1 and additional intrinsic characteristics in a homogeneous magnetic field
authors: V.V. Kisel, E.M. Ovsiyuk, V.M. Red'kov, N.G. Tokarevskaya
comments: 15 pages, 16 references
journal: Acta Physica Polonica. B. 2010. Vol. 41. np. 11. P. 2347-2363
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0379
abstract: With the use of the general covariant matrix 10-dimensional Petiau-Duffin-Kemmer formalism in cylindrical coordinates exact solutions of the quantum-mechanical equation for a particle with spin 1 in the presence of an external homogeneous magnetic field are constructed. Three linearly independent types of solutions are separated; in each case the formula for the energy levels has been found.Within similar technique for the quantum-mechanical equation for a particle with spin 1 and additional intrinsic electromagnetic characteristics - polarizability, exact solutions are found in the presence of an external homogeneous magnetic field.

id: 1109.0383
title: On Quantum Effects in a Theory of Biological Evolution
authors: M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: RevTex4 file
journal: Sci. Rep. 2, 302; (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0383
abstract: We construct a descriptive toy model that considers quantum effects on biological evolution starting from Chaitin's classical framework. There are smart evolution scenarios in which a quantum world is as favorable as classical worlds for evolution to take place. However, in more natural scenarios, the rate of evolution depends on the degree of entanglement present in quantum organisms with respect to classical organisms. If the entanglement is maximal, classical evolution turns out to be more favorable.

id: 1109.0410
title: Measuring high-order photon-number correlations in multimode pulsed quantum states
authors: Alessia Allevi, Stefano Olivares, Maria Bondani
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 063835 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0410
abstract: We implement a direct detection scheme based on hybrid photodetectors to experimentally investigate high-order correlations for detected photons by means of quantities that can be experimentally accessed. We show their usefulness in fully characterizing a multimode twin-beam state in comparison with classical states and, in particular, we introduce a nonclassicality criterion based on a simple linear combination of high-order correlation functions. Our scheme is self-consistent, allowing the estimation of all the involved parameters (quantum efficiency, number of modes and average energy) directly from the same experimental data. Results are in very good agreement with theory, thus suggesting the exploitation of our scheme for reliable state characterization in quantum technology.

id: 1109.0437
title: Dispersive Quantum Systems: a class of isolated non-time reversal quantum systems
authors: L¨²cio Fassarella
comments: 23 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0437
abstract: A "dispersive quantum system" is a quantum system which is both isolated and non-time reversal invariant. This article presents precise definitions for those concepts and also a characterization of dispersive quantum systems within the class of completely positive Markovian quantum systems in finite dimension (through a homogeneous linear equation for the non-Hamiltonian part of the system's Liouvillian). To set the framework, the basic features of quantum mechanics are reviewed focusing on time evolution and also on the theory of completely positive Markovian quantum systems, including Kossakowski-Lindblad's standard form for Liouvillians. After those general considerations, I present a simple example of dispersive two-level quantum system and apply that to describe neutrino oscillation.

id: 1109.0440
title: Heralded quantum entanglement between two crystals
authors: Imam Usmani, Christoph Clausen, Felix Bussieres, Nicolas Sangouard, Mikael Afzelius, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 6, 234-237 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0440
abstract: Quantum networks require the crucial ability to entangle quantum nodes. A prominent example is the quantum repeater which allows overcoming the distance barrier of direct transmission of single photons, provided remote quantum memories can be entangled in a heralded fashion. Here we report the observation of heralded entanglement between two ensembles of rare-earth-ions doped into separate crystals. A heralded single photon is sent through a 50/50 beamsplitter, creating a single-photon entangled state delocalized between two spatial modes. The quantum state of each mode is subsequently mapped onto a crystal, leading to an entangled state consisting of a single collective excitation delocalized between two crystals. This entanglement is revealed by mapping it back to optical modes and by estimating the concurrence of the retrieved light state. Our results highlight the potential of rare-earth-ions doped crystals for entangled quantum nodes and bring quantum networks based on solid-state resources one step closer.

id: 1109.0535
title: Disproof of Joy Christian's "Disproof of Bell's theorem"
authors: Florin Moldoveanu
comments: Final version of this paper. Added a relevant Clifford algebra tutorial and final comments
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0535
abstract: Four critical elementary mathematical mistakes in Joy Christian's counterexample to Bell's theorem are presented. Consequently, Joy Christian's hidden variable model cannot reproduce any quantum mechanics results and cannot be used as a counterexample to Bell's theorem. The mathematical investigation is followed by a short discussion about the possibility to construct other hidden variable theories. A tutorial section on relevant Clifford algebra topics was added at the end to help interested readers decide for themselves the validity of Joy's claims. Also an appendix section discusses recent developments.

id: 1109.0540
title: Entanglement can completely defeat quantum noise
authors: Jianxin Chen, Toby S. Cubitt, Aram W. Harrow, Graeme Smith
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 250504 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0540
abstract: We describe two quantum channels that individually cannot send any information, even classical, without some chance of decoding error. But together a single use of each channel can send quantum information perfectly reliably. This proves that the zero-error classical capacity exhibits superactivation, the extreme form of the superadditivity phenomenon in which entangled inputs allow communication over zero capacity channels. But our result is stronger still, as it even allows zero-error quantum communication when the two channels are combined. Thus our result shows a new remarkable way in which entanglement across two systems can be used to resist noise, in this case perfectly. We also show a new form of superactivation by entanglement shared between sender and receiver.

id: 1109.0596
title: Discrete Wigner Function Reconstruction and Compressed Sensing
authors: Jia-Ning Zhang, Lei Fang, Mo-Lin Ge
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0596
abstract: A new reconstruction method for Wigner function is reported for quantum tomography based on compressed sensing. By analogy with computed tomography, Wigner functions for some quantum states can be reconstructed with less measurements utilizing this compressed sensing based method.

id: 1109.0598
title: Time Asymmetric Quantum Mechanics
authors: Arno R. Bohm, Manuel Gadella, Piotr Kielanowski
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 7 (2011), 086, 13 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0598
abstract: The meaning of time asymmetry in quantum physics is discussed. On the basis of a mathematical theorem, the Stone--von Neumann theorem, the solutions of the dynamical equations, the Schr\"odinger equation (1) for states or the Heisenberg equation (6a) for observables are given by a unitary group. Dirac kets require the concept of a RHS (rigged Hilbert space) of Schwartz functions; for this kind of RHS a mathematical theorem also leads to time symmetric group evolution. Scattering theory suggests to distinguish mathematically between states (defined by a preparation apparatus) and observables (defined by a registration apparatus (detector)). If one requires that scattering resonances of width $\Gamma$ and exponentially decaying states of lifetime $\tau=\frac{\hbar}{\Gamma}$ should be the same physical entities (for which there is sufficient evidence) one is led to a pair of RHS's of Hardy functions and connected with it, to a semigroup time evolution $t_{0}\leq t<\infty$, with the puzzling result that there is a quantum mechanical beginning of time, just like the big bang time for the universe, when it was a quantum system. The decay of quasi-stable particles is used to illustrate this quantum mechanical time asymmetry. From the analysis of these processes, we show that the properties of rigged Hilbert spaces of Hardy functions are suitable for a formulation of time asymmetry in quantum mechanics.

id: 1109.0602
title: Almost All Quantum States Have Low Entropy Rates for Any Coupling to the Environment
authors: Adrian Hutter, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 4+3 pages, revtex, v3: version published in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 070501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0602
abstract: The joint state of a system that is in contact with an environment is called lazy, if the entropy rate of the system under any coupling to the environment is zero. Necessary and sufficient conditions have recently been established for a state to be lazy [ Phys. Rev. Lett. 106 050403 (2011)], and it was shown that almost all states of the system and the environment do not have this property [ Phys. Rev. A 81 052318 (2010)]. At first glance, this may lead us to believe that low entropy rates themselves form an exception, in the sense that most states are far from being lazy and have high entropy rates. Here, we show that in fact the opposite is true if the environment is sufficiently large. Almost all states of the system and the environment are pretty lazy-their entropy rates are low for any coupling to the environment.

id: 1109.0643
title: Ultrafast quantum random number generation based on quantum phase fluctuations
authors: Feihu Xu, Bing Qi, Xiongfeng Ma, He Xu, Haoxuan Zheng, Hoi-Kwong Lo
comments: Published version
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20, Issue 11, pp. 12366-12377 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0643
abstract: A quantum random number generator (QRNG) can generate true randomness by exploiting the fundamental indeterminism of quantum mechanics. Most approaches to QRNG employ single-photon detection technologies and are limited in speed. Here, we propose and experimentally demonstrate an ultrafast QRNG at a rate over 6 Gb/s based on the quantum phase fluctuations of a laser operating near threshold. Moreover, we consider a potential adversary who has partial knowledge on the raw data and discuss how one can rigorously remove such partial knowledge with post-processing. We quantify the quantum randomness through min-entropy by modeling our system, and employ two extractors, Trevisan's extractor and Toeplitz-hashing, to distill the randomness, which is information-theoretically provable. The simplicity and high-speed of our experimental setup show the feasibility of a robust, low-cost, high-speed QRNG.

id: 1109.0655
title: Decoherence-free evolution of time-dependent superposition states of two-level systems and thermal effects
authors: F. O. Prado, N. G. de Almeida, E. I. Duzzioni, M. H. Y. Moussa, C. J. Villas-Boas
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 84, 012112 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0655
abstract: In this paper we detail some results advanced in a recent letter [Prado et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 102 073008 (2009)] showing how to engineer reservoirs for two-level systems at absolute zero by means of a time-dependent master equation leading to a nonstationary superposition equilibrium state. We also present a general recipe showing how to build nonadiabatic coherent evolutions of a fermionic system interacting with a bosonic mode and investigate the influence of thermal reservoirs at finite temperature on the fidelity of the protected superposition state. Our analytical results are supported by numerical analysis of the full Hamiltonian model.

id: 1109.0657
title: Control and Manipulation of Cold Atoms in Optical Tweezers
authors: Cecilia Muldoon, Lukas Brandt, Jian Dong, Dustin Stuart, Edouard Brainis, Matthew Himsworth, Axel Kuhn
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0657
abstract: Neutral atoms trapped by laser light are amongst the most promising candidates for storing and processing information in a quantum computer or simulator. The application certainly calls for a scalable and flexible scheme for addressing and manipulating the atoms. We have now made this a reality by implementing a fast and versatile method to dynamically control the position of neutral atoms trapped in optical tweezers. The tweezers result from a spatial light modulator (SLM) controlling and shaping a large number of optical dipole-force traps. Trapped atoms adapt to any change in the potential landscape, such that one can re-arrange and randomly access individual sites within atom-trap arrays.

id: 1109.0698
title: Simulations of Photon Detection in SiPM Number-Resolving Detectors
authors: L. Dovrat, M. Bakstein, D. Istrati, H. S. Eisenberg
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0698
abstract: Number-resolving single photon detectors are essential for the implementation of numerous innovative quantum information schemes. While several number-discriminating techniques have been previously presented, the Silicon Photo-Multiplier (SiPM) detector is a promising candidate due its rather simple integration in optical setups. On the other hand, the photon statistics obtained with the SiPM detector suffer from inaccuracies due to inherent distortions which depend on the geometrical properties of the SiPM. We have simulated the detection process in a SiPM detector and studied these distortions. We use results from the simulation in order to interpret experimental data and study the limits in which available models prevail.

id: 1109.0700
title: Could quantum mechanics, and even gravity, be all about a correct resolution of the classical self-force problem?
authors: Yehonatan Knoll
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author. See arXiv:1201.5281
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0700
abstract: The self-force problem of classical electrodynamics has two closely linked facets: The ill defined dynamics of a point charge due to the divergent self field at the position of the charge, and the divergence of formally conserved quantities, such as the energy, associated with symmetries of the corresponding Lagrangian. Fixing the self-force problem amounts to the construction of a \emph{new} theory, which is free of the above pathologies and yet "sufficiently close" to the immensely successful original. In a recent paper by the present author such a proposal, dubbed extended charge dynamics (ECD), was presented. The essential ingredients of classical electrodynamics preserved by ECD (and, among the plethora of solutions to the problem, only by ECD) are: - Ontology. The electromagnetic field is the same unquantized classical field, while charges are sufficiently localized conserved currents, accounting for the manifest corpuscular nature of elementary charges. - Symmetries. ECD enjoys the full symmetry group of classical electrodynamics, most importantly the hidden symmetry of scale covariance. - Conservation laws. All ECD conservation laws formally coincide with their classical counterparts, and yet lead to finite conserved quantities. Despite this seemingly classical setting, and the reduction of ECD to classical electrodynamics in the latter's domain of validity, it is shown in the present paper that ensembles of ECD solutions could, in principle, reproduce the statistical predictions of quantum mechanics. Exclusively quantum mechanical concepts, such as interference, violations of Bell's inequalities, spin and even photons (despite the use of a classical EM field), all emerge as mere statistical manifestations of the self interaction of ECD charges.

id: 1109.0728
title: The Quantum Absorption Refrigerator
authors: Amikam Levy, Ronnie Kosloff
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 070604 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0728
abstract: A quantum absorption refrigerator driven by noise is studied with the purpose of determining the limitations of cooling to absolute zero. The model consists of a working medium coupled simultaneously to hot, cold and noise baths. Explicit expressions for the cooling power are obtained for Gaussian and Poisson white noise. The quantum model is consistent with the first and second laws of thermodynamics. The third law is quantified, the cooling power J_c vanishes as J_c proportional to T_c^{alpha}, when T_c approach 0, where alpha =d+1 for dissipation by emission and absorption of quanta described by a linear coupling to a thermal bosonic field, where d is the dimension of the bath.

id: 1109.0790
title: Photon phonon entanglement in coupled optomechanical arrays
authors: Uzma Akram, William Munro, Kae Nemoto, G. J. Milburn
comments: Restructured paper after referee comments, Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042306 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0790
abstract: We consider an array of three optomechanical cavities coupled either reversibly or irreversibly to each other and calculate the amount of entanglement between the different optical and mechanical modes. We show the composite system exhibits intercavity photon-phonon entanglement.

id: 1109.0795
title: On the power quantum computation over real Hilbert spaces
authors: Matthew McKague
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0795
abstract: We consider the power of various quantum complexity classes with the restriction that states and operators are defined over a real, rather than complex, Hilbert space. It is well know that a quantum circuit over the complex numbers can be transformed into a quantum circuit over the real numbers with the addition of a single qubit. This implies that BQP retains its power when restricted to using states and operations over the reals. We show that the same is true for QMA(k), QIP(k), QMIP, and QSZK.

id: 1109.0802
title: Achieving the Han-Kobayashi inner bound for the quantum interference channel by sequential decoding
authors: Pranab Sen
comments: 34 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0802
abstract: In this paper, we study the power of sequential decoding strategies for several channels with classical input and quantum output. In our sequential decoding strategies, the receiver loops through all candidate messages trying to project the received state onto a `typical' subspace for the candidate message under consideration, stopping if the projection succeeds for a message, which is then declared as the guess of the receiver for the sent message. We show that even such a conceptually simple strategy can be used to achieve rates up to the mutual information for a single sender single receiver channel called cq-channel henceforth, as well as the standard inner bound for a two sender single receiver multiple access channel, called ccq-MAC in this paper. Our decoding scheme for the ccq-MAC uses a new kind of conditionally typical projector which is constructed using a geometric result about how two subspaces interact structurally. As the main application of our methods, we construct an encoding and decoding scheme achieving the Chong-Motani-Garg inner bound for a two sender two receiver interference channel with classical input and quantum output, called ccqq-IC henceforth. This matches the best known inner bound for the interference channel in the classical setting. Achieving the Chong-Motani-Garg inner bound, which is known to be equivalent to the Han-Kobayashi inner bound, answers an open question raised recently by Fawzi et al. (arxiv:1102.2624). Our encoding scheme is the same as that of Chong-Motani-Garg, and our decoding scheme is sequential.

id: 1109.0808
title: Exceptional points in bichromatic Wannier-Stark systems
authors: C Elsen, K Rapedius, D Witthaut, H J Korsch
comments: 19 pages, 14 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 225301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0808
abstract: The resonance spectrum of a tilted periodic quantum system for a bichromatic periodic potential is investigated. For such a bichromatic Wannier-Stark system exceptional points, degeneracies of the spectrum, can be localized in parameter space by means of an efficient method for computing resonances. Berry phases and Petermann factors are analyzed. Finally the influence of a nonlinearity of the Gross-Pitaevskii type on the resonance crossing scenario is briefly discussed.

id: 1109.0818
title: Entanglement beyond tensor product structure: algebraic aspects of quantum non - separability
authors: L. Derkacz, M. Gwozdz, L. Jakobczyk
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0818
abstract: Algebraic approach to quantum non - separability is applied to the case of two qubits. It is based on the partition of the algebra of observables into independent subalgebras and the tensor product structure of the Hilbert space is not exploited. Even in this simple case, such general formulation has some advantages. Using algebraic formalism we can explicitly show the relativity of the notion of entanglement to the observables measured in the system and characterize separable and non - separable pure states. As a universal measure of non - separability of pure states we propose to take so called total correlation. This quantity depends on the state as well as on the algebraic partition. Its numerical value is given by the norm of the corresponding correlation matrix

id: 1109.0855
title: XPM nonlinearities:generation of cross field noise correlations due to a novel symmetry
authors: Archana Sharma
comments: 14 pages 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0855
abstract: We have found a novel symmetry for XPM(Cross Phase Modulation) systems .We prove that this symmetry is a necessary condition for a single multiphoton process to be visible in more than one field.We have found, two EIT(Electromagnetically Induced Transparency) systems that show cases of this symmetry.The above process has the possibility of leading to strong sources of temporally entangled photons of different frequency. For cases that do not show this symmetry,more than one "species" of multiphoton processes can take place and each one is visible in one field only. Whether or not the symmetry is a sufficient condition for a single multiphoton process to be visible in more than one field, we predict cross field noise correlations for the scattered fields.Cross field noise correlations have recently been seen in a different situation that can provide interesting variation to our study,namely the generated fields in FWM(Four Wave Mixing). We postulate or conjecture the existence of two types of asymmetric multiphoton processes. One of systems we use for this purpose generates a $\chi^{(9)}$ absorption resonance that is observable on the same trace that shows linear features, in an experiment described in a previous work but the order of nonlinearity newly interpreted using this work.This high order nonlinearity should be very sensitive to cross field correlations.We show how it can be used to test our conjecture of asymmetric processes. We also come across an important $\chi^{(5)}$ absorption,comparable to linear absorption, that is anomalous.The anomaly is that the Imaginary part of this XPM nonlinearity can cause squeezing.We give a qualitative argument which shows that we don't expect the Imaginary part of the XPM nonlinearities we usually come across, to cause squeezing.This promising source of squeezing, is qualitatively different from the other sources hitherto known.

id: 1109.0886
title: Arrays of waveguide-coupled optical cavities that interact strongly with atoms
authors: G. Lepert, M. Trupke, M. J. Hartmann, M. B. Plenio, E. A. Hinds
comments: 30 pages, 8 figures. Submitted to New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 13 113002 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0886
abstract: We describe a realistic scheme for coupling atoms or other quantum emitters with an array of coupled optical cavities. We consider open Fabry-Perot microcavities coupled to the emitters. Our central innovation is to connect the microcavities to waveguide resonators, which are in turn evanescently coupled to each other on a photonic chip to form a coupled cavity chain. In this paper, we describe the components, their technical limitations and the factors that need to be determined experimentally. This provides the basis for a detailed theoretical analysis of two possible experiments to realize quantum squeezing and controlled quantum dynamics. We close with an outline of more advanced applications.

id: 1109.0907
title: Classical Dynamics of Quantum Entanglement
authors: Giulio Casati, Italo Guarneri, Jose Reslen
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures. New references to published related work have been added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0907
abstract: We numerically analyze the dynamical generation of quantum entanglement in a system of 2 interacting particles, started in a coherent separable state, for decreasing values of $\hbar$. As $\hbar\to 0$ the entanglement entropy, computed at any finite time, converges to a finite nonzero value. The limit law that rules the time dependence of entropy is well reproduced by purely classical computations. Its general features may then be explained by simple classical arguments, which expose the different ways entanglement is generated in systems which are classically chaotic or regular.

id: 1109.0954
title: Fundamental Speed Limits on Quantum Coherence and Correlation Decay
authors: Daniel Oi, Sophie Schirmer
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86(1), 012121 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0954
abstract: The study and control of coherence in quantum systems is one of the most exciting recent developments in physics. Quantum coherence plays a crucial role in emerging quantum technologies as well as fundamental experiments. A major obstacle to the utilization of quantum effects is decoherence, primarily in the form of dephasing that destroys quantum coherence, and leads to effective classical behaviour. We show that there are universal relationships governing dephasing, which constrain the relative rates at which quantum correlations can disappear. These effectively lead to speed limits which become especially important in multi-partite systems.

id: 1109.0957
title: The nonrelativistic limit of the Majorana equation and its simulation in trapped ions
authors: L. Lamata, J. Casanova, I. L. Egusquiza, E. Solano
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure. Proceedings of 18th Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics (CEWQO 2011), Madrid, Spain
journal: Phys. Scr. T147, 014017 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0957
abstract: We analyze the Majorana equation in the limit where the particle is at rest. We show that several counterintuitive features, absent in the rest limit of the Dirac equation, do appear. Among them, Dirac-like positive energy solutions that turn into negative energy ones by free evolution, or nonstandard oscillations and interference between real and imaginary spinor components for complex solutions. We also study the ultrarelativistic limit, showing that the Majorana and Dirac equations mutually converge. Furthermore, we propose a physical implementation in trapped ions.

id: 1109.0959
title: Tightening the eavesdropping accessible information for continuous variable quantum key distribution protocols that involve non-maximally entanglement
authors: A. Becir, M. R. Wahiddin
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0959
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn.

id: 1109.0977
title: Rescaling multipartite entanglement measures for mixed states
authors: Oliver Viehmann, Christopher Eltschka, Jens Siewert
comments: Published version plus one important reference (Ref. [39])
journal: Appl. Phys. B 106, 533-541 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0977
abstract: A relevant problem regarding entanglement measures is the following: Given an arbitrary mixed state, how does a measure for multipartite entanglement change if general local operations are applied to the state? This question is nontrivial as the normalization of the states has to be taken into account. Here we answer it for pure-state entanglement measures which are invariant under determinant 1 local operations and homogeneous in the state coefficients, and their convex-roof extension which quantifies mixed-state entanglement. Our analysis allows to enlarge the set of mixed states for which these important measures can be calculated exactly. In particular, our results hint at a distinguished role of entanglement measures which have homogeneous degree 2 in the state coefficients.

id: 1109.1003
title: Long-range quantum gates using dipolar crystals
authors: Hendrik Weimer, Norman Y. Yao, Chris R. Laumann, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 100501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1003
abstract: We propose the use of dipolar spin chains to enable long-range quantum logic between distant qubits. In our approach, an effective interaction between remote qubits is achieved by adiabatically following the ground state of the dipolar chain across the paramagnet to crystal phase transition. We demonstrate that the proposed quantum gate is particularly robust against disorder and derive scaling relations, showing that high-fidelity qubit coupling is possible in the presence of realistic imperfections. Possible experimental implementations in systems ranging from ultracold Rydberg atoms to arrays of Nitrogen-Vacancy defect centers in diamond are discussed.

id: 1109.1016
title: Can a polarization scrambler really depolarize light?
authors: Guilherme P. Tempor?o, Jean Pierre von der Weid
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1016
abstract: According to quantum theory, two ensembles of quantum systems that are described by the same density operator are indistinguishable. For example, unpolarized light can be obtained either by an incoherent mixture of two orthogonal pure states or by tracing out a photon from a maximally polarization-entangled photon pair. In both cases, one is unable to guess with probability greater than 50% the outcome of any polarization measurement, but the reasons are conceptually different: whereas the first case is a matter of classical ignorance (the photons were prepared in a definite but unknown way), the second one is of the quantum ignorance kind - if one cannot access the other degrees of freedom of the quantum state, there is no information that could be used to predict a measurement result. We use these concepts to discuss the quantum-physical interpretation of partially polarized light from the point of view of quantum communication and whether a polarization scrambler can really depolarize light. A novel definition of the degree of polarization of a single photon which does not depend on classical ignorance is also provided.

id: 1109.1029
title: Entanglement enhancement of a noisy classical communication channel
authors: H. Thomas Williams, Paul Bourdon
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1029
abstract: We present a formal quantum mechanical analysis of the communication protocol of Prevedel {\it et al.}\ [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{106}, 110505 (2011)], in which entanglement shared by sender and receiver is used to enhance, beyond that achievable via the optimal classical strategy, the probability of successful transmission of a bit through a particular noisy classical channel ${\cal N}$. We provide a full analysis of this protocol when the shared entanglement resides in a two-qubit system. Our analysis shows the measurement choices specified by the protocol yield the maximum possible enhancement of the probability of successful communication of the bit with one use of the channel ${\cal N}$. We determine that shared entanglement residing in a two-qudit system with $d > 2$ cannot provide enhancement beyond that produced by entangled qubits. Finally, we show how the protocol should be extended when probability parameters for the channel ${\cal N}$ are allowed to vary.

id: 1109.1049
title: Effect of Transmission Loss on The Fundamental Security of Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1049
abstract: It is shown that the effect of transmission loss has often not been properly taken into account in the security proofs on quantum key distribution. A class of general attacks to be called probabilistic re-sends attack is described that has not been accounted for, which is a generalization of the well-known unique state determination attack. In the case of the four-state single-photon BB84 protocol, it is shown in detail how such attacks are not accounted for in the known security proofs against the simplest individual attacks.

id: 1109.1051
title: Problems of Existing Unconditional Security Proofs in Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1051
abstract: It is repeatedly and persistently claimed in the literature that a specific trace criterion $d$ would guarantee universal composition security in quantum cryptography. Currently that is the sole basis of unconditional security claim in quantum key distribution. In this paper, it is shown that just security against known-plaintext attacks when the generated key is used in direct encryption is not provided by $d$. The problem is directly connected with several general problems in the existing unconditional security proofs in quantum key distribution. A number of issues will be clarified concerning the nature of true security, privacy amplification, key generation rate and the mathematical approach needed for their determination in concrete protocols.

id: 1109.1066
title: Fundamental And Practical Problems of QKD Security - the Actual and the Perceived Situation
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: This paper is being revised. It will appear later. 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1066
abstract: It is widely believed that quantum key distribution (QKD) has been proved unconditionally secure for realistic models applicable to various current experimental schemes. Here we summarize briefly why this is not the case, from both the viewpoints of fundamental quantitative security and applicable models of security analysis, with some morals drawn.

id: 1109.1106
title: Quantum contextuality in N-boson systems
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, M. Genovese, S. Olivares
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, LaTex
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 034102 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1106
abstract: Quantum contextuality in systems of identical bosonic particles is explicitly exhibited via the maximum violation of a suitable inequality of Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt type. Unlike the approaches considered so far, which make use of single-particle observables, our analysis involves collective observables constructed using multi-boson operators. An exemplifying scheme to test this violation with a quantum optical setup is also discussed.

id: 1109.1124
title: Chained Quantum Arnold Transformations
authors: Francisco F. L¨®pez-Ruiz, Julio Guerrero, Victor Aldaya
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures. To appear in J. Russ. Laser Res; J. Russ Laser Res. 32 (2011)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1124
abstract: We put forward the concatenation of Quantum Arnold Transformations as a tool to obtain the wave function of a particle subjected to a harmonic potential which is switched on and off successively. This simulates the capture and release process of an ion in a trap and provides a mathematical picture of this physical process.

id: 1109.1137
title: Quantum Control of Two-Qubit Entanglement Dissipation
authors: Sophie G. Schirmer, Allan I. Solomon
comments: 11 pages,4 figures, minor correction
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research 32(5), 502-510 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1137
abstract: We investigate quantum control of the dissipation of entanglement under environmental decoherence. We show by means of a simple two-qubit model that standard control methods - coherent or open-loop control - will not in general prevent entanglement loss. However, we propose a control method utilising a Wiseman-Milburn feedback/measurement control scheme which will effectively negate environmental entanglement dissipation.

id: 1109.1157
title: Geometric Phase and Non-Adiabatic Effects in an Electronic Harmonic Oscillator
authors: M. Pechal, S. Berger, A. A. Abdumalikov Jr., J. M. Fink, J. A. Mlynek, L. Steffen, A. Wallraff, S. Filipp
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 170401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1157
abstract: Steering a quantum harmonic oscillator state along cyclic trajectories leads to a path-dependent geometric phase. Here we describe an experiment observing this geometric phase in an electronic harmonic oscillator. We use a superconducting qubit as a non-linear probe of the phase, otherwise unobservable due to the linearity of the oscillator. Our results demonstrate that the geometric phase is, for a variety of cyclic trajectories, proportional to the area enclosed in the quadrature plane. At the transition to the non-adiabatic regime, we study corrections to the phase and dephasing of the qubit caused by qubit-resonator entanglement. The demonstrated controllability makes our system a versatile tool to study adiabatic and non-adiabatic geometric phases in open quantum systems and to investigate the potential of geometric gates for quantum information processing.

id: 1109.1197
title: Photon Routing in Cavity QED: Beyond the Fundamental Limit of Photon Blockade
authors: Serge Rosenblum, Scott Parkins, Barak Dayan
comments: 13 pages, 12 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 033854 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1197
abstract: The most simple and seemingly straightforward application of the photon blockade effect, in which the transport of one photon prevents the transport of others, would be to separate two incoming indistinguishable photons to different output ports. We show that time-energy uncertainty relations inherently prevent this ideal situation when the blockade is implemented by a two-level system. The fundamental nature of this limit is revealed in the fact that photon blockade in the strong coupling regime of cavity QED, resulting from the nonlinearity of the Jaynes-Cummings energy level structure, exhibits efficiency and temporal behavior identical to those of photon blockade in the bad cavity regime, where the underlying nonlinearity is that of the atom itself. We demonstrate that this limit can be exceeded, yet not avoided, by exploiting time-energy entanglement between the incident photons. Finally, we show how this limit can be circumvented completely by using a three-level atom coupled to a single-sided cavity, enabling an ideal and robust photon routing mechanism.

id: 1109.1199
title: Two-Frequency Jahn-Teller Systems in Circuit QED
authors: Tekin Dereli, Yusuf G¨¹l, Pol Forn-D¨ªaz, ?zg¨¹r E. M¨¹stecaplio?lu
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, figures revised
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053841 (2012) [8 pages]
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1199
abstract: We investigate the simulation of Jahn-Teller models with two non-degenerate vibrational modes using a circuit QED architecture. Typical Jahn-Teller systems are anisotropic and require at least a two-frequency description. The proposed simulator consists of two superconducting lumped-element resonators interacting with a common flux qubit in the ultrastrong coupling regime. We translate the circuit QED model of the system to a two-frequency Jahn-Teller Hamiltonian and calculate its energy eigenvalues and the emission spectrum of the cavities. It is shown that the system can be systematically tuned to an effective single mode Hamiltonian from the two-mode model by varying the coupling strength between the resonators. The flexibility in manipulating the parameters of the circuit QED simulator permits isolating the effective single frequency and pure two-frequency effects in the spectral response of Jahn-Teller systems.

id: 1109.1203
title: Improved Data Post-Processing in Quantum Key Distribution and Application to Loss Thresholds in Device Independent QKD
authors: Xiongfeng Ma, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 12, No. 3&4 (2012) 0203-0214
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1203
abstract: Security proofs of quantum key distribution (QKD) often require post-processing schemes to simplify the data structure, and hence the security proof. We show a generic method to improve resulting secure key rates by partially reversing the simplifying post-processing for error correction purposes. We apply our method to the security analysis of device-independent QKD schemes and of detection-device-independent QKD schemes, where in both cases one is typically required to assign binary values even to lost signals. In the device-independent case, the loss tolerance threshold is cut down by our method from 92.4% to 90.9%.The lowest tolerable transmittance of the detector-device-independent scheme can be improved from 78.0% to 65.9%.

id: 1109.1239
title: Dynamics of interacting qubits coupled to a common bath: Non-Markovian quantum state diffusion approach
authors: Xinyu Zhao, Jun Jing, Brittany Corn, Ting Yu
comments: 
journal: Phys Rev A. 84, 032101 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1239
abstract: Non-Markovian dynamics is studied for two interacting quibts strongly coupled to a dissipative bosonic environment. For the first time, we have derived the non-Markovian quantum state diffusion (QSD) equation for the coupled two-qubit system without any approximations, and in particular, without the Markov approximation. As an application and illustration of our derived time-local QSD equation, we investigate the temporal behavior of quantum coherence dynamics. In particular, we find a strongly non-Markovian regime where entanglement generation is significantly modulated by the environmental memory. Additionally, we studied the residual entanglement in the steady state by analyzing the steady state solution of the QSD equation. Finally, we have discussed an approximate QSD equation.

id: 1109.1299
title: Parity proofs of the Kochen-Specker theorem based on 60 complex rays in four dimensions
authors: Mordecai Waegell, P.K. Aravind
comments: 17 pages, 13 tables, 3 figures. Several new references have been added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math.Theor. 44 (2011) 505303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1299
abstract: It is pointed out that the 60 complex rays in four dimensions associated with a system of two qubits yield over 10^9 critical parity proofs of the Kochen-Specker theorem. The geometrical properties of the rays are described, an overview of the parity proofs contained in them is given, and examples of some of the proofs are exhibited.

id: 1109.1305
title: Validity of resonant two-qubit gates in the ultrastrong coupling regime of circuit QED
authors: Y. M. Wang, D. Ballester, G. Romero, V. Scarani, E. Solano
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures. Accepted for publication in Physica Scripta, special issue in relation with the 18th Central European Workshop on Quantum Optics
journal: Phys. Scr. T 147 (2012) 014031
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1305
abstract: We investigate theoretically the performance of two-qubit resonant gates in the crossover from the strong to the ultrastrong coupling (USC) regime of light-matter interaction in circuit QED. Two controlled-PHASE gate schemes---that works well within the rotating wave-approximation (RWA)---are analyzed while taking into account the effects of counter-rotating terms appearing in the Hamiltonian. Our numerical results show that the fidelity of the gate operation is above 96 % when the ratio between the coupling strength and the resonator frequency, g/\omega_r, is of about 10 %. Novel schemes are required in order to implement ultrafast quantum gates when increasing the ratio g/\omega_r.

id: 1109.1338
title: Non-Markovian quantum trajectories, instruments and time-continuous measurements
authors: Sven Kr?nke, Walter T. Strunz
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1338
abstract: The linear and the nonlinear non-Markovian quantum state diffusion equation (NMQSD) are well known tools for the description of certain non-Markovian open quantum systems. In this work, we systematically investigate whether the normalized linear NMQSD or the nonlinear NMQSD solutions can be generated by means of a time-continuous measurement. By considering any conceivable measurement scheme in the framework of instruments, we derive a necessary criterion for a measurement interpretation of both equations. Concrete examples show that the normalized linear NMQSD solutions are realizable only in the Markovian limit in general. The application of the presented criterion to the nonlinear NMQSD remains an open issue.

id: 1109.1349
title: Non-distillable entanglement guarantees distillable entanglement
authors: Lin Chen, Masahito Hayashi
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure. Contribution to the celebration of the 60th birthday of Vladimir Korepin; International Journal of Modern Physics B (IJMPB), Volume 26, Issue 27 & 28 (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1349
abstract: The monogamy of entanglement is one of the basic quantum mechanical features, which says that when two partners Alice and Bob are more entangled then either of them has to be less entangled with the third party. Here we qualitatively present the converse monogamy of entanglement: given a tripartite pure system and when Alice and Bob are entangled and non-distillable, then either of them is distillable with the third party. Our result leads to the classification of tripartite pure states based on bipartite reduced density operators, which is a novel and effective way to this long-standing problem compared to the means by stochastic local operations and classical communications. Furthermore we systematically indicate the structure of the classified states and generate them. We also extend our results to multipartite states.

id: 1109.1411
title: Distributed phase-covariant cloning with atomic ensembles via quantum Zeno dynamics
authors: Li-Tuo Shen, Huai-Zhi Wu, Zhen-Biao Yang
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur.Phys.J.D(2012)66:123
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1411
abstract: We propose an interesting scheme for distributed orbital state quantum cloning with atomic ensembles based on the quantum Zeno dynamics. These atomic ensembles which consist of identical three-level atoms are trapped in distant cavities connected by a single-mode integrated optical star coupler. These qubits can be manipulated through appropriate modulation of the coupling constants between atomic ensemble and classical field, and the cavity decay can be largely suppressed as the number of atoms in the ensemble qubits increases. The fidelity of each cloned qubit can be obtained with analytic result. The present scheme provides a new way to construct the quantum communication network.

id: 1109.1435
title: One-sided Device-Independent Quantum Key Distribution: Security, feasibility, and the connection with steering
authors: Cyril Branciard, Eric G. Cavalcanti, Stephen P. Walborn, Valerio Scarani, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: v2 replaces the 3-page abstract posted as v1: our results are now given with all necessary details. v3: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 010301(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1435
abstract: We analyze the security and feasibility of a protocol for Quantum Key Distribution (QKD), in a context where only one of the two parties trusts his measurement apparatus. This scenario lies naturally between standard QKD, where both parties trust their measurement apparatuses, and Device-Independent QKD (DI-QKD), where neither does, and can be a natural assumption in some practical situations. We show that the requirements for obtaining secure keys are much easier to meet than for DI-QKD, which opens promising experimental opportunities. We clarify the link between the security of this one-sided DI-QKD scenario and the demonstration of quantum steering, in analogy to the link between DI-QKD and the violation of Bell inequalities.

id: 1109.1447
title: Non-existence of invariant EPR correlation for two qudits, d>2
authors: Shengshi Pang, Shengjun Wu, Marek Zukowski
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1447
abstract: The two qubit (spin 1/2) singlet state has invariant perfect EPR correlations: if two observers measure {\em any} identical observables the results are always perfectly (anti-)correlated. We show that no such correlations exists in $d\otimes d$ pure or mixed bipartite quantum states if $d\geq3$. This points that two qubit singlets are high-quality quantum information carriers in long distance transmission: their correlations are unaffected by identical random unitary transformations of both qubits. Pairs of entangled qu$d$its, $d>2$, do not have this property. Thus, qu$d$it properties should be rather exploited only in protocols in which transmission is not a long distance one.

id: 1109.1473
title: Measurement-device-independent quantum key distribution
authors: Hoi-Kwong Lo, Marcos Curty, Bing Qi
comments: 7 pages, two-column format, 4 figures in total
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 130503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1473
abstract: How to remove detector side channel attacks has been a notoriously hard problem in quantum cryptography. Here, we propose a simple solution to this problem---*measurement* device independent quantum key distribution. It not only removes all detector side channels, but also doubles the secure distance with conventional lasers. Our proposal can be implemented with standard optical components with low detection efficiency and highly lossy channels. In contrast to the previous solution of full device independent QKD, the realization of our idea does not require detectors of near unity detection efficiency in combination with a qubit amplifier (based on teleportation) or a quantum non-demolition measurement of the number of photons in a pulse. Furthermore, its key generation rate is many orders of magnitude higher than that based on full device independent QKD. The results show that long-distance quantum cryptography over say 200km will remain secure even with seriously flawed detectors.

id: 1109.1487
title: New Protocols and Lower Bound for Quantum Secret Sharing with Graph States
authors: J¨¦r?me Javelle, Mehdi Mhalla, Simon Perdrix
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1487
abstract: We introduce a new family of quantum secret sharing protocols with limited quantum resources which extends the protocols proposed by Markham and Sanders and by Broadbent, Chouha, and Tapp. Parametrized by a graph G and a subset of its vertices A, the protocol consists in: (i) encoding the quantum secret into the corresponding graph state by acting on the qubits in A; (ii) use a classical encoding to ensure the existence of a threshold. These new protocols realize ((k,n)) quantum secret sharing i.e., any set of at least k players among n can reconstruct the quantum secret, whereas any set of less than k players has no information about the secret. In the particular case where the secret is encoded on all the qubits, we explore the values of k for which there exists a graph such that the corresponding protocol realizes a ((k,n)) secret sharing. We show that for any threshold k> n-n^{0.68} there exists a graph allowing a ((k,n)) protocol. On the other hand, we prove that for any k< 79n/156 there is no graph G allowing a ((k,n)) protocol. As a consequence there exists n_0 such that the protocols introduced by Markham and Sanders admit no threshold k when the secret is encoded on all the qubits and n>n_0.

id: 1109.1503
title: Observation of anomalous diffusion and fractional self-similarity in one dimension
authors: Yoav Sagi, Miri Brook, Ido Almog, Nir Davidson
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 093002 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1503
abstract: We experimentally study anomalous diffusion of ultra-cold atoms in a one dimensional polarization optical lattice. The atomic spatial distribution is recorded at different times and its dynamics and shape are analyzed. We find that the width of the cloud exhibits a power-law time dependence with an exponent that depends on the lattice depth. Moreover, the distribution exhibits fractional self-similarity with the same characteristic exponent. The self-similar shape of the distribution is found to be well-fitted by a L\'{e}vy distribution, but with a characteristic exponent that differs from the temporal one. Numerical simulations suggest that this may be due to correlations between the atoms' velocity and flight duration.

id: 1109.1512
title: Universal digital quantum simulation with trapped ions
authors: B. P. Lanyon, C. Hempel, D. Nigg, M. M¨¹ller, R. Gerritsma, F. Z?hringer, P. Schindler, J. T. Barreiro, M. Rambach, G. Kirchmair, M. Hennrich, P. Zoller, R. Blatt, C. F. Roos
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures (main article) + 31 pages, 9 figures (supplementary online material)
journal: Science 334, 57 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1512
abstract: A digital quantum simulator is an envisioned quantum device that can be pro- grammed to efficiently simulate any other local system. We demonstrate and investigate the digital approach to quantum simulation in a system of trapped ions. Using sequences of up to 100 gates and 6 qubits, the full time dynamics of a range of spin systems are digitally simulated. Interactions beyond those naturally present in our simulator are accurately reproduced and quantitative bounds are provided for the overall simulation quality. Our results demon- strate the key principles of digital quantum simulation and provide evidence that the level of control required for a full-scale device is within reach.

id: 1109.1584
title: Distinguishability of hyperentangled Bell state by linear evolution and local projective measurement
authors: N. Pisenti, C. P. E. Gaebler, T. W. Lynn
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 84, 022340 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1584
abstract: Measuring an entangled state of two particles is crucial to many quantum communication protocols. Yet Bell state distinguishability using a finite apparatus obeying linear evolution and local measurement is theoretically limited. We extend known bounds for Bell-state distinguishability in one and two variables to the general case of entanglement in $n$ two-state variables. We show that at most $2^{n+1}-1$ classes out of $4^n$ hyper-Bell states can be distinguished with one copy of the input state. With two copies, complete distinguishability is possible. We present optimal schemes in each case.

id: 1109.1588
title: Stability of Frustration-Free Hamiltonians
authors: Spyridon Michalakis, Justyna Pytel
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure, updated references, discussion includes note on stability of symmetry-protected and higher-energy sectors, and a path towards extending the result to frustrated, gapped Hamiltonians. Added new section on overview of the proof and updated the Introduction and Appendices
journal: Commun. Math. Phys., Vol. 322, Issue 2, (2013), p. 277-302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1588
abstract: We prove stability of the spectral gap for gapped, frustration-free Hamiltonians under general, quasi-local perturbations. We present a necessary and sufficient condition for stability, which we call "Local Topological Quantum Order" and show that this condition implies an area law for the entanglement entropy of the groundstate subspace. This result extends previous work by Bravyi et al., on the stability of topological quantum order for Hamiltonians composed of commuting projections with a common zero-energy subspace. We conclude with a list of open problems relevant to spectral gaps and topological quantum order.

id: 1109.1636
title: Non-monotonic quantum to classical transition in multiparticle interference
authors: Young-Sik Ra, Malte C. Tichy, Hyang-Tag Lim, Osung Kwon, Florian Mintert, Andreas Buchleitner, Yoon-Ho Kim
comments: 
journal: Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 110, 1227-1231 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1636
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate the non-monotonic dependence of genuine many-particle interference signals on the particles' mutual distinguishability. Our theoretical analysis shows that such non-monotonicity is a generic feature of the quantum to classical transition in multiparticle correlation functions of more than two particles.

id: 1109.1640
title: Experimental detection of quantum information sharing and their quanti?cation in quantum spin systems
authors: Diptaranjan Das, Tanmoy Chakraborty, Harkirat Singh, Chiranjib Mitra
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1640
abstract: We study the macroscopic entanglement properties of a low dimensional quantum spin system by investigating its magnetic properties at low temperatures and high magnetic ?elds. The tempera- ture and magnetic ?eld dependence of entanglement from the susceptibility and magnetization data comparing the experimental extraction with theoretical estimates are given. Extraction of entan- glement has been made possible through the macroscopic witness operators magnetic susceptibility. The protocol followed in doing so has been outlined in some recent work. Various plots of entan- glement comparing the experimental extraction with theoretical estimates are given. Quantitative comparison between concurrence and entanglement witness is given for both the theoretical and experimental results. Theory and experiments match over a wide range of temperature and ?eld. The spin system studied is a chain, which exhibits dimerisation and yields fascinating entanglement properties when the temperature and magnetic ?eld is varied. These spin systems exhibit quantum phase transition (QPT) at low temperatures, when the magnetic ?eld is swept through a critical value. We show explicitly for the ?rst time, using tools used in quantum information processing (QIP), that quantum phase transition (QPT) can be captured experimentally using canonically conjugate observables. Macroscopically, quantum complementarity relation clearly delineates entangled states from separable states across the QPT. We have estimated the partial information sharing in this system from our magnetization and susceptibility data. The complementarity relation has been experimentally veri?ed to hold in this system

id: 1109.1666
title: Cavity cooling of a trapped atom using Electromagnetically-Induced Transparency
authors: Marc Bienert, Giovanna Morigi
comments: To appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 023002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1666
abstract: A cooling scheme for trapped atoms is proposed, which combines cavity-enhanced scattering and electromagnetically induced transparency. The cooling dynamics exploits a three-photon resonance, which combines laser and cavity excitations. It is shown that relatively fast ground-state cooling can be achieved in the Lamb-Dicke regime and for large cooperativity. Efficient ground-state cooling is found for parameters of ongoing experiments.

id: 1109.1674
title: A Linear-Optical Proof that the Permanent is #P-Hard
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Proceedings of the Royal Society A. doi: 10.1098/rspa.2011.0232
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1674
abstract: One of the crown jewels of complexity theory is Valiant's 1979 theorem that computing the permanent of an n*n matrix is #P-hard. Here we show that, by using the model of linear-optical quantum computing---and in particular, a universality theorem due to Knill, Laflamme, and Milburn---one can give a different and arguably more intuitive proof of this theorem.

id: 1109.1696
title: Monogamy properties of quantum and classical correlations
authors: Gian Luca Giorgi
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 84, 054301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1696
abstract: In contrast with entanglement, as measured by concurrence, in general, quantum discord does not possess the property of monogamy, that is, there is no tradeoff between the quantum discord shared by a pair of subsystems and the quantum discord that both of them can share with a third party. Here, we show that, as far as monogamy is considered, quantum discord of pure states is equivalent to the entanglement of formation. This result allows one to analytically prove that none of the pure three-qubit states belonging to the subclass of W states is monogamous. A suitable physical interpretation of the meaning of the correlation information as a quantifier of monogamy for the total information is also given. Finally, we prove that, for rank 2 two-qubit states, discord and classical correlations are bounded from above by single-qubit von Neumann entropies.

id: 1109.1697
title: A note on topological insulator phase in non-hermitian quantum systems
authors: Pijush K. Ghosh
comments: Latex, 12 pages, no figure; Added discussions, Version to appear in Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 24 (2012) 145302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1697
abstract: Examples of non-hermitian quantum systems admitting topological insulator phase are presented in one, two and three space dimensions. All of these non-hermitian Hamiltonians have entirely real bulk eigenvalues and unitarity is maintained with the introduction of appropriate inner-products in the corresponding Hilbert spaces. The topological invariant characterizing a particular phase is shown to be identical for a non-hermitian Hamiltonian and its hermitian counterpart, to which it is related through a non-unitary similarity transformation. A classification scheme for topological insulator phases in pseudo-hermitian quantum systems is suggested.

id: 1109.1714
title: Encoding an Arbitrary State in a [7,1,3] Quantum Error Correction Code
authors: Sidney D. Buchbinder, Channing L. Huang, Yaakov S. Weinstein
comments: 10 pages, 6 composite figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing 12, 699 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1714
abstract: We calculate the fidelity with which an arbitrary state can be encoded into a [7,1,3] CSS quantum error correction code in a non-equiprobable Pauli operator error environment with the goal of determining whether this encoding can be used for practical implementations of quantum computation. This determination is accomplished by applying ideal error correction to the encoded state which demonstrates the correctability of errors that occurred during the encoding process. We then apply single-qubit Clifford gates to the encoded state and determine the accuracy with which these gates can be applied. Finally, fault tolerant noisy error correction is applied to the encoded states in the non-equiprobable Pauli operator error environment allowing us to compare noisy (realistic) and perfect error correction implementations. We note that this maintains the fidelity of the encoded state for certain error-probability values. These results have implications for when non-fault tolerant procedures may be used in practical quantum computation and whether quantum error correction should be applied at every step in a quantum protocol.

id: 1109.1744
title: Comment on "Security analysis and improvements of arbitrated quantum signature schemes"
authors: Tzonelih Hwang, Yi-Ping Luo, Song-Kong Chong
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1105.1232
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1744
abstract: Recently, Zou et al. [Phys. Rev. A 82, 042325 (2010)] demonstrated that two arbitrated quantum signature (AQS) schemes are not secure, because an arbitrator cannot arbitrate the dispute between two users when a receiver repudiates the integrity of a signature. By using a public board, Zou et al. proposed two AQS schemes to solve the problem. This work shows that the same security problem may exist in Zou et al.'s schemes. Moreover, a malicious verifier, Bob, can actively negate a signed order if he wants to. This attack, a special case of denial-of-service (DoS) attack mentioned in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 109801 (2003)], is important in quantum cryptography. Bob may get some benefits with this DoS attack, since he can actively deny Alice's signed order without being detected. This work also shows that a malicious signer can reveal the verifier's secret key without being detected by using Trojan-horse attacks.

id: 1109.1762
title: A high-speed tunable beam splitter for feed-forward photonic quantum information processing
authors: Xiao-song Ma, Stefan Zotter, Nuray Tetik, Angie Qarry, Thomas Jennewein, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 19, Issue 23, pp. 22723-22730 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1762
abstract: We realize quantum gates for path qubits with a high-speed, polarization-independent and tunable beam splitter. Two electro-optical modulators act in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer as high-speed phase shifters and rapidly tune its splitting ratio. We test its performance with heralded single photons, observing a polarization-independent interference contrast above 95%. The switching time is about 5.6 ns, and a maximal repetition rate is 2.5 MHz. We demonstrate tunable feed-forward operations of a single-qubit gate of path-encoded qubits and a two-qubit gate via measurement-induced interaction between two photons.

id: 1109.1763
title: Consistent assignment of quantum probabilities
authors: Manas K. Patra, Ron van der Meyden
comments: 19 pages
journal: J. Phys. A 45 075304, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1763
abstract: We pose and solve a problem concerning consistent assignment of quantum probabilities to a set of bases associated with maximal projective measurements. We show that our solution is optimal. We also consider some consequences of the main theorem in the paper in conjunction with Gleason's theorem. Some potential applications to state tomography and probabilistic quantum secret-sharing scheme are discussed.

id: 1109.1769
title: Heat radiation from long cylindrical objects
authors: Vladyslav A. Golyk, Matthias Kr¨¹ger, Mehran Kardar
comments: 16 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 046603 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1769
abstract: The heat radiated by objects small or comparable to the thermal wavelength can be very different from the classical blackbody radiation as described by the laws of Planck and Stefan-Boltzmann. We use methods based on scattering of electromagnetic waves to explore the dependence on size, shape, as well as material properties. In particular, we explore the radiation from a long cylinder at uniform temperature, discussing in detail the degree of polarization of the emitted radiation. If the radius of the cylinder is much smaller than the thermal wavelength, the radiation is polarized parallel to the cylindrical axis and becomes perpendicular when the radius is comparable to the thermal wavelength. For a cylinder of uniaxial material (a simple model for carbon nanontubes), we find that the influence of uniaxiality on the polarization is most pronounced if the radius is larger than a few microns, and quite small for submicron sizes typical for nanotubes.

id: 1109.1779
title: Entanglement distillation by extendible maps
authors: Lukasz Pankowski, Fernando G.S.L. Brandao, Michal Horodecki, Graeme Smith
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Q. Inf. Comp. 13, 751 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1779
abstract: It is known that from entangled states that have positive partial transpose it is not possible to distill maximally entangled states by local operations and classical communication (LOCC). A long-standing open question is whether maximally entangled states can be distilled from every state with a non-positive partial transpose. In this paper we study a possible approach to the question consisting of enlarging the class of operations allowed. Namely, instead of LOCC operations we consider k-extendible operations, defined as maps whose Choi-Jamiolkowski state is k-extendible. We find that this class is unexpectedly powerful - e.g. it is capable of distilling EPR pairs even from product states. We also perform numerical studies of distillation of Werner states by those maps, which show that if we raise the extension index k simultaneously with the number of copies of the state, then the class of k-extendible operations is not that powerful anymore and provide a better approximation to the set of LOCC operations.

id: 1109.1818
title: Time Evolution of Harmonic Oscillator Thermal Momentum Superposition States
authors: Ole Steuernagel
comments: 6 pages 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1818
abstract: The time evolution of thermal states of a mirror released from a tight harmonic trap is studied. After the release no dissipation is assumed to be present and the mirror is, after a time delay, kicked into a momentum superposition state. The thermal character of the initial state washes out the telltale interference patterns of the superposition but no loss of coherence is found. This investigation resolves a controversy about decoherence--without--dissipation and shows that entrained measurements can be surprisingly insensitive to temperature effects.

id: 1109.1853
title: Engineering mesoscopic superpositions of superfluid flow
authors: David W. Hallwood, Joachim Brand
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043620 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1853
abstract: Modeling strongly correlated atoms demonstrates the possibility to prepare quantum superpositions that are robust against experimental imperfections and temperature. Such superpositions of vortex states are formed by adiabatic manipulation of interacting ultracold atoms confined to a one-dimensional ring trapping potential when stirred by a barrier. Here, we discuss the influence of non-ideal experimental procedures and finite temperature. Adiabaticity conditions for changing the stirring rate reveal that superpositions of many atoms are most easily accessed in the strongly-interacting, Tonks-Girardeau, regime, which is also the most robust at finite temperature. NOON-type superpositions of weakly interacting atoms are most easily created by adiabatically decreasing the interaction strength by means of a Feshbach resonance. The quantum dynamics of small numbers of particles is simulated and the size of the superpositions is calculated based on their ability to make precision measurements. Experimental creation of strongly correlated and NOON-type superpositions with about 100 atoms seems feasible in the near future.

id: 1109.1866
title: Quantum Walks on the Line with Phase Parameters
authors: Marcos Villagra, Masaki Nakanishi, Shigeru Yamashita, Yasuhiko Nakashima
comments: In v2 a small typo was fixed. The exponent in the definition of N_j in Theorem 3 was changed from -1/2 to 1. 20 pages, 3 figures. Presented at 10th Asian Conference on Quantum Information Science (AQIS'10). Tokyo, Japan. August 27-31, 2010
journal: IEICE Trans. Inf. & Syst., Vol. E95.D, No. 3, pp.722-730, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1866
abstract: In this paper, a study on discrete-time coined quantum walks on the line is presented. Clear mathematical foundations are still lacking for this quantum walk model. As a step towards this objective, the following question is being addressed: {\it Given a graph, what is the probability that a quantum walk arrives at a given vertex after some number of steps?} This is a very natural question, and for random walks it can be answered by several different combinatorial arguments. For quantum walks this is a highly non-trivial task. Furthermore, this was only achieved before for one specific coin operator (Hadamard operator) for walks on the line. Even considering only walks on lines, generalizing these computations to a general SU(2) coin operator is a complex task. The main contribution is a closed-form formula for the amplitudes of the state of the walk (which includes the question above) for a general symmetric SU(2) operator for walks on the line. To this end, a coin operator with parameters that alters the phase of the state of the walk is defined. Then, closed-form solutions are computed by means of Fourier analysis and asymptotic approximation methods. We also present some basic properties of the walk which can be deducted using weak convergence theorems for quantum walks. In particular, the support of the induced probability distribution of the walk is calculated. Then, it is shown how changing the parameters in the coin operator affects the resulting probability distribution.

id: 1109.1943
title: Encryption with Weakly Random Keys Using Quantum Ciphertext
authors: J. Bouda, M. Pivoluska, M. Plesch
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: QIC Vol.12 No.5&6 pp0394-0402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1943
abstract: The lack of perfect randomness can cause significant problems in securing communication between two parties. McInnes and Pinkas proved that unconditionally secure encryption is impossible when the key is sampled from a weak random source. The adversary can always gain some information about the plaintext, regardless of the cryptosystem design. Most notably, the adversary can obtain full information about the plaintext if he has access to just two bits of information about the source (irrespective on length of the key). In this paper we show that for every weak random source there is a cryptosystem with a classical plaintext, a classical key, and a quantum ciphertext that bounds the adversary's probability p to guess correctly the plaintext strictly under the McInnes-Pinkas bound, except for a single case, where it coincides with the bound. In addition, regardless of the source of randomness, the adversary's probability p is strictly smaller than 1 as long as there is some uncertainty in the key (Shannon/min-entropy is non-zero). These results are another demonstration that quantum information processing can solve cryptographic tasks with strictly higher security than classical information processing.

id: 1109.1954
title: Entanglement in a 3-spin Heisenberg-XY chain with nearest-neighbor interactions, simulated in an NMR quantum simulator
authors: K. Rama Koteswara Rao, Anil Kumar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1954
abstract: The evolution of entanglement in a 3-spin chain with nearest-neighbor Heisenberg-XY interactions for different initial states is investigated here. In an NMR experimental implementation, we generate multipartite entangled states starting from initial separable pseudo-pure states by simulating nearest-neighbor XY interactions in a 3-spin linear chain of nuclear spin qubits. For simulating XY interactions, we follow algebraic method of Zhang et al. [Phys. Rev. A 72, 012331 (2005)]. Bell state between end qubits has been generated by using only the unitary evolution of the XY Hamiltonian. For generating W-state and GHZ-state a single qubit rotation is applied on second and all the three qubits respectively after the unitary evolution of the XY Hamiltonian.

id: 1109.2004
title: Near threshold all-optical backaction amplifier
authors: Terry G. McRae, Warwick P. Bowen
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2004
abstract: A near threshold all-optical backaction amplifier is realized. Operating near threshold in an integrated micronscale architecture allows a nearly three orders of magnitude improvement in both gain and optical power requirements over the only previous all-optical implementation, with 37 dB of gain achieved for only 12 uW of input power. Minor adjustments to parameters allows optical filtering with narrow bandwidth dictated by the mechanical quality factor. Operation at cryogenic temperatures may enable standard quantum limit surpassing measurements and ponderomotive squeezing.

id: 1109.2022
title: Reconstructing the quantum state of oscillator networks with a single qubit
authors: Tommaso Tufarelli, Alessandro Ferraro, M. S. Kim, Sougato Bose
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032334 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2022
abstract: We introduce a scheme to reconstruct arbitrary states of networks composed of quantum oscillators--e.g., the motional state of trapped ions or the radiation state of coupled cavities. The scheme uses minimal resources, in the sense that it i) requires only the interaction between one-qubit probe and one constituent of the network; ii) provides the reconstructed state directly from the data, avoiding any tomographic transformation; iii) involves the tuning of only one coupling parameter. In addition, we show that a number of quantum properties can be extracted without full reconstruction of the state. The scheme can be used for probing quantum simulations of anharmonic many-body systems and quantum computations with continuous variables. Experimental implementation with trapped ions is also discussed and shown to be within reach of current technology.

id: 1109.2070
title: Optimal linear optical implementation of a single-qubit damping channel
authors: Kent Fisher, Robert Prevedel, Rainer Kaltenbaek, Kevin J. Resch
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys 14, 033016 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2070
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate a single-qubit decohering quantum channel using linear optics. We implement the channel, whose special cases include both the amplitude-damping channel and the bit-flip channel, using a single, static optical setup. Following a recent theoretical result [M. Piani et al., Phys. Rev. A, 84, 032304 (2011)], we realize the channel in an optimal way, maximizing the probability of success, i.e., the probability for the photonic qubit to remain in its encoding. Using a two-photon entangled resource, we characterize the channel using ancilla-assisted process tomography and find average process fidelities of 0.9808 \pm 0.0002 and 0.9762 \pm 0.0002 for amplitude-damping and the bit-flip case, respectively.

id: 1109.2103
title: Entanglement-secured single-qubit quantum secret-sharing
authors: P. Scherpelz, R. Resch, D. Berryrieser, T. W. Lynn
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Physical Review A 84, 032303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2103
abstract: In single-qubit quantum secret sharing, a secret is shared between N parties via manipulation and measurement of one qubit at a time. Each qubit is sent to all N parties in sequence; the secret is encoded in the first participant's preparation of the qubit state and the subsequent participants' choices of state rotation or measurement basis. We present a protocol for single-qubit quantum secret sharing using polarization entanglement of photon pairs produced in type-I spontaneous parametric downconversion. We investigate the protocol's security against eavesdropping attack under common experimental conditions: a lossy channel for photon transmission, and imperfect preparation of the initial qubit state. A protocol which exploits entanglement between photons, rather than simply polarization correlation, is more robustly secure. We implement the entanglement-based secret-sharing protocol with 87% secret-sharing fidelity, limited by the purity of the entangled state produced by our present apparatus. We demonstrate a photon-number splitting eavesdropping attack, which achieves no success against the entanglement-based protocol while showing the predicted rate of success against a correlation-based protocol.

id: 1109.2160
title: Stability analysis of surface ion traps
authors: Arkadas Ozakin, Fayaz Shaikh
comments: 
journal: J. Appl. Phys. 112, 074904 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2160
abstract: Motivated by recent developments in ion trap design and fabrication, we investigate the stability of ion motion in asymmetrical, planar versions of the classic Paul trap. The equations of motion of an ion in such a trap are generally coupled due to a nonzero relative angle $\theta$ between the principal axes of RF and DC fields, invalidating the assumptions behind the standard stability analysis for symmetric Paul traps. We obtain stability diagrams for the coupled system for various values of $\theta$, generalizing the standard $q$-$a$ stability diagrams. We use multi-scale perturbation theory to obtain approximate formulas for the boundaries of the primary stability region and obtain some of the stability boundaries independently by using the method of infinite determinants. We cross-check the consistency of the results of these methods. Our results show that while the primary stability region is quite robust to changes in $\theta$, a secondary stability region is highly variable, joining the primary stability region at the special case of $\theta=45^{\circ}$, which results in a significantly enlarged stability region for this particular angle. We conclude that while the stability diagrams for classical, symmetric Paul traps are not entirely accurate for asymmetric surface traps (or for other types of traps with a relative angle between the RF and DC axes), they are safe in the sense that operating conditions deemed stable according to standard stability plots are in fact stable for asymmetric traps, as well. By ignoring the coupling in the equations, one only underestimates the size of the primary stability region.

id: 1109.2177
title: Dispersion of the dielectric permittivity of dense and ultracold atomic gases
authors: Ya. A. Fofanov, A. S. Kuraptsev, I. M. Sokolov, M.D. Havey
comments: 1. Paper is to appear in Physical Review A. 2. Refer also to JETP 112, 246 (2011)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053811 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2177
abstract: On the basis of general theoretical results developed previously in JETP 112, 246 (2011) we analyze the atomic polarization created by weak monochromatic light in an optically thick, dense and cold atomic ensemble. We show that the amplitude of the polarization averaged over a uniform random atomic distribution decreases exponentially beyond the boundary regions. The phase of this polarization increases linearly with increasing penetration into the medium. On these grounds, we determine numerically the wavelength of the light in the dense atomic medium, its extinction coefficient, and the complex refractive index and dielectric constant of the medium. The dispersion of the permittivity is investigated for different atomic densities. It is shown that for dense clouds, the real part of the permittivity is negative in some spectral domains.

id: 1109.2187
title: Hermitian scattering behavior for the non-Hermitian scattering center
authors: L. Jin, Z. Song
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012111 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2187
abstract: We study the scattering problem for the non-Hermitian scattering center, which consists of two Hermitian clusters with anti-Hermitian couplings between them. Counterintuitively, it is shown that it acts as a Hermitian scattering center, satisfying $|r| ^{2}+|t| ^{2}=1$, i.e., the Dirac probability current is conserved, when one of two clusters is embedded in the waveguides. This conclusion can be applied to an arbitrary parity-symmetric real Hermitian graph with additional PT-symmetric potentials, which is more feasible in experiment. Exactly solvable model is presented to illustrate the theory. Bethe ansatz solution indicates that the transmission spectrum of such a cluster displays peculiar feature arising from the non-Hermiticity of the scattering center.

id: 1109.2197
title: On unified-entropy characterization of quantum channels
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 12 pages, no figures. Typos are fixed. One lemma is extended and removed to Appendix
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2197
abstract: We consider properties of quantum channels with use of unified entropies. Extremal unravelings of quantum channel with respect to these entropies are examined. The concept of map entropy is extended in terms of the unified entropies. The map $(q,s)$-entropy is naturally defined as the unified $(q,s)$-entropy of rescaled dynamical matrix of given quantum channel. Inequalities of Fannes type are obtained for introduced entropies in terms of both the trace and Frobenius norms of difference between corresponding dynamical matrices. Additivity properties of introduced map entropies are discussed. The known inequality of Lindblad with the entropy exchange is generalized to many of the unified entropies. For tensor product of a pair of quantum channels, we derive two-sided estimating of the output entropy of a maximally entangled input state.

id: 1109.2203
title: Quantum energy teleportation in a quantum Hall system
authors: Go Yusa, Wataru Izumida, Masahiro Hotta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2203
abstract: We propose an experimental method for a quantum protocol termed quantum energy teleportation (QET), which allows energy transportation to a remote location without physical carriers. Using a quantum Hall system as a realistic model, we discuss the physical significance of QET and estimate the order of energy gain using reasonable experimental parameters.

id: 1109.2221
title: Bright six-partite continuous variable entanglement using cascaded four-wave mixing processes in a four-level atomic system
authors: Guangqiang He, Xufei Wu, Yi Gu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2221
abstract: We theoretically show that bright six-partite continuous-variable entanglement can be generated using cascaded four-wave mixing effects of third-order nonlinearity atomic systems above threshold. The six-partite continuous-variable entanglement among the six cavity fields with different frequencies is analyzed by applying optimized inseparability criteria proposed by Van Loock and Furusawa.

id: 1109.2234
title: Creation of Two-Particle Entanglement in Open Macroscopic Quantum Systems
authors: M. Merkli, G.P. Berman, F. Borgonovi, V.I. Tsifrinovic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2234
abstract: We consider an open quantum system of N not directly interacting spins (qubits) in contact with both local and collective thermal environments. The qubit-environment interactions are energy conserving. We trace out the variables of the thermal environments and N-2 qubits to obtain the time-dependent reduced density matrix for two arbitrary qubits. We numerically simulate the reduced dynamics and the creation of entanglement (concurrence) as a function of the parameters of the thermal environments and the number of qubits, N. Our results demonstrate that the two-qubit entanglement generally decreases as N increases. We show analytically that in the limit N tending to infinity, no entanglement can be created. This indicates that collective thermal environments cannot create two-qubit entanglement when many qubits are located within a region of the size of the environment coherence length. We discuss possible applications of our approach to the development of a new quantum characterization of noisy environments.

id: 1109.2243
title: Estimating the reduction time of quantum states
authors: Fernando Parisio
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2243
abstract: An effective description of microscopic measurements is given, in which the precise moment of probing is not determined. Within this scenario we propose a scheme that relies on an "attempt" to make a forbidden simultaneous measurement of two incompatible observables. Although bound to failure in what concerns this goal, the process can lead to information on a possible non-vanishing time scale $\delta t$ involved in the collapsing of the wave function, even if the duration $\Delta t$ of the individual measurements is much larger than $\delta t$.

id: 1109.2268
title: Efficient Collection of Single Photons Emitted from a Trapped Ion into a Single Mode Fiber for Scalable Quantum Information Processing
authors: Taehyun Kim, Peter Maunz, Jungsang Kim
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2268
abstract: Interference and coincidence detection of two photons emitted by two remote ions can lead to an entangled state which is a critical resource for scalable quantum information processing. Currently, the success probabilities of experimental realizations of this protocol are mainly limited by low coupling efficiency of a photon emitted by an ion into a single mode fiber. Here, we consider two strategies to enhance the collection probability of a photon emitted from a trapped Yb ion, using analytic methods that can be easily applied to other types of ion or neutral atoms. Our analysis shows that we can achieve fiber coupling efficiency of over 30% with an optical cavity made of a flat fiber tip and a spherical mirror. We also investigate ways to increase the fiber coupling efficiency using high numerical aperture optics, and show that collection probability of over 15% is possible with proper control of aberration.

id: 1109.2295
title: A gravitational wave observatory operating beyond the quantum shot-noise limit: Squeezed light in application
authors: LIGO Scientific Collaboration
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2295
abstract: Around the globe several observatories are seeking the first direct detection of gravitational waves (GWs). These waves are predicted by Einstein's General Theory of Relativity [Einstein, A., Annalen der Physik 49, 769-822 (1916)] and are generated e.g. by black-hole binary systems [Sathyaprakash, B. S. and Schutz, B. F., Living Rev. Relativity 12, 2 (2009)]. Current GW detectors are Michelson-type kilometer-scale laser interferometers measuring the distance changes between in vacuum suspended mirrors. The sensitivity of these detectors at frequencies above several hundred hertz is limited by the vacuum (zero-point) fluctuations of the electromagnetic field. A quantum technology - the injection of squeezed light [Caves, C. M., Phys. Rev. D 23, 1693-1708 (1981)] - offers a solution to this problem. Here we demonstrate the squeezed-light enhancement of GEO600, which will be the GW observatory operated by the LIGO Scientific Collaboration in its search for GWs for the next 3-4 years. GEO600 now operates with its best ever sensitivity, which proves the usefulness of quantum entanglement and the qualification of squeezed light as a key technology for future GW astronomy.

id: 1109.2300
title: A characterization of optimal entanglement witnesses
authors: Xiaofei Qi, Jinchuan Hou
comments: 15
journal: Phy. Rev. A, 85, 022334 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2300
abstract: In this paper, we present a characterization of optimal entanglement witnesses in terms of positive maps and then provide a general method of checking optimality of entanglement witnesses. Applying it, we obtain new indecomposable optimal witnesses which have no spanning property. These also provide new examples which support a recent conjecture saying that the so-called structural physical approximations to optimal positive maps (optimal entanglement witnesses) give entanglement breaking maps (separable states).

id: 1109.2330
title: Side-channel-free quantum key distribution
authors: Samuel L. Braunstein, Stefano Pirandola
comments: Considering general quantum systems, we extended QKD to the presence of an untrusted relay, whose measurement creates secret correlations in remote stations (achievable rate lower-bounded by the coherent information). This key ingredient, i.e., the use of a measurement-based untrusted relay, has been called 'measurement-device independence' in another arXiv submission (arXiv:1109.1473)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 130502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2330
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) offers the promise of absolutely secure communications. However, proofs of absolute security often assume perfect implementation from theory to experiment. Thus, existing systems may be prone to insidious side-channel attacks that rely on flaws in experimental implementation. Here we replace all real channels with virtual channels in a QKD protocol, making the relevant detectors and settings inside private spaces inaccessible while simultaneously acting as a Hilbert space filter to eliminate side-channel attacks. By using a quantum memory we find that we are able to bound the secret-key rate below by the entanglement-distillation rate computed over the distributed states.

id: 1109.2381
title: Feedback Enhanced Sensitivity in Optomechanics: Surpassing the Parametric Instability Barrier
authors: Glen I. Harris, Ulrik L. Andersen, Joachim Knittel, Warwick P. Bowen
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2381
abstract: The intracavity power, and hence sensitivity, of optomechanical sensors is commonly limited by parametric instability. Here we characterize the parametric instability induced sensitivity degradation in a micron scale cavity optomechanical system. Feedback via optomechanical transduction and electrical gradient force actuation is applied to suppress the parametric instability. As a result a 5.4 fold increase in mechanical motion transduction sensitivity is achieved to a final value of $1.9\times 10^{-18}\rm m Hz^{-1/2}$.

id: 1109.2412
title: Decoherence, Time Scales and Pointer States
authors: Tabish Qureshi
comments: Few important modifications. To appear in Physica A
journal: Physica A 391 (2012) 2286-2290
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2412
abstract: Certain issues regarding the time-scales over which environment-induced decoherence occurs, and the nature of emergent pointer states, are discussed. A model system, namely, a Stern-Gerlach setup coupled to a quantum mechanical "heat-bath" is studied. The emergent pointer states for this system are obtained, which are different from those discussed in the literature. It is pointed out that this difference is due to some confusion regarding the decoherence time-scale, which is clarified here.

id: 1109.2426
title: Optical lattice quantum simulator for QED in strong external fields: spontaneous pair creation and the Sauter-Schwinger effect
authors: Nikodem Szpak, Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 21 pages, 10 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 035001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2426
abstract: Spontaneous creation of electron-positron pairs out of the vacuum due to a strong electric field is a spectacular manifestation of the relativistic energy-momentum relation for the Dirac fermions. This fundamental prediction of Quantum Electrodynamics (QED) has not yet been confirmed experimentally as the generation of a sufficiently strong electric field extending over a large enough space-time volume still presents a challenge. Surprisingly, distant areas of physics may help us to circumvent this difficulty. In condensed matter and solid state physics (areas commonly considered as low energy physics), one usually deals with quasi-particles instead of real electrons and positrons. Since their mass gap can often be freely tuned, it is much easier to create these light quasi-particles by an analogue of the Sauter-Schwinger effect. This motivates our proposal of a quantum simulator in which excitations of ultra-cold atoms moving in a bichromatic optical lattice represent particles and antiparticles (holes) satisfying a discretized version of the Dirac equation together with fermionic anti-commutation relations. Using the language of second quantization, we are able to construct an analogue of the spontaneous pair creation which can be realized in an (almost) table-top experiment.

id: 1109.2438
title: Measuring non-Markovianity of processes with controllable system-environment interaction
authors: Jian-Shun Tang, Chuan-Feng Li, Yu-Long Li, Xu-Bo Zou, Guang-Can Guo, Heinz-Peter Breuer, Elsi-Mari Laine, Jyrki Piilo
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. V2: Minor modifications, title changed
journal: EPL 97, 10002 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2438
abstract: Non-Markovian processes have recently become a central topic in the study of open quantum systems. We realize experimentally non-Markovian decoherence processes of single photons by combining time delay and evolution in a polarization-maintaining optical fiber. The experiment allows the identification of the process with strongest memory effects as well as the determination of a recently proposed measure for the degree of quantum non-Markovianity based on the exchange of information between the open system and its environment. Our results show that an experimental quantification of memory in quantum processes is indeed feasible which could be useful in the development of quantum memory and communication devices.

id: 1109.2455
title: Compressed quantum simulation of the Ising model
authors: B. Kraus
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 250503 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2455
abstract: In [R. Jozsa, B. Kraus, A. Miyake, J. Watrous, Proc. R. Soc. A {\bf 466}, 809-830 (2010)] it has been shown that a match gate circuit running on n qubits can be compressed to a universal quantum computation on \log(n)+3 qubits. Here, we show how this compression can be employed to simulate the Ising interaction of a 1D--chain consisting out of n qubits using a universal quantum computer running on log(n) qubits. We demonstrate how the adiabatic evolution can be realized on this exponentially smaller system and how the magnetization, which shows a quantum phase transition, can be measured.

id: 1109.2456
title: Phase transitions and dark-state physics in two-color superradiance
authors: Mathias Hayn, Clive Emary, Tobias Brandes
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053856 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2456
abstract: We theoretically study an extension of the Dicke model, where the single-particle Hamiltonian has three energy levels in Lambda-configuration, i.e. the excited state is coupled to two non-degenerate ground states via two independent quantized light fields. The corresponding many-body Hamiltonian can be diagonalized in the thermodynamic limit with the help of a generalized Holstein--Primakoff transformation. Analyzing the ground-state energy and the excitation energies, we identify one normal and two superradiant phases, separated by phase transitions of both first and second order. A phase with both superradiant states coexisting is not stable. In addition, in the limit of two degenerate ground states a dark state emerges, which seems to be analogous to the dark state appearing in the well known stimulated Raman adiabatic passage scheme.

id: 1109.2470
title: Inherent Mach-Zehnder interference with "which-way" detection for single particle scattering in one dimension
authors: Lan Zhou, Yue Chang, H. Dong, Le-Man Kuang, C. P. Sun
comments: 5 papges, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013806 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2470
abstract: We study the coherent transport of single photon in a one-dimensional coupled-resonator-array, "non-locally" coupled to a two-level system. Since its inherent structure is a Mach-Zehnder interferometer, we explain the destructive interference phenomenon of the transmission spectrums according to the effect of which-way detection. The quantum realization of the present model is a nano-electromechanical resonator arrays with two nearest resonators coupled to a single spin via their attached magnetic tips. Its classical simulation is a waveguide of coupled defected cavity array with double couplings to a side defected cavity.

id: 1109.2486
title: Quantum privacy witness
authors: Konrad Banaszek, Karol Horodecki, Pawe? Horodecki
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2486
abstract: While it is usually known that the mean value of a single observable is enough to detect entanglement or its distillability, the counterpart of such an approach in the case of quatum privacy has been missing. Here we develop the concept of a privacy witness, i.e. a single observable that may detect presence of the secure key even in the case of bound entanglement. Then we develop the notion of secret key estimation based on few observables and discuss the witness decomposition into local measurements. The surprising property of the witness is that with the help of a low number of product mesurements involved it may still report the key values that are {\it strictly above} distillable entanglement of the state. For an exemplary four-qubit state studied in a recent experiment [K. Dobek {\em et al.}, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 106}, 030501 (2011)] this means 6 Pauli operator product measurements versus 81 needed to carry out the complete quantum state tomography. The present approach may be viewed as a paradigm for the general program of experimentally friendly detection and estimation of task-dedicated quantum entanglement.

id: 1109.2490
title: Nonlinear spectroscopy of superconducting anharmonic resonators
authors: David P. DiVincenzo, John A. Smolin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2490
abstract: We formulate a model for the steady state response of a nonlinear quantum oscillator structure, such as those used in a variety of superconducting qubit experiments, when excited by a steady, but not necessarily small, ac tone. We show that this model can be derived directly from a circuit description of some recent qubit experiments in which the state of the qubit is read out directly, without a SQUID magnetometer. The excitation profile has a rich structure depending on the detuning of the tone from the small-signal resonant frequency, on the degree of damping, and on the excitation amplitude. We explore two regions in detail: First, at high damping there is a trough in the excitation response as a function of detuning, near where the classical Duffing bifurcation occurs. This trough has been understood as a classical interference between two metastable responses with opposite phase. We use Wigner function studies to show that while this picture is roughly correct, there are also more quantum mechanical aspects to this feature. Second, at low damping we study the emergence of sharp, discrete spectral features from a continuum response. We show that these the structures, associated with discrete transitions between different excited-state eigenstates of the oscillator, provide an interesting example of a quantum Fano resonance. The trough in the Fano response evolves continuously from the "classical" trough at high damping.

id: 1109.2495
title: Continuous variable quantum key distribution based on optical entangled states without signal modulation
authors: Xiaolong Su, Wenzhe Wang, Yu Wang, Xiaojun Jia, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: 
journal: EPL, 87, 20005 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2495
abstract: In this paper, we present the first experimental demonstration on continuous variable quantum key distribution using determinant Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen entangled states of optical field. By means of the instantaneous measurements of the quantum fluctuations of optical modes respectively distributed at sender and receiver, the random bits of secret key are obtained without the need for signal modulation. The post-selection boundaries for the presented entanglement-based scheme against both Gaussian collective and individual attacks are theoretically concluded. The final secret key rates of 84 kbits/s and 3 kbits/s are completed under the collective attack for the transmission efficiency of 80% and 40%, respectively.

id: 1109.2496
title: Numerical study of three-body recombination for systems with many bound states
authors: Jia Wang, J.P. D'Incao, Chris H. Greene
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, submit to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052721 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2496
abstract: Three-body recombination processes are treated numerically for a system of three identical bosons. The two-body model potentials utilized support many bound states, a major leap in complexity that produces an intricate structure of sharp nonadiabatic avoided crossings in the three-body hyperradial adiabatic potentials at short distances. This model thus displays the usual difficulties of more realistic systems. To overcome the numerical challenges associated with sharp avoided crossings, the slow variable discretization (SVD) approach is adopted in the region of small hyperradii. At larger hyperradii, where the adiabatic potentials and couplings are smooth, the traditional adiabatic method suffices. Despite the high degree of complexity, recombination into deeply bound states behaves regularly due to the dominance of one decay pathway, resulting from the strong coupling between different recombination channels. Moreover, the usual Wigner threshold law must be modified for excited incident recombination channels.

id: 1109.2508
title: Hybrid ququart-encoded quantum cryptography protected by Kochen-Specker contextuality
authors: Adan Cabello, Vincenzo D'Ambrosio, Eleonora Nagali, Fabio Sciarrino
comments: REVTeX4-1, 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 030302(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2508
abstract: Quantum cryptographic protocols based on complementarity are nonsecure against attacks in which complementarity is imitated with classical resources. The Kochen-Specker (KS) theorem provides protection against these attacks, without requiring entanglement or spatially separated composite systems. We analyze the maximum tolerated noise to guarantee the security of a KS-protected cryptographic scheme against these attacks, and describe a photonic realization of this scheme using hybrid ququarts defined by the polarization and orbital angular momentum of single photons.

id: 1109.2510
title: Tomographic Quantum Cryptography Protocols are Reference Frame Independent
authors: Le Phuc Thinh, Lana Sheridan, Valerio Scarani
comments: Published version. 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 10, No. 3 (2012) 1250035
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2510
abstract: We consider the class of reference frame independent protocols in d dimensions for quantum key distribution, in which Alice and Bob have one natural basis that is aligned and the rest of their frames are unaligned. We relate existing approaches to tomographically complete protocols. We comment on two different approaches to finite key bounds in this setting, one direct and one using the entropic uncertainty relation and suggest that the existing finite key bounds can still be improved.

id: 1109.2519
title: Quantum entanglement distribution with 810 nm photons through active telecommunication fibers
authors: Catherine Holloway, Evan Meyer-Scott, Chris Erven, Thomas Jennewein
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2519
abstract: We demonstrate the distribution of polarization-entangled photons for the purpose of quantum key distribution (QKD) along active telecom fibers. Entangled photon pairs of 810 nm wavelength generated by a Sagnac interferometer source were coupled into standard telecom single mode fibers. The fibers were either dark or carrying a standardized 1550 nm ethernet signals (1000BASE-ZX) with a nominal speed of 1 GBps from regular media converter devices, without any requirements on the optical power or spectrum transmitted. Our system demonstrates a QKD network covering 6 km in distance with a central service provider for classical and quantum data.

id: 1109.2537
title: Finite size scaling for quantum criticality using the finite-element method
authors: Edwin Antillon, Birgit Wehefritz-Kaufmann, Sabre Kais
comments: 15 pages, 19 figures, revision based on suggestions by referee, accepted in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E85:036706,2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2537
abstract: Finite size scaling for the Schr\"{o}dinger equation is a systematic approach to calculate the quantum critical parameters for a given Hamiltonian. This approach has been shown to give very accurate results for critical parameters by using a systematic expansion with global basis-type functions. Recently, the finite element method was shown to be a powerful numerical method for ab initio electronic structure calculations with a variable real-space resolution. In this work, we demonstrate how to obtain quantum critical parameters by combining the finite element method (FEM) with finite size scaling (FSS) using different ab initio approximations and exact formulations. The critical parameters could be atomic nuclear charges, internuclear distances, electron density, disorder, lattice structure, and external fields for stability of atomic, molecular systems and quantum phase transitions of extended systems. To illustrate the effectiveness of this approach we provide detailed calculations of applying FEM to approximate solutions for the two-electron atom with varying nuclear charge; these include Hartree-Fock, density functional theory under the local density approximation, and an "exact"' formulation using FEM. We then use the FSS approach to determine its critical nuclear charge for stability; here, the size of the system is related to the number of elements used in the calculations. Results prove to be in good agreement with previous Slater-basis set calculations and demonstrate that it is possible to combine finite size scaling with the finite-element method by using ab initio calculations to obtain quantum critical parameters. The combined approach provides a promising first-principles approach to describe quantum phase transitions for materials and extended systems.

id: 1109.2560
title: Moment-Based Evidence for Simple Rational-Valued Hilbert-Schmidt Generic 2 x 2 Separability Probabilities
authors: Paul B. Slater
comments: 47 pages, 12 figures; slightly expanded and modified for journal publication; this paper incorporates and greatly extends arXiv:1104.0217
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 095305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2560
abstract: Employing Hilbert-Schmidt measure, we explicitly compute and analyze a number of determinantal product (bivariate) moments |rho|^k |rho^{PT}|^n, k,n=0,1,2,3,..., PT denoting partial transpose, for both generic (9-dimensional) two-rebit (alpha = 1/2) and generic (15-dimensional) two-qubit (alpha=1) density matrices rho. The results are, then, incorporated by Dunkl into a general formula (Appendix D6), parameterized by k, n and alpha, with the case alpha=2, presumptively corresponding to generic (27-dimensional) quaternionic systems. Holding the Dyson-index-like parameter alpha fixed, the induced univariate moments (|rho| |rho^{PT}|)^n and |rho^{PT}|^n are inputted into a Legendre-polynomial-based (least-squares) probability-distribution reconstruction algorithm of Provost (Mathematica J., 9, 727 (2005)), yielding alpha-specific separability probability estimates. Since, as the number of inputted moments grows, estimates based on |rho| |rho^{PT}| strongly decrease, while ones employing |rho^{PT}| strongly increase (and converge faster), the gaps between upper and lower estimates diminish, yielding sharper and sharper bounds. Remarkably, for alpha = 2, with the use of 2,325 moments, a separability-probability lower-bound 0.999999987 as large as 26/323 = 0.0804954 is found. For alpha=1, based on 2,415 moments, a lower bound results that is 0.999997066 times as large as 8/33 = 0.242424, a (simpler still) fractional value that had previously been conjectured (J. Phys. A, 40, 14279 (2007)). Furthermore, for alpha = 1/2, employing 3,310 moments, the lower bound is 0.999955 times as large as 29/64 = 0.453125, a rational value previously considered (J. Phys. A, 43, 195302 (2010)).

id: 1109.2563
title: The Garden-Hose Model
authors: Harry Buhrman, Serge Fehr, Christian Schaffner, Florian Speelman
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure, accepted at QCRYPT 2011. v2: fixed problem with missing references, no changes in content, v3: equivalent to final ITCS 2013 proceedings version. Substantial updates: re-ordering of subjects, introduction of randomized and quantum garden-hose models. Previous Section 3 regarding the optimality of a particular attack is removed but can be found in arxiv:1210.4353
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2563
abstract: We define a new model of communication complexity, called the garden-hose model. Informally, the garden-hose complexity of a function f:{0,1}^n x {0,1}^n to {0,1} is given by the minimal number of water pipes that need to be shared between two parties, Alice and Bob, in order for them to compute the function f as follows: Alice connects her ends of the pipes in a way that is determined solely by her input x \in {0,1}^n and, similarly, Bob connects his ends of the pipes in a way that is determined solely by his input y \in {0,1}^n. Alice turns on the water tap that she also connected to one of the pipes. Then, the water comes out on Alice's or Bob's side depending on the function value f(x,y). We prove almost-linear lower bounds on the garden-hose complexity for concrete functions like inner product, majority, and equality, and we show the existence of functions with exponential garden-hose complexity. Furthermore, we show a connection to classical complexity theory by proving that all functions computable in log-space have polynomial garden-hose complexity. We consider a randomized variant of the garden-hose complexity, where Alice and Bob hold pre-shared randomness, and a quantum variant, where Alice and Bob hold pre-shared quantum entanglement, and we show that the randomized garden-hose complexity is within a polynomial factor of the deterministic garden-hose complexity. Examples of (partial) functions are given where the quantum garden-hose complexity is logarithmic in n while the classical garden-hose complexity can be lower bounded by n^c for constant c>0. Finally, we show an interesting connection between the garden-hose model and the (in)security of a certain class of quantum position-verification schemes.

id: 1109.2565
title: Optimizing adiabaticity in quantum mechanics
authors: R. MacKenzie, M. Pineault, L. Renaud-Desjardins
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Canadian Journal of Physics 90, 187 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2565
abstract: A condition on the Hamiltonian of a time-dependent quantum mechanical system is derived which, if satisfied, implies optimal adiabaticity (defined below). The condition is expressed in terms of the Hamiltonian and in terms of the evolution operator related to it. Since the latter depends in a complicated way on the Hamiltonian, it is not yet clear how the condition can be used to extract useful information about the optimal Hamiltonian. The condition is tested on an exactly-soluble time-dependent problem (a spin in a magnetic field), where perfectly adiabatic evolution can be easily identified.

id: 1109.2570
title: Assessing thermalization and estimating the Hamiltonian with output data only
authors: Jochen Rau
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 84, 052101 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2570
abstract: I consider the generic situation where a finite number of identical test systems in varying (possibly unknown) initial states are subjected independently to the same unknown process. I show how one can infer from the output data alone whether or not the process in question induces thermalization, and if so, which constants of the motion characterize the final equilibrium states. In case thermalization does occur and there is no evidence for constants of the motion other than energy, I further show how the same output data can be used to estimate the test systems' effective Hamiltonian. For both inference tasks I devise a statistical framework inspired by the generic techniques of factor and principal component analysis. I illustrate its use in the simple example of qubits.

id: 1109.2591
title: Polar codes for classical-quantum channels
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Saikat Guha
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures; v2 in IEEE format with minor changes; v3 final version accepted for publication in the IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory vol. 59, no. 2, pages 1175-1187 (February 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2591
abstract: Holevo, Schumacher, and Westmoreland's coding theorem guarantees the existence of codes that are capacity-achieving for the task of sending classical data over a channel with classical inputs and quantum outputs. Although they demonstrated the existence of such codes, their proof does not provide an explicit construction of codes for this task. The aim of the present paper is to fill this gap by constructing near-explicit "polar" codes that are capacity-achieving. The codes exploit the channel polarization phenomenon observed by Arikan for the case of classical channels. Channel polarization is an effect in which one can synthesize a set of channels, by "channel combining" and "channel splitting," in which a fraction of the synthesized channels are perfect for data transmission while the other fraction are completely useless for data transmission, with the good fraction equal to the capacity of the channel. The channel polarization effect then leads to a simple scheme for data transmission: send the information bits through the perfect channels and "frozen" bits through the useless ones. The main technical contributions of the present paper are threefold. First, we leverage several known results from the quantum information literature to demonstrate that the channel polarization effect occurs for channels with classical inputs and quantum outputs. We then construct linear polar codes based on this effect, and the encoding complexity is O(N log N), where N is the blocklength of the code. We also demonstrate that a quantum successive cancellation decoder works well, in the sense that the word error rate decays exponentially with the blocklength of the code. For this last result, we exploit Sen's recent "non-commutative union bound" that holds for a sequence of projectors applied to a quantum state.

id: 1109.2610
title: On the entanglement of a quantum field with a dispersive medium
authors: Israel Klich
comments: Final published PRL version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 061601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2610
abstract: In this Letter we study the entanglement of a quantum radiation field interacting with a dielectric medium. In particular, we describe the quantum mixed state of a field interacting with a dielectric through plasma and Drude models and show that these generate very different entanglement behavior, as manifested in the entanglement entropy of the field. We also present a formula for a "Casimir" entanglement entropy, i.e., the distance dependence of the field entropy. Finally, we study a toy model of the interaction between two plates. In this model, the field entanglement entropy is divergent; however, as in the Casimir effect, its distance-dependent part is finite, and the field matter entanglement is reduced when the objects are far.

id: 1109.2662
title: The Heun differential equation and the Gauss differential equation related to quantum walks
authors: Norio Konno, Takuya Machida, Tohru Wakasa
comments: Yokohama Mathematical Journal, Vol.58, pp.53-63 (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2662
abstract: The limit theorems of discrete- and continuous-time quantum walks on the line have been intensively studied. We show a relation among limit distributions of quantum walks, Heun differential equations and Gauss differential equations. Indeed, we derive the second-order Fucksian differential equations which limit density functions of quantum walks satisfy. Moreover, using both differential equations, we discuss a relationship between discrete- and continuous-time quantum walks. Taking suitable limit, we can transform a Heun equation obtained from the limit density function of the discrete-time quantum walk to a Gauss equation given by that of the continuous-time quantum walk.

id: 1109.2666
title: Information and fidelity in projective measurements
authors: Hiroaki Terashima
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A85 (2012) 022124
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2666
abstract: In this study, we explicitly calculate information and fidelity of an r-rank projective measurement on a completely unknown state in a d-dimensional Hilbert space. We also show a tradeoff between information and fidelity at the level of a single outcome and discuss the efficiency of measurement with respect to fidelity.

id: 1109.2675
title: Security Significance of the Trace Distance Criterion in Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Horace P. Yuen
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2675
abstract: The security significance of the trace distance security criterion $d$ is analyzed in terms of operational probabilities of an attacker's success in identifying different subsets of the generated key, both during the key generation process and when the key is used in one-time pad data encryption under known-plaintext attacks. The difference between Eve's sequence error rate and bit error rate is brought out. It is shown with counter-examples that the strong security claim maintained in the literature is incorrect. Other than the whole key error rates that can be quantified at the levels d^{1/3} and d^{1/4} which are much worse than $d$ itself, the attacker's success probabilities in estimating various subsets of the key and in known-plaintext attacks are yet to be quantified from $d$ if possible. It is demonstrated in realistic numerical examples of concrete protocols that drastic breach of security cannot yet be ruled out.

id: 1109.2677
title: Experimental control of the transition from Markovian to non-Markovian dynamics of open quantum systems
authors: Bi-Heng Liu, Li Li, Yun-Feng Huang, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo, Elsi-Mari Laine, Heinz-Peter Breuer, Jyrki Piilo
comments: The original submitted version; Nature Physics advance online publication, 11 September 2011
journal: Nature Physics 7, 931-934 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2677
abstract: Realistic quantum mechanical systems are always exposed to an external environment. The presence of the environment often gives rise to a Markovian process in which the system loses information to its surroundings. However, many quantum systems exhibit a pronounced non-Markovian behavior in which there is a flow of information from the environment back to the system, signifying the presence of quantum memory effects [1-5]. The environment is usually composed of a large number of degrees of freedom which are difficult to control, but some sophisticated schemes for modifying the environment have been developed [6]. The physical realization and control of dynamical processes in open quantum systems plays a decisive role, for example, in recent proposals for the generation of entangled states [7-9], for schemes of dissipative quantum computation [10], for the design of quantum memories [11] and for the enhancement of the efficiency in quantum metrology [12]. Here we report an experiment which allows through selective preparation of the initial environmental states to drive the open system from the Markovian to the non-Markovian regime, to control the information flow between the system and the environment, and to determine the degree of non-Markovianity by direct measurements on the open system.

id: 1109.2751
title: Phase-reversed structures in superlattice of nonlinear materials
authors: D.A. Antonosyan, G.Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2751
abstract: We present detailed description of so-called phase-reversed structures that are characterized by two grating wave vectors allowing simultaneously phase-match two parametric three-wave processes. The novelty is that the structure is realized as a definite assembly of nonlinear segments leading to detailed description of cascaded three-photon processes with the parameters of realistic structured nonlinear materials of finite length. We apply these results for analysis of the quasi-phase-matching in production of both photon triplet and four-photon states in cascaded down-conversion. The received results are matched with the experimental data.

id: 1109.2831
title: Extremal properties of the variance and the quantum Fisher information
authors: Geza Toth, Denes Petz
comments: 12 pages including 3 figures, revtex4; v2: numerical calculations for density matrices with a rank larger than 2 added; v3: small changes, some typos corrected; v4: two additional figures, typos corrected, Theorem 3 added; v4: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032324 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2831
abstract: We show that the variance is its own concave roof. For rank-2 density matrices and operators with zero diagonal elements in the eigenbasis of the density matrix, we prove analytically that the quantum Fisher information is four times the convex roof of the variance. Strong numerical evidence suggests that this statement is true even for operators with nonzero diagonal elements or density matrices with a rank larger than 2. We also find that within the different types of generalized quantum Fisher information considered in [D. Petz, J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 35, 929 (2002); P. Gibilisco, F. Hiai, and D. Petz, IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 55, 439 (2009)], after appropriate normalization, the quantum Fisher information is the largest. Hence, we conjecture that the quantum Fisher information is four times the convex roof of the variance even for the general case.

id: 1109.2844
title: Using Hash-Based Signatures to Bootstrap Quantum Key Distribution
authors: S¨¦bastien Kunz-Jacques, Paul Jouguet
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2844
abstract: Quantum Key Distribution is a secret distribution technique that requires an authenticated channel. This channel is usually created on top of an un-authenticated communication medium using unconditionally secure Message Authentication Codes (MAC) and an initial common secret. We examine the consequences of replacing this MAC algorithm by a cryptographic hash-based signature algorithm, like the Lamport algorithm. We show that provided one-way functions exist, the Lamport algorithm or its variants can be instantiated in a secure way in the Universally Composable sense, and can therefore be plugged into any QKD protocol with a composable security proof in a secure manner. This association, while relying on short-term computational hardness assumptions, results in an increase of the practical security of QKD and eases its deployment.

id: 1109.2995
title: Finite geometry models of electric field noise from patch potentials in ion traps
authors: Guang Hao Low, Peter F. Herskind, Isaac L. Chuang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2995
abstract: We model electric field noise from fluctuating patch potentials on conducting surfaces by taking into account the finite geometry of the ion trap electrodes to gain insight into the origin of anomalous heating in ion traps. The scaling of anomalous heating rates with surface distance, $d$, is obtained for several generic geometries of relevance to current ion trap designs, ranging from planar to spheroidal electrodes. The influence of patch size is studied both by solving Laplace's equation in terms of the appropriate Green's function as well as through an eigenfunction expansion. Scaling with surface distance is found to be highly dependent on the choice of geometry and the relative scale between the spatial extent of the electrode, the ion-electrode distance, and the patch size. Our model generally supports the $d^{-4}$ dependence currently found by most experiments and models, but also predicts geometry-driven deviations from this trend.

id: 1109.3009
title: Spin 1/2 particle in the field of the Dirac string on the background of de Sitter space-time
authors: V.M. Red'kov, E.M. Ovsiyuk, O.V. Veko
comments: 27 pages, 46 references; Report to 18 Conference NPCS-2011, May 17-20, 2011, Minsk, Belarus
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3009
abstract: The Dirac monopole string is specified for de Sitter cosmological model. Dirac equation for spin 1/2 particle in presence of this monopole has been examined on the background of de Sitter space-time in static coordinates. Instead of spinor monopole harmonics, the technique of Wigner D-functions is used. After separation of the variables, detailed analysis of the radial equations is performed; four types of solutions, singular, regular, in- and out- running waves, are constructed in terms of hypergeometric functions. The complete set of spinor wave solutions \Psi_{\epsilon, j,m, \lambda}(t,r, \theta, \phi) has been constructed, special attention is given to treating the states of minimal values of the total angular moment j_{\min}.

id: 1109.3034
title: Convex politopes and quantum separability
authors: Fedrico Holik, Angel Plastino
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3034
abstract: We advance a novel perspective of the entanglement issue that appeals to the Schlienz-Mahler measure [Phys. Rev. A 52, 4396 (1995)]. Related to it, we propose an criterium based on the consideration of convex subsets of quantum states. This criterium generalizes a property of product states to convex subsets (of the set of quantum-states) that is able to uncover a new geometrical property of the separability property.

id: 1109.3059
title: Filter-design perspective applying to dynamical decoupling of a multi-qubit system
authors: Su Zhi-Kun, Jiang Shao-Ji
comments: 20 pages,5 figures, submitted to Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and Optics Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3059
abstract: We employ the filter-design perspective and derive the filter functions according to nested Uhrig dynamical decoupling (NUDD) and Symmetric dynamical decoupling (SDD) in the pure-dephasing spin-boson model with N qubits. The performances of NUDD and SDD are discussed in detail for a two-qubit system. The analysis shows that (i) SDD outperforms NUDD for the bath with a soft cutoff while NUDD approaches SDD as the cutoff becomes harder; (ii) if the qubits are coupled to a common reservoir, SDD helps to protect the decoherence-free subspace while NUDD destroys it; (iii) when the the imperfect control pulses with finite width are considered, NUDD is affected in both the high-fidelity regime and coherence time regime while SDD is affected in the coherence time regime only.

id: 1109.3077
title: Solution of the quantum harmonic oscillator plus a delta-function potential at the origin: The oddness of its even-parity solutions
authors: J. Viana-Gomes, N. M. R. Peres
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 32 1377 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3077
abstract: We derive the energy levels associated with the even-parity wave functions of the harmonic oscillator with an additional delta-function potential at the origin. Our results bring to the attention of students a non-trivial and analytical example of a modification of the usual harmonic oscillator potential, with emphasis on the modification of the boundary conditions at the origin. This problem calls the attention of the students to an inaccurate statement in quantum mechanics textbooks often found in the context of solution of the harmonic oscillator problem.

id: 1109.3113
title: Conserved Correlation in PT -symmetric Systems: Scattering and Bound States
authors: Kumar Abhinav, Arun Jayannavar, P. K. Panigrahi
comments: 9 pages
journal: Ann. Phys. 331 (2013) 110
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3113
abstract: For one-dimensional PT -symmetric systems, it is observed that the non-local product obtained from the continuity equation can be interpreted as a conserved corre- lation function. This leads to physical conclusions, regarding both discrete and continuum states of such systems. Asymptotic states are shown to have necessarily broken PT -symmetry, leading to modified scattering and transfer matrices. This yields restricted boundary conditions, e.g., in- cidence from both sides, analogous to that of the proposed PT CPA laser. The interpretation of left and right states leads to a Hermitian S-matrix, resulting in the non-conservation of the flux. This further satisfies a duality condition, identical to the optical analogues. However, the non-local conserved scalar implements alternate boundary conditions in terms of in and out states, leading to the pseudo-Hermiticity condition in terms of the scattering matrix. Interestingly, when PT -symmetry is preserved, it leads to stationary states with real energy, naturally inter- pretable as bound states. The broken PT -symmetric phase is also captured by this correlation, with complex-conjugate pair of energies, interpreted as resonances.

id: 1109.3128
title: Measuring protein concentration with entangled photons
authors: Andrea Crespi, Mirko Lobino, Jonathan C. F. Matthews, Alberto Politi, Chris R. Neal, Roberta Ramponi, Roberto Osellame, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 100, 233704 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3128
abstract: Optical interferometry is amongst the most sensitive techniques for precision measurement. By increasing the light intensity a more precise measurement can usually be made. However, in some applications the sample is light sensitive. By using entangled states of light the same precision can be achieved with less exposure of the sample. This concept has been demonstrated in measurements of fixed, known optical components. Here we use two-photon entangled states to measure the concentration of the blood protein bovine serum albumin (BSA) in an aqueous buffer solution. We use an opto-fluidic device that couples a waveguide interferometer with a microfluidic channel. These results point the way to practical applications of quantum metrology to light sensitive samples.

id: 1109.3149
title: Reply to "Comment on `Resilience of gated avalanche photodiodes against bright illumination attacks in quantum cryptography'"
authors: Z. L. Yuan, J. F. Dynes, A. J. Shields
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics Letters 99, 196102 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3149
abstract: This is a Reply to the Comment by Lydersen et al. [arXiv: 1106.3756v1].

id: 1109.3163
title: Fully nonlocal, monogamous, and random genuinely multipartite quantum correlations
authors: Leandro Aolita, Rodrigo Gallego, Ad¨¢n Cabello, Antonio Ac¨ªn
comments: 5 + 2 and 1/2 pages. To appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 100401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3163
abstract: Local measurements on bipartite maximally entangled states can yield correlations that are maximally nonlocal, monogamous, and associated to fully random outcomes. This makes these states ideal for bipartite cryptographic tasks. Genuine-multipartite nonlocality constitutes a stronger notion of nonlocality that appears in the multipartite case. Maximal genuine-multipartite nonlocality, monogamy and full random outcomes are thus highly desired properties for multipartite correlations in intrinsically genuine-multipartite cryptographic scenarios. We prove that local measurements on Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states, for all local dimension and number of parts, can produce correlations that are fully genuine-multipartite nonlocal, monogamous and with fully random outcomes. A key ingredient in our proof is a multipartite chained Bell inequality detecting genuine-multipartite nonlocality, which we introduce. Finally, we discuss the applications of our results for intrinsically genuine-multipartite cryptographic protocols such as device-independent secret sharing.

id: 1109.3195
title: Efficient Quantum Polar Coding
authors: Joseph M. Renes, Frederic Dupuis, Renato Renner
comments: v1: 15 pages, 4 figures. v2: 5+3 pages, 3 figures; argumentation simplified and improved
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 050504 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3195
abstract: Polar coding, introduced 2008 by Arikan, is the first (very) efficiently encodable and decodable coding scheme whose information transmission rate provably achieves the Shannon bound for classical discrete memoryless channels in the asymptotic limit of large block sizes. Here we study the use of polar codes for the transmission of quantum information. Focusing on the case of qubit Pauli channels and qubit erasure channels, we use classical polar codes to construct a coding scheme which, using some pre-shared entanglement, asymptotically achieves a net transmission rate equal to the coherent information using efficient encoding and decoding operations and code construction. Furthermore, for channels with sufficiently low noise level, we demonstrate that the rate of preshared entanglement required is zero.

id: 1109.3235
title: A new spin on quantum cryptography: Avoiding trapdoors and embracing public keys
authors: Lawrence M. Ioannou, Michele Mosca
comments: To appear in Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQCrypto 2011)
journal: in Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQCrypto 2011), Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 7071, pp. 255-274, Springer, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3235
abstract: We give new arguments in support of \emph{signed quantum key establishment}, where quantum cryptography is used in a public-key infrastructure that provides the required authentication. We also analyze more thoroughly than previous works the benefits that quantum key establishment protocols have over certain classical protocols, motivated in part by the various objections to quantum key establishment that are sometimes raised. Previous knowledge of quantum cryptography on the reader's part is not required for this article, as the definition of "quantum key establishment" that we use is an entirely classical and black-box characterization (one need only trust that protocols satisfying the definition exist).

id: 1109.3342
title: Two-qubit Gate of Combined Single Spin Rotation and Inter-dot Spin Exchange in a Double Quantum Dot
authors: R. Brunner, Y.-S. Shin, T. Obata, M. Pioro-Ladri¨¨re, T. Kubo, K. Yoshida, T. Taniyama, Y. Tokura, S. Tarucha
comments: accepted for publication, in press Phys.Rev.Lett. 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3342
abstract: A crucial requirement for quantum information processing is the realization of multiple-qubit quantum gates. Here, we demonstrate an electron spin based all-electrical two-qubit gate consisting of single spin rotations and inter-dot spin exchange in a double quantum dot. A partially entangled output state is obtained by the application of the two-qubit gate to an initial, uncorrelated state. We find that the degree of entanglement is controllable by the exchange operation time. The approach represents a key step towards the realization of universal multiple qubit gates.

id: 1109.3358
title: Entanglement-assisted codeword stabilized quantum codes
authors: Jeonghwan Shin, Jun Heo, Todd A. Brun
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3358
abstract: Entangled qubit can increase the capacity of quantum error correcting codes based on stabilizer codes. In addition, by using entanglement quantum stabilizer codes can be construct from classical linear codes that do not satisfy the dual-containing constraint. We show that it is possible to construct both additive and non-additive quantum codes using the codeword stabilized quantum code framework. Nonadditive codes may offer improved performance over the more common sta- bilizer codes. Like other entanglement-assisted codes, the encoding procedure acts only the qubits on Alice's side, and only these qubits are assumed to pass through the channel. However, errors the codeword stabilized quantum code framework gives rise to effective Z errors on Bob side. We use this scheme to construct new entanglement-assisted non-additive quantum codes, in particular, ((5,16,2;1)) and ((7,4,5;4)) codes.

id: 1109.3373
title: Delicate and robust dynamical recurrences of matter waves in driven optical crystals
authors: Muhammad Ayub, Farhan Saif
comments: 7 pages, 6 figs
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85 023634 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3373
abstract: We study dynamical recurrences of a Bose-Einstein condensate in an optical crystal subject to a periodic external driving force. The recurrence behavior of the condensate is analyzed as a function of time close to nonlinear resonances occurring in the classical counterpart. Our mathematical formalism for the recurrence time scales is presented as delicate recurrences, which take place, for instance, when the lattice is perturbed weakly and robust recurrences, which may manifest themselves for a sufficiently strong external driving force. The analysis not only is valid for a dilute condensate, but also is applicable for the strongly interacting homogeneous condensate provided; the external modulation causes no significant change in the density profile of the condensate. We explain the parametric dependence of the dynamical recurrence times, which can easily be realized in laboratory experiments. In addition, we find good agreement between the obtained analytical results and the numerical calculations.

id: 1109.3379
title: Spontaneous Generation of Photons in Transmission of Quantum Fields in PT Symmetric Optical Systems
authors: G. S. Agarwal, Kenan Qu
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 031802(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3379
abstract: We develop a rigorous mathematically consistent description of PT symmetric optical systems by using second quantization. We demonstrate the possibility of significant spontaneous generation of photons in PT symmetric systems. Further we show the emergence of Hanbury-Brown Twiss (HBT) correlations in spontaneous generation. We show that the spontaneous generation determines decisively the nonclassical nature of fields in PT symmetric systems. Our work can be applied to other systems like plasmonic structure where losses are compensated by gain mechanisms.

id: 1109.3392
title: Propagation of local excitations through strongly correlated quantum chains
authors: Jean Richert, Tarek Khalil
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physica B 407 (2012) 729-734
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3392
abstract: The propagation of an external transverse magnetic signal acting locally on a 1d chain of spins generates a disturbance which runs through the system. This quantum effect can be interpreted as a classical traveling wave which contains a superposition of a large set of frequencies depending on the size of the chain. Its local amplitude fixes the size of the z-component of the spins at any location in the chain. The average and maximum value of the group velocity are determined and compared with the transmission velocity fixed by the Lieb-Robinson upper bound inequality.

id: 1109.3412
title: Sub-Natural Linewidth Single Photons from a Quantum Dot
authors: Clemens Matthiesen, Anthony Nickolas Vamivakas, Mete Atature
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 093602 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3412
abstract: The observation of quantum dot resonance fluorescence enabled a new solid-state approach to generating single photons with a bandwidth almost as narrow as the natural linewidth of a quantum dot transition. Here, we operate in the Heitler regime of resonance fluorescence to generate sub-natural linewidth and high-coherence quantum light from a single quantum dot. The measured single-photon bandwidth exhibits a 30-fold reduction with respect to the radiative linewidth of the QD transition and the single photons exhibit coherence properties inherited from the excitation laser. In contrast, intensity-correlation measurements reveal that this photon source maintains a high degree of antibunching behaviour on the order of the transition lifetime with vanishing two-photon scattering probability. This light source will find immediate applications in quantum cryptography, measurement-based quantum computing and, in particular, deterministic generation of high-fidelity distributed entanglement among independent and even disparate quantum systems.

id: 1109.3438
title: On correlations and mutual entropy in quantum composed systems
authors: Yuji Hirota, Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Takashi Matsuoka, Masanori Ohya
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3438
abstract: We study the correlations of classical and quantum systems from the information theoretical points of view. We analyze a simple measure of correlations based on entropy (such measure was already investigated as the degree of entanglement by Belavkin, Matsuoka and Ohya). Contrary to naive expectation, it is shown that separable state might possesses stronger correlation than an entangled state.

id: 1109.3496
title: Stability of topologically invariant order parameters at finite temperature
authors: Isaac H. Kim
comments: This paper is superseded by 1210.2360
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3496
abstract: Topological entanglement entropy is a topological invariant which can detect topological order of quantum many-body ground state. We assume an existence of such order parameter at finite temperature which is invariant under smooth deformation of the subsystems, and study its stability under hamiltonian perturbation. We apply this assumption to a Gibbs state of hamiltonian which satisfies so called `strong commuting' condition, which we shall define in the paper. Interesting models in this category include local hamiltonian models based on quantum error correcting code. We prove a stability of such topologically invariant order parameter against arbitrary perturbation which can be expressed as a sum of geometrically local bounded-norm terms. The first order correction against such perturbation vanishes in the thermodynamic limit.

id: 1109.3536
title: The observer effect
authors: Massimiliano Sassoli de Bianchi
comments: To appear in: Foundations of Science
journal: Foundations of Science June 2013, Volume 18, Issue 2, pp 213-243
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3536
abstract: Founding our analysis on the Geneva-Brussels approach to the foundations of physics, we provide a clarification and classification of the key concept of observation. An entity can be observed with or without a scope. In the second case, the observation is a purely non-invasive discovery process; in the first case, it is a purely invasive process, which can involve either creation or destruction aspects. An entity can also be observed with or without a full control over the observational process. In the latter case, the observation can be described by a symmetry breaking mechanism, through which a specific deterministic observational process is selected among a number of potential ones, as explained in Aerts' hidden measurement approach. This is what is called a product test, or product observation, whose consequences are that outcomes can only be predicted in probabilistic terms, as it is the case in typical quantum measurements. We also show that observations can be about intrinsic (stable) properties of the observed entity, or about relational (ephemeral) properties between the observer and observed entities; also, they can be about intermediate properties, neither purely classical, nor purely quantum. Our analysis allows us to propose a general conceptual characterization of quantum measurements, as observational processes involving three aspects: (1) product observations, (2) pure creation aspects and (3) ephemeral relational properties. We also discuss the important concept of non-spatiality and emphasize some of the differences and similarities between quantum and classical/relativistic observations.

id: 1109.3587
title: Exact Entanglement Studies of Strongly Correlated Systems: Role of Long-Range Interactions and Symmetries of the System
authors: Shaon Sahoo, V. M. L. Durga Prasad Goli, S. Ramasesha, Diptiman Sen
comments: 24 pages, 11 figures and 2 tables
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 24, 115601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3587
abstract: We study the bipartite entanglement of strongly correlated systems using exact diagonalization techniques. In particular, we examine how the entanglement changes in the presence of long-range interactions by studying the Pariser-Parr-Pople model with long-range interactions. We compare the results for this model with those obtained for the Hubbard and Heisenberg models with short-range interactions. This study helps us to understand why the density matrix renormalization group (DMRG) technique is so successful even in the presence of long-range interactions. To better understand the behavior of long-range interactions and why the DMRG works well with it, we study the entanglement spectrum of the ground state and a few excited states of finite chains. We also investigate if the symmetry properties of a state vector have any significance in relation to its entanglement. Finally, we make an interesting observation on the entanglement profiles of different states (across the energy spectrum) in comparison with the the corresponding profile of the density of states. We use isotropic chains and a molecule with non-Abelian symmetry for these numerical investigations.

id: 1109.3643
title: Interaction of a Laser with a Qubit in Thermal Motion and its Application to Robust and Efficient Readout
authors: U. Poschinger, A. Walther, M. Hettrich, F. Ziesel, F. Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3643
abstract: We present a detailed theoretical and experimental study on the optical control of a trapped-ion qubit subject to thermally induced fluctuations of the Rabi frequency. The coupling fluctuations are caused by thermal excitation on three harmonic oscillator modes. We develop an effective Maxwell-Boltzmann theory which leads to a replacement of several quantized oscillator modes by an effective continuous probability distribution function for the Rabi frequency. The model is experimentally verified for driving the quadrupole transition with resonant square pulses. This allows for the determination of the ion temperature with an accuracy of better than 2% of the temperature pertaining to the Doppler cooling limit TD over a range from 0.5TD to 5TD. The theory is then applied successfully to model experimental data for rapid adiabatic passage (RAP) pulses. We apply the model and the obtained experimental parameters to elu- cidate the robustness and efficiency of the RAP process by means of numerical simulations.

id: 1109.3665
title: Weak values of a quantum observable and the cross-Wigner distribution
authors: Maurice A. de Gosson, Serge M. de Gosson
comments: Submitted for publication
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3665
abstract: We study the weak values of a quantum observable from the point of view of the Wigner formalism. The main actor is here the cross-Wigner transform of two functions, which is in disguise the cross-ambiguity function familiar from radar theory and time-frequency analysis. It allows us to express weak values using a complex probability distribution. We suggest that our approach seems to confirm that the weak value of an observable is, as conjectured by several authors, due to the interference of two wavefunctions, one coming from the past, and the other from the future.

id: 1109.3731
title: Long-term stable squeezed vacuum state of light for gravitational wave detectors
authors: Alexander Khalaidovski, Henning Vahlbruch, Nico Lastzka, Christian Graef, Karsten Danzmann, Hartmut Grote, Roman Schnabel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3731
abstract: Currently, the German/British gravitational wave detector GEO600 is being upgraded in course of the GEO-HF program. One part of this upgrade consists of the integration of a squeezed light laser to nonclassically improve the detection sensitivity at frequencies where the instrument is limited by shot noise. This has been achieved recently [1]. The permanent employment of squeezed light in gravitational wave observatories requires a long-term stability of the generated squeezed state. In this paper, we discuss an unwanted mechanism that can lead to a varying squeezing factor along with a changing phase of the squeezed field. We present an extension of the implemented coherent control scheme [2] that allowed an increase in the long-term stability of the GEO600 squeezed light laser. With it, a quantum noise reduction by more than 9 dB in the frequency band of 10 Hz - 10 kHz was observed over up to 20 hours with a duty cycle of more than 99%.

id: 1109.3752
title: Unitary Cavity Spin Squeezing by Quantum Erasure
authors: Ian D. Leroux, Monika H. Schleier-Smith, Hao Zhang, Vladan Vuleti?
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures; sections reordered and text edited for clarity
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013803 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3752
abstract: Deterministic light-induced spin squeezing in an atomic gas is limited by photon shot noise or, equivalently, by atomic state information escaping with the light field mediating the effective atom-atom interaction. We show theoretically that the performance of cavity spin squeezing [M.H. Schleier-Smith, I.D. Leroux, and V. Vuleti\'{c}, Phys. Rev. A 81, 021804(R) (2010)] can be substantially improved by erasing the light-atom entanglement, and propose several methods for doing so. Accounting for light scattering into free space, quantum erasure improves the scaling of cavity squeezing from S^(-1/2) to S^(-2/3), where S is the total atomic spin.

id: 1109.3753
title: Quantum repeated games revisited
authors: Piotr Frackiewicz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3753
abstract: We present a scheme for playing quantum repeated 2x2 games based on the Marinatto and Weber's approach to quantum games. As a potential application, we study twice repeated Prisoner's Dilemma game. We show that results not available in classical game can be obtained when the game is played in the quantum way. Before we present our idea, we comment on the previous scheme of playing quantum repeated games.

id: 1109.3796
title: Establishing spin-network topologies by repeated projective measurements
authors: Christian O. Bretschneider, Gonzalo A. Alvarez, Gershon Kurizki, Lucio Frydman
comments: 4+ pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 140403 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3796
abstract: It has been recently shown that in quantum systems, the complex time evolution typical of many-bodied coupled networks can be transformed into a simple, relaxation-like dynamics, by relying on periodic dephasings of the off-diagonal density matrix elements. This represents a case of "quantum Zeno effects", where unitary evolutions are inhibited by projective measurements. We present here a novel exploitation of these effects, by showing that a relaxation-like behaviour is endowed to the polarization transfers occurring within a N-spin coupled network. Experimental implementations and coupling constant determinations for complex spin-coupling topologies, are thus demonstrated within the field of liquid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR).

id: 1109.3894
title: Exact solution of Schr?dinger equation with q-deformed quantum potentials using Nikiforov-Uvarov method
authors: B. J. Falaye, K. J. Oyewumi, M. Abbas
comments: 8 pages, no figure
journal: Chin. Phys. B Vol. 22, No. 11 (2013) 110301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3894
abstract: In this paper, we present the exact solution of one dimensional Schr\"odinger equation for Wood-Saxon plus Rosen-Morse plus symmetrical double well potential via Nikiforov-Uvarov mathematical method. The eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of this potential are obtained. The energy equations and the corresponding wave function for special cases of this potential are briefly discussed. The PT-symmetry and Hermiticity for this potential are also considered.

id: 1109.3904
title: Distillation of entanglement by projection on permutationally invariant subspaces
authors: Miko?aj Czechlewski, Andrzej Grudka, Micha? Horodecki, Marek Mozrzymas, Micha? Studzi¨½ski
comments: 22 pages, comments welcome
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 125303 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3904
abstract: We consider distillation of entanglement from two qubit states which are mixtures of three mutually orthogonal states: two pure entangled states and one pure product state. We distill entanglement from such states by projecting n copies of the state on permutationally invariant subspace and then applying one-way hashing protocol. We find analytical expressions for the rate of the protocol. We also generalize this method to higher dimensional systems. To get analytical expression for two qubit case, we faced a mathematical problem of diagonalizing a family of matrices enjoying some symmetries w.r.t. to symmetric group. We have solved this problem in two ways: (i) directly, by use of Schur-Weyl decomposition and Young symmetrizers (ii) showing that the problem is equivalent to a problem of diagonalizing adjacency matrices in a particular instance of a so called algebraic association scheme.

id: 1109.3905
title: Squeezed states of quadratically kicked nanomechanical oscillators
authors: G. S. Agarwal, M. S. Kim
comments: 4 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3905
abstract: We show how to prepare and directly measure the squeezed states of nanomechanical oscillators. An intense pulse interacts with a dielectric mirror in a cavity. The quadratic coupling between the optical pulse and the oscillator results in the reduction of a quadrature variance of the massive oscillator. Differently from others, the proposed scheme here requires neither any post-action on the optical field nor a preparation of a nonclassical optical field. Depending on the initial temperature of the system, the squeezing of the variance under the vacuum limit can be achieved only by a few repetitive interactions.

id: 1109.3906
title: Quantum Criticality and Population Trapping of Fermions by Non-Equilibrium Lattice Modulations
authors: Regine Frank
comments: (accepted). New Journal of Physics 2013
journal: New J. Phys. 15 123030 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3906
abstract: An ultracold gas of interacting fermionic atoms in a three-dimensional optical lattice is considered, where the lattice potential strength is periodically modulated. This non-equilibrium system is non-perturbatively described by means of a Keldysh-Floquet-Green's function approach for Mott-Hubbard systems employing a generalized dynamical mean field theory (DMFT). Strong repulsive interactions between different atoms lead to a Mott insulator state for the equilibrium system, but the additional external driving at zero temperature yields a non-equilibrium quantum critical behavior, where an infinite number of Floquet states arise and a transition to the liquid and conducting phase is given.

id: 1109.3925
title: Interacting classical and quantum particles
authors: Alvin J. K. Chua, Michael J. W. Hall, C. M. Savage
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022110 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3925
abstract: We apply Hall and Reginatto's theory of interacting classical and quantum ensembles to harmonically coupled particles, with a view to understanding its experimental implications. This hybrid theory has no free parameters and makes distinctive predictions that should allow it to be experimentally distinguished from quantum mechanics. It also bears on the questions of quantum measurement and quantum gravity.

id: 1109.4005
title: Entanglement Creation in Low-Energy Scattering
authors: Ricardo Weder
comments: The paper has been edited and some comments have been added
journal: Phys. Rev. A vol 84 (2011) 062320
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4005
abstract: We study the entanglement creation in the low-energy scattering of two particles in three dimensions, for a general class of interaction potentials that are not required to be spherically symmetric. The incoming asymptotic state, before the collision, is a product of two normalized Gaussian states. After the scattering the particles are entangled. We take as a measure of the entanglement the purity of one of them. We provide a rigorous explicit computation, with error bound, of the leading order of the purity at low-energy. The entanglement depends strongly in the difference of the masses. It takes its minimum when the masses are equal, and it increases rapidly with the difference of the masses. It is quite remarkable that the anisotropy of the potential gives no contribution to the leading order of the purity, on spite of the fact that entanglement is a second order effect.

id: 1109.4045
title: Bell inequalities with continuous angular variables
authors: Carolina V. S. Borges, Perola Milman, Arne Keller
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 86, 5 (2012) 052107
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4045
abstract: We consider bipartite quantum systems characterized by a continuous angular variable \theta \in [-\pi, \pi[, representing, for instance, the position of a particle on a circle. We show how to reveal non-locality on this type of system using inequalities similar to CHSH ones, originally derived for bipartite spin 1/2 like systems. Such inequalities involve correlated measurement of continuous angular functions and are equivalent to the continuous superposition of CHSH inequalities acting on bidimensional subspaces of the infinite dimensional Hilbert space. As an example, we discuss in detail one application of our results, and we derive inequalities based on orientation correlation measurements. The introduced Bell-type inequalities open the perspective of new and simpler experiments to test non locality on a variety of quantum systems described by continuous variables.

id: 1109.4098
title: Causal signal transmission by quantum fields. VII: Electromagnetic interaction of distinguishable devices and the optical equivalence theorem
authors: L. I. Plimak, S. T. Stenholm
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4098
abstract: Generalised phase-space techniques for electromagnetic interactions beyond the rotating wave approximation [L.P. and S.S., arXiv:1104.3825 (2011)] is applied to interactions of distinguishable devices. The paper is built around the concept of "doing quantum electrodynamics while thinking classically," which is a generalisation of Sudarshan's renowned optical equivalence theorem [E.C.G. Sudarshan, Phys. Rev. Lett. 10, 277 (1963)] to the interacting electromagnetic field. This concept allows one to reduce inherently quantum problems to semiclassical considerations.

id: 1109.4099
title: Quantum correlations and violation of Bell inequality induced by External Field in a two photon radiative cascade
authors: Luqi Yuan, Sumanta Das
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 063819 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4099
abstract: We study the polarization dependent second order correlation of a pair of photons emitted in a four level radiative cascade driven by an external field. It is found that the quantum correlations of the emitted photons, degraded by the energy splitting of the intermediate levels in the radiative cascade can be efficiently revived by a far detuned external field. The physics of this revival is linked to an induced stark shift and the formation of dressed states in the system by the non-resonant external field. Further, we investigated the competition between the effect of the coherent external field and incoherent dephasing of the intermediate levels. We found that the degradation of quantum correlations due to the incoherent dephasing can be content for small dephasing with the external field. We also studied the non-locality of the correlations by evaluating the Bell's inequality in the linear polarization basis for the radiative cascade. We find that the Bell parameter decreases rapidly with increase in the intermediate level energy splitting or incoherent dephasing rate to the extent that there is no violation. However, the presence of an external field leads to control over the degrading mechanisms and preservation of nonlocal correlation among the photons. This in turn can induce, violation of Bell's inequality in the radiative cascade for arbitrary intermediate level splitting and small incoherent dephasing.

id: 1109.4127
title: Spin dynamics in finite cyclic XY model
authors: Evgeniy Safonov, Oleg Lychkovskiy
comments: v2: substantially extended; v3: references added, accepted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4127
abstract: Evolution of the z-component of a single spin in the finite cyclic XY spin 1/2 chain is studied. Initially one selected spin is polarized while other spins are completely unpolarized and uncorrelated. Polarization of the selected spin as a function of time is proportional to the autocorrelation function at infinite temperature. Initialization of the selected spin gives rise to two wave packets moving in opposite directions and winding over the circle. We express the correlation function as a series in winding number and derive tractable approximations for each term. This allows to give qualitative explanation and quantitative description to various finite-size effects such as partial revivals and transition from regular to erratic behavior.

id: 1109.4132
title: On two-qubit states ordering with quantum discords
authors: Ma?gorzata Okrasa, Zbigniew Walczak
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: EPL 98 (2012) 40003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4132
abstract: The counterintuitive effect of non-unique ordering of two-qubit states with quantum entanglement measures was discovered over ten years ago. More precisely, it was shown by Monte Carlo simulations that there exist states for which the entanglement of formation and the negativity do not impose the same ordering of states, i.e. $E_{F}(\rho_{AB}) \leq (\geq) E_{F}(\rho_{AB}^{\prime})$ is not equivalent to $N(\rho_{AB}) \leq (\geq) N(\rho_{AB}^{\prime})$. Recently, it was discovered that quantum discord and the geometric quantum discord do not necessarily imply the same ordering of two-qubit $X$-states, which means that the lack of the unique ordering of states with quantum entanglement measures goes beyond entanglement. Inspired by this observation, we study the problem of the states ordering with quantum discords, considering two-qubit Bell-diagonal states for analytical simplicity. In particular, we identify some classes of states for which the states ordering with quantum discords is preserved as long as the states belong to the same class and give a few illustrative examples.

id: 1109.4147
title: Stochastic resonance in Gaussian quantum channels
authors: Cosmo Lupo, Stefano Mancini, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures. Manuscript improved in many ways. New results on private communication added
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical vol. 46, no. 4, page 045306, January 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4147
abstract: We determine conditions for the presence of stochastic resonance in a lossy bosonic channel with a nonlinear, threshold decoding. The stochastic resonance effect occurs if and only if the detection threshold is outside of a "forbidden interval". We show that it takes place in different settings: when transmitting classical messages through a lossy bosonic channel, when transmitting over an entanglement-assisted lossy bosonic channel, and when discriminating channels with different loss parameters. Moreover, we consider a setting in which stochastic resonance occurs in the transmission of a qubit over a lossy bosonic channel with a particular encoding and decoding. In all cases, we assume the addition of Gaussian noise to the signal and show that it does not matter who, between sender and receiver, introduces such a noise. Remarkably, different results are obtained when considering a setting for private communication. In this case the symmetry between sender and receiver is broken and the "forbidden interval" may vanish, leading to the occurrence of stochastic resonance effects for any value of the detection threshold.

id: 1109.4165
title: Quantum Query Complexity of Subgraph Containment with Constant-sized Certificates
authors: Yechao Zhu
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure, published under title:"Quantum Query Complexity of Constant-sized Subgraph Containment"
journal: IJQI 10(3):(2012)1250019
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4165
abstract: We study the quantum query complexity of constant-sized subgraph containment. Such problems include determining whether an $ n $-vertex graph contains a triangle, clique or star of some size. For a general subgraph $ H $ with $ k $ vertices, we show that $ H $ containment can be solved with quantum query complexity $ O(n^{2-\frac{2}{k}-g(H)}) $, with $ g(H) $ a strictly positive function of $ H $. This is better than $ \tilde{O}\s{n^{2-2/k}} $ by Magniez et al. These results are obtained in the learning graph model of Belovs.

id: 1109.4183
title: Full counting statistics of weak measurement
authors: Antonio Di Lorenzo
comments: Expanded version: 9 pages, 3 Figs. Now the validity of the expansion for the moments is analysed. Introduced a one-parameter family of weak values, useful to express the correct characteristic function. More figures added. Thanks to Referee C of PRL for asking stimulating questions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032106 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4183
abstract: A weak measurement consists in coupling a system to a probe in such a way that constructive interference generates a large output. So far, only the average output of the probe and its variance were studied. Here, the characteristic function for the moments of the output is provided. The outputs considered are not limited to the eigenstates of the pointer or of its conjugate variable, so that the results apply to any observable $\Hat{o}$ of the probe. Furthermore, a family of well behaved complex quantities, the normal weak values, is introduced, in terms of which the statistics of the weak measurement can be described. It is shown that, within a good approximation, the whole statistics of weak measurement is described by a complex parameter, the weak value, and a real one.

id: 1109.4216
title: Analysis of multiple exceptional points related to three interacting eigenmodes in a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian
authors: Jung-Wan Ryu, Soo-Young Lee, Sang Wook Kim
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042101 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4216
abstract: We have investigated the exceptional points (EPs) which are degeneracies of a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian, in the case that three modes are interacting with each other. Even though the parametric evolution of the modes cannot be uniquely determined when encircling more than two EPs once, we can recover the initial configuration of the modes by encircling two EPs three times or three EPs twice. We confirm our expectation by numerically calculating the modes of an open quantum system, two dielectric microdisks, and 3$\times$3 matrix model.

id: 1109.4251
title: Quantum logic for control and manipulation of molecular ions using a frequency comb
authors: S. Ding, D. N. Matsukevich
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4251
abstract: Due to their rich level structure, molecules are well-suited for probing time variation of fundamental constants, precisely measuring parity violation and time-reversal non-invariance effects, studying quantum mechanical aspects of chemical reactions, and implementing scalable quantum information processing architectures. Molecular ions are particularly attractive for these applications due to their long storage times and the near-perfect isolation from environment that result in long coherence times required to achieve high measurement precision and reduce systematic errors. However, the control of molecular quantum states remains a challenge. Based on quantum logic techniques, we propose a scheme for preparation, manipulation, and detection of quantum states of single molecular ions. The scheme relies on coherent coupling between internal and motional degrees of freedom of the molecular ion via a frequency comb laser field, while detection and cooling of the motion of ions is done via a co-trapped atomic ion.

id: 1109.4269
title: Quantum control of hybrid nuclear-electronic qubits
authors: Gavin W. Morley, Petra Lueders, M. Hamed Mohammady, Setrak J. Balian, Gabriel Aeppli, Christopher W. M. Kay, Wayne M. Witzel, Gunnar Jeschke, Tania S. Monteiro
comments: 20 pages, 8 figures, new data and simulations
journal: Nature Materials 12, 103 (2013) with News & Views by Zhao & Wrachtrup, Nature Materials12, 97 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4269
abstract: Pulsed magnetic resonance is a wide-reaching technology allowing the quantum state of electronic and nuclear spins to be controlled on the timescale of nanoseconds and microseconds respectively. The time required to flip either dilute electronic or nuclear spins is orders of magnitude shorter than their decoherence times, leading to several schemes for quantum information processing with spin qubits. We investigate instead the novel regime where the eigenstates approximate 50:50 superpositions of the electronic and nuclear spin states forming "hybrid nuclear-electronic" qubits. Here we demonstrate quantum control of these states for the first time, using bismuth-doped silicon, in just 32 ns: this is orders of magnitude faster than previous experiments where pure nuclear states were used. The coherence times of our states are five orders of magnitude longer, reaching 4 ms, and are limited by the naturally-occurring 29Si nuclear spin impurities. There is quantitative agreement between our experiments and no-free-parameter analytical theory for the resonance positions, as well as their relative intensities and relative Rabi oscillation frequencies. In experiments where the slow manipulation of some of the qubits is the rate limiting step, quantum computations would benefit from faster operation in the hybrid regime.

id: 1109.4303
title: Violation of a Bell inequality in two-dimensional spin-orbit hypoentangled subspaces
authors: Lixiang Chen, Xiancong Lu, Zhongqun Cheng
comments: 14pages,3 figures, submitted
journal: Journal of the Optical Society of America B 28, 2915 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4303
abstract: Based on spin-orbit coupling induced by q-plates, we present a feasible experimental proposal for preparing two-dimensional spatially inhomogeneous polarizations of light. We further investigate the quantum correlations between these inhomogeneous polarizations of photon pairs generated by spontaneous parametric down-conversion, which in essence describe the so-called hypoentanglement that is established between composite spin-orbit variables of photons. The violation of the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt-Bell inequality is predicted with S=2\sqrt2 to illustrate the entangled nature of the cylindrical symmetry of spatially inhomogeneous polarizations.

id: 1109.4318
title: Light Cone-Like Behavior of Quantum Monogamy Score and Multisite Entanglement
authors: R. Prabhu, Arun Kumar Pati, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: v1: 7 pages, RevTeX4, 2 figures; v2: substantial additions including analytical proofs, 10 pages, RevTeX4, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 052337 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4318
abstract: There are two important paradigms for defining quantum correlations in quantum information theory, viz. the information-theoretic and the entanglement-separability ones. We find an analytical relation between two measures of quantum correlations, one in each paradigm, and show that only a certain cone-like region on the two-dimensional space spanned by these measures is accessible to pure three-qubit states. The information-theoretic multiparty quantum correlation measure is related to the monogamy considerations of a bipartite information-theoretic quantum correlation measure, while the entanglement-separability multiparty measure is the generalized geometric measure, a genuine multiparty entanglement measure. We also find an analytical relation between two multiparty entanglement measures, and again obtain a cone-like accessible region in this case. One of the multisite measures in this case is related to the monogamy of a bipartite entanglement measure, while the other is again the generalized geometric measure. Just like in relativity, events cannot occur outside the space-time light cone, we analogously find here that state points corresponding to pure three-qubit states cannot fall outside the two-dimensional cone-like structure between quantum monogamy scores and a genuine multisite entanglement measure.

id: 1109.4341
title: Quantum interference in timed Dicke basis and its effect on bipartite entanglement
authors: Eyob A. Sete, Sumanta Das
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 042301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4341
abstract: We analyze the effect of position dependent excitation phase on the properties of entanglement between two qubits formed in atomic systems. We show that the excitation phase induces a vacuum mediated quantum interference in the system that affects the dynamical behavior of entanglement between the qubits. It is also found that the quantum interference leads to a coherent population transfer between the symmetric and antisymmetric states which can considerably modify the dynamics of two-qubit entanglement and can even prevent finite time disentanglement (sudden death) under certain conditions.

id: 1109.4348
title: Decoupling with unitary approximate two-designs
authors: Oleg Szehr, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Dupuis, Marco Tomamichel, Renato Renner
comments: Published version
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 053022
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4348
abstract: Consider a bipartite system, of which one subsystem, A, undergoes a physical evolution separated from the other subsystem, R. One may ask under which conditions this evolution destroys all initial correlations between the subsystems A and R, i.e. decouples the subsystems. A quantitative answer to this question is provided by decoupling theorems, which have been developed recently in the area of quantum information theory. This paper builds on preceding work, which shows that decoupling is achieved if the evolution on A consists of a typical unitary, chosen with respect to the Haar measure, followed by a process that adds sufficient decoherence. Here, we prove a generalized decoupling theorem for the case where the unitary is chosen from an approximate two-design. A main implication of this result is that decoupling is physical, in the sense that it occurs already for short sequences of random two-body interactions, which can be modeled as efficient circuits. Our decoupling result is independent of the dimension of the R system, which shows that approximate 2-designs are appropriate for decoupling even if the dimension of this system is large.

id: 1109.4358
title: Bright entangled light from two-mode cascade laser
authors: Eyob Alebachew Sete
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Opt. Commun.281, 6124(2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4358
abstract: We show that a two-mode three-level cascade laser driven by external coherent fields generate intense entangled light. It turns out that external driving fields which are at resonance with the cavity modes substantially improves the intensity of the two-mode light in the cavity in a region where the squeezing and entanglement is significant making the system under consideration a viable source of bright squeezed as well as entangled light.

id: 1109.4361
title: Optomechanical Systems as Single Photon Routers
authors: G. S. Agarwal, Sumei Huang
comments: 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 021801(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4361
abstract: We demonstrate theoretically the possibility of using nano mechanical systems as single photon routers. We show how EIT in cavity optomechanical systems can be used to produce a switch for a probe field in a single photon Fock state using very low pumping powers of few microwatt. We present estimates of vacuum and thermal noise and show the optimal performance of the single photon switch is deteriorated by only few percent even at temperatures of the order of 20 mK.

id: 1109.4368
title: Interaction of a quantum well with squeezed light: Quantum-statistical properties
authors: Eyob A. Sete, H. Eleuch
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82, 043810 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4368
abstract: We investigate the quantum statistical properties of the light emitted by a quantum well interacting with squeezed light from a degenerate subthreshold optical parametric oscillator. We obtain analytical solutions for the pertinent quantum Langevin equations in the strong coupling and low excitation regimes. Using these solutions we calculate the intensity spectrum, autocorrelation function, quadrature squeezing for the fluorescent light. We show that the fluorescent light exhibits bunching and quadrature squeezing. We also show that the squeezed light leads to narrowing of the width of the spectrum of the fluorescent light.

id: 1109.4375
title: External field effect on quantum features of radiation emitted by a QW in a microcavity
authors: Eyob A. Sete, Sumanta Das, H. Eleuch
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 023822 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4375
abstract: We consider a semiconductor quantum well in a microcavity driven by coherent light and coupled to a squeezed vacuum reservoir. By systematically solving the pertinent quantum Langevin equations in the strong coupling and low excitation regimes, we study the effect of exciton-photon detuning, external coherent light, and the squeezed vacuum reservoir on vacuum Rabi splitting and on quantum statistical properties of the light emitted by the quantum well. We show that the exciton-photon detuning leads to a shift in polariton resonance frequencies and a decrease in fluorescence intensity. We also show that the fluorescent light exhibits quadrature squeezing which predominately depends on the exciton-photon detuning and the degree of the squeezing of the input field.

id: 1109.4388
title: Speakable in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Ronnie Hermens
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4388
abstract: At the 1927 Como conference Bohr spoke the now famous words "It is wrong to think that the task of physics is to find out how nature is. Physics concerns what we can say about nature." However, if the Copenhagen interpretation really holds on to this motto, why then is there this feeling of conflict when comparing it with realist interpretations? Surely what one can say about nature should in a certain sense be interpretation independent. In this paper I take Bohr's motto seriously and develop a quantum logic that avoids assuming any form of realism as much as possible. To illustrate the non-triviality of this motto a similar result is first derived for classical mechanics. It turns out that the logic for classical mechanics is a special case of the derived quantum logic. Finally, some hints are provided in how these logics are to be used in practical situations and I discuss how some realist interpretations relate to these logics.

id: 1109.4391
title: Quantum entanglement in random physical states
authors: Alioscia Hamma, Siddhartha Santra, Paolo Zanardi
comments: updated to published version, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 040502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4391
abstract: Most states in the Hilbert space are maximally entangled. This fact has proven useful to investigate - among other things - the foundations of statistical mechanics. Unfortunately, most states in the Hilbert space of a quantum many body system are not physically accessible. We define physical ensembles of states by acting on random factorized states by a circuit of length k of random and independent unitaries with local support. We study the typicality of entanglement by means of the purity of the reduced state. We find that for a time k=O(1) the typical purity obeys the area law. Thus, the upper bounds for area law are actually saturated {\em in average}, with a variance that goes to zero for large systems. Similarly, we prove that by means of local evolution a subsystem of linear dimensions $L$ is typically entangled with a volume law when the time scales with the size of the subsystem. Moreover, we show that for large values of k the reduced state becomes very close to the completely mixed state.

id: 1109.4396
title: State-independent proof of Kochen-Specker theorem with 13 rays
authors: Sixia Yu, C.H. Oh
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 030402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4396
abstract: Quantum contextuality, as proved by Kochen and Specker, and also by Bell, should manifest itself in any state in any system with more than two distinguishable states and recently has been experimentally verified on various physical systems. However for the simplest system capable of exhibiting contextuality, a qutrit, the quantum contextuality is verified only state-dependently in experiment because too many (at least 31) observables are involved in all the known state-independent tests. Here we report an experimentally testable inequality involving only 13 observables that is satisfied by all non-contextual realistic models while being violated by all qutrit states. Thus our inequality will practically facilitate a state-independent test of the quantum contextuality for an indivisible quantum system. We provide also a record-breaking state-independent proof of the Kochen-Specker theorem with 13 directions determined by 26 points on the surface of a three by three magic cube.

id: 1109.4429
title: Recursive formulation of the multiconfigurational time-dependent Hartree method for fermions, bosons and mixtures thereof in terms of one-body density operators
authors: Ofir E. Alon, Alexej I. Streltsov, Kaspar Sakmann, Axel U. J. Lode, Julian Grond, Lorenz S. Cederbaum
comments: 43 pages
journal: Chem. Phys. 401, 2 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4429
abstract: The multiconfigurational time-dependent Hartree method (MCTDH) [Chem. Phys. Lett. {\bf 165}, 73 (1990); J. Chem. Phys. {\bf 97}, 3199 (1992)] is celebrating nowadays entering its third decade of tackling numerically-exactly a broad range of correlated multi-dimensional non-equilibrium quantum dynamical systems. Taking in recent years particles' statistics explicitly into account, within the MCTDH for fermions (MCTDHF) and for bosons (MCTDHB), has opened up further opportunities to treat larger systems of interacting identical particles, primarily in laser-atom and cold-atom physics. With the increase of experimental capabilities to simultaneously trap mixtures of two, three, and possibly even multiple kinds of interacting composite identical particles together, we set up the stage in the present work and specify the MCTDH method for such cases. Explicitly, the MCTDH method for systems with three kinds of identical particles interacting via all combinations of two- and three-body forces is presented, and the resulting equations-of-motion are briefly discussed. All four possible mixtures of fermions and bosons are presented in a unified manner. Particular attention is paid to represent the coefficients' part of the equations-of-motion in a compact recursive form in terms of one-body density operators only. The recursion utilizes the recently proposed Combinadic-based mapping for fermionic and bosonic operators in Fock space [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 81}, 022124 (2010)] and successfully applied and implemented within MCTDHB. Our work sheds new light on the representation of the coefficients' part in MCTDHF and MCTDHB without resorting to the matrix elements of the many-body Hamiltonian with respect to the time-dependent configurations. It suggests a recipe for efficient implementation of the schemes derived here for mixtures which is suitable for parallelization.

id: 1109.4436
title: Comment on "Observing the Average Trajectories of Single Photons in a Two-Slit Interferometer"
authors: Timothy M. Coffey, Robert E. Wyatt
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4436
abstract: Kocsis et al. (Science, Reports 3 June 2011, p. 1170) state that the experimentally deduced average photon trajectories are identical to the particle trajectories of Bohm's quantum mechanics. No supporting evidence, however, was provided. The photon trajectories presented in their report do not converge to high probability regions, a familiar and necessary behavior of Bohm trajectories. We reanalyze their data and calculations, conclude that the average photon trajectories do indeed agree with Bohm, and discuss possible interpretations of this result.

id: 1109.4456
title: Spin-guides and spin-splitters: Waveguide analogies in one-dimensional spin chains
authors: Melissa I. Makin, Jared H. Cole, Charles D. Hill, Andrew D. Greentree
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4456
abstract: Here we show a direct mapping between waveguide theory and spin chain transport, opening an alternative approach to quantum information transport in the solid-state. By applying temporally varying control profiles to a spin chain, we design a virtual waveguide or 'spin-guide' to conduct individual spin excitations along defined space-time trajectories of the chain. We explicitly show that the concepts of confinement, adiabatic bend loss and beamsplitting can be mapped from optical waveguide theory to spin-guides (and hence 'spin-splitters'). Importantly, the spatial scale of applied control pulses is required to be large compared to the inter-spin spacing, and thereby allowing the design of scalable control architectures.

id: 1109.4462
title: On Admissible States of Quantum Fourier Transform
authors: Arpita Maitra, Santanu Sarkar
comments: 
journal: Chinese Phys. Lett. 29 030303 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4462
abstract: We present a general methodology to obtain the basis of qudits which are admissible to Quantum Fourier Transform (QFT). We first study this method for qubits to characterize the ensemble that works for the Hadamard transformation (QFT for two dimension). In this regard we identify certain incompleteness in the result of Maitra and Parashar (IJQI, 2006). Next we characterize the ensemble of qutrits for which QFT is possible. Further, some theoretical results related to higher dimensions are also discussed.

id: 1109.4556
title: Grey solitons in doped nonlinear fibers
authors: Challenger Mishra, T. N. Dey, P. K. Panigrahi
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4556
abstract: Grey solitons, with complex envelope, are obtained as exact solutions of the coupled system describing doped optical nonlinear fibers. The phase degree of freedom plays a crucial role in removing the restrictive equal frequency conditions on the tanh-sech paired pulses, identified earlier [1]. The cross-phase modulation is found to control the speed of the grey soliton, which has an upper bound. The coupled soliton solution obtained here was found to be stable in a wide parameter range.

id: 1109.4567
title: Photon location in spacetime
authors: Margaret Hawton
comments: Equations (18) to (21) and the relevant text deleted due to an error in (20). This is no effect on the conclusions of the paper
journal: Phys. Scr. T147 (2012) 014014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4567
abstract: The NewtonWigner basis of orthonormal localized states is generalized to orthonormal and relativistic biorthonormal bases on an arbitrary hyperplane in spacetime. This covariant formalism is applied to the measurement of photon location using a hypothetical 3D array with pixels throughout space turned on at a fixed time and a timelike 2D photon counting array detector with good time resolution. A moving observer will see these detector arrays as rotated in spacetime but the spacelike and timelike experiments remain distinct.

id: 1109.4595
title: One- and two-dimensional photonic crystal micro-cavities in single crystal diamond
authors: Janine Riedrich-M?ller, Laura Kipfstuhl, Christian Hepp, Elke Neu, Christoph Pauly, Frank M¨¹cklich, Armin Baur, Michael Wandt, Sandra Wolff, Martin Fischer, Stefan Gsell, Matthias Schreck, Christoph Becher
comments: 
journal: Nature Nanotechnology 7, 69-74 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4595
abstract: The development of solid-state photonic quantum technologies is of great interest for fundamental studies of light-matter interactions and quantum information science. Diamond has turned out to be an attractive material for integrated quantum information processing due to the extraordinary properties of its colour centres enabling e.g. bright single photon emission and spin quantum bits. To control emitted photons and to interconnect distant quantum bits, micro-cavities directly fabricated in the diamond material are desired. However, the production of photonic devices in high-quality diamond has been a challenge so far. Here we present a method to fabricate one- and two-dimensional photonic crystal micro-cavities in single-crystal diamond, yielding quality factors up to 700. Using a post-processing etching technique, we tune the cavity modes into resonance with the zero phonon line of an ensemble of silicon-vacancy centres and measure an intensity enhancement by a factor of 2.8. The controlled coupling to small mode volume photonic crystal cavities paves the way to larger scale photonic quantum devices based on single-crystal diamond.

id: 1109.4610
title: High data-rate atom interferometer for measuring acceleration
authors: Hayden J. McGuinness, Akash V. Rakholia, Grant W. Biedermann
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Applied Physics Letters 100, (2012) 011106
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4610
abstract: We demonstrate a high data-rate light-pulse atom interferometer for measuring acceleration. The device is optimized to operate at rates between 50 Hz to 330 Hz with sensitivities of 0.57 {\mu}g/rtHz to 36.7 {\mu}g/rtHz, respectively. Our method offers a dramatic increase in data rate and demonstrates a path to new applications in highly dynamic environments. The performance of the device can largely be attributed to the high recapture efficiency of atoms from one interferometer measurement cycle to another.

id: 1109.4613
title: How much time does a measurement take?
authors: Carlos Alexandre Brasil, Leonardo Andreta de Castro, Reginaldo de Jesus Napolitano
comments: REVISED VERSION: 17 pages, 2 figures
journal: Foundations of Physics (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4613
abstract: We consider the problem of measurement using the Lindblad equation, which allows the introduction of time in the interaction between the measured system and the measurement apparatus. We use analytic results, valid for weak system-environment coupling, obtained for a two-level system in contact with a measurer (Markovian interaction) and a thermal bath (non-Markovian interaction), where the measured observable may or may not commute with the system-environment interaction. Analysing the behavior of the coherence, which tends to a value asymptotically close to zero, we obtain an expression for the time of measurement which depends only on the system-measurer coupling, and which does not depend on whether the observable commutes with the system-bath interaction. The behavior of the coherences in the case of strong system-environment coupling, found numerically, indicates that an increase in this coupling decreases the measurement time, thus allowing our expression to be considered the upper limit for the duration of the process.

id: 1109.4689
title: Strong-field effects in Rabi oscillations between a single state and a superposition of states
authors: S. Zhdanovich, J.W. Hepburn, V. Milner
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4689
abstract: Rabi oscillations of quantum population are known to occur in two-level systems driven by spectrally narrow laser fields. In this work we study Rabi oscillations induced by shaped broadband femtosecond laser pulses. Due to the broad spectral width of the driving field, the oscillations are initiated between a ground state and a coherent superposition of excited states, or a "wavepacket", rather than a single excited state. Our experiments reveal an intricate dependence of the wavepacket phase on the intensity of laser field. We confirm numerically that the effect is associated with the strong-field nature of the interaction, and provide a qualitative picture by invoking a simple theoretical model.

id: 1109.4696
title: Comment on "Foundation of Statistical Mechanics under Experimentally Realistic Conditions"
authors: Zhe-Xuan Gong, L.-M. Duan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4696
abstract: Reimann [Phys. Rev. Lett. 101, 190403 (2008)] claimed that generic isolated macroscopic quantum system will equilibrate under experimentally realistic conditions by proving a theorem. We here show that the proof is invalid for most many-body systems and is unable to demonstrate equilibration in realistic experiment.

id: 1109.4704
title: Casimir-Polder-like force on an atom outside a Schwarzschild black hole
authors: Jialin Zhang, Hongwei Yu
comments: typos corrected, version to be published in PRA
journal: Physical Review A 84, 042103 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4704
abstract: We calculate, in the framework of open quantum systems, the ground state energy-level shift for a static two-level atom outside a spherically symmetric black hole in interaction with fluctuating massless scalar fields in the Boulware and Unruh vacuums. We find that the energy-level shift is position-dependent and thus gives rise to a force on the atom besides the classical gravitational force. For the case of the Boulware vacuum which represents a star that has not collapsed through its event horizon, this force is attractive near the horizon and is repulsive far away from the black hole with a behavior of $r^{-3}$ . For the case of the Unruh vacuum which represents a radiating black hole, we find that the contribution to the Casimir-Polder-like force due to the presence of Hawking radiation is always attractive and, remarkably, this attractive force diverges at the event horizon.

id: 1109.4731
title: Classical versus Quantum Graph-based Secret Sharing
authors: J¨¦r?me Javelle, Mehdi Mhalla, Simon Perdrix
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4731
abstract: We study a simple graph-based classical secret sharing scheme: every player's share consists of a random key together with the encryption of the secret with the keys of his neighbours. A characterisation of the authorised and forbidden sets of players is given. Moreover, we show that this protocol is equivalent to the graph state quantum secret sharing (GS-QSS) schemes when the secret is classical. When the secret is an arbitrary quantum state, a set of players is authorised for a GS-QSS scheme if and only if, for the corresponding simple classical graph-based protocol, the set is authorised and its complement set is not.

id: 1109.4766
title: Fidelity estimation between two finite ensembles of unknown pure equatorial qubit states
authors: Michael Siomau
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, 17 references
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375, 3340 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4766
abstract: Suppose, we are given two finite ensembles of pure qubit states, so that the qubits in each ensemble are prepared in identical (but unknown for us) states lying on the equator of the Bloch sphere. What is the best strategy to estimate fidelity between these two finite ensembles of qubit states? We discuss three possible strategies for the fidelity estimation. We show that the best strategy includes two stages: a specific unitary transformation on two ensembles and state estimation of the output states of this transformation.

id: 1109.4796
title: Error correction in short time steps during the application of quantum gates
authors: Leonardo Andreta de Castro, Reginaldo de Jesus Napolitano
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4796
abstract: We propose a method for applying the quantum error-correction method for errors that occur during quantum gates. Using a perturbation treatment of the noise that allows us to separate it from the ideal evolution of the quantum gate, we demonstrate that in certain cases it is necessary to divide the quantum gate in short time steps intercalated by correction procedures. A prescription of how these gates can be constructed is provided, as well as a proof that, even for the cases when the division of the quantum gate in short time steps is not necessary, this method may be advantageous for reducing the total duration of the computation.

id: 1109.4821
title: Experimental quantum error correction with high fidelity
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Dorian Gangloff, Osama Moussa, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4821
abstract: More than ten years ago a first step towards quantum error correction (QEC) was implemented [Phys. Rev. Lett. 81, 2152 (1998)]. The work showed there was sufficient control in nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) to implement QEC, and demonstrated that the error rate changed from $\epsilon$ to approximatively $\sim\epsilon^2$. In the current work we reproduce a similar experiment using control techniques that have been since developed, such as GRAPE pulses. We show that the fidelity of the QEC gate sequence, and the comparative advantage of QEC are appreciably improved. This advantage is maintained despite the errors introduced by the additional operations needed to protect the quantum states.

id: 1109.4823
title: Decision problems with quantum black boxes
authors: Mark Hillery, Erika Andersson, Stephen M. Barnett, Daniel Oi
comments: 
journal: J. Mod. Opt. 57, 244-252 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4823
abstract: We examine how to distinguish between unitary operators, when the exact form of the possible operators is not known. Instead we are supplied with "programs" in the form of unitary transforms, which can be used as references for identifying the unknown unitary transform. All unitary transforms should be used as few times as possible. This situation is analoguous to programmable state discrimination. One difference, however, is that the quantum state to which we apply the unitary transforms may be entangled, leading to a richer variety of possible strategies. By suitable selection of an input state and generalized measurement of the output state, both unambiguous and minimum-error discrimination can be achieved. Pairwise comparison of operators, comparing each transform to be identified with a program transform, is often a useful strategy. There are, however, situations in which more complicated strategies perform better. This is the case especially when the number of allowed applications of program operations is different from the number of the transforms to be identified.

id: 1109.4832
title: Bell Inequality Tests with Macroscopic Entangled States of Light
authors: Magdalena Stobi¨½ska, Pavel Sekatski, Adam Buraczewski, Nicolas Gisin, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 034104 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4832
abstract: Quantum correlations may violate the Bell inequalities. Most of the experimental schemes confirming this prediction have been realized in all-optical Bell tests suffering from the detection loophole. Experiment which closes this loophole and the locality loophole simultaneously is highly desirable and remains challenging. A novel approach to a loophole-free Bell tests is based on amplification of the entangled photons, i.e.\@ on macroscopic entanglement, which optical signal should be easy to detect. However, the macroscopic states are partially indistinguishable by the classical detectors. An interesting idea to overcome these limitations is to replace the postselection by an appropriate preselection immediately after the amplification. This is in the spirit of state preprocessing revealing hidden nonlocality. Here, we examine one of possible preselections, but the presented tools can be used for analysis of other schemes. Filtering methods making the macroscopic entanglement useful for Bell test and quantum protocols are the subject of an intensive study in the field nowadays.

id: 1109.4871
title: Tailoring the correlation and anti-correlation behavior of path-entangled photons in Glauber-Fock oscillator lattices
authors: Armando Perez-Leija, Robert Keil, Alexander Szameit, Ayman F. Abouraddy, Hector Moya-Cessa, Demetrios N. Christodoulides
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4871
abstract: We demonstrate that single-photon as well as biphoton revivals are possible in a new class of dynamic optical systems-the so-called Glauber-Fock oscillator lattices. In these arrays, both Bloch-like oscillations and dynamic delocalization can occur which can be described in closed form. The bunching and anti-bunching response of path-entangled photons can be pre-engineered in such coupled optical arrangements and the possibility of emulating Fermionic behavior in this family of lattices is also considered. We elucidate these effects via pertinent examples and we discuss the prospect of experimentally observing these quantum interactions.

id: 1109.4887
title: Force-Free Gravitational Redshift: Proposed Gravitational Aharonov-Bohm experiment
authors: Michael A. Hohensee, Brian Estey, Paul Hamilton, Anton Zeilinger, Holger Mueller
comments: Updated to published version
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett.108:230404,2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4887
abstract: We propose a feasible laboratory interferometry experiment with matter waves in a gravitational potential caused by a pair of artificial field-generating masses. It will demonstrate that the presence of these masses (and, for moving atoms, time dilation) induces a phase shift, even if it does not cause any classical force. The phase shift is identical to that produced by the gravitational redshift (or time dilation) of clocks ticking at the atom's Compton frequency. In analogy to the Aharonov-Bohm effect in electromagnetism, the quantum mechanical phase is a function of the gravitational potential and not the classical forces.

id: 1109.4948
title: Realization of Three-Qubit Quantum Error Correction with Superconducting Circuits
authors: M. D. Reed, L. DiCarlo, S. E. Nigg, L. Sun, L. Frunzio, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Nature 482, 382-385 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4948
abstract: Quantum computers promise to solve certain problems exponentially faster than possible classically but are challenging to build because of their increased susceptibility to errors. Remarkably, however, it is possible to detect and correct errors without destroying coherence by using quantum error correcting codes [1]. The simplest of these are the three-qubit codes, which map a one-qubit state to an entangled three-qubit state and can correct any single phase-flip or bit-flip error of one of the three qubits, depending on the code used [2]. Here we demonstrate both codes in a superconducting circuit by encoding a quantum state as previously shown [3,4], inducing errors on all three qubits with some probability, and decoding the error syndrome by reversing the encoding process. This syndrome is then used as the input to a three-qubit gate which corrects the primary qubit if it was flipped. As the code can recover from a single error on any qubit, the fidelity of this process should decrease only quadratically with error probability. We implement the correcting three-qubit gate, known as a conditional-conditional NOT (CCNot) or Toffoli gate, using an interaction with the third excited state of a single qubit, in 63 ns. We find 85\pm1% fidelity to the expected classical action of this gate and 78\pm1% fidelity to the ideal quantum process matrix. Using it, we perform a single pass of both quantum bit- and phase-flip error correction with 76\pm0.5% process fidelity and demonstrate the predicted first-order insensitivity to errors. Concatenating these two codes and performing them on a nine-qubit device would correct arbitrary single-qubit errors. When combined with recent advances in superconducting qubit coherence times [5,6], this may lead to scalable quantum technology.

id: 1109.4971
title: Negativity for two blocks in the one dimensional Spin 1 AKLT model
authors: Raul A. Santos, V. Korepin, Sougato Bose
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062307 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4971
abstract: In this paper we compute the entanglement, as quantified by negativity, between two blocks of length $L_A$ and $L_B$, separated by $L$ sites in the one dimensional spin-1 AKLT model. We took the model with two different boundary conditions. We consider the case of $N$ spins 1 in the bulk and one spin 1/2 at each boundary which constitute an unique ground state, and the case of just spins 1, even at the end of the chain, where the degeneracy of the ground state is four. In both scenarios we made a partition consisting of two blocks $A$ and $B$, containing $L_A$ and $L_B$ sites respectively. The separation of these two blocks is $L$. In both cases we explicitly obtain the reduced density matrix of the blocks $A$ and $B$. We prove that the negativity in the first case vanishes identically for $L\geq 1$ while in the second scenario it may approach a constant value $N=1/2$ for each degenerate eigenstate depending on the way one constructs these eigenstates. However, as there is some freedom in constructing these eigenstates, vanishing entanglement is also possible in the latter case. Additionally, we also compute the entanglement between non-complementary blocks in the case of periodic boundary conditions for the spin-1 AKLT model for which there is a unique ground state. Even in this case, we find that the negativity of separated blocks of spins is zero.

id: 1109.4981
title: A Novel, Robust Quantum Detection Scheme
authors: Boerge Hemmerling, Florian Gebert, Yong Wan, Piet O. Schmidt
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics 14, 023043 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4981
abstract: Protocols used in quantum information and precision spectroscopy rely on efficient internal quantum state discrimination. With a single ion in a linear Paul trap, we implement a novel detection method which utilizes correlations between two detection events with an intermediate spin-flip. The technique is experimentally characterized as more robust against fluctuations in detection laser power compared to conventionally implemented methods. Furthermore, systematic detection errors which limit the Rabi oscillation contrast in conventional methods are overcome.

id: 1109.4988
title: Functional boxes, communication complexity and information causality
authors: Guoming Wang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4988
abstract: We propose a class of nonlocal boxes named functional boxes which include a generalization of the Popescu-Rohrlich(PR) box as a special case. We show that every functional box corresponding to an additively inseparable function can make communication complexity trivial and thus seems unlikely to exist in nature. Then we relate general nonlocal boxes to these functional boxes, and derive several limits on them from the principle of information causality.

id: 1109.4994
title: The maximum average rate of state change
authors: Norman Margolus
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, ancillary file with 12 supplemental figures, ancillary file with mathematica notebook, ancillary file with pdf printout of mathematica notebook
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4994
abstract: For an isolated quantum system, average energy above the ground state and average momentum determine the minimum time and distance needed to transition through $N$ distinct states. Other moments of energy and momentum provide similar bounds. For $N\gg1$, we can equate average energy and momentum with the maximum average rates of distinct state change in time and space. Thus at least vestiges of finite-state dynamics persist in the classical world, and in its interpretation.

id: 1109.4995
title: Quantum emulation of classical dynamics
authors: Norman Margolus
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Cellular Automata and Lattice Gases (nlin.CG)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4995
abstract: In statistical mechanics, it is well known that finite-state classical lattice models can be recast as quantum models, with distinct classical configurations identified with orthogonal basis states. This mapping makes classical statistical mechanics on a lattice a special case of quantum statistical mechanics, and classical combinatorial entropy a special case of quantum entropy. In a similar manner, finite-state classical dynamics can be recast as finite-energy quantum dynamics. This mapping translates continuous quantities, concepts and machinery of quantum mechanics into a simplified finite-state context in which they have a purely classical and combinatorial interpretation. For example, in this mapping quantum average energy becomes the classical update rate. Interpolation theory and communication theory help explain the truce achieved here between perfect classical determinism and quantum uncertainty, and between discrete and continuous dynamics.

id: 1109.4997
title: Quantum superposition of localized and delocalized phases of photons
authors: Chun-Wang Wu, Ming Gao, Zhi-Jiao Deng, Hong-Yi Dai, Ping-Xing Chen, Cheng-Zu Li
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4997
abstract: Based on a variant of 2-site Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard model, which is constructed using superconducting circuits, we propose a method to coherently superpose the localized and delocalized phases of photons. In our model, two nonlinear superconducting stripline resonators are coupled by an interfacial circuit composed of parallel combination of a superconducting qubit and a capacitor, which plays the role of a quantum knob for the photon hopping rate: with the knob qubit in its ground/excited state, the injected photons tend to be localized/delocalized in the resonators. We show that, by applying a microwave field with appropriate frequency on the knob qubit, we could demonstrate Rabi oscillation between photonic localized phase and delocalized phase. Furthermore, this set-up offers advantages (e. g. infinite on/off ratio) over other proposals for the realization of scalable quantum computation with superconducting qubits.

id: 1109.5009
title: Geometric Manipulation of Ensembles of Atoms on Atom Chip for Quantum Computation
authors: Yicong Zheng, Todd A. Brun
comments: 17 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032323 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5009
abstract: We propose a feasible scheme to achieve quantum computation based on geometric manipulation of ensembles of atoms, and analyze it for neutral rubidium atoms magnetically trapped in planoconcave microcavities on an atom chip. The geometric operations are accomplished by optical excitation of a single atom into a Rydberg state in a constant electric field. Strong dipole-dipole interactions and incident lasers drive the dark state of the atom ensembles to undergo cyclic evolutions that realize a universal set of quantum gates. Such geometric manipulation turns out naturally to protect the qubits from the errors induced by non-uniform laser illumination as well as cavity loss. The gate performance and decoherence processes are assessed by numerical simulation.

id: 1109.5013
title: Fast protocols for local implementation of bipartite nonlocal unitaries
authors: Li Yu, Robert B. Griffiths, Scott M. Cohen
comments: Updated to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012304 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5013
abstract: In certain cases the communication time required to deterministically implement a nonlocal bipartite unitary using prior entanglement and LOCC (local operations and classical communication) can be reduced by a factor of two. We introduce two such "fast" protocols and illustrate them with various examples. For some simple unitaries, the entanglement resource is used quite efficiently. The problem of exactly which unitaries can be implemented by these two protocols remains unsolved, though there is some evidence that the set of implementable unitaries may expand at the cost of using more entanglement.

id: 1109.5035
title: Quantum points/patterns, Part 1. From geometrical points to quantum points in a sheaf framework
authors: Antonina N. Fedorova, Michael G. Zeitlin
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX, spie.cls, Submitted to Proc. of SPIE Meeting, The Nature of Light: What are Photons? IV, San Diego, CA, August, 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5035
abstract: We consider some generalization of the theory of quantum states, which is based on the analysis of long standing problems and unsatisfactory situation with the possible interpretations of quantum mechanics. We demonstrate that the consideration of quantum states as sheaves can provide, in principle, more deep understanding of some phenomena. The key ingredients of the proposed construction are the families of sections of sheaves with values in the category of the functional realizations of infinite-dimensional Hilbert spaces with special (multiscale) filtration. Three different symmetries, kinematical (on space-time), hidden/dynamical (on sections of sheaves), unified (on filtration of the full scale of spaces) are generic objects generating the full zoo of quantum phenomena (e.g., faster than light propagation).

id: 1109.5042
title: Quantum points/patterns, Part 2. From quantum points to quantum patterns via multiresolution
authors: Antonina N. Fedorova, Michael G. Zeitlin
comments: 12 pages, 8 Figures, LaTeX, spie.cls, Submitted to Proc. of SPIE Meeting, The Nature of Light: What are Photons? IV, San Diego, CA, August, 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5042
abstract: It is obvious that we still have not any unified framework covering a zoo of interpretations of Quantum Mechanics, as well as satisfactory understanding of main ingredients of a phenomena like entanglement. The starting point is an idea to describe properly the key ingredient of the area, namely point/particle-like objects (physical quantum points/particles or, at least, structureless but quantum objects) and to change point (wave) functions by sheaves to the sheaf wave functions (Quantum Sheaves). In such an approach Quantum States are sections of the coherent sheaves or contravariant functors from the kinematical category describing space-time to other one, Quantum Dynamical Category, properly describing the complex dynamics of Quantum Patterns. The objects of this category are some filtrations on the functional realization of Hilbert space of Quantum States. In this Part 2, the sequel of Part 1, we present a family of methods which can describe important details of complex behaviour in quantum ensembles: the creation of nontrivial patterns, localized, chaotic, entangled or decoherent, from the fundamental basic localized (nonlinear) eigenmodes (in contrast with orthodox gaussian-like) in various collective models arising from the quantum hierarchies described by Wigner-like equations.

id: 1109.5087
title: Exact Energy-Time Uncertainty Relation for Arrival Time by Absorption
authors: Jukka Kiukas, Andreas Ruschhaupt, Piet O. Schmidt, Reinhard F. Werner
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5087
abstract: We prove an uncertainty relation for energy and arrival time, where the arrival of a particle at a detector is modeled by an absorbing term added to the Hamiltonian. In this well-known scheme the probability for the particle's arrival at the counter is identified with the loss of normalization for an initial wave packet. Under the sole assumption that the absorbing term vanishes on the initial wave function, we show that $\Delta T \Delta E \geq \sqrt p \hbar/2$ and $<T> \Delta E\geq 1.37\sqrt p\hbar$, where $<T>e$ denotes the mean arrival time, and $p$ is the probability for the particle to be eventually absorbed. Nearly minimal uncertainty can be achieved in a two-level system, and we propose a trapped ion experiment to realize this situation.

id: 1109.5110
title: Quantum state storage and processing for polarization qubits in an inhomogeneously broadened ¦«-type three-level medium
authors: D. Viscor, A. Ferraro, Yu. Loiko, J. Mompart, V. Ahufinger
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042314 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5110
abstract: We address the propagation of a single photon pulse with two polarization components, i.e., a polarization qubit, in an inhomogeneously broadened "phaseonium" \Lambda-type three-level medium. We combine some of the non-trivial propagation effects characteristic for this kind of coherently prepared systems and the controlled reversible inhomogeneous broadening technique to propose several quantum information processing applications, such as a protocol for polarization qubit filtering and sieving as well as a tunable polarization beam splitter. Moreover, we show that, by imposing a spatial variation of the atomic coherence phase, an effcient quantum memory for the incident polarization qubit can be also implemented in \Lambda-type three-level systems.

id: 1109.5129
title: Coherences of accelerated detectors and the local character of the Unruh effect
authors: Charis Anastopoulos, Ntina Savvidou
comments: 24 pages, latex. Comments and references added, version to appear in JMP
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 012107 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5129
abstract: We study the locality of the acceleration temperature in the Unruh effect. To this end, we develop a new formalism for the modeling of macroscopic irreversible detectors. In particular, the formalism allows for the derivation of the higher-order coherence functions, analogous to the ones employed in quantum optics, that encode temporal fluctuations and correlations in particle detection. We derive a causal and approximately local-in-time expression for an Unruh-Dewitt detector moving in a general path in Minkowski spacetime. Moreover, we derive the second-order coherence function for uniformly accelerated Unruh-Dewitt detectors. We find that the fluctuations in detection time for a single Unruh-Dewitt detector are thermal. However, the correlations in detection-time between two Unruh-Dewitt detectors with the same acceleration but separated by a finite distance are not thermal. This result suggests that the Unruh effect is fundamentally local, in the sense that the notion of acceleration temperature applies only to the properties of local field observables.

id: 1109.5135
title: A learning graph based quantum query algorithm for finding constant-size subgraphs
authors: Troy Lee, Frederic Magniez, Miklos Santha
comments: The analysis has been refined and a second algorithm included
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5135
abstract: Let $H$ be a fixed $k$-vertex graph with $m$ edges and minimum degree $d >0$. We use the learning graph framework of Belovs to show that the bounded-error quantum query complexity of determining if an $n$-vertex graph contains $H$ as a subgraph is $O(n^{2-2/k-t})$, where $ t = \max{\frac{k^2- 2(m+1)}{k(k+1)(m+1)}, \frac{2k - d - 3}{k(d+1)(m-d+2)}}$. The previous best algorithm of Magniez et al. had complexity $\widetilde O(n^{2-2/k})$.

id: 1109.5154
title: Perfect discrimination of no-signalling channels via quantum superposition of causal structures
authors: G. Chiribella
comments: 5 + 5 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 040301(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5154
abstract: A no-signalling channel transforming quantum systems in Alice's and Bob's laboratories is compatible with two different causal structures: (A < B) Alice's output causally precedes Bob's input and (B< A) Bob's output causally precedes Alice's input. I show that a quantum superposition of circuits operating within these two causal structures enables the perfect discrimination between no-signalling channels that can not be perfectly distinguished by any ordinary circuit.

id: 1109.5168
title: Security of Authentication with a Fixed Key in Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Aysajan Abidin, Jan-?ke Larsson
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5168
abstract: We study the security of a specific authentication procedure of interest in the context of Quantum Key Distribution (QKD). It works as follows: use a secret but fixed Strongly Universal$_2$ (SU$_2$) hash function and encrypt the output tag with a one-time pad (OTP). If the OTP is completely secret, the expected time for an adversary to create a tag for a chosen message is exponential in the tag length. If, however, the OTP is partially known in each authentication round, as is the case in practical QKD protocols, then the picture is different; the adversary's partial knowledge of the OTP in each authentication round gives partial information on the secret hash function, and this weakens the authentication in later rounds. The effect of this is that the lifetime of the system is linear in the length of the fixed key. This is supported by the composability theorem for QKD, that in this setting provides an upper bound to the security loss on the secret hash function, which is exponential in the number of authentication rounds. This needs to be taken into account when using the protocol, since the authentication gets weakened at each subsequent round and thus the QKD generated is key is not as strong as when the authentication is strong. Some countermeasures are discussed at the end of this paper.

id: 1109.5170
title: Non-demolition Adiabatic Measurement of the Phase Qubit State
authors: G.P. Berman, A.A. Chumak, D.I. Kamenev, D. Kinion, V.I. Tsifrinovich
comments: 20 pages
journal: Quant. Inf. and Comp., v. 11, 1045 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5170
abstract: An adiabatic method for a single-shot non-demolition measurement of the phase qubit is suggested. The qubit is inductively coupled to a low-frequency resonator, which in turn is connected with a classical measurement device (phase meter). The resonator drives adiabatic oscillations of the supercurrent in the qubit loop. The back reaction of the qubit loop on the resonator depends on the qubit state. Measuring the phase shift of the resonator's oscillations one can determine the state of the qubit. Numerical computations with available experimental parameters show that the phase difference between the two qubit states increases at a rate of 0.0044 rad/ns with the fidelity of about 0.9989 and the measurement time of about 100 ns. The fidelity of the measurement is estimated taking into consideration possible quantum transitions inside and outside the qubit manifold. An increase of the phase difference is possible but it is linked to a reduction of the fidelity. The requirements for the reproducibility of the qubit and resonator parameters are formulated.

id: 1109.5205
title: Thin-film superconducting resonator tunable to the ground-state hyperfine splitting of $^{87}$Rb
authors: Z. Kim, C. P. Vlahacos, J. E. Hoffman, J. A. Grover, K. D. Voigt, B. K. Cooper, C. J. Ballard, B. S. Palmer, M. Hafezi, J. M. Taylor, J. R. Anderson, A. J. Dragt, C. J. Lobb, L. A. Orozco, S. L. Rolston, F. C. Wellstood
comments: accepted in AIP Advances
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5205
abstract: We describe a thin-film superconducting Nb microwave resonator, tunable to within 0.3 ppm of the hyperfine splitting of $^{87}$Rb at $f_{Rb}=6.834683$ GHz. We coarsely tuned the resonator using electron-beam lithography, decreasing the resonance frequency from 6.8637 GHz to 6.8278 GHz. For \emph{in situ} fine tuning at 15 mK, the resonator inductance was varied using a piezoelectric stage to move a superconducting pin above the resonator. We found a maximum frequency shift of about 8.7 kHz per 60-nm piezoelectric step and a tuning range of 18 MHz.

id: 1109.5223
title: Geometric Momentum: the Proper Momentum for a Free Particle on a Two-dimensional Sphere
authors: Q.H.Liu, L. H. Tang, D. M. Xun
comments: 17 pages. Phys. Rev. A. 2011 (to appear)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5223
abstract: In Dirac's canonical quantization theory on systems with second-class constraints, the commutators between the position, momentum and Hamiltonian form a set of algebraic relations that are fundamental in construction of both the quantum momentum and the Hamiltonian. For a free particle on a two-dimensional sphere or a spherical top, results show that the well-known canonical momentum p_{{\theta}} breaks one of the relations, while three components of the momentum expressed in the three-dimensional Cartesian system of axes as p_{i} (i=1,2,3) are satisfactory all around. This momentum is not only geometrically invariant but also self-adjoint, and we call it geometric momentum. The nontrivial commutators between p_{i} generate three components of the orbital angular momentum; thus the geometric momentum is fundamental to the angular one. We note that there are five different forms of the geometric momentum proposed in the current literature, but only one of them turns out to be meaningful.

id: 1109.5233
title: Optically detecting the quantization of collective atomic motion
authors: Nathan Brahms, Thierry Botter, Sydney Schreppler, Daniel W. C. Brooks, Dan M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: 4 pages plus supplemental material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5233
abstract: We directly measure the quantized collective motion of a gas of thousands of ultracold atoms, coupled to light in a high-finesse optical cavity. We detect strong asymmetries, as high as 3:1, in the intensity of light scattered into low- and high-energy motional sidebands. Owing to high cavity-atom cooperativity, the optical output of the cavity contains a spectroscopic record of the energy exchanged between light and motion, directly quantifying the heat deposited by a quantum position measurement's backaction. Such backaction selectively causes the phonon occupation of the observed collective modes to increase with the measurement rate. These results, in addition to providing a method for calibrating the motion of low-occupation mechanical systems, offer new possibilities for investigating collective modes of degenerate gases and for diagnosing optomechanical measurement backaction.

id: 1109.5259
title: Semi-device independent random number expansion protocol with n to 1 quantum random access codes
authors: Hong-Wei Li, Marcin Paw?owski, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Guang-Can Guo, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: we give a more accurate calculation
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052308 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5259
abstract: We study random number expansion protocols based on the $n \to 1$ quantum random access codes (QRACs). We consider them in the semi-device independent scenario where the inner workings of the devices are unknown to us but we can certify the dimensions of the systems being communicated. This approach does not require the use of the entanglement and makes the physical realization of these protocols much easier than in the standard device independent scenario. In our work, we propose a protocol for randomness expansion, compute min-entropy for the semi-device independent protocol, and investigate $n\to 1$ QRACs with a view to their use in randomness expansion protocols. We also calculate the dependence of the effectiveness of the randomness generation on $n$ and find it optimal for $n=3$, and provide the explanation for this fact.

id: 1109.5285
title: Field theoretical approach to quantum transmission in time-dependent potentials
authors: Fotis K. Diakonos, Panayotis A. Kalozoumis, Alexandros I. Karanikas, Nektarios Manifavas, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 28 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5285
abstract: We develop a field theoretical approach based on the temporary basis description as a tool to investigate the transmission properties of a time-driven quantum device. It employs a perturbative scheme for the calculation of the transmission of a monochromatic beam of particles through the time-dependent set-up. The main advantage of the proposed treatment is that it permits the use of the particle picture for the calculation of the scattering matrix and the transmission coefficient. Therefore the elementary physical processes contributing to the transmission can be identified and interpreted in a transparent way. We apply the method to the simple but prototype problem of transmission through an one-dimensional oscillating delta potential and we demonstrate how it enables a deep understanding of the underlying physical processes.

id: 1109.5333
title: Sudden switch of generalized Lieb-Robinson velocity in a transverse field Ising spin chain
authors: Y. Guo, Y. Liu, D.L. Zhou
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5333
abstract: The Lieb-Robinson theorem states that the speed at which the correlations between two distant nodes in a spin network can be built through local interactions has an upper bound, which is called the Lieb-Robinson velocity. Our central aim is to demonstrate how to observe the Lieb-Robinson velocity in an Ising spin chain with a strong transverse field. We adopt and compare four correlation measures for characterizing different types of correlations, which include correlation function, mutual information, quantum discord, and entanglement of formation. We prove that one of correlation functions shows a special behavior depending on the parity of the spin number. All the information-theoretical correlation measures demonstrate the existence of the Lieb-Robinson velocity. In particular, we find that there is a sudden switch of the Lieb-Robinson speed with the increasing of the number of spin.

id: 1109.5334
title: Quantum Criticality with the Multi-scale Entanglement Renormalization Ansatz
authors: Glen Evenbly, Guifre Vidal
comments: v2: minor corrections. 45 pages, 20 figures, chapter 4 in the book "Strongly Correlated Systems. Numerical Methods", edited by A. Avella and F. Mancini (Springer Series in Solid-State Sciences, Vol. 176 2013)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5334
abstract: The goal of this manuscript is to provide an introduction to the multi-scale entanglement renormalization ansatz (MERA) and its application to the study of quantum critical systems. Only systems in one spatial dimension are considered. The MERA, in its scale-invariant form, is seen to offer direct numerical access to the scale-invariant operators of a critical theory. As a result, given a critical Hamiltonian on the lattice, the scale-invariant MERA can be used to characterize the underlying conformal field theory. The performance of the MERA is benchmarked for several critical quantum spin chains, namely Ising, Potts, XX and (modified) Heisenberg models, and an insightful comparison with results obtained using a matrix product state is made. The extraction of accurate conformal data, such as scaling dimensions and operator product expansion coefficients of both local and non-local primary fields, is also illustrated.

id: 1109.5335
title: Optimal ancilla-free phase-covariant telecloning of qudits via nonmaximally entangled states
authors: Xin-Wen Wang, Guo-Jian Yang
comments: The improvement of Phys. Rev. A 79, 064306 (2009); see also Chin. Phys. Lett. 27, 100303 (2010)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5335
abstract: We study the one-to-two phase-covariant telecloning of a qudit without ancilla. We show that the fidelity of the two clones can reach that of the clones in the optimal ancilla-based one-to-two phase-covariant cloning and telecloning, i.e., the limitation of quantum mechanics. More interestingly, it is a nonmaximally entangled state rather than the maximally entangled state that can be used to realize such a telecloning task.

id: 1109.5346
title: Polar codes for degradable quantum channels
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Saikat Guha
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure; v2: IEEE format, minor changes including new figure; v3: minor changes, accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Information Theory
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory vol. 59, no. 7, pages 4718-4729 (July 2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5346
abstract: Channel polarization is a phenomenon in which a particular recursive encoding induces a set of synthesized channels from many instances of a memoryless channel, such that a fraction of the synthesized channels becomes near perfect for data transmission and the other fraction becomes near useless for this task. Mahdavifar and Vardy have recently exploited this phenomenon to construct codes that achieve the symmetric private capacity for private data transmission over a degraded wiretap channel. In the current paper, we build on their work and demonstrate how to construct quantum wiretap polar codes that achieve the symmetric private capacity of a degraded quantum wiretap channel with a classical eavesdropper. Due to the Schumacher-Westmoreland correspondence between quantum privacy and quantum coherence, we can construct quantum polar codes by operating these quantum wiretap polar codes in superposition, much like Devetak's technique for demonstrating the achievability of the coherent information rate for quantum data transmission. Our scheme achieves the symmetric coherent information rate for quantum channels that are degradable with a classical environment. This condition on the environment may seem restrictive, but we show that many quantum channels satisfy this criterion, including amplitude damping channels, photon-detected jump channels, dephasing channels, erasure channels, and cloning channels. Our quantum polar coding scheme has the desirable properties of being channel-adapted and symmetric capacity-achieving along with having an efficient encoder, but we have not demonstrated that the decoding is efficient. Also, the scheme may require entanglement assistance, but we show that the rate of entanglement consumption vanishes in the limit of large blocklength if the channel is degradable with classical environment.

id: 1109.5405
title: Local operation on identical particles systems
authors: O. Rend¨®n, E. Medina
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, Conference
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 338 (2012) 012015
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5405
abstract: We describe identical particles through their extrinsic physical properties and operationally with an operator of selective measure Mm. The operator Mm is formed through non-symmetrized tensor product of one-particle measurement operators, so that it does not commute with the permutation operator P. This operator of selective measure Mm is a local operation (LO) if it acts on physical systems of distinguishable particles, but when Mm acts on the Hilbert sub-space of a system with a constant number of indistinguishable particles this can generate entanglement in the system. We will call entanglement by measurement (EbM), this way of producing entanglement. In this framework, we show entangle production examples for systems of two fermions (or bosons) when the operator Mm has two-particle events that are not mutually exclusive.

id: 1109.5412
title: Time-optimal synthesis of SU(2) transformations for a spin-1/2 system
authors: A. D. Boozer
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5412
abstract: We consider a quantum control problem involving a spin-1/2 particle in a magnetic field. The magnitude of the field is held constant, and the direction of the field, which is constrained to lie in the x-y plane, serves as a control parameter that can be varied to govern the evolution of the system. We analytically solve for the time dependence of the control parameter that will synthesize a given target SU(2) transformation in the least possible amount of time, and we show that the time-optimal solutions have a simple geometric interpretation in terms of the fiber bundle structure of SU(2). We also generalize our time-optimal solutions to a control problem that includes a constant bias field along the z axis, and to the case of inhomogeneous control, in which a single control parameter governs the evolution of an ensemble of spin-1/2 systems.

id: 1109.5417
title: A linear program for the finite block length converse of Polyanskiy-Poor-Verd¨² via non-signalling codes
authors: William Matthews
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, submitted to IEEE Trans. Inf. T
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5417
abstract: Motivated by recent work on entanglement-assisted codes for sending messages over classical channels, the larger, easily characterised class of non-signalling codes is defined. Analysing the optimal performance of these codes yields an alternative proof of the finite block length converse of Polyanskiy, Poor and Verd\'u, and shows that they achieve this converse. This provides an explicit formulation of the converse as a linear program which has some useful features. For discrete memoryless channels, it is shown that non-signalling codes attain the channel capacity with zero error probability if and only if the dispersion of the channel is zero.

id: 1109.5424
title: Foundations and Applications of Entanglement Renormalization
authors: Glen Evenbly
comments: PhD thesis submitted to the University of Queensland in Jan 2010. Contains elements from: arXiv:0707.1454, arXiv:0710.0692, arXiv:0801.2449, arXiv:0810.0580, arXiv:0811.0879, arXiv:0904.3383. 174 pages, 56 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5424
abstract: Understanding the collective behavior of a quantum many-body system, a system composed of a large number of interacting microscopic degrees of freedom, is a key aspect in many areas of contemporary physics. However, as a direct consequence of the difficultly of the so-called many-body problem, many exotic quantum phenomena involving extended systems, such as high temperature superconductivity, remain not well understood on a theoretical level. Entanglement renormalization is a recently proposed numerical method for the simulation of many-body systems which draws together ideas from the renormalization group and from the field of quantum information. By taking due care of the quantum entanglement of a system, entanglement renormalization has the potential to go beyond the limitations of previous numerical methods and to provide new insight to quantum collective phenomena. This thesis comprises a significant portion of the research development of ER following its initial proposal. This includes exploratory studies with ER in simple systems of free particles, the development of the optimisation algorithms associated to ER, and the early applications of ER in the study of quantum critical phenomena and frustrated spin systems.

id: 1109.5458
title: Dynamics of quantum correlations for two-qubit coupled to a spin chain with Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction
authors: Yi-ying Yan, Li-jun Tian, Li-guo Qin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5458
abstract: We study the dynamics of quantum discord and entanglement for two spin qubits coupled to a spin chain with Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya (DM) interaction. We numerically and analytically investigate the time evolution of quantum discord and entanglement for two-qubit initially prepared in a class of $X-$structure state. In the case of evolution from a pure state, quantum correlations decay to zero in a very short time at the critical point of the environment. In the case of evolution from a mixed state, It is found that quantum discord may get maximized due to the quantum critical behavior of the environment while entanglement vanishes under the same condition. Moreover, we observed sudden transition between classical and quantum decoherence when single qubit interacts with the environment. The effects of DM interaction on quantum correlations are also considered and revealed in the two cases. It can enhance the decay of quantum correlations and its effect on quantum correlations can be strengthened by anisotropy parameter.

id: 1109.5471
title: Non-hermitian exciton dynamics in a photosynthetic unit system
authors: A. Thilagam
comments: misprints corrected
journal: The Journal of Chemical Physics 136, 065104 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5471
abstract: The non-hermitian quantum dynamics of excitonic energy transfer in photosynthetic systems is investigated using a dissipative two-level dimer model. The approach is based on the Green's function formalism which permits consideration of decoherence and intersite transfer processes on comparable terms. The results indicate a combination of coherent and incoherent behavior at higher temperatures with the possibility of exceptional points occurring at the coherent-incoherent crossover regime at critical temperatures. When each dimer site is coupled equally to the environmental sources of dissipation, the excitonic wavepacket evolves with time with a coherent component, which can be attributed to the indistinguishability of the sources of dissipation. The time evolution characteristics of the B850 Bchls dimer system is analysed using typical parameter estimates in photosynthetic systems, and the quantum brachistochrone passage times are obtained for a range of parameters.

id: 1109.5478
title: Quantum Tomography under Prior Information
authors: Teiko Heinosaari, Luca Mazzarella, Michael M. Wolf
comments: minor corrections in v2, published version
journal: Comm. Math. Phys. 318, 355--374 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5478
abstract: We provide a detailed analysis of the question: how many measurement settings or outcomes are needed in order to identify a quantum system which is constrained by prior information? We show that if the prior information restricts the system to a set of lower dimensionality, then topological obstructions can increase the required number of outcomes by a factor of two over the number of real parameters needed to characterize the system. Conversely, we show that almost every measurement becomes informationally complete with respect to the constrained set if the number of outcomes exceeds twice the Minkowski dimension of the set. We apply the obtained results to determine the minimal number of outcomes of measurements which are informationally complete with respect to states with rank constraints. In particular, we show that 4d-4 measurement outcomes (POVM elements) is enough in order to identify all pure states in a d-dimensional Hilbert space, and that the minimal number is at most 2 log_2(d) smaller than this upper bound.

id: 1109.5481
title: Engineering Dresselhaus spin-orbit coupling for cold atoms in a double tripod configuration
authors: G. Juzeliunas, J. Ruseckas, D. L. Campbell, I. B. Spielman
comments: 
journal: Proc. SPIE 7950, 79500M (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5481
abstract: We study laser induced spin-orbit (SO) coupling in cold atom systems where lasers couple three internal states to a pair of excited states, in a double tripod topology. Proper choice of laser amplitudes and phases produces a Hamiltonian with a doubly degenerate ground state separated from the remaining "excited" eigenstates by gaps determined by the Rabi frequencies of the atom-light coupling. After eliminating the excited states with a Born- Oppenheimer approximation, the Hamiltonian of the remaining two states includes Dresselhaus (or equivalently Rashba) SO coupling. Unlike earlier proposals, here the SO coupled states are the two lowest energy "dressed" spin states and are thus immune to collisional relaxation. Finally, we discuss a specific implementation of our system using Raman transitions between different hyperfine states within the electronic ground state manifold of nuclear spin I = 3/2 alkali atoms.

id: 1109.5537
title: Geometrical view of quantum entanglement
authors: A. Ramsak
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett. 96, 40004 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5537
abstract: Although a precise description of microscopic physical problems requires a full quantum mechanical treatment, physical quantities are generally discussed in terms of classical variables. One exception is quantum entanglement which apparently has no classical counterpart. We demonstrate here how quantum entanglement may be within the de Broglie-Bohm interpretation of quantum mechanics visualized in geometrical terms, giving new insight into this mysterious phenomenon and a language to describe it. On the basis of our analysis of the dynamics of a pair of qubits, quantum entanglement is linked to concurrent motion of angular momenta in the Bohmian space of hidden variables and to the average angle between these momenta.

id: 1109.5549
title: Quantum Discord and Quantum Computing - An Appraisal
authors: Animesh Datta, Anil Shaji
comments: To be published in the Special Issue of the International Journal of Quantum Information on "Quantum Correlations: entanglement and beyond." 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, 9, 1787-1805, (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5549
abstract: We discuss models of computing that are beyond classical. The primary motivation is to unearth the cause of nonclassical advantages in computation. Completeness results from computational complexity theory lead to the identification of very disparate problems, and offer a kaleidoscopic view into the realm of quantum enhancements in computation. Emphasis is placed on the `power of one qubit' model, and the boundary between quantum and classical correlations as delineated by quantum discord. A recent result by Eastin on the role of this boundary in the efficient classical simulation of quantum computation is discussed. Perceived drawbacks in the interpretation of quantum discord as a relevant certificate of quantum enhancements are addressed.

id: 1109.5562
title: Qubit state detection using the quantum Duffing oscillator
authors: V. Leyton, M. Thorwart, V. Peano
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures. To appear in Phys. Rev. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5562
abstract: We introduce a detection scheme for the state of a qubit, which is based on resonant few-photon transitions in a driven nonlinear resonator. The latter is parametrically coupled to the qubit and is used as its detector. Close to the fundamental resonator frequency, the nonlinear resonator shows sharp resonant few-photon transitions. Depending on the qubit state, these few-photon resonances are shifted to different driving frequencies. We show that this detection scheme offers the advantage of small back action, a large discrimination power with an enhanced read-out fidelity, and a sufficiently large measurement efficiency. A realization of this scheme in the form of a persistent current qubit inductively coupled to a driven SQUID detector in its nonlinear regime is discussed.

id: 1109.5592
title: Connecting Entanglement Renormalization and Gauge/Gravity dualities
authors: Javier Molina-Vilaplana
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures. version 2: Abstract modified. Revised arguments in sections 4 & 5. Discussion & Conclusions sections added. Some references added. Figure 1 changed and Figure 2 added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5592
abstract: In this work we provide additional support for the proposed connection between the gauge/gravity dualities in string theory and the successful Multi-Scale-Entanglement-Renormalization-anstaz (MERA) method developed for the efficient simulation of quantum many body systems at criticality. This support comes by showing an explicit formal equivalence between the real space renormalization group (RG) flow of the two point correlation functions in different types of MERA states and the holographic RG flow of these correlation functions in asymptotically Anti de Sitter (AdS) spacetimes. These observations may be useful in order to formalize and make more precise the connection between the properties of different MERA states and their potential holographic descriptions.

id: 1109.5622
title: Coherent destruction of tunneling in a lattice array under selective in-phase modulations
authors: Xiaobing Luo, Jiahao Huang, Chaohong Lee
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053847 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5622
abstract: We explore the coherent destruction of tunneling (CDT) in a lattice array under selective in-phase harmonic modulations, in which some selected lattice sites are driven by in-phase harmonic oscillating fields and other lattice sites are undriven. Due to the occurrence of CDT, if the driving amplitude $A$ and the driving frequency $\omega$ are tuned to satisfy the zeroth-order Bessel function $J_0(A/\omega)=0$, the driven lattice sites are approximately decoupled with the undriven lattice sites. The CDT even takes place in lattice systems with high-order couplings between non-nearest lattice sites. By using the CDT, we propose a scheme for realizing directed transport of a single particle. It is possible to observe the CDT in the engineered optical waveguide array, which provides a new opportunity for controlling light propagation and designing switch-like couplers.

id: 1109.5627
title: The critical Kerr non-linear optical cavity in the presence of internal loss and driving noise
authors: Andre Thuering, Roman Schnabel
comments: 
journal: A. Thuering and R. Schnabel, Phys. Rev. A 84, 033839 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5627
abstract: We theoretically analyze the noise transformation of a high power continuouswave light field that is reflected off a critical Kerr non-linear cavity (KNLC). Our investigations are based on a rigorous treatment in the time-domain. Thereby, realistic conditions of a specific experimental environment including optical intra-cavity loss and strong classical driving noise can be modeled for any KNLC. We show that even in the presence of optical loss and driving noise considerable squeezing levels can be achieved. We find that the achievable squeezing levels are not limited by the driving noise but solely by the amount of optical loss. Amplitude quadrature squeezing of the reflected mean field is obtained if the KNLC's operating point is chosen properly. Consistently, a KNLC can provide a passive, purely optical reduction of laser power noise as experimentally demonstrated in [1]. We apply our model to this experiment and find good agreement with measured noise spectra.

id: 1109.5661
title: Quantum measurement bounds beyond the uncertainty relations
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Seth Lloyd, Lorenzo Maccone
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 260405 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5661
abstract: We give a bound to the precision in the estimation of a parameter in terms of the expectation value of an observable. It is an extension of the Cramer-Rao inequality and of the Heisenberg uncertainty relation, where the estimation precision is typically bounded in terms of the variance of an observable.

id: 1109.5724
title: On the Spectrum of Field Quadratures for a Finite Number of Photons
authors: Emilio Pisanty, Eduardo Nahmad-Achar
comments: 16 pages, 11 figures
journal: 2012 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 395303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5724
abstract: The spectrum and eigenstates of any field quadrature operator restricted to a finite number $N$ of photons are studied, in terms of the Hermite polynomials. By (naturally) defining \textit{approximate} eigenstates, which represent highly localized wavefunctions with up to $N$ photons, one can arrive at an appropriate notion of limit for the spectrum of the quadrature as $N$ goes to infinity, in the sense that the limit coincides with the spectrum of the infinite-dimensional quadrature operator. In particular, this notion allows the spectra of truncated phase operators to tend to the complete unit circle, as one would expect. A regular structure for the zeros of the Christoffel-Darboux kernel is also shown.

id: 1109.5739
title: Collective atom phase-controlled noise-free photon echoes using double rephasing and optical locking
authors: B. S. Ham
comments: 4 pages, 3 figs
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5739
abstract: Using collective atom phase control a population inversion-free photon echo scheme has been studied for quantum memory applications. For the inversion-free photon echoes a double rephasing method is combined with optical locking, where the optical locking coherently controls each atom phase excited by weak data pulses. As a result, intensity flattened, normally ordered, storage time-extended, and noise-free photon echoes are obtained.

id: 1109.5747
title: On the Relativistic Invariance of Entanglement
authors: Esteban Castro-Ruiz, Eduardo Nahmad-Achar
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: Rev. Mex. Fis. S 57 (3) 65-68 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5747
abstract: In this work we study the entanglement properties under a Lorentz boost of a pair of spin- 1 massive particles, with spin and momentum as the sole degrees of freedom of the system. Different cases for entanglement between spins and momenta are considered as initial states and it is shown that entanglement between the different degrees of freedom is, in general, not invariant. We analyze the entanglement change in terms of the Wigner rotation induced by the transformation and show that, for the case of spin-1 particles, the relative entanglement change between different states depends strongly on the boost velocity.

id: 1109.5792
title: Transmission through a non-overlapping well adjacent to a finite barrier
authors: Zafar Ahmed
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5792
abstract: We point out that a non-overlapping well (at negative energies) adjacent to a finite barrier (at positive energies) is a simple potential which is generally missed out while discussing the one-dimensional potentials in the textbooks of quantum mechanics. We show that these systems present interesting situations wherein transmitivity $(T_b(E))$ of a finite barrier can be changed both quantitatively and qualitatively by varying the depth or width of the well or by changing the distance between the well and the barrier. Using delta (thin) well near a delta (thin) barrier we show that the well induces energy oscillations riding over $T_b(E)$ in the transmitivity $T(E)$ at both the energies below and above the barrier. More generally we show that a thick well separated from a thick barrier also gives rise to energy oscillations in $T(E)$. A well joining a barrier discontinuously (a finite jump) reduces $T(E)$ (as compared to $T_b(E))$ over all energies. When the well and barrier are joined continuously, $T(E)$ increases and then decreases at energies below the barrier. At energy above the the barrier the changes are inappreciable. In these two cases if we separate the well and the barrier by a distance, $T(E)$ again acquires oscillations. Paradoxically, it turns out that a distant well induces more energy oscillations in $T(E)$ than when it is near the barrier.

id: 1109.5840
title: Two-slit Experiment And Wave-Particle Duality
authors: N. L. Chuprikov
comments: 5 pages; conference "FPP6-Foundations of Probability and Physics-6"
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5840
abstract: On the basis of an alternative approach to micro-cat states (Found. of Phys., 41, No. 9, p.1502 (2011)) we develop a new model of the two-slit experiment. It explains both this particular experiment and how the wave properties of any ensemble of single quantum particles emerge from their corpuscular ones. The key role in this explanation is played by the indistinguishability of identical quantum particles.

id: 1109.5937
title: Colloquium: Quantum interference of clusters and molecules
authors: Klaus Hornberger, Stefan Gerlich, Philipp Haslinger, Stefan Nimmrichter, Markus Arndt
comments: 19 pages, 13 figures; v2: corresponds to published version
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 84, 157 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5937
abstract: We review recent progress and future prospects of matter wave interferometry with complex organic molecules and inorganic clusters. Three variants of a near-field interference effect, based on diffraction by material nanostructures, at optical phase gratings, and at ionizing laser fields are considered. We discuss the theoretical concepts underlying these experiments and the experimental challenges. This includes optimizing interferometer designs as well as understanding the role of decoherence. The high sensitivity of matter wave interference experiments to external perturbations is demonstrated to be useful for accurately measuring internal properties of delocalized nanoparticles. We conclude by investigating the prospects for probing the quantum superposition principle in the limit of high particle mass and complexity.

id: 1109.5958
title: The Casimir force between a microfabricated elliptic cylinder and a plate
authors: R. S. Decca, E. Fischbach, G. L. Klimchitskaya, D. E. Krause, D. Lopez, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A, Vol.84, No.4, 042502-(1-9) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5958
abstract: We investigate the Casimir force between a microfabricated elliptic cylinder (cylindrical lens) and a plate made of real materials. After a brief discussion of the fabrication procedure, which typically results in elliptic rather than circular cylinders, the Lifshitz-type formulas for the Casimir force and for its gradient are derived. In the specific case of equal semiaxes, the resulting formulas coincide with those derived previously for circular cylinders. The nanofabrication procedure may also result in asymmetric cylindrical lenses obtained from parts of two different cylinders, or rotated through some angle about the axis of the cylinder. In these cases the Lifshitz-type formulas for the Casimir force between a lens and a plate and for its gradient are also derived, and the influence of lens asymmetry is determined. Additionally, we obtain an expression for the shift of the natural frequency of a micromachined oscillator with an attached elliptic cylindrical lens interacting with a plate via the Casimir force in a nonlinear regime.

id: 1109.5972
title: Behaviour of entanglement and Cooper pairs under relativistic boosts
authors: Veiko Palge, Vlatko Vedral, Jacob A. Dunningham
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5972
abstract: Recent work has shown how single-particle entangled states are transformed when boosted in relativistic frames for certain restricted geometries. Here we extend that work to consider completely general inertial boosts. We then apply our single particle results to multiparticle entanglements by focussing on Cooper pairs of electrons. We show that a standard Cooper pair state consisting of a spin-singlet acquires spin-triplet components in a relativistically boosted inertial frame, regardless of the geometry. We also show that, if we start with a spin-triplet pair, two out of the three triplet states acquire a singlet component, the size of which depends on the geometry. This transformation between the different singlet and triplet superconducting pairs may lead to a better understanding of unconventional superconductivity.

id: 1109.5987
title: Quantum computation with programmable connections between gates
authors: Timoteo Colnaghi, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti, Stefano Facchini
comments: 5 pages, PRL style
journal: Phys. Lett. A 376 (2012), pp. 2940--2943
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5987
abstract: A new model of quantum computation is considered, in which the connections between gates are programmed by the state of a quantum register. This new model of computation is shown to be more powerful than the usual quantum computation, e. g. in achieving the programmability of permutations of N different unitary channels with 1 use instead of N uses per channel. For this task, a new elemental resource is needed, the "quantum switch", which can be programmed to switch the order of two channels with a single use of each one.

id: 1109.6002
title: Reducing sequencing complexity in dynamical quantum error suppression by Walsh modulation
authors: David Hayes, Kaveh Khodjasteh, Lorenza Viola, Michael J. Biercuk
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6002
abstract: We study dynamical error suppression from the perspective of reducing sequencing complexity, in order to facilitate efficient semi-autonomous quantum-coherent systems. With this aim, we focus on digital sequences where all interpulse time periods are integer multiples of a minimum clock period and compatibility with simple digital classical control circuitry is intrinsic, using so-called em Walsh functions as a general mathematical framework. The Walsh functions are an orthonormal set of basis functions which may be associated directly with the control propagator for a digital modulation scheme, and dynamical decoupling (DD) sequences can be derived from the locations of digital transitions therein. We characterize the suite of the resulting Walsh dynamical decoupling (WDD) sequences, and identify the number of periodic square-wave (Rademacher) functions required to generate a Walsh function as the key determinant of the error-suppressing features of the relevant WDD sequence. WDD forms a unifying theoretical framework as it includes a large variety of well-known and novel DD sequences, providing significant flexibility and performance benefits relative to basic quasi-periodic design. We also show how Walsh modulation may be employed for the protection of certain nontrivial logic gates, providing an implementation of a dynamically corrected gate. Based on these insights we identify Walsh modulation as a digital-efficient approach for physical-layer error suppression.

id: 1109.6049
title: The Space of all Paths for a Quantum System: Revisiting EPR and Bell's Theorem
authors: Warren Leffler
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1104.4327
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6049
abstract: In this paper we identify a hidden premise in Bell's theorem: measurability of the underlying space. But our system (the space of all paths, SP) is not measurable, although it replicates the predictions of standard quantum mechanics. Using it we present three counterexamples to Bell's theorem and also show why Bell-like arguments for more than two particles cannot be carried out in this model. Moreover, we show that the result places severe constraints on possible viable interpretations of quantum mechanics: Either an interpretation must in some form represent a quantum system in terms of all paths within the system or, alternatively, the interpretation must harbor "action at a distance".

id: 1109.6063
title: Werner state structure and entanglement classification
authors: David W. Lyons, Abigail M. Skelton, Scott N. Walck
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, minor changes and corrections for version 2
journal: Advances in Mathematical Physics, 2012:463610, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6063
abstract: We present applications of the representation theory of Lie groups to the analysis of structure and local unitary classification of Werner states, sometimes called the {\em decoherence-free} states, which are states of $n$ quantum bits left unchanged by local transformations that are the same on each particle. We introduce a multiqubit generalization of the singlet state, and a construction that assembles these into Werner states.

id: 1109.6193
title: Macroscopic quantum electrodynamics and duality in non-local and Onsager-violating media
authors: Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, David T. Butcher, Stefan Scheel
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6193
abstract: We formulate macroscopic quantum electrodynamics for the most general linear, absorbing media. In particular, Onsager reciprocity is not assumed to hold. For media with a non-local response, the field quantisation is based on the conductivity tensor and the Green tensor for the electromagnetic field. For a local medium response, we introduce the permittivity, permeability and magnetoelectric susceptibilities to obtain an explicitly duality-invariant scheme. We find that duality invariance only holds as a continuous symmetry when non-reciprocal responses are allowed for.

id: 1109.6204
title: Canonical formulation of Thermodynamics, and corresponding wave equation for far from equilibrium case
authors: Adrian Faigon
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6204
abstract: Lagrange and Hamilton equations for thermodynamic evolution near equilibrium as well as Schrodinger-like equation for the non-equilibrium case are obtained extending the CPDQ Principle (Constancy of the product momentum-oordinate uncertainty) to a new conjugate pair where the momentum f is the extension of the mechanical f=p.{\delta}q product for the case the coordinate q is not directly observable. Applied to the case of a particle in a one dimension box, the results are in agreement with reported calculated and measured thermal conductance.

id: 1109.6223
title: Vindication of Quantum Locality
authors: David Deutsch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6223
abstract: In a previous paper [arXiv:quant-ph/9906007] Hayden and I proved, using the Heisenberg picture, that quantum physics satisfies Einstein's criterion of locality. Wallace and Timpson have argued that certain transformations of the Heisenberg- picture description of a quantum system must be regarded as leaving invariant the factual situation being described, and that taking this into account reveals that Einstein's criterion is violated after all. Here I vindicate the proof and explain some misconceptions that have led to this and other criticisms of it.

id: 1109.6244
title: A statistical derivation of non-relativistic quantum theory
authors: U. Klein
comments: 35 pages, no figures, typing errors in eqs.73,88,90 corrected; book chapter in "Measurements in Quantum Mechanics", ISBN 979-953-307-752-8, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6244
abstract: A previous derivation of the single-particle Schr\"odinger equation from statistical assumptions is generalized to an arbitrary number $N$ of particles moving in three-dimensional space. Spin and gauge fields are also taken into account. It is found that the same statistical assumptions that imply Schr\"odinger's equation determine also the form of the gauge coupling terms, and the form of the corresponding local (Lorentz) forces. An explanation for the role of the electrodynamic potentials, as statistical representatives of the Lorentz force, is given. For a single particle, spin one-half is introduced as the property of a statistical ensemble to respond to an external gauge field in two different ways. A generalized calculation, using the twofold number of variables, leads to Pauli's equation. The new spin term is again the statistical representative of the corresponding local force. For a $N$-particle system, spin is introduced as a consequence of gauge coupling.The classical limit $\hbar \to 0$ of Schr\"odinger's equation and closely related questions of interpretation of the quantum mechanical formalism are discussed.

id: 1109.6250
title: Quantum statistics of the collective excitations of an atomic ensemble inside a cavity
authors: Jin-Feng Huang, Qing Ai, Yuangang Deng, C. P. Sun, Franco Nori
comments: 13 pages,7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 023801 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6250
abstract: We study the quantum statistical properties of the collective excitations of an atomic ensemble inside a high-finesse cavity. In the large-detuning regime, it is found that the virtual photon exchange can induce a long-range interaction between atoms, which results in correlated excitations. In particular, the atomic blockade phenomenon occurs when the induced long-range interaction effectively suppresses the double atomic excitation, when the average photon number takes certain values, which makes the two nearest energy levels degenerate. We also show that quantum phase transitions occur in the indirectly-interacting atomic ensemble when the average photon number reaches several critical points. In this sense, the quantum statistical properties of the collective excitations are very sensitive to the change of the average photon number. Our model exhibits quantum phase transitions similar to the ones in the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model. Our proposal could be implemented in a variety of systems including cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED), Bose-Einstein condensates, and circuit QED.

id: 1109.6254
title: Coalescence of Single Photons Emitted by Disparate Single Photon Sources: The Example of InAs Quantum Dots and Parametric Down-Conversion Sources
authors: Sergey V. Polyakov, Andreas Muller, Edward B. Flagg, Alex Ling, Natalia Borjemscaia, Edward Van Keuren, Alan Migdall, Glenn S. Solomon
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6254
abstract: Single photons produced by fundamentally dissimilar physical processes will in general not be indistinguishable. We show how photons produced from a quantum dot and by parametric down-conversion in a nonlinear crystal can be manipulated to be indistinguishable. The measured two-photon coalescence probability is 16%, and is limited by quantum-dot decoherence. Temporal filtering to the quantum dot coherence time and accounting for detector time response increases this to 61% while retaining 25% of the events. This technique can connect different elements in a scalable quantum network.

id: 1109.6315
title: Nonperturbative theory of weak pre- and post-selected measurements
authors: Abraham G. Kofman, Sahel Ashhab, Franco Nori
comments: The final version, corrected and expanded; 107 pages, 13 figures
journal: Physics Reports 520 (2012) pp. 43-133
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6315
abstract: This paper starts with a brief review of the topic of strong and weak pre- and post-selected (PPS) quantum measurements, as well as weak values, and afterwards presents original work. In particular, we develop a nonperturbative theory of weak PPS measurements of an arbitrary system with an arbitrary meter, for arbitrary initial states. New and simple analytical formulas are obtained for the average and the distribution of the meter pointer variable, which hold to all orders in the weak value. In the case of a mixed preselected state, in addition to the standard weak value, an associated weak value is required to describe weak PPS measurements. In the linear regime, the theory provides the generalized Aharonov-Albert-Vaidman formula. Moreover, we reveal two new regimes of weak PPS measurements: the strongly-nonlinear regime and the inverted region, where the system-dependent contribution to the pointer deflection decreases with increasing the measurement strength. The optimal conditions for weak PPS measurements are achieved in the strongly-nonlinear regime, where the magnitude of the average pointer deflection is equal or close to the maximum. This maximum is independent of the measurement strength, being typically of the order of the pointer uncertainty. We show that the amplification in the weak PPS measurements is a product of two qualitatively different quantities: proper amplification and enhancement. The effects of the free system and meter Hamiltonians are discussed. We also identify optimal meters for weak measurements. Exact solutions are obtained for a certain class of the measured observables. These solutions are used for numerical calculations, the results of which agree with the theory. Moreover, the theory is extended to allow for a completely general post-selection measurement. We also discuss time-symmetry properties of PPS measurements of any strength.

id: 1109.6316
title: Steady-state entanglement of a Bose-Einstein condensate and a nanomechanical resonator
authors: Muhammad Asjad, Farhan Saif
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 033606 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6316
abstract: We analyze the steady-state entanglement between Bose-Einstein condensate trapped inside an optical cavity with a moving end mirror (nanomechanical resonator) driven by a single mode laser. The quantized laser field mediates the interaction between the Bose-Einstein condensate and nanomechanical resonator. In particular, we study the influence of temperature on the entanglement of the coupled system, and note that the steady-state entanglement is fragile with respect to temperature.

id: 1109.6337
title: Many-body entanglement: Permutations and equivalence classes
authors: Florian Mintert, Benno Salwey, Andreas Buchleitner
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6337
abstract: With an easily applicable criterion based on permutation symmetries of (identically prepared) replicas of quantum states we identify distinct entanglement classes in high-dimensional multi- partite systems. The different symmetry properties of inequivalent states provide a rather intuitive picture of the otherwise very abstract classification of many-body entangled states.

id: 1109.6420
title: Quantum discord versus second-order MQ NMR coherence intensity in dimers
authors: E. I. Kuznetsova, A. I. Zenchuk
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physics Letters A V.376 (2012) 1029-1034
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6420
abstract: We consider the quantum discord in a two-particle spin-1/2 system (dimer) governed by the standard multiple quantum (MQ) Hamiltonian and reveal the relation between the discord and the intensity of the second-order MQ coherence. Since the coherence intensities may be measured in experiment, we obtain a method of detecting the quantum discord in experiment. Comparison of discord and concurrence is represented.

id: 1109.6424
title: Quantum Structures of a Model-Universe: An Inconsistency with Everett Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: J. Jeknic-Dugic, M. Dugic, A. Francom
comments: Accepted by the IJTP
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. January 53, 169 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6424
abstract: We observe a Quantum Brownian Motion (QBM) Model Universe in conjunction with recently established Entanglement Relativity and Parallel Occurrence of Decoherence. The Parallel Occurrence of Decoherence establishes the simultaneous occurrence of decoherence for two mutually irreducible structures (decomposition into subsystems) of the total QBM model universe. First we find that Everett world branching for one structure excludes branching for the alternate structure and in order to reconcile this situation branching cannot be allowed for either of the structures considered. Second, we observe the non-existence of a third, "emergent structure", that could approximate both structures and also be allowed to branch. Ultimately we find unless world-branching requires additional criteria or conditions, or there is a privileged structure, that we provide a valid model that cannot be properly described by the Everett Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics.

id: 1109.6457
title: Can One Trust Quantum Simulators?
authors: Philipp Hauke, Fernando M. Cucchietti, Luca Tagliacozzo, Ivan Deutsch, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 20 pages. Minor changes with respect to version 2 (some additional explanations, added references...)
journal: Rep. Prog. Phys. 75, 082401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6457
abstract: Various fundamental phenomena of strongly-correlated quantum systems such as high-$T_c$ superconductivity, the fractional quantum-Hall effect, and quark confinement are still awaiting a universally accepted explanation. The main obstacle is the computational complexity of solving even the most simplified theoretical models that are designed to capture the relevant quantum correlations of the many-body system of interest. In his seminal 1982 paper [Int. J. Theor. Phys. 21, 467], Richard Feynman suggested that such models might be solved by "simulation" with a new type of computer whose constituent parts are effectively governed by a desired quantum many-body dynamics. Measurements on this engineered machine, now known as a "quantum simulator," would reveal some unknown or difficult to compute properties of a model of interest. We argue that a useful quantum simulator must satisfy four conditions: relevance, controllability, reliability, and efficiency. We review the current state of the art of digital and analog quantum simulators. Whereas so far the majority of the focus, both theoretically and experimentally, has been on controllability of relevant models, we emphasize here the need for a careful analysis of reliability and efficiency in the presence of imperfections. We discuss how disorder and noise can impact these conditions, and illustrate our concerns with novel numerical simulations of a paradigmatic example: a disordered quantum spin chain governed by the Ising model in a transverse magnetic field. We find that disorder can decrease the reliability of an analog quantum simulator of this model, although large errors in local observables are introduced only for strong levels of disorder. We conclude that the answer to the question "Can we trust quantum simulators?" is... to some extent.

id: 1109.6462
title: Collapse of the State Vector
authors: Steven Weinberg
comments: Version published in Phys. Rev. A. Discussion and references added regarding entanglement and instantaneous communication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062116 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6462
abstract: Modifications of quantum mechanics are considered, in which the state vector of any system, large or small, undergoes a stochastic evolution. The general class of theories is described, in which the probability distribution of the state vector collapses to a sum of delta functions, one for each possible final state, with coefficients given by the Born rule.

id: 1109.6514
title: A Kochen-Specker inequality from a SIC
authors: Ingemar Bengtsson, Kate Blanchfield, Adan Cabello
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; strengthened argument, new coauthor added
journal: Phys. Lett. A 376 (2012) 374
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6514
abstract: Yu and Oh [1] have given a state independent proof of the Kochen-Specker theorem in three dimensions using only 13 rays. The proof consists of showing that a non-contextual hidden variable theory necessarily leads to an inequality that is violated by quantum mechanics. We give a similar proof making use of 21 rays that constitute a SIC and four Mutually Unbiased Bases.

id: 1109.6530
title: Influence of electron-acoustic phonon scattering on intensity power broadening in a coherently driven quantum-dot cavity system
authors: Chiranjeeb Roy, Stephen Hughes
comments: To be published in PRX
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6530
abstract: We present a quantum optics formalism to study intensity power broadening of a semiconductor quantum dot interacting with an acoustic phonon bath and a high $Q$ microcavity. Power broadening is investigated using a time-convolutionless master equation in the polaron frame which allows for a nonperturbative treatment of the interaction of the quantum dot with the phonon reservoir. We calculate the full non-Lorentzian photoluminescence (PL) lineshapes and numerically extract the intensity linewidths of the quantum dot exciton and the cavity mode as a function of pump rate and temperature. For increasing field strengths, multiphonon and multiphoton effects are found to be important, even for phonon bath temperatures as low as 4 K. We show that the interaction of the quantum dot with the phonon reservoir introduces pronounced features in the power broadened PL lineshape, enabling one to observe clear signatures of electron-phonon scattering. The PL lineshapes from cavity pumping and exciton pumping are found to be distinctly different, primarily since the latter is excited through the exciton-phonon reservoir. To help explain the underlying physics of phonon scattering on the power broadened lineshape, an effective phonon Lindblad master equation derived from the full time-convolutionless master equation is introduced; we identify and calculate distinct Lindblad scattering contributions from electron-phonon interactions, including effects such as excitation-induced dephasing, incoherent exciton excitation and exciton-cavity feeding. Our effective phonon master equation is shown to reproduce the full intensity PL and the phonon-coupling effects very well, suggesting that its general Lindblad form may find widespread use in semiconductor cavity-QED.

id: 1109.6546
title: Adiabatic quantum algorithm for search engine ranking
authors: Silvano Garnerone, Paolo Zanardi, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures; closer to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 230506 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6546
abstract: We propose an adiabatic quantum algorithm for generating a quantum pure state encoding of the PageRank vector, the most widely used tool in ranking the relative importance of internet pages. We present extensive numerical simulations which provide evidence that this algorithm can prepare the quantum PageRank state in a time which, on average, scales polylogarithmically in the number of webpages. We argue that the main topological feature of the underlying web graph allowing for such a scaling is the out-degree distribution. The top ranked $\log(n)$ entries of the quantum PageRank state can then be estimated with a polynomial quantum speedup. Moreover, the quantum PageRank state can be used in "q-sampling" protocols for testing properties of distributions, which require exponentially fewer measurements than all classical schemes designed for the same task. This can be used to decide whether to run a classical update of the PageRank.

id: 1109.6551
title: Electronic quantum teleportation in Hall edge channels
authors: Fabrizio Buscemi, Paolo Bordone, Andrea Bertoni
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6551
abstract: This paper has been wthdrawn by the authors due to a critical error in the assessment of the entanglement and, consequently, of the protocol fidelity, when no postselection is performed.

id: 1109.6579
title: Parameter Diagrams of the GRW and CSL Theories of Wave Function Collapse
authors: William Feldmann, Roderich Tumulka
comments: 17 pages LaTeX, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 065304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6579
abstract: It has been hypothesized that the time evolution of wave functions might include collapses, rather than being governed by the Schroedinger equation. The leading models of such an evolution, GRW and CSL, both have two parameters (or new constants of nature), the collapse width sigma and the collapse rate lambda. We draw a diagram of the sigma-lambda-plane showing the region that is empirically refuted and the region that is philosophically unsatisfactory.

id: 1109.6623
title: Spectral behavior of contractive noise
authors: Gabriel G. Carlo, Alejandro M. F. Rivas, Mar¨ª a E. Spina
comments: 5 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6623
abstract: We study the behavior of the spectra corresponding to quantum systems subjected to a contractive noise, i.e. the environment reduces the accessible phase space of the system, but the total probability is conserved. We find that the number of long lived resonances grows as a power law in $\hbar$ but surprisingly there is no relationship between the exponent of this power law and the fractal dimension of the corresponding classical attractor. This is in disagreement with the predictions of the fractal Weyl law which has been established for open systems where the probability is lost under the effect of a projective noise.

id: 1109.6696
title: Quantum and classical fluctuation theorems from a decoherent histories, open-system analysis
authors: Y. Subasi, B. L. Hu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 011112 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6696
abstract: In this paper we present a first-principles analysis of the nonequilibrium work distribution and the free energy difference of a quantum system interacting with a general environment (with arbitrary spectral density and for all temperatures) based on a well-understood micro-physics (quantum Brownian motion) model under the conditions stipulated by the Jarzynski equality [C. Jarzynski, Phys. Rev. Lett. 78, 2690 (1997)] and Crooks' fluctuation theorem [G. E. Crooks, Phys. Rev. E 60, 2721 (1999)] (in short FTs). We use the decoherent history conceptual framework to explain how the notion of trajectories in a quantum system can be made viable and use the environment-induced decoherence scheme to assess the strength of noise which could provide sufficient decoherence to warrant the use of trajectories to define work in open quantum systems. From the solutions to the Langevin equation governing the stochastic dynamics of such systems we were able to produce formal expressions for these quantities entering in the FTs, and from them prove explicitly the validity of the FTs at the high temperature limit. At low temperatures our general results would enable one to identify the range of parameters where FTs may not hold or need be expressed differently. We explain the relation between classical and quantum FTs and the advantage of this micro-physics open-system approach over the phenomenological modeling and energy-level calculations for substitute closed quantum systems.

id: 1109.6704
title: Optimal coherent control of CARS: signal enhancement and background elimination
authors: Fang Gao, Feng Shuang, JunHui Shi, Herschel Rabitz, HaiFeng Wang, JiXin Cheng
comments: 11 pages,10 figures, JCP
journal: J.Chem.Phys.136, 144114 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6704
abstract: The ability to enhance resonant signals and eliminate the non-resonant background is analyzed for Coherent Anti-Stokes Raman Scattering (CARS). The analysis is done at a specific frequency as well as for broadband excitation using femtosecond pulse-shaping techniques. An appropriate objective functional is employed to balance resonant signal enhancement against non-resonant background suppression. Optimal enhancement of the signal and minimization of the background can be achieved by shaping the probe pulse alone while keeping the pump and Stokes pulses in transform-limited-form (TLF). In some cases analytical forms for the probe pulse can be found, and numerical simulations are carried out for other circumstances. It is found that a good approximate solution for the optimal pulse in the two-pulse CARS is a superposition of linear and arctangent type phases for the pump. The well-known probe delay method is shown to be a quasi-optimal scheme for background suppression. The results should provide a basis to improve the performance of CARS spectroscopy and microscopy.

id: 1109.6747
title: Deterministic qubit transfer between orbital and spin angular momentum of single photons
authors: Vincenzo D'Ambrosio, Eleonora Nagali, Carlos H. Monken, Sergei Slussarenko, Lorenzo Marrucci, Fabio Sciarrino
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: Optics Letters 37, 172 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6747
abstract: In this work we experimentally implement a deterministic transfer of a generic qubit initially encoded in the orbital angular momentum of a single photon to its polarization. Such transfer of quantum information, completely reversible, has been implemented adopting a electrically tunable q-plate device and a Sagnac interferomenter with a Dove's prism. The adopted scheme exhibits a high fidelity and low losses.

id: 1109.6757
title: New entropic uncertainty relations for prime power dimensions
authors: Jakob Funder
comments: 26 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6757
abstract: We consider the question of entropic uncertainty relations for prime power dimensions. In order to improve upon such uncertainty relations for higher dimensional quantum systems, we derive a tight lower bound amount of entropy for multiple probability distributions under the constraint that the sum of the collision probabilities for all distributions is fixed. This is purely a classical information theoretical result, however using an interesting result by Larsen \cite{Larsen90} allows us to connect this to an entropic uncertainty relation.

id: 1109.6824
title: Weak and semiweak values in non-ideal spin measurements: an exact treatment beyond the asymptotic regime
authors: A. K. Pan, A. Matzkin
comments: v3: Several typos corrected
journal: PHYS. REV. A 85, 022122 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6824
abstract: We consider weak measurements (WM) of a spin observable in quantum mechanics beyond the usual asymptotic regime. This is done by obtaining the exact time-dependent wave functions of the measuring apparatus for general non-ideal measurements. Ideal strong measurements and the usual WM regime are obtained as the two extreme limiting cases of our exact treatment. We show that in the intermediate regime non-ideal measurements lead to "semiweak" eccentric values that differ from the usual weak values. We further show that even in the WM regime the exact treatment leads to a meter behavior that can be markedly distinct from the one predicted by the usual WM formalism. We give several illustrations and discuss an application to the distinction of different realizations of the same density matrix.

id: 1109.6858
title: The effect of cusps in time-dependent quantum mechanics
authors: Zeng-hui Yang, Neepa T. Maitra, Kieron Burke
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6858
abstract: Spatial cusps in initial wavefunctions can lead to non-analytic behavior in time. We suggest a method for calculating the short-time behavior in such situations. For these cases, the density does not match its Taylor-expansion in time, but the Runge-Gross proof of time-dependent density functional theory still holds, as it requires only the potential to be time-analytic.

id: 1109.6887
title: Characterizing Quantum Gates via Randomized Benchmarking
authors: Easwar Magesan, Jay M. Gambetta, Joseph Emerson
comments: 19 pages, no figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042311 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6887
abstract: We describe and expand upon the scalable randomized benchmarking protocol proposed in Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 180504 (2011) which provides a method for benchmarking quantum gates and estimating the gate-dependence of the noise. The protocol allows the noise to have weak time and gate-dependence, and we provide a sufficient condition for the applicability of the protocol in terms of the average variation of the noise. We discuss how state preparation and measurement errors are taken into account and provide a complete proof of the scalability of the protocol. We establish a connection in special cases between the error rate provided by this protocol and the error strength measured using the diamond norm distance.

id: 1109.6906
title: Quantum superpositions of crystalline structures
authors: Jens D. Baltrusch, Cecilia Cormick, Gabriele De Chiara, Tommaso Calarco, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 063821 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6906
abstract: A procedure is discussed for creating coherent superpositions of motional states of ion strings. The motional states are across the structural transition linear-zigzag, and their coherent superposition is achieved by means of spin-dependent forces, such that a coherent superposition of the electronic states of one ion evolves into an entangled state between the chain's internal and external degrees of freedom. It is shown that the creation of such an entangled state can be revealed by performing Ramsey interferometry with one ion of the chain.

id: 1109.0036
title: Decomposition of entanglement entropy in lattice gauge theory
authors: William Donnelly
comments: 8 pages. v2: added references, expanded derivation, matches PRD version
journal: Phys.Rev.D85:085004,2012
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0036
abstract: We consider entanglement entropy between regions of space in lattice gauge theory. The Hilbert space corresponding to a region of space includes edge states that transform nontrivially under gauge transformations. By decomposing the edge states in irreducible representations of the gauge group, the entropy of an arbitrary state is expressed as the sum of three positive terms: a term associated with the classical Shannon entropy of the distribution of boundary representations, a term that appears only for non-Abelian gauge theories and depends on the dimension of the boundary representations, and a term representing nonlocal correlations. The first two terms are the entropy of the edge states, and depend only on observables measurable at the boundary. These results are applied to several examples of lattice gauge theory states, including the ground state in the strong coupling expansion of Kogut and Susskind. In all these examples we find that the entropy of the edge states is the dominant contribution to the entanglement entropy.

id: 1109.0108
title: Specific heat anomalies of small quantum systems subjected to finite baths
authors: Hideo Hasegawa
comments: 23 pages, 7 figures, the final version accepted in J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52 (2011) 123301
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0108
abstract: We have studied the specific heat of the $(N_S+N_B)$ model for an $N_S$-body harmonic oscillator (HO) system which is strongly coupled to an $N_B$-body HO bath without dissipation. The system specific heat of $C_S(T)$ becomes $N_S k_B$ at $T \rightarrow \infty$ and vanishes at $T = 0$ in accordance with the third law of thermodynamics. The calculated $C_S(T)$ at low temperatures is not proportional to $N_S$ and shows an anomalous temperature dependence, strongly depending on $N_S$, $N_B$ and the system-bath coupling. In particular at very low (but finite) temperatures, it may become {\it negative} for a strong system-bath coupling, which is in contrast with {\it non-negative} specific heat of an HO system with $N_S=1$ reported by G-L. Ingold, P. H\"{a}nggi and P. Talkner [Phys. Rev. E {\bf 79}, 061105 (2005)]. Our calculation indicates an importance of taking account of finite $N_S$ in studying open quantum systems which may include an arbitrary number of particles in general.

id: 1109.0118
title: Emergence of Space-Time from Topologically Homogeneous Causal Networks
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Alessandro Tosini
comments: This manuscript supersedes arXiv:1008.4805v1. Submitted to Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics special Issue on Emergent Space-Time
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0118
abstract: We study the emergence of Minkowski space-time from a causal network. Differently from previous approaches, we require the network to be topologically homogeneous, so that the metric is derived from pure event-counting. Emergence from events has an operational motivation in requiring that every physical quantity---including space-time---be defined through precise measurement procedures. Topological homogeneity is a requirement for having space-time metric emergent from the pure topology of causal connections, whereas physically homogeneity corresponds to the universality of the physical law. We analyze in detail the case of 1+1 dimensions. If we consider the causal connections as an exchange of classical information, we can establish coordinate systems via an Einsteinian protocol, and this leads to a digital version of the Lorentz transformations. In a computational analogy, the foliation construction can be regarded as the synchronization with a global clock of the calls to independent subroutines (corresponding to the causally independent events) in a parallel distributed computation. Thus the Lorentz time-dilation emerges as an increased density of leaves within a single tic-tac of a clock, whereas space-contraction results from the corresponding decrease of density of events per leaf. The operational procedure of building up the coordinate system introduces an in-principle indistinguishability between neighboring events, resulting in a network that is coarse-grained, the thickness of the event being a function of the observer's clock.

id: 1109.0123
title: Stochastic theory of quantum vortex on a sphere
authors: Hiroshi Kuratsuji
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0123
abstract: A stochastic theory is presented for a quantum vortex that is expected to occur in superfluids coated on two dimensional sphere $ {\rm S}^2 $. The starting point is the canonical equation of motion (the Kirchhoff equation) for a point vortex, which is derived using the time-dependent Landau-Ginzburg theory. The vortex equation, which is equivalent to the spin equation, turns out to be the Langevin equation, from which the Fokker-Planck equation is obtained by using the functional integral technique. The Fokker-Planck equation is solved for several typical cases of the vortex motion by noting the specific form of pinning potential. An extension to the non-spherical vortices is briefly discussed for the case of the vortex on plane and pseudo-sphere.

id: 1109.0140
title: Photon Orbital Angular Momentum and Proca effects in rotating and charged spacetimes
authors: F. Tamburini, B.Thid?
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0140
abstract: We analyze the effect of Proca mass and orbital angular momentum of photons imposed by a structured plasma in Kerr-Newman and Reissner-Nordstrom-de Sitter spacetimes. The presence of characteristic lengths in a turbulent plasma converts the virtual Proca photon mass on orbital angular momentum, with the result of decreasing the virtual photon mass. The combination of this plasma effect and that of the gravitational field leads to a new astrophysical phenomenon that imprints a specific distribution of orbital angular momentum into different frequencies of the light emitted from the neighborhood of such a black hole. The determination of the orbital angular momentum spectrum of the radiation in different frequency bands leads to a complete characterization of the electrostatic and gravitational field of the black hole and of the plasma turbulence, with fundamental astrophysical and cosmological implications.

id: 1109.0145
title: Tan's distributions and Fermi-Huang pseudopotential in momentum space
authors: Manuel Valiente
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 014701 (2012)
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0145
abstract: The long-standing question of finding the momentum representation for the s-wave zero-range interaction in three spatial dimensions is here solved. This is done by expressing a certain distribution, introduced in a formal way by S. Tan [Ann. Phys. 323, 2952 (2008)], explicitly. The resulting form of the Fourier-transformed pseudopotential remains very simple. Operator forms for the so-called Tan's selectors which, together with Fermi-Huang pseudopotential, largely simplify the derivation of Tan's universal relations for the Fermi gas, are here derived and are also very simple. A momentum cut-off version of the pseudopotential is also provided, and with this no apparent contradiction with the notion of integrals in Tan's methods is left. The equivalence, even at the intermediate step level, between the pseudopotential approach and momentum-space renormalization of the bare Dirac delta interaction is then shown by using the explicit form of the cut-off pseudopotential.

id: 1109.0159
title: Entanglement in solvable many-particle models
authors: Ingo Peschel
comments: 44 pages, 30 figures. Lecture notes for the Brazilian School on Statistical Mechanics, Natal, July 2011. For the Brazilian Journal of Physics
journal: Braz. J. Phys. 42, 267 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0159
abstract: Lecture notes for the Brazilian School on Statistical Mechanics, Natal, Brazil, July 2011. The five lectures introduce to the description of entanglement in many-particle systems and review the ground-state entanglement features of standard solvable lattice models. This is done using a thermodynamic formulation in which the eigenvalue spectrum of a certain Hamiltonian determines the entanglement properties. The methods to obtain it are discussed and results, both analytical and numerical, for various cases including time evolution are presented.

id: 1109.0168
title: Spectral estimates for a class of Schr?dinger operators with infinite phase space and potential unbounded from below
authors: Pavel Exner, Diana Barseghyan
comments: LaTeX, 16 pages with on ps figure
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0168
abstract: We analyze two-dimensional Schr\"odinger operators with the potential $|xy|^p - \lambda (x^2+y^2)^{p/(p+2)}$ where $p\ge 1$ and $\lambda\ge 0$. We show that there is a critical value of $\lambda$ such that the spectrum for $\lambda<\lambda_\mathrm{crit}$ is below bounded and purely discrete, while for $\lambda>\lambda_\mathrm{crit}$ it is unbounded from below. In the subcritical case we prove upper and lower bounds for the eigenvalue sums.

id: 1109.0300
title: Trace dynamics and a noncommutative special relativity
authors: Kinjalk Lochan, T. P. Singh
comments: 9 pages. To appear in Physics Letters A
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0300
abstract: Trace Dynamics is a classical dynamical theory of noncommuting matrices in which cyclic permutation inside a trace is used to define the derivative with respect to an operator. We use the methods of Trace Dynamics to construct a noncommutative special relativity. We define a line-element using the Trace over spacetime coordinates which are assumed to be operators. The line-element is shown to be invariant under standard Lorentz transformations, and is used to construct a noncommutative relativistic dynamics. The eventual motivation for constructing such a noncommutative relativity is to relate the statistical thermodynamics of this classical theory to quantum mechanics.

id: 1109.0335
title: Entanglement generation outside a Schwarzschild black hole and the Hawking effect
authors: Jiawei Hu, Hongwei Yu
comments: 15 pages, no figures, Revtex
journal: JHEP 08(2011)137
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0335
abstract: We examine the Hawking effect by studying the asymptotic entanglement of two mutually independent two-level atoms placed at a fixed radial distance outside a Schwarzschild black hole in the framework of open quantum systems. We treat the two-atom system as an open quantum system in a bath of fluctuating quantized massless scalar fields in vacuum and calculate the concurrence, a measurement of entanglement, of the equilibrium state of the system at large times, for the Unruh, Hartle-Hawking and Boulware vacua respectively. We find, for all three vacuum cases, that the atoms turn out to be entangled even if they are initially in a separable state as long as the system is not placed right at the even horizon. Remarkably, only in the Unruh vacuum, will the asymptotic entanglement be affected by the backscattering of the thermal radiation off the space-time curvature. The effect of the back scatterings on the asymptotic entanglement cancels in the Hartle-Hawking vacuum case.

id: 1109.0361
title: Qubits from extra dimensions
authors: P¨¦ter L¨¦vay
comments: 32 pages Latex
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0361
abstract: We link the recently discovered black hole-qubit correspondence to the structure of extra dimensions. In particular we show that for toroidal compactifications of type IIB string theory simple qubit systems arise naturally from the geometrical data of the tori parametrized by the moduli. We also generalize the recently suggested idea of the attractor mechanism as a distillation procedure of GHZ-like entangled states on the event horizon, to moduli stabilization for flux attractors in F-theory compactifications on elliptically fibered Calabi-Yau four-folds. Finally using a simple example we show that the natural arena for qubits to show up is an embedded one within the realm of fermionic entanglement of quantum systems with indistinguishable constituents.

id: 1109.0427
title: Planck's Radiation Law in the Quantized Universe
authors: Rainer Collier
comments: 26 pages, 10 figures, some small text corrections, new references added
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0427
abstract: Physical research looks for clues to quantum properties of the gravitational field. On the basis of the common Schr\"odinger theory, a simple model of the quantization of a Friedmann universe comprising dust and radiation is investigated. With regard to energy quantization, the result suggests a universal limitation of the energy spacing between neighbouring quantum states by the Planck energy. Applied to black-body radiation, a modified Planck radiation law follows. If this could be verified in the laboratory, it would provide a direct hint at quantum properties of the space-time manifold.

id: 1109.0434
title: Doppler-free frequency modulation spectroscopy of atomic erbium in a hollow cathode discharge cell
authors: Henning Brammer, Jens Ulitzsch, Riad Bourouis, Martin Weitz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0434
abstract: The erbium atomic system is a promising candidate for an atomic Bose-Einstein condensate of atoms with a non-vanishing orbital angular momentum ($L \neq 0$) of the electronic ground state. In this paper we report on the frequency stabilization of a blue external cavity diode laser system on the 400.91 $nm$ laser cooling transition of atomic erbium. Doppler-free saturation spectroscopy is applied within a hollow cathode discharge tube to the corresponding electronic transition of several of the erbium isotopes. Using the technique of frequency modulation spectroscopy, a zero-crossing error signal is produced to lock the diode laser frequency on the atomic erbium resonance. The latter is taken as a reference laser to which a second main laser system, used for laser cooling of atomic erbium, is frequency stabilized.

id: 1109.0603
title: Quantum statistics of photon from a semiconductor microcavity embedded with a graphene nanoribbon
authors: G.C. Shan, C.H. Shek
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a crucial section Theory and Model which needs correction and modification
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0603
abstract: In this work we have studied the quantum statistical properties of the photon emitted from a driven microcavity embedded with a single armchair-edged graphene nanoribbon (GNR). The system is coherently pumped with weak laser amplitude. Analytical expressions are derived in both strong and weak coupling regimes and the nonclassical proprieties of the emitted field have been investigated. Furthermore, it is concluded that this excitonic system presents several statistical similarities to the atomic system, in particular for the bad-cavity and good-cavity limits in the weak laser amplitude regime. We have shown that independently of the excitonic nonlinearity, which describes the interaction strength of the excitons in GNRs, the autocorrelation function is antibunched for an exciton cooperativity value range. More interestingly, it is demonstrated that the exciton-exciton interaction strength in GNR can be deduced from the value of the autocorrelation function at zero time delay of {\tau}=0. Our theoretical results demonstrated that a microcavity embedded with a single GNR can serve as a nanophotonic device and a useful analysis method for a deep understanding of excitonic properties of GNRs.

id: 1109.0605
title: Non linear pseudo-bosons versus hidden Hermiticity
authors: Fabio Bagarello, Miloslav Znojil
comments: 20 pp
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 415305
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0605
abstract: The increasingly popular concept of a hidden Hermiticity of operators (i.e., of their Hermiticity with respect to an {\it ad hoc} inner product in Hilbert space) is compared with the recently introduced notion of {\em non-linear pseudo-bosons}. The formal equivalence between these two notions is deduced under very general assumptions. Examples of their applicability in quantum mechanics are discussed.

id: 1109.0880
title: Surely You Must All be Joking: An Outsider's Critique of Quantum Physics
authors: Randall C. O'Reilly
comments: 42 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0880
abstract: A critique of the state of current quantum theory in physics is presented, based on a perspective outside the normal physics training. From this perspective, the acceptance of quantum nonlocality seems unwarranted, and the fundamental assumptions that give rise to it in the first place seem questionable, based on the current status of the quantum theory of light. The relevant data can instead be accounted for using physically motivated local models, based on detailed properties of the experimental setups. The semiclassical approach, particularly in the form of the fully coupled Maxwell-Dirac equations with a pure wave ontology, seems to provide a satisfying, local, paradox-free physical model of the quantum world, that appears consistent with known phenomena. It is unclear why this approach is not pursued more vigorously in the field, given its clear potential to resolve all the conundrums that have perplexed generations of physicists.

id: 1109.0896
title: First principles derivation of NLS equation for BEC with cubic and quintic nonlinearities at non zero temperature. Dispersion of linear waves
authors: Pavel A. Andreev
comments: 14 pages
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics B Vol. 27, No. 6 (2013) 1350017
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0896
abstract: In this work we presented a derivation of the quantum hydrodynamic equations for neutral bosons. We considered short range interaction between particles. This interaction consist binary interaction $U(\textbf{r}_{i},\textbf{r}_{j})$ and three particle interaction $U(\textbf{r}_{i},\textbf{r}_{j},\textbf{r}_{k})$, the last one does not include binary interaction between particles. From the quantum hydrodynamic (QHD) equations for Bose-Einstein condensate we derive nonlinear Schr\"{o}dinger equation. This equation includes the nonlinearities of third and fifth degree. It is at zero temperature. Explicit form of the constant of three-particle interaction was taken. First of all, developed method we used for studying of dispersion of linear waves. Dispersion characteristics of linear waves were compared for the cases. It were of two-particle interaction in approximation third order to interaction radius (TOIR) and three-particle interaction, at zero temperature. We consider influence of temperature on dispersion of elementary excitations. For this aim we derive a system of QHD equations at non-zero temperature. Obtained system of equation is an analog of well-known two-fluid hydrodynamics. Moreover, it is generalization of two-fluid hydrodynamics equations due to three-particle interaction. Evident expressions of the velocities of the first and second sound via the concentrations of superfluid and noncondesate components is calculated.

id: 1109.0952
title: Discrete Quantum Gravity Is Not Isometric
authors: Stan Gudder
comments: withdrawn because Theorem 4.1 is false
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0952
abstract: We show that if a discrete quantum gravity is not classical, then it cannot be generated by an isometric dynamics. In particular, we show that if the quantum measure {\mu} (or equivalently the decoherence functional) is generated by an isometric dynamics, then there is no in- terference between events so the system describing evolving universes is classical. The result follows from a forbidden configuration in the path space of causal sets.

id: 1109.0964
title: On quantum interactive proofs with short messages
authors: Attila Pereszl¨¦nyi
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0964
abstract: This paper proves one of the open problem posed by Beigi et al. in arXiv:1004.0411v2. We consider quantum interactive proof systems where in the beginning the verifier and prover send messages to each other with the combined length of all messages being at most logarithmic (in the input length); and at the end the prover sends a polynomial-length message to the verifier. We show that this class has the same expressive power as QMA.

id: 1109.1001
title: Bipartite Fluctuations as a Probe of Many-Body Entanglement
authors: H. Francis Song, Stephan Rachel, Christian Flindt, Israel Klich, Nicolas Laflorencie, Karyn Le Hur
comments: 30 pages + 25 pages supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 035409 (2012), Editors' Suggestion
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1001
abstract: We investigate in detail the behavior of the bipartite fluctuations of particle number $\hat{N}$ and spin $\hat{S}^z$ in many-body quantum systems, focusing on systems where such U(1) charges are both conserved and fluctuate within subsystems due to exchange of charges between subsystems. We propose that the bipartite fluctuations are an effective tool for studying many-body physics, particularly its entanglement properties, in the same way that noise and Full Counting Statistics have been used in mesoscopic transport and cold atomic gases. For systems that can be mapped to a problem of non-interacting fermions we show that the fluctuations and higher-order cumulants fully encode the information needed to determine the entanglement entropy as well as the full entanglement spectrum through the R\'{e}nyi entropies. In this connection we derive a simple formula that explicitly relates the eigenvalues of the reduced density matrix to the R\'{e}nyi entropies of integer order for any finite density matrix. In other systems, particularly in one dimension, the fluctuations are in many ways similar but not equivalent to the entanglement entropy. Fluctuations are tractable analytically, computable numerically in both density matrix renormalization group and quantum Monte Carlo calculations, and in principle accessible in condensed matter and cold atom experiments. In the context of quantum point contacts, measurement of the second charge cumulant showing a logarithmic dependence on time would constitute a strong indication of many-body entanglement.

id: 1109.1036
title: Ground-state Wigner functional of linearized gravitational field
authors: Hugo Garcia-Compean, Francisco J. Turrubiates
comments: 18 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1036
abstract: The deformation quantization formalism is applied to the linearized gravitational field. Standard aspects of this formalism are worked out before the ground state Wigner functional is obtained. Finally, the propagator for the graviton is also discussed within the context of this formalism.

id: 1109.1097
title: Geometry of 3-Spaces with Spinor Structure
authors: V.M. Red'kov
comments: 36 pages, 31 figures
journal: NPCS (Nonlinear Phenomena in Complex Systems). 2004, Vol. 7, no 2. p. 106-128
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1097
abstract: A special approach to examine spinor structure of 3-space is proposed. It is based on the use of the concept of a spatial spinor defined through taking the square root of a real-valued 3-vector. Two sorts of spatial spinor according to P-orientation of an initial 3-space are introduced: properly vector or pseudo vector one. These spinors, \eta and \xi, turned out to be different functions of Cartesian coordinates. To have a spinor space model, you ought to use a doubling vector space. The main idea is to develop some mathematical technique to work with such extended models. Two sorts of spatial spinors are examined with the use of curvilinear coordinates (y_{1},y_{2},y_{3}): cylindrical parabolic, spherical and parabolic ones. Transition from vector to spinor models is achieved by doubling initial parameterizing domain G(y_{1},y_{2},y_{3}) \Longrightarrow \tilde{G}(y_{1},y_{2},y_{3}) with new identification rules on the boundaries. Different spinor space models are built on explicitly different spinor fields \xi(y) and \eta(y). Explicit form of the mapping spinor field \eta(y) of pseudo vector model into spinor \xi(y) of properly vector one is given, it contains explicitly complex conjugation.

id: 1109.1192
title: Sheaves in Quantum Topos Induced by Quantization
authors: Kunji Nakayama
comments: 48pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1192
abstract: This paper shows that quantization induces a Lawvere-Tierney topology on (hence, a sheaf topos in) the quantum topos. We show that a quantization map from classical observables to self-adjoint operators on a Hilbert space naturally induces geometric morphisms from presheaf topoi related to the classical system into a presheaf topos, called the quantum topos, on the context category consisting of commutative von Neumann algebras of bounded operators on the Hilbert space. By means of the geometric morphisms, we define Lawvere-Tierney topologies on the quantum topos (and their equivalent Grothendieck topologies on the context category). We show that, among them, we can uniquely select the most informative one, which we call the quantization topology. We furthermore construct sheaves induced by the quantization topology. This can be done in an elementary and self-contained way, because the quantization topology has a quite simple expression.

id: 1109.1283
title: A geometric proof of the equality between entanglement and edge spectra
authors: Brian Swingle, T. Senthil
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 045117 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1283
abstract: The bulk-edge correspondence for topological quantum liquids states that the spectrum of the reduced density matrix of a large subregion reproduces the thermal spectrum of a physical edge. This correspondence suggests an intricate connection between ground state entanglement and physical edge dynamics. We give a simple geometric proof of the bulk-edge correspondence for a wide variety of physical systems. Our unified proof relies on geometric techniques available in Lorentz invariant and conformally invariant quantum field theories. These methods were originally developed in part to understand the physics of black holes, and we now apply them to determine the local structure of entanglement in quantum many-body systems.

id: 1109.1295
title: Perspectives in Quantum Physics: Epistemological, Ontological and Pedagogical. An investigation into student and expert perspectives on the physical interpretation of quantum mechanics, with implications for modern physics instruction
authors: Charles Baily
comments: PhD dissertation, 6 Chapters (173 pages), 6 Appendices, 89 References. Supporting course materials available at: this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1295
abstract: A common learning goal for modern physics instructors is for students to recognize a difference between the experimental uncertainty of classical physics and the fundamental uncertainty of quantum mechanics. Our studies suggest this notoriously difficult task may be frustrated by the intuitively realist perspectives of introductory students, and a lack of ontological flexibility in their conceptions of light and matter. We have developed a framework for understanding and characterizing student perspectives on the physical interpretation of quantum mechanics, and demonstrate the differential impact on student thinking of the myriad ways instructors approach interpretive themes in their introductory courses. Like expert physicists, students interpret quantum phenomena differently, and these interpretations are significantly influenced by their overall stances on questions central to the so-called measurement problem: Is the wave function physically real, or simply a mathematical tool? Is the collapse of the wave function an ad hoc rule, or a physical transition not described by any equation? Does an electron, being a form of matter, exist as a localized particle at all times? These questions, which are of personal and academic interest to our students, are largely only superficially addressed in our introductory courses, often for fear of opening a Pandora's Box of student questions, none of which have easy answers. We show how a transformed modern physics curriculum (recently implemented at the University of Colorado) may positively impact student perspectives on indeterminacy and wave-particle duality, by making questions of classical and quantum reality a central theme of our course, but also by making the beliefs of our students, and not just those of scientists, an explicit topic of discussion.

id: 1109.1326
title: Electrically detected spin echoes of donor nuclei in silicon
authors: D. R. McCamey, C. Boehme, G. W. Morley, J. van Tol
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1326
abstract: The ability to probe the spin properties of solid state systems electrically underlies a wide variety of emerging technology. Here, we extend electrical readout of the nuclear spin states of phosphorus donors in silicon to the coherent regime with modified Hahn echo sequences. We find that, whilst the nuclear spins have electrically detected phase coherence times exceeding 2 ms, they are nonetheless limited by the artificially shortened lifetime of the probing donor electron.

id: 1109.1497
title: Casimir densities for a spherical boundary in de Sitter spacetime
authors: K. Milton, A. A. Saharian
comments: 32 pages, 4 figures, new paragraph about generalizations, discussion and references added, accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. D
journal: Phys. Rev. D 85 (2012) 064005
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1497
abstract: Two-point functions, mean-squared fluctuations, and the vacuum expectation value of the energy-momentum tensor operator are investigated for a massive scalar field with an arbitrary curvature coupling parameter, subject to a spherical boundary in the background of de Sitter spacetime. The field is prepared in the Bunch-Davies vacuum state and is constrained to satisfy Robin boundary conditions on the sphere. Both the interior and exterior regions are considered. For the calculation in the interior region, a mode-summation method is employed, supplemented with a variant of the generalized Abel-Plana formula. This allows us to explicitly extract the contributions to the expectation values which come from de Sitter spacetime without boundaries. We show that the vacuum energy-momentum tensor is non-diagonal with the off-diagonal component corresponding to the energy flux along the radial direction. With dependence on the boundary condition and the mass of the field, this flux can be either positive or negative. Several limiting cases of interest are then studied. In terms of the curvature coupling parameter and the mass of the field, two very different regimes are realized, which exhibit monotonic and oscillatory behavior of the vacuum expectation values, respectively, far from the sphere. The decay of the boundary induced expectation values at large distances from the sphere is shown to be power-law (monotonic or oscillating), independent of the value of the field mass.

id: 1109.1514
title: Probing wave functions of molecular nuclei with high harmonic generation
authors: Xi Chu, Gerrit C. Groenenboom
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1514
abstract: This paper has been withdrawn by the authors because the wave packet propagation used in the ion-dynamics calculation did not allow for electron-nuclei correlation. Hence, the conclusion that the ion-dynamics model is not in agreement with experiment is not substantiated.

id: 1109.1523
title: Introduction to {\it Quantum Matter}
authors: Frank Wilczek
comments: 12 pages, 1 table; Opening talk at at Nobel Symposium 148, on Graphene and Quantum Matter, at Saltsj\"obaden, Sweden, in June 2010, to be published in the Proceeedings (Physica Scripta). v. 2: Some garbling in equation 1 corrected
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1523
abstract: This paper records my opening remarks at Nobel Symposium 148, on Graphene and Quantum Matter, at Saltsj\"obaden, Sweden, in June 2010. After some broad comments on the quantum theory of matter as a frontier of physics, and some slightly more particular comments about re-quantization, I report on the universal geometry that arises in a refined discussion of quantum-mechanical level crossing.

id: 1109.1591
title: Ultracold Atoms in a Tunable Optical Kagome Lattice
authors: Gyu-Boong Jo, Jennie Guzman, Claire K. Thomas, Pavan Hosur, Ashvin Vishwanath, Dan M. Stamper-Kurn
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 045305 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1591
abstract: Geometrically frustrated systems with a large degeneracy of low energy states are of central interest in condensed-matter physics. The kagome net - a pattern of corner-sharing triangular plaquettes - presents a particularly high degree of frustration, reflected in the non-dispersive orbital bands. The ground state of the kagome quantum antiferromagnet, proposed to be a quantum spin liquid or valence bond solid, remains uncertain despite decades of work. Solid-state kagome magnets suffer from significant magnetic disorder or anisotropy that complicates the interpretation of experimental results. Here, we realize the kagome geometry in a two-dimensional optical superlattice for ultracold $^{87}$Rb atoms. We employ atom optics to characterize the lattice as it is tuned between various geometries, including kagome, one-dimensional stripe, and decorated triangular lattices, allowing for a sensitive control of frustration. The lattices implemented in this work offer a near-ideal realization of a paradigmatic model of many-body quantum physics.

id: 1109.1600
title: On the von Neumann and Shannon Entropies for Quantum Walks on Z^2
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: 10 pages; To appear in the International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1600
abstract: We give asymptotic behaviors of the von Neumann entropy and the Shannon entropy of discrete-time quantum walks on Z^2

id: 1109.1639
title: Inserting single Cs atoms into an ultracold Rb gas
authors: Nicolas Spethmann, Farina Kindermann, Shincy John, Claudia Weber, Dieter Meschede, Artur Widera
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1639
abstract: We report on the controlled insertion of individual Cs atoms into an ultracold Rb gas at about 400 nK. This requires to combine the techniques necessary for cooling, trapping and manipulating single laser cooled atoms around the Doppler temperature with an experiment to produce ultracold degenerate quantum gases. In our approach, both systems are prepared in separated traps and then combined. Our results pave the way for coherent interaction between a quantum gas and a single or few neutral atoms of another species.

id: 1109.1644
title: Beyond the Dirac phase factor: Dynamical Quantum Phase-Nonlocalities in the Schr?dinger Picture
authors: Konstantinos Moulopoulos
comments: Accepted for publication in Journal of Modern Physics [to appear in November's issue 2011 (Vol. 2 No. 11)]. substantial text overlap with arXiv:1104.5492 and arXiv:1011.3821
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1644
abstract: Generalized solutions of the standard gauge transformation equations are presented and discussed in physical terms. They go beyond the usual Dirac phase factors and they exhibit nonlocal quantal behavior, with the well-known Relativistic Causality of classical fields affecting directly the phases of wavefunctions in the Schr\"odinger Picture. These nonlocal phase behaviors, apparently overlooked in path-integral approaches, give a natural account of the dynamical nonlocality character of the various (even static) Aharonov-Bohm phenomena, while at the same time they seem to respect Causality. For particles passing through nonvanishing magnetic or electric fields they lead to cancellations of Aharonov-Bohm phases at the observation point, generalizing earlier semiclassical experimental observations (of Werner & Brill) to delocalized (spread-out) quantum states. This leads to a correction of previously unnoticed sign-errors in the literature, and to a natural explanation of the deeper reason why certain time-dependent semiclassical arguments are consistent with static results in purely quantal Aharonov-Bohm configurations. These nonlocalities also provide a remedy for misleading results propagating in the literature (concerning an uncritical use of Dirac phase factors, that persists since the time of Feynman's work on path integrals). They are shown to conspire in such a way as to exactly cancel the instantaneous Aharonov-Bohm phase and recover Relativistic Causality in earlier " paradoxes" (such as the van Kampen thought-experiment), and to also complete Peshkin's discussion of the electric Aharonov-Bohm effect in a causal manner. The present formulation offers a direct way to address time-dependent single- vs double-slit experiments and the associated causal issues -- issues that have recently attracted attention, with respect to the inability of current theories to address them.

id: 1109.1793
title: Incomplete current fluctuation theorems for a four-terminal model
authors: Thilo Krause, Gernot Schaller, Tobias Brandes
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, added references, to appear in PRB
journal: Physical Review B 84, 195113 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1793
abstract: We demonstrate the validity of the current fluctuation theorem for a double quantum dot surrounded by four terminals within the Born-, Markov- and secular approximations beyond the Coulomb-blockade regime. The electronic tunneling to two fermionic contacts conserves the total number of electrons, and the internal tunneling is phonon-assisted by two bosonic baths. Adapted choice of thermodynamic parameters between the baths may drive a current against an existing electric or thermal gradient. We study the apparent violation of the fluctuation theorem when only some of the energy and matter currents are monitored.

id: 1109.2084
title: Observation of Spontaneous Brillouin Cooling
authors: Gaurav Bahl, Matthew Tomes, Florian Marquardt, Tal Carmon
comments: Supplementary material included
journal: G. Bahl, M. Tomes, F. Marquardt, T. Carmon, "Observation of spontaneous Brillouin cooling," Nature Physics, Vol. 8, No. 3, pp. 203-207 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2084
abstract: While radiation-pressure cooling is well known, the Brillouin scattering of light from sound is considered an acousto-optical amplification-only process. It was suggested that cooling could be possible in multi-resonance Brillouin systems when phonons experience lower damping than light. However, this regime was not accessible in traditional Brillouin systems since backscattering enforces high acoustical frequencies associated with high mechanical damping. Recently, forward Brillouin scattering in microcavities has allowed access to low-frequency acoustical modes where mechanical dissipation is lower than optical dissipation, in accordance with the requirements for cooling. Here we experimentally demonstrate cooling via such a forward Brillouin process in a microresonator. We show two regimes of operation for the Brillouin process: acoustical amplification as is traditional, but also for the first time, a Brillouin cooling regime. Cooling is mediated by an optical pump, and scattered light, that beat and electrostrictively attenuate the Brownian motion of the mechanical mode.

id: 1109.2095
title: Edge Mode Combinations in the Entanglement Spectra of Non-Abelian Fractional Quantum Hall States on the Torus
authors: Zhao Liu, Emil J. Bergholtz, Heng Fan, Andreas M. Laeuchli
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures, published version on PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 045119 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2095
abstract: We present a detailed analysis of bi-partite entanglement in the non-Abelian Moore-Read fractional quantum Hall state of bosons and fermions on the torus. In particular, we show that the entanglement spectra can be decomposed into intricate combinations of different sectors of the conformal field theory describing the edge physics, and that the edge level counting and tower structure can be microscopically understood by considering the vicinity of the thin-torus limit. We also find that the boundary entropy density of the Moore-Read state is markedly higher than in the Laughlin states investigated so far. Despite the torus geometry being somewhat more involved than in the sphere geometry, our analysis and insights may prove useful when adopting entanglement probes to other systems that are more easily studied with periodic boundary conditions, such as fractional Chern insulators and lattice problems in general.

id: 1109.2119
title: Dicke quantum spin glass of atoms and photons
authors: Philipp Strack, Subir Sachdev
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, v2: described quantum optics set-up in more detail; extended discussion on photon correlation functions and experimental signatures; added references
journal: Physical Review Letters 107, 277202 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2119
abstract: Recent studies of strongly interacting atoms and photons in optical cavities have rekindled interest in the Dicke model of atomic qubits coupled to discrete photon cavity modes. We study the multimode Dicke model with variable atom-photon couplings. We argue that a quantum spin glass phase can appear, with a random linear combination of the cavity modes superradiant. We compute atomic and photon spectral response functions across this quantum phase transition, both of which should be accessible in experiment.

id: 1109.2123
title: The proximity force approximation for the Casimir energy as a derivative expansion
authors: C. D. Fosco, F. C. Lombardo, F. D. Mazzitelli
comments: Minor changes. Version to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2123
abstract: The proximity force approximation (PFA) has been widely used as a tool to evaluate the Casimir force between smooth objects at small distances. In spite of being intuitively easy to grasp, it is generally believed to be an uncontrolled approximation. Indeed, its validity has only been tested in particular examples, by confronting its predictions with the next to leading order (NTLO) correction extracted from numerical or analytical solutions obtained without using the PFA. In this article we show that the PFA and its NTLO correction may be derived within a single framework, as the first two terms in a derivative expansion. To that effect, we consider the Casimir energy for a vacuum scalar field with Dirichlet conditions on a smooth curved surface described by a function $\psi$ in front of a plane. By regarding the Casimir energy as a functional of $\psi$, we show that the PFA is the leading term in a derivative expansion of this functional. We also obtain the general form of corresponding NTLO correction, which involves two derivatives of $\psi$. We show, by evaluating this correction term for particular geometries, that it properly reproduces the known corrections to PFA obtained from exact evaluations of the energy.

id: 1109.2171
title: Almost Complete Coherent State Subsystems and Partial Reconstruction of Wave Functions in the Fock-Bargmann Phase-Number Representation
authors: Manuel Calixto, Julio Guerrero, Juan Carlos S¨¢nchez-Monreal
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures. Typos corrected
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 244029
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2171
abstract: We provide (partial) reconstruction formulas and discrete Fourier transforms for wave functions in standard Fock-Bargmann (holomorphic) phase-number representation from a finite number $N$ of phase samples $\{\theta_k=2\pi k/N\}_{k=0}^{N-1}$ for a given mean number $p$ of particles. The resulting Coherent State (CS) subsystem ${\cal S}=\{|z_k=p^{1/2}e^{i\theta_k}>\}$ is complete (a frame) for truncated Hilbert spaces (finite number of particles) and reconstruction formulas are exact. For an unbounded number of particles, ${\cal S}$ is "almost complete" (a \textit{pseudo-frame}) and partial reconstruction formulas are provided along with an study of the accuracy of the approximation, which tends to be exact when $p<N$ and/or $N\to\infty$.

id: 1109.2185
title: Strong Quantum Spin Correlations Observed in Atomic Spin Mixing
authors: Eva M. Bookjans, Christopher D. Hamley, Michael S. Chapman
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2185
abstract: We have observed sub-Poissonian spin correlations generated by collisionally induced spin mixing in a spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensate. We measure a quantum noise reduction of -7 dB (-10 dB corrected for detection noise) below the standard quantum limit (SQL) for the corresponding coherent spin states. The spin fluctuations are detected as atom number differences in the spin states using fluorescent imaging that achieves a detection noise floor of 8 atoms per spin component for a probe time of 100 $\mu$s.

id: 1109.2235
title: Entanglement Evolution via Quantum Resonances
authors: Marco Merkli
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2235
abstract: We consider two qubits interacting with local and collective thermal reservoirs. Each spin-reservoir interaction consists of an energy exchange and an energy conserving channel. We prove a resonance representation of the reduced dynamics of the spins, valid for all times t>=0, with errors (small interaction) estimated rigorously, uniformly in time. Subspaces associated to non-interacting energy differences evolve independently, partitioning the reduced density matrix into dynamically decoupled clusters of jointly evolving matrix elements. Within each subspace the dynamics is markovian with a generator determined entirely by the resonance data of the full Hamiltonian. Based on the resonance representation we examine the evolution of entanglement (concurrence). We show that, whenever thermalization takes place, entanglement of any initial state dies out in a finite time and will not return. For a concrete class of initially entangled spin states we find explicit bounds on entanglement survival and death times in terms of the initial state and the resonance data.

id: 1109.2259
title: Sojourn Times for the One Dimensional Grover Walk
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: Conjectural Article. Contains an open problem, classifying all matrices up to general dimensionality with the property "non-existence of sojourn times implies localization"
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2259
abstract: Using the technique of path counting we show non-existence of sojourn times in the Grover walk which is related to the Grover's algorithm in computer science.

id: 1109.2269
title: Spin and the Symplectic Flag Manifold
authors: Bruce E. Eichinger
comments: arXiv admin note: significant text overlap with arXiv:0904.3868 Author note: A significant rewrite and change of title to reflect historical precedents. The basic content of the manuscript has not changed
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2269
abstract: A theory for the transitive action of a group on the configuration space of a system of particles is shown to lead to the conclusion that interactions can be represented by the action of cosets of the group. By application of this principle to Pauli spinors, the symplectic group Sp(n) is shown to be the largest group of isometries of the space. Interactions between particles are represented by the complete quaternionic flag variety Sp(n)/Sp(1)^n.

id: 1109.2310
title: Dirac-Kahler equation in curved space-time, relation between spinor and tensor formulations
authors: V.M. Red'kov
comments: 20 pages, 90 references
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2310
abstract: A common view is that generalization of a wave equation on Riemannian space-time is substantially determined by what a particle is - boson or fermion. As a rule, they say that tensor equations for bosons are extended in a simpler way then spinor equations for fermions. In that context, a very interesting problem is of extension a wave equation for Dirac--K\"{a}hler field (Ivanenko--Landau field was historically first term, also the term a vector field of general type was used). The article relates a generally covariant tensor formalism to a spinor one when these both are applied to description of the Dirac-K\"ahler field in a Rimannian space-time. Both methods are taken to be equivalent and the tensor equations are derived from spinor ones. It is shown that, for characterization of Dirac-K\"ahler's tensor components, two alternative approaches are suitable: these are whether a tetrad-based pseudo tensor classification or a generally coordinate pseudo tensor one. By imposing definite restrictions on the the Dirac-K\"ahler function, we have produced the general covariant form of wave equations for scalar, pseudoscalar, vector, and pseudovector particles.

id: 1109.2358
title: The Wigner 3n-j Graphs up to 12 Vertices
authors: Richard J. Mathar
comments: Added information on girth, diameter and Wiener and Estrada indices. Added gnuplot and Molfiles with 3D representations
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2358
abstract: The 3-regular graphs representing sums over products of Wigner 3-jm symbols are drawn on up to 12 vertices (complete to 18j-symbols), and the irreducible graphs on up to 14 vertices (complete to 21j-symbols). The Lederer-Coxeter-Frucht notations of the Hamiltonian cycles in these graphs are tabulated to support search operations.

id: 1109.2516
title: Localization and Glassy Dynamics Of Many-Body Quantum Systems
authors: Giuseppe Carleo, Federico Becca, Marco Schir¨®, Michele Fabrizio
comments: Available for Open Access on Nature's website at this http URL (supplementary material included)
journal: Scientific Reports 2, 243 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2516
abstract: When classical systems fail to explore their entire configurational space, intriguing macroscopic phenomena like aging and glass formation may emerge. Also closed quanto-mechanical systems may stop wandering freely around the whole Hilbert space, even if they are initially prepared into a macroscopically large combination of eigenstates. Here, we report numerical evidences that the dynamics of strongly interacting lattice bosons driven sufficiently far from equilibrium can be trapped into extremely long-lived inhomogeneous metastable states. The slowing down of incoherent density excitations above a threshold energy, much reminiscent of a dynamical arrest on the verge of a glass transition, is identified as the key feature of this phenomenon. We argue that the resulting long-lived inhomogeneities are responsible for the lack of thermalization observed in large systems. Such a rich phenomenology could be experimentally uncovered upon probing the out-of-equilibrium dynamics of conveniently prepared quantum states of trapped cold atoms which we hereby suggest.

id: 1109.2584
title: Life and Quantum Biology, an Interdisciplinary Approach
authors: Alfred Driessen
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2584
abstract: The rapidly increasing interest in the quantum properties of living matter stimulates a discussion of the fundamental properties of life as well as quantum mechanics. In this discussion often concepts are used that originate in philosophy and ask for a philosophical analysis. In the present work the classic philosophical tradition based on Aristotle and Aquinas is employed which surprisingly is able to shed light on important aspects. Especially one could mention the high degree of unity in living objects and the occurrence of thorough qualitative changes. The latter are outside the scope of classical physics where changes are restricted to geometrical rearrangement of microscopic particles. A challenging approach is used in the philosophical analysis as the empirical evidence is not taken from everyday life but from 20th century science (quantum mechanics) and recent results in the field of quantum biology. In the discussion it is argued that quantum entanglement is possibly related to the occurrence of life. Finally it is recommended that scientists and philosophers should be open for dialogue that could enrich both. Scientists could redirect their investigation, as paradigm shifts like the one originating from philosophical evaluation of quantum mechanics give new insight about the relation between the whole en the parts. Whereas philosophers could use scientific results as a consistency check for their philosophical framework for understanding reality.

id: 1109.2680
title: Position and Momentum Uncertainties of the Normal and Inverted Harmonic Oscillators under the Minimal Length Uncertainty Relation
authors: Zachary Lewis, Tatsu Takeuchi
comments: 16 pages, 31 eps figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 84, 105029 (2011)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2680
abstract: We analyze the position and momentum uncertainties of the energy eigenstates of the harmonic oscillator in the context of a deformed quantum mechanics, namely, that in which the commutator between the position and momentum operators is given by [x,p]=i\hbar(1+\beta p^2). This deformed commutation relation leads to the minimal length uncertainty relation \Delta x > (\hbar/2)(1/\Delta p +\beta\Delta p), which implies that \Delta x ~ 1/\Delta p at small \Delta p while \Delta x ~ \Delta p at large \Delta p. We find that the uncertainties of the energy eigenstates of the normal harmonic oscillator (m>0), derived in Ref. [1], only populate the \Delta x ~ 1/\Delta p branch. The other branch, \Delta x ~ \Delta p, is found to be populated by the energy eigenstates of the `inverted' harmonic oscillator (m<0). The Hilbert space in the 'inverted' case admits an infinite ladder of positive energy eigenstates provided that \Delta x_{min} = \hbar\sqrt{\beta} > \sqrt{2} [\hbar^2/k|m|]^{1/4}. Correspondence with the classical limit is also discussed.

id: 1109.2702
title: Ultrafast ring opening in CHD investigated by simplex-based spectral unmixing
authors: James L. White, Jaehee Kim, Vladimir S. Petrovic, Philip H. Bucksbaum
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2702
abstract: We use spectral unmixing to determine the number of transient photoproducts and to track their evolution following the photo- excitation of 1,3-cyclohexadiene (CHD) to form 1,3,5-hexatriene (HT) in the gas phase. The ring opening is initiated with a 266 nm ultraviolet laser pulse and probed via fragmentation with a delayed intense infrared 800 nm laser pulse. The ion time-of-flight (TOF) spectra are analyzed with a simplex-based spectral unmixing technique. We find that at least three independent spectra are needed to model the transient TOF spectra. Guided by mathematical and physical constraints, we decompose the transient TOF spectra into three spectra associated with the presence of CHD, CHD+, and HT, and show how these three products appear at different times during the ring opening.

id: 1109.2739
title: Collectively enhanced resonant photoionization in a multi-atom ensemble
authors: Carsten M¨¹ller, Mihai A. Macovei, Alexander B. Voitkiv
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 055401 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2739
abstract: Photoionization of an atom via interatomic correlations to N neighboring atoms may be strongly enhanced due to constructive interference of quantum pathways. The ionization proceeds via resonant photoexcitation of a neighbor atom and subsequent interatomic Coulombic decay. The enhancement can scale with N^2, leading to "super-enhanced photoionization".

id: 1109.2760
title: Andreev reflection and tunneling spectrum in metal-superconductor-metal junctions
authors: W. LiMing, J. J. Ouyang, Liangbin Hu
comments: 
journal: Frontiers of Physics 7, 449-452(2012)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2760
abstract: The tunneling spectrum of an electron and a hole in metal-superconductor-metal junctions is computed using the Blonder-Tinkham-Klapwijk theory. The incident and the outgoing currents finally balance each other by an interface charge inside the superconductor and metal junction. The present computation shows a more abundant structure compared to that on a metal-superconductor junction, such as the resonance at bias voltages above the energy gap of the superconductor. The density of the interface charge shows a quantum-like oscillation.

id: 1109.2841
title: Coherence Enhanced Transient Lasing in XUV Regime
authors: Pankaj K. Jha, Anatoly A. Svidzinsky, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 8 pages, 11 figures
journal: Laser Phys. Lett. 9, 368 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2841
abstract: We report the effect of a coherent drive on transient lasing in three-level $\Lambda $ and $\Xi$ configurations ($c\leftrightarrow a\leftrightarrow b$). We show that the presence of a resonant coherent drive on the $a\leftrightarrow c$ optical transition can yield an order of magnitude enhancement of the output laser energy on a $a\rightarrow b$ XUV or X-ray transition than with no coherent drive. We demonstrate the crucial role of coherence $\varrho_{ac}$ for the laser power enhancement. Contrary to the forward direction (with respect to the pump), where forward gain can be enhanced for some choice of the drive Rabi frequency $\Omega_{c}$, coherent drive on the $ac$ transition always suppresses the backward gain.

id: 1109.2913
title: Experimental Study of Active LRC Circuits with PT-Symmetries
authors: Joseph Schindler, Ang Li, Mei C. Zheng, F. M. Ellis, Tsampikos Kottos
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, Rapid Communication in Physical Review A (2011)
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2913
abstract: Mutually coupled modes of a pair of active LRC circuits, one with amplification and another with an equivalent amount of attenuation, provide an experimental realization of a wide class of systems where gain/loss mechanisms break the Hermiticity while preserving parity-time PT symmetry. For a value PT of the gain/loss strength parameter the eigen-frequencies undergo a spontaneous phase transition from real to complex values, while the normal modes coalesce acquiring a definite chirality. The consequences of the phase-transition in the spatiotemporal energy evolution are also presented.

id: 1109.2921
title: Fabrication and Room-Temperature Single-Charging Behavior of Self-Aligned Single-Dot Memory Devices
authors: Xiaohui Tang, Nicolas Reckinger, Vincent Bayot, Christophe Krzeminski, Emmanuel Dubois, Alexandre Villaret, Daniel Bensahel
comments: 
journal: IEEE Transaction on Nanotechnology 5, 6 (2006) p. 649
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2921
abstract: Self-aligned single-dot memory devices and arrays were fabricated based on arsenic-assisted etching and oxidation effects. The resulting device has a floating gate of about 5-10 nm, presenting single-electron memory operation at room temperature. In order to realize the final single-electron memory circuit, this paper investigates process repeatability, device uniformity in single-dot memory arrays, device scalability, and process transferability to an industrial application.

id: 1109.3002
title: Ultracold bosons in the vicinity of a narrow resonance: shallow dimer and recombination
authors: Ludovic Pricoupenko, Mattia Jona Lasinio
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84 (2011) 062712
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3002
abstract: The different resonant regimes that can be achieved by using a magnetic Feshbach resonance are analyzed with a separable two-channel model. Emphasis is put on the case of narrow resonances in a region of intermediate detuning where a shallow dimer exists and an approximate law including the background scattering length for the three-body recombination rate is derived.

id: 1109.3067
title: Gauge field and geometric control of quantum-thermodynamic engine
authors: Sumiyoshi Abe
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of Statistical Mechanics (2011) P09011
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3067
abstract: The problem of extracting the work from a quantum-thermodynamic system driven by slowly varying external parameters is discussed. It is shown that there naturally emerges a gauge-theoretic structure. The field strength identically vanishes if the system is in an equilibrium state, i.e., the nonvanishing field strength implies that the system is in a nonequilibrium quasi-stationary state. The work done through a cyclic process in the parameter space is given in terms of the flux of the field. This general formalism is applied to an example of a single spin in a varying magnetic field, and the maximum power output is discussed in a given finite-time cyclic process.

id: 1109.3124
title: Thermodynamic limit of Mazur bound on the spin stiffness of XXZ chain, using the almost-conserved Z-operator
authors: Tomaz Prosen
comments: This note has been superseded by a more complete discussion presented in arXiv:1111.3830
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3124
abstract: This short note can be considered as a mathematical supplement to [Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 217206 (2011)], namely explaining in more detail how rigorous bound on high-temperature spin stiffness is established in thermodynamic limit using the almost-conserved Z-operator resulting from solving the boundary driven Lindblad equation for the anisotropic Heisenberg (XXZ) spin 1/2 chain . No reference to techniques used in Suzuki's proofs of Mazur's bound is made, but quasi-local spin C* algebras and Lieb-Robinson bounds are invoked instead.

id: 1109.3185
title: Entanglement Structure of Deconfined Quantum Critical Points
authors: Brian Swingle, T. Senthil
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3185
abstract: We study the entanglement properties of deconfined quantum critical points. We show not only that these critical points may be distinguished by their entanglement structure but also that they are in general more highly entangled that conventional critical points. We primarily focus on computations of the entanglement entropy of deconfined critical points in 2+1 dimensions, drawing connections to topological entanglement entropy and a recent conjecture on the monotonicity under RG flow of universal terms in the entanglement entropy. We also consider in some detail a variety of issues surrounding the extraction of universal terms in the entanglement entropy. Finally, we compare some of our results to recent numerical simulations.

id: 1109.3241
title: Time-keeping with electron spin states in diamond
authors: Jonathan S. Hodges, Dirk Englund
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3241
abstract: Frequency standards based on atomic states, such as Rb or Cs vapors, or single trapped ions, are the most precise measures of time. Here we introduce a complementary device based on spins in a solid-state system - the nitrogen-vacancy defect in single crystal diamond. We show that this system has comparable stability to portable atomic standards and is readily incorporable as a chip-scale device. Using a pulsed spin-echo technique, we anticipate an Allan deviation of {\sigma}_y =1E-12 ({\tau})^(-1/2) with current photoluminescence detection methods and posit exceeding 1E-14 with improved diamond material processing and nanophotonic engineering.

id: 1109.3258
title: Planck scale effects on some low energy quantum phenomena
authors: Saurya Das, R.B. Mann
comments: 5 pages. To appear in Physics Letters B
journal: Phys. Lett. B704 (2011) 596-599
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3258
abstract: Almost all theories of Quantum Gravity predict modifications of the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle near the Planck scale to a so-called Generalized Uncertainty Principle (GUP). Recently it was shown that the GUP gives rise to corrections to the Schrodinger and Dirac equations, which in turn affect all non-relativistic and relativistic quantum Hamiltonians. In this paper, we apply it to superconductivity and the quantum Hall effect and compute Planck scale corrections. We also show that Planck scale effects may account for a (small) part of the anomalous magnetic moment of the muon. We obtain (weak) empirical bounds on the undetermined GUP parameter from present-day experiments.

id: 1109.3302
title: Wave functions of a particle with polarizability in the Coulomb potential
authors: V. Kisel, G. Krylov, E. Ovsiyuk, M. Amirfachrian, V. Red'kov
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures, Report to 18 Conference NPCS-2011, May 17-20, 2011, Minsk, Belarus
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3302
abstract: Quantum mechanical scalar particle with polarizability is considered in the presence of the Coulomb field. Separation of variables is performed with the use of Wigner $D$-functions, the radial system of 15 equations is reduced to a single second order differential equation, which among the Coulomb term includes an additional interaction term of the form \sigma \alpha^{2} / M^{2}r^{4}. Various physical regimes exist that is demonstrated by examining the behavior of the curves of generalized squared radial momentum P^{2}(r). Eigenstates of the equations can be constructed in terms of double confluent Heun functions. Numerical analysis proves the existence of the bound states in the system; the lowest energy level and corresponding solution are calculated based on generalization of Ritz variational procedure.

id: 1109.3335
title: Waves of magnetic moment and generation of waves by neutron beam in quantum magnetized plasma
authors: P. A. Andreev, L. S. Kuz'menkov
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: P. A. ANDREEV and L. S. KUZ'MENKOV, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B (2012) 1250186
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Solar and Stellar Astrophysics (astro-ph.SR); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3335
abstract: This paper is devoted to studying of dispersion of waves in the magnetized plasma with the spin and exploring of new methods of the generation wave in the plasma. We consider the dispersion of waves, existed in the plasma in consequence of dynamic of the magnetic moments. It is shown there are nine new waves in the magnetized plasma because of the magnetic moments dynamic. We show there are instabilities at propagation of the neutron beam through the plasma. Increments of instabilities caused by neutron beam are calculated. For studying of this effects we generalize and use the method of the many-particle quantum hydrodynamics. Described processes can play important role at calculation of the stability and the safeness of the nuclear reactors and the studying of the processes in the atmosphere of the neutron stars.

id: 1109.3355
title: Quantum theory as a tool for the description of simple psychological phenomena
authors: E. D. Vol
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3355
abstract: We propose the consistent statistical approach for the quantitative description of simple psychological phenomena using the methods of quantum theory of open systems (QTOS). Taking as the starting point the K. Lewin's psychological field theory we show that basic concepts of this theory can be naturally represented in the language of QTOS. In particular provided that all stimuli acting on psychological system (that is individual or group of interest) are known one can associate with these stimuli corresponding operators and after that to write down the equation for evolution of density matrix of the relevant open system which allows one to find probabilities of all possible behavior alternatives. Using the method proposed we consider in detail simple model describing such interesting psychological phenomena as cognitive dissonance and the impact of competition among group members on its unity.

id: 1109.3384
title: Fractional domain walls from on-site softening in dipolar bosons
authors: Emma Wikberg, Jonas Larson, Emil J. Bergholtz, Anders Karlhede
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. Extended discussion. As published
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 033607 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3384
abstract: We study dipolar bosons in a 1D optical lattice and identify a region in parameter space---strong coupling but relatively weak on-site repulsion---hosting a series of stable charge-density-wave (CDW) states whose low-energy excitations, built from "fractional domain walls," have remarkable similarities to those of non-Abelian fractional quantum Hall states. Here, a conventional domain wall between translated CDW's may be split by inserting strings of degenerate, but inequivalent, CDW states. Outside these insulating regions, we find numerous supersolids as well as a superfluid regime. The mentioned phases should be accessible experimentally and, in particular, the fractional domain walls can be created in the ground state using single-site addressing, i.e., by locally changing the chemical potential.

id: 1109.3408
title: Exponential decay of Laplacian eigenfunctions in domains with branches
authors: Andrey Delitsyn, Binh-Thanh Nguyen, Denis S. Grebenkov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3408
abstract: The behavior of Laplacian eigenfunctions in domains with branches is investigated. If an eigenvalue is below a threshold which is determined by the shape of the branch, the associated eigenfunction is proved to exponentially decay inside the branch. The decay rate is twice the square root of the difference between the threshold and the eigenvalue. The derived exponential estimate is applicable for arbitrary domains in any spatial dimension. Numerical simulations illustrate and further extend the theoretical estimate.

id: 1109.3416
title: Efficient energy transfer in light-harvesting systems, III: The influence of the eighth bacteriochlorophyll on the dynamics and efficiency in FMO
authors: Jeremy Moix, Jianlan Wu, Pengfei Huo, David Coker, Jianshu Cao
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3416
abstract: The most recent crystal structure of the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) protein complex indicates that each subunit contains an additional eighth chromophore. It has been proposed that this extra site functions as a link between the chlorosome antenna complex and the remaining seven chromophores in FMO [Schmidt am Busch et al, J. Phys. Chem. Lett., {\bf 2}, 93 (2011)]. Here, we investigate the implications of this scenario through numerical calculations with the generalized Bloch-Redfield (GBR) equation and the non-interacting blip approximation (NIBA). Three key insights into the population dynamics and energy transfer efficiency in FMO are provided. First, it is shown that the oscillations that are often observed in the population relaxation of the dimer composed of sites one and two may be completely suppressed in the eight site model. The presence of the coherent oscillations is shown to depend upon the particular initial preparation of the dimer state. Secondly it is demonstrated that while the presence of the eighth chromophore does not cause a dramatic change in the energy transfer efficiency, it does however lead to a dominant energy transfer pathway which can be characterized by an effective three site system arranged in an equally spaced downhill configuration. Such a configuration leads to an optimal value of the site energy of the eighth chromophore which is shown to be near to its suggested value. Finally we confirm that the energy transfer process in the eight site FMO complex remains efficient and robust. The optimal values of the bath parameters are computed and shown to be closer to the experimentally fitted values than those calculated previously for the seven site system.

id: 1109.3434
title: Fractional Quantum Hall Effect of Lattice Bosons Near Commensurate Flux
authors: L. Hormozi, Gunnar Moller, Steven H. Simon
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 256809 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3434
abstract: We study interacting bosons on a lattice in a magnetic field. When the number of flux quanta per plaquette is close to a rational fraction, the low energy physics is mapped to a multi-species continuum model: bosons in the lowest Landau level where each boson is given an internal degree of freedom, or pseudospin. We find that the interaction potential between the bosons involves terms that do not conserve pseudospin, corresponding to umklapp processes, which in some cases can also be seen as BCS-type pairing terms. We argue that in experimentally realistic regimes for bosonic atoms in optical lattices with synthetic magnetic fields, these terms are crucial for determining the nature of allowed ground states. In particular, we show numerically that certain paired wavefunctions related to the Moore-Read Pfaffian state are stabilized by these terms, whereas certain other wavefunctions can be destabilized when umklapp processes become strong.

id: 1109.3489
title: Ramsey Fringes and Time-domain Multiple-Slit Interference from Vacuum
authors: Eric Akkermans, Gerald V. Dunne
comments: 5 pp, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 030401 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3489
abstract: Sequences of alternating-sign time-dependent electric field pulses lead to coherent interference effects in Schwinger vacuum pair production, producing a Ramsey interferometer, an all-optical time-domain realization of the multiple-slit interference effect, directly from the quantum vacuum. The interference, obeying fermionic quantum statistics, is manifest in the momentum dependence of the number of produced electrons and positrons along the linearly polarized electric field. The central value grows like $N^2$ for $N$ pulses [i.e., $N$ "slits"], and the functional form is well-described by a coherent multiple-slit expression. This behavior is generic for many driven quantum systems.

id: 1109.3507
title: Spectral analysis of discrete-time quantum walks in the quarter plane
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: Contains an open problem showing the relationship between quantum walks in the quarter plane and quantum walks on homogeneous trees
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3507
abstract: Using the Cantero-Grunbaum-Moral-Velazquez (CGMV) method, we obtain the spectral measure for the quantum walk.

id: 1109.3542
title: Quantum entanglement from the holographic principle
authors: Jae-Weon Lee
comments: 3 page, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3542
abstract: It is suggested that quantum entanglement emerges from the holographic principle stating that all of the information of a region (bulk bits) can be described by the bits on its boundary surface. There are redundancy and information loss in the bulk bits that lead to the nonlocal correlation among the bulk bits. Quantum field theory overestimates the independent degrees of freedom in the bulk. The maximum entanglement in the universe increases as the size of the cosmic horizon and this could be related with the arrow of time and dark energy.

id: 1109.3571
title: Evolution of Two-Point Functions from Holography
authors: Joao Aparicio, Esperanza Lopez
comments: 33 pages, 8 figures, LaTeX
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3571
abstract: We consider a thermalization process in a 2-dimensional CFT that has a holographic description in terms of the gravitational collapse of a thin shell of null dust. This model represents a sudden perturbation of the CFT vacuum that communicates a uniform energy density to the system. We study the evolution of two-point functions at spacelike separated points (t1,l) and (t2,0), and reproduce the generic pattern first derived from the analysis of quantum quenches to critical systems. A crucial characteristic of these setups is that the excitations generated by the initial perturbation presents non-trivial quantum correlations. As a consequence, for any ti<infinity equilibration is only effective on finite regions whose size grows as a lightfront. The behavior on larger regions is greatly determined by the initial state, which for the quenches we consider and the holographic model has relevant differences. However in both cases for late times the dependence on the scale l of the two-point functions enters through the effective distance l-t1-t2. We interpret the onset of this behavior as an equilibration time for occupation numbers in these 2-dimensional models.

id: 1109.3575
title: Particle with spin 1 in a magnetic field on the spherical plane S_{2}
authors: E.M. Ovsiyuk, V.V. Kisel, V.M. Red'kov
comments: 11 pages, 34 references
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3575
abstract: There are constructed exact solutions of the quantum-mechanical equation for a spin S=1 particle in 2-dimensional Riemannian space of constant positive curvature, spherical plane, in presence of an external magnetic field, analogue of the homogeneous magnetic field in the Minkowski space. A generalized formula for energy levels describing quantization of the motion of the vector particle in magnetic field on the 2-dimensional space S_{2} has been found, nonrelativistic and relativistic equations have been solved.

id: 1109.3680
title: Direct measurement of quantum phases in graphene via photoemission spectroscopy
authors: Choongyu Hwang, Cheol-Hwan Park, David A. Siegel, Alexei V. Fedorov, Steven G. Louie, Alessandra Lanzara
comments: 12 pages and 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 125422 (2011)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3680
abstract: Quantum phases provide us with important information for understanding the fundamental properties of a system. However, the observation of quantum phases, such as Berry's phase and the sign of the matrix element of the Hamiltonian between two non-equivalent localized orbitals in a tight-binding formalism, has been challenged by the presence of other factors, e.g., dynamic phases and spin/valley degeneracy, and the absence of methodology. Here, we report a new way to directly access these quantum phases, through polarization-dependent angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES), using graphene as a prototypical two-dimensional material. We show that the momentum- and polarization-dependent spectral intensity provides direct measurements of (i) the phase of the band wavefunction and (ii) the sign of matrix elements for non-equivalent orbitals. Upon rotating light polarization by \pi/2, we found that graphene with a Berry's phase of n\pi (n=1 for single- and n=2 for double-layer graphene for Bloch wavefunction in the commonly used form) exhibits the rotation of ARPES intensity by \pi/n, and that ARPES signals reveal the signs of the matrix elements in both single- and double-layer graphene. The method provides a new technique to directly extract fundamental quantum electronic information on a variety of materials.

id: 1109.3743
title: Implementing the Quantum von Neumann Architecture with Superconducting Circuits
authors: Matteo Mariantoni, H. Wang, T. Yamamoto, M. Neeley, Radoslaw C. Bialczak, Y. Chen, M. Lenander, Erik Lucero, A. D. O'Connell, D. Sank, M. Weides, J. Wenner, Y. Yin, J. Zhao, A. N. Korotkov, A. N. Cleland, John M. Martinis
comments: To be published in Science (submitted version); 9 pages+4 figs. (main), 34 pages+12 figs.+3 tables (supplementary); includes Toffoli gate+quantum Fourier transform
journal: Science 334, 61-65 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3743
abstract: The von Neumann architecture for a classical computer comprises a central processing unit and a memory holding instructions and data. We demonstrate a quantum central processing unit that exchanges data with a quantum random-access memory integrated on a chip, with instructions stored on a classical computer. We test our quantum machine by executing codes that involve seven quantum elements: Two superconducting qubits coupled through a quantum bus, two quantum memories, and two zeroing registers. Two vital algorithms for quantum computing are demonstrated, the quantum Fourier transform, with 66% process fidelity, and the three-qubit Toffoli OR phase gate, with 98% phase fidelity. Our results, in combination especially with longer qubit coherence, illustrate a potentially viable approach to factoring numbers and implementing simple quantum error correction codes.

id: 1109.3801
title: Excitation energy after a smooth quench in a Luttinger liquid
authors: Jacek Dziarmaga, Marek Tylutki
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; minor changes, version published in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 214522 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3801
abstract: Low energy physics of quasi-one-dimensional ultracold atomic gases is often described by a gapless Luttinger liquid (LL). It is nowadays routine to manipulate these systems by changing their parameters in time but, no matter how slow the manipulation is, it must excite a gapless system. We study a smooth change of parameters of the LL (a smooth "quench") with a variable quench time and find that the excitation energy decays with an inverse power of the quench time. This universal exponent is -2 at zero temperature, and -1 for slow enough quenches at finite temperature. The smooth quench does not excite beyond the range of validity of the low energy LL description.

id: 1109.3804
title: Quantum Hypothesis Testing and Non-Equilibrium Statistical Mechanics
authors: V. Jaksic, Y. Ogata, C.-A. Pillet, R. Seiringer
comments: 60 pages
journal: Rev. Math. Phys. 24, 1230002 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3804
abstract: We extend the mathematical theory of quantum hypothesis testing to the general $W^*$-algebraic setting and explore its relation with recent developments in non-equilibrium quantum statistical mechanics. In particular, we relate the large deviation principle for the full counting statistics of entropy flow to quantum hypothesis testing of the arrow of time.

id: 1109.3844
title: Ruling Out Bosonic Repulsive Dark Matter in Thermal Equilibrium
authors: Zachary Slepian, Jeremy Goodman
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, 1 table, accepted MNRAS August 9 2012
journal: 
subjects: Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3844
abstract: Self-interacting dark matter (SIDM), especially bosonic, has been considered a promising candidate to replace cold dark matter (CDM) as it resolves some of the problems associated with CDM. Here, we rule out the possibility that dark matter is a repulsive boson in thermal equilibrium. We develop the model first proposed by Goodman (2000) and derive the equation of state at finite temperature. Isothermal spherical halo models indicate a Bose-Einstein condensed core surrounded by a non-degenerate envelope, with an abrupt density drop marking the boundary between the two phases. Comparing this feature with observed rotation curves constrains the interaction strength of our model's DM particle, and Bullet Cluster measurements constrain the scattering cross section. Both ultimately can be cast as constraints on the particle's mass. We find these two constraints cannot be satisfied simultaneously in any realistic halo model---and hence dark matter cannot be a repulsive boson in thermal equilibrium. It is still left open that DM may be a repulsive boson provided it is not in thermal equilibrium; this requires that the mass of the particle be significantly less than a millivolt.

id: 1109.3872
title: Gravitational strings beyond quantum theory: Electron as a closed heterotic string
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: Final version, format is chahded, 16 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Procceedings of the Int. conf. Emergent Quantum Mechanics (Vienna, November 2011)
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 361 (2012) 012032
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3872
abstract: The observable parameters of the electron indicate unambiguously that its gravitational background should be the Kerr-Newman solution without horizons. This background is not flat and has a non-trivial topology created by the Kerr singular ring. This ring was identified with a closed gravitational string. We discuss the relation of this string to the closed heterotic string of the low energy string theory and show that traveling waves along the KN string give rise to the Dirac theory of electron. Gravitational strings form a bridge between gravity and quantum theory, indicating a new way to consistent Quantum Gravity. We explain the pointlike experimental exhibition of the electron and argue that the predicted closed string may be observed by the novel experimental method of the "nonforward" Compton scattering.

id: 1109.3875
title: Some Peculiarities of Newton-Hooke Space-Times
authors: Yu Tian
comments: 20 pages, revtex4, a slightly shortened version to appear in IJMPD; v2: added a reference
journal: Int.J.Mod.Phys.D20:2223-2238,2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3875
abstract: Newton-Hooke space-times are the non-relativistic limit of (anti-)de Sitter space-times. We investigate some peculiar facts about the Newton-Hooke space-times, among which the "extraordinary Newton-Hooke quantum mechanics" and the "anomalous Newton-Hooke space-times" are discussed in detail. Analysis on the Lagrangian/action formalism is performed in the discussion of the Newton-Hooke quantum mechanics, where the path integral point of view plays an important role, and the physically measurable density of probability is clarified.

id: 1109.3960
title: Storage and Retrieval of a Microwave Field in a Spin Ensemble
authors: Y. Kubo, I. Diniz, A. Dewes, V. Jacques, A. Dreau, J.-F. Roch, A. Auffeves, D. Vion, D. Esteve, P. Bertet
comments: 4 pages + supplementary material. Submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3960
abstract: We report the storage and retrieval of a small microwave field from a superconducting resonator into collective excitations of a spin ensemble. The spins are nitrogen-vacancy centers in a diamond crystal. The storage time of the order of 30 ns is limited by inhomogeneous broadening of the spin ensemble.

id: 1109.4027
title: Decoherence and the retrieval of lost information
authors: Yin Ye, Yunshan Cao, Xin-Qi Li, Shmuel Gurvitz
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures, additional explanations added, Phys. Rev. B, in press
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4027
abstract: We found that in contrast with the common premise, a measurement on the environment of an open quantum system can {\em reduce} its decoherence rate. We demonstrate it by studying an example of indirect qubit's measurement, where the information on its state is hidden in the environment. This information is extracted by a distant device, coupled with the environment. We also show that the reduction of decoherence generated by this device, is accompanied with diminution of the environmental noise in a vicinity of the qubit. An interpretation of these results in terms of quantum interference on large scales is presented.

id: 1109.4244
title: Symbolic integration with respect to the Haar measure on the unitary group in Mathematica
authors: Zbigniew Pucha?a, Jaros?aw Adam Miszczak
comments: 17 pages, no figures, software available at: this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Symbolic Computation (cs.SC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4244
abstract: We present IntU package for Mathematica computer algebra system. The presented package performs a symbolic integration of polynomial functions over the unitary group with respect to unique normalized Haar measure. We describe a number of special cases which can be used to optimize the calculation speed for some classes of integrals. We also provide some examples of usage of the presented package.

id: 1109.4267
title: Renormalization group study of random quantum magnets
authors: Istv¨¢n A. Kov¨¢cs, Ferenc Igl¨®i
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 23 (2011) 404204
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4267
abstract: We have developed a very efficient numerical algorithm of the strong disorder renormalization group method to study the critical behaviour of the random transverse-field Ising model, which is a prototype of random quantum magnets. With this algorithm we can renormalize an N-site cluster within a time N*log(N), independently of the topology of the graph and we went up to N~4*10^6. We have studied regular lattices with dimension D<=4 as well as Erdos-Renyi random graphs, which are infinite dimensional objects. In all cases the quantum critical behaviour is found to be controlled by an infinite disorder fixed point, in which disorder plays a dominant role over quantum fluctuations. As a consequence the renormalization procedure as well as the obtained critical properties are asymptotically exact for large systems. We have also studied Griffiths singularities in the paramagnetic and the ferromagnetic phases and generalized the numerical algorithm for another random quantum systems.

id: 1109.4302
title: Weak value analogue in classical stochastic process
authors: Hiroyuki Tomita
comments: Revised as Arxiv:1201.1329
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4302
abstract: The time evolution of the two-time conditional probability of the classical stochastic process is described in an analogous form of the quantum mechanical wave equations. By using it, we emulate the same strange behaviors as those of the weak value in the quantum mechanics. A negative probability and abnormal expectations of some quantities remarkablely larger than their inherent norms are found in an example of a stochastic Ising spin system.

id: 1109.4310
title: Quantum gray solitons in confining potentials
authors: Dominic C. Wadkin-Snaith, Dimitri M. Gangardt
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 085301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4310
abstract: We define and study hole-like excitations (the Lieb II mode) in a weakly interacting Bose liquid subject to external confinement. These excitations are obtained by semiclassical quantization of gray solitons propagating on top of a Thomas-Fermi background. Radiation of phonons by an accelerated gray soliton leads to a finite life-time for the trapped Lieb II mode. It is shown that, for a large number of trapped atoms, most of the Lieb II levels can be experimentally resolved.

id: 1109.4329
title: The trace formula for a point scatterer on a compact hyperbolic surface
authors: Henrik Ueberschaer
comments: 32 pages; minor changes, fixed a mistake in the appendix
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 012108 (2012);
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4329
abstract: An exact trace formula for the perturbation of the Laplacian by a Dirac delta potential on a compact hyperbolic Riemann surface is derived. The formula can be considered an analogue of the Selberg trace formula. The difference of perturbed and unperturbed trace is expressed as an identity term plus a sum over combinations of diffractive orbits which visit the position of the potential.

id: 1109.4392
title: Laser spectroscopy of individual quantum dots charged with a single hole
authors: B. D. Gerardot, R. J. Barbour, D. Brunner, P. A. Dalgarno, A. Badolato, N. Stoltz, P. M. Petroff, J. Houel, R. J. Warburton
comments: 12 pages including 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4392
abstract: We characterize the positively charged exciton (X1+) in single InGaAs quantum dots using resonant laser spectroscopy. Three samples with different dopant species (Be or C as acceptors, Si as a donor) are compared. The p-doped samples exhibit larger inhomogeneous broadening (x3) and smaller absorption contrast (x10) than the n-doped sample. For X1+ in the Be-doped sample, a dot dependent non-linear Fano effect is observed, demonstrating coupling to degenerate continuum states. However, for the C-doped sample the X1+ lineshape and saturation broadening follows isolated atomic transition behaviour. This C-doped device structure is useful for single hole spin initialization, manipulation, and measurement.

id: 1109.4470
title: Efficient simulation of Grassmann Tensor Product States
authors: Zheng-Cheng Gu
comments: 13 pages,15 figures,publisehd version(an interacting fermion example is added)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 115139 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4470
abstract: Recently, the Grassmann-tensor-entanglement renormalization group(GTERG) approach was proposed as a generic variational approach to study strongly correlated boson/fermion systems. However, the weakness of such a simple variational approach is that generic Grassmann tensor product states(GTPS) with large inner dimension $D$ will contain a large number of variational parameters and be hard to be determined through usual minimization procedures. In this paper, we first introduce a standard form of GTPS which significantly simplifies the representations. Then we describe a simple imaginary-time-evolution algorithm to efficiently update the GTPS based on the fermion coherent state representation and show all the algorithm developed for usual tensor product states(TPS) can be implemented for GTPS in a similar way. Finally, we study the environment effect for the GTERG approach and propose a simple method to further improve its accuracy. We demonstrate our algorithms by studying a simple 2D free fermion system on honeycomb lattice, including both off-critical and critical cases.

id: 1109.4561
title: Non-Abelian Braiding of Lattice Bosons
authors: Eliot Kapit, Paul Ginsparg, Erich Mueller
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4561
abstract: We report on a numerical experiment in which we use time-dependent potentials to braid non-abelian quasiparticles. We consider lattice bosons in a uniform magnetic field within the fractional quantum Hall regime, where $\nu$, the ratio of particles to flux quanta, is near 1/2, 1 or 3/2. We introduce time-dependent potentials which move quasiparticle excitations around one another, explicitly simulating a braiding operation which could implement part of a gate in a quantum computation. We find that different braids do not commute for $\nu$ near $1$ and $3/2$, with Berry matrices respectively consistent with Ising and Fibonacci anyons. Near $\nu=1/2$, the braids commute.

id: 1109.4602
title: Few-body bound state stability of dipolar molecules in two dimensions
authors: A. G. Volosniev, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 023609 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4602
abstract: Bound structures among dipolar molecules in multilayers are a topic of great interest in the light of recent experiments that have demonstrated the feasibility of the setup. While it is known that two molecules in two adjacent layers will always bind, larger complexes have only been scarcely addressed thus far. Here we prove rigorously that three- and four-body states will never be bound when the dipoles are oriented perpendicular to the layers. The technique employed is general and can be used for more molecules/layers and other geometries. Our analytical findings are supported by numerical calculations for both fermionic and bosonic molecules. Furthermore, we calculate the reduction in intralayer repulsion necessary to bind large complexes and estimate the influence of bound complexes in systems with many layers.

id: 1109.4608
title: The Zak phase and the existence of edge states in graphene
authors: P. Delplace, D. Ullmo, G. Montambaux
comments: 14 pages, 19 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 195452 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4608
abstract: We develop a method to predict the existence of edge states in graphene ribbons for a large class of boundaries. This approach is based on the bulk-edge correspondence between the quantized value of the Zak phase Z(k), which is a Berry phase across an appropriately chosen one-dimensional Brillouin zone, and the existence of a localized state of momentum k at the boundary of the ribbon. This bulk-edge correspondence is rigorously demonstrated for a one dimensional toy model as well as for graphene ribbons with zigzag edges. The range of k for which edge states exist in a graphene ribbon is then calculated for arbitrary orientations of the edges. Finally, we show that the introduction of an anisotropy leads to a topological transition in terms of the Zak phase, which modifies the localization properties at the edges. Our approach gives a new geometrical understanding of edge states, it con?firms and generalizes the results of several previous works.

id: 1109.4619
title: Correlated Quantum Transport of Density Wave Electrons
authors: J. H. Miller Jr., A. I. Wijesinghe, Z. Tang, A. M. Guloy
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures, (5 pages & 3 figures for main article), includes Supplemental Material with 1 figure. Published version: Physical Review Letters, vol. 108, p. 036404 (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4619
abstract: Recently observed Aharonov-Bohm quantum interference of period h/2e in charge density wave rings strongly suggest that correlated density wave electron transport is a cooperative quantum phenomenon. The picture discussed here posits that quantum solitons nucleate and transport current above a Coulomb blockade threshold field. We propose a field-dependent tunneling matrix element and use the Schrodinger equation, viewed as an emergent classical equation as in Feynman's treatment of Josephson tunneling, to compute the evolving macrostate amplitudes, finding excellent quantitative agreement with voltage oscillations and current-voltage characteristics in NbSe3. A proposed phase diagram shows the conditions favoring soliton nucleation versus classical depinning. (Published in Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 036404 (2012).)

id: 1109.4656
title: Approaching universality in weakly-bound three-body systems
authors: Vladimir Roudnev, Michael Cavagnero
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4656
abstract: Atom-dimer scattering below the three-body break-up threshold is studied for a system of three identical bosons. The atom-dimer scattering length and the energy of the most weakly-bound three-body state are shown to be strongly correlated. An appropriate rescaling of the observables reveals the subtlety of the correlation, and serves to identify universal trends in the unitary limit of divergent two-body scattering length. The correlation provides a new quantitative measure of the degree of universality in three-body systems with short-ranged interactions, as well as a consistency check of effective field theories and other theoretical models.

id: 1109.4672
title: Generalized five-dimensional Kepler system, Yang-Coulomb monopole and Hurwitz transformation
authors: Ian Marquette
comments: 18 pages, misprints corrected, published version
journal: J. Math.Phys. 53 022103 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4672
abstract: The 5D Kepler system possesses many interesting properties. This system is superintegrable and also with a $su(2)$ nonAbelian monopole interaction (Yang-Coulomb monopole). This system is also related to a 8D isotropic harmonic oscillator by a Hurwitz transformation. We introduce a new superintegrable Hamiltonian that consists in a 5D Kepler system with new terms of Smorodinsky-Winternitz type. We obtain the integrals of motion of this systems. They generate a quadratic algebra with structure constants involving the Casimir operator of a $so(4)$ Lie algebra. We also show that this system remains superintegrable with a $su(2)$ nonAbelian monopole (generalized Yang-Coulomb monopole). We study this system using parabolic coordinates and obtain from Hurwitz transformation its dual that is a 8D singular oscillator. This 8D singular oscillator is also a new superintegrable system and multiseparable. We obtained its quadratic algebra that involves two Casimir operators of $so(4)$ Lie algebras. This correspondence is used to obtain algebraically the energy spectrum of the generalized Yang Coulomb monopole.

id: 1109.4908
title: Optimized sympathetic cooling of atomic mixtures via fast adiabatic strategies
authors: Stephen Choi, Roberto Onofrio, Bala Sundaram
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A Vol.84, 051601(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4908
abstract: We discuss fast frictionless cooling techniques in the framework of sympathetic cooling of cold atomic mixtures. It is argued that optimal cooling of an atomic species - in which the deepest quantum degeneracy regime is achieved - may be obtained by means of sympathetic cooling with another species whose trapping frequency is dynamically changed to maintain constancy of the Lewis-Riesenfeld adiabatic invariant. Advantages and limitations of this cooling strategy are discussed, with particular regard to the possibility of cooling Fermi gases to a deeper degenerate regime.

id: 1109.4927
title: Coarse graining methods for spin net and spin foam models
authors: Bianca Dittrich, Frank C. Eckert, Mercedes Martin-Benito
comments: 39 pages, 13 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4927
abstract: We undertake first steps in making a class of discrete models of quantum gravity, spin foams, accessible to a large scale analysis by numerical and computational methods. In particular, we apply Migdal-Kadanoff and Tensor Network Renormalization schemes to spin net and spin foam models based on finite Abelian groups and introduce `cutoff models' to probe the fate of gauge symmetries under various such approximated renormalization group flows. For the Tensor Network Renormalization analysis, a new Gauss constraint preserving algorithm is introduced to improve numerical stability and aid physical interpretation. We also describe the fixed point structure and establish an equivalence of certain models.

id: 1109.4945
title: Order by Disorder in Spin-Orbit Coupled Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Ryan Barnett, Stephen Powell, Tobias Grass, Maciej Lewenstein, S. Das Sarma
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85 023615 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4945
abstract: Motivated by recent experiments, we investigate the system of isotropically-interacting bosons with Rashba spin-orbit coupling. At the non-interacting level, there is a macroscopic ground-state degeneracy due to the many ways bosons can occupy the Rashba spectrum. Interactions treated at the mean-field level restrict the possible ground-state configurations, but there remains an accidental degeneracy not corresponding to any symmetry of the Hamiltonian, indicating the importance of fluctuations. By finding analytical expressions for the collective excitations in the long-wavelength limit and through numerical solution of the full Bogoliubov- de Gennes equations, we show that the system condenses into a single momentum state of the Rashba spectrum via the mechanism of order by disorder. We show that in 3D the quantum depletion for this system is small, while the thermal depletion has an infrared logarithmic divergence, which is removed for finite-size systems. In 2D, on the other hand, thermal fluctuations destabilize the system.

id: 1109.4996
title: Green's Function Formalism of Holography with Arbitrary Mass, Spin, and Dimensionality
authors: Zoltan Batiz, Bhag C. Chauhan
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures and 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4996
abstract: In this work we present a mathematical description of how one can produce and read a thin hologram. We use different kinds of waves, such as scalar, vector (electromagnetic field, Maxwell-Proca fields, acoustic waves, etc.). For reading of the hologram, we use the Green's function formalism. With the help of computer simulations, we investigate the aberrations created by this procedure for the simplest case: 2d-scalar wave case.

id: 1109.5016
title: Independent electrical tuning of separated quantum dots in coupled photonic crystal cavities
authors: Susanna M. Thon, Hyochul Kim, Cristian Bonato, Jan Gudat, Jenna Hagemeier, Pierre M. Petroff, Dirk Bouwmeester
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 99, 161102 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5016
abstract: Systems of photonic crystal cavities coupled to quantum dots are a promising architecture for quantum networking and quantum simulators. The ability to independently tune the frequencies of laterally separated quantum dots is a crucial component of such a scheme. Here, we demonstrate independent tuning of laterally separated quantum dots in photonic crystal cavities coupled by in-plane waveguides by implanting lines of protons which serve to electrically isolate different sections of a diode structure.

id: 1109.5047
title: Laser micro-fabrication of concave, low-roughness features in silica
authors: David Hunger, Christian Deutsch, Russell J. Barbour, Richard J. Warburton, Jakob Reichel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5047
abstract: We describe a micro-fabrication method to create concave features with ultra-low surface roughness in silica, either on the end facets of optical fibers or on flat substrates. The machining uses a single focused CO2 laser pulse. Parameters are chosen such that material is removed by thermal evaporation while simultaneously producing excellent surface quality by surface tension-induced movement in a low-viscosity melt layer. A surface roughness {\sigma}~0.2nm is regularly obtained. The concave depressions are near-spherical close to the center with radii of curvature between 20 and 2000{\mu}m. The method allows the fabrication of low-scatter micro-optical devices such as mirror substrates for high-finesse cavities or negative lenses on the tip of optical fibers, extending the range of micro-optical components.

id: 1109.5165
title: Modeling and Simulation of a Microstrip-SQUID Amplifier
authors: G.P. Berman, O.O. Chumak, D.I. Kamenev, D. Kinion, V.I. Tsifrinovich
comments: 13 pages
journal: J. Low Temp. Phys., v. 165, 55 (2011)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5165
abstract: Using a simple lumped-circuit model, we numerically study the dependence of the voltage gain and noise on the amplifier's parameters. Linear, quasi-linear, and nonlinear regimes are studied. We have shown that the voltage gain of the amplifier cannot exceed a characteristic critical value, which decreases with the increase of the input power. We have also shown that the spectrum of the voltage gain depends significantly on the level of the Johnson noise generated by the SQUID resistors.

id: 1109.5209
title: Superconducting Low-Inductance Undulatory Galvanometer Microwave Amplifier
authors: D. Hover, Y.-F. Chen, G. J. Ribeill, S. Zhu, S. Sendelbach, R. McDermott
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5209
abstract: We describe a microwave amplifier based on the Superconducting Low-inductance Undulatory Galvanometer (SLUG). The SLUG is embedded in a microstrip resonator, and the signal current is injected directly into the device loop. Measurements at 30 mK show gains of 25 dB at 3 GHz and 15 dB at 9 GHz. Amplifier performance is well described by a simple numerical model based on the Josephson junction phase dynamics. We expect optimized devices based on high critical current junctions to achieve gain greater than 15 dB, bandwidth of several hundred MHz, and added noise of order one quantum in the frequency range of 5-10 GHz.

id: 1109.5237
title: Three Dimensional Raman Cooling using Velocity Selective Rapid Adiabatic Passage
authors: Axel Kuhn, H¨¦l¨¨ne Perrin, Wolfgang H?nsel, Christophe Salomon
comments: OSA TOPS on Ultracold Atoms and BEC 7 (1997) 58
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5237
abstract: We present a new and efficient implementation of Raman cooling of trapped atoms. It uses Raman pulses with an appropriate frequency chirp to realize a velocity selective excitation through a rapid adiabatic passage. This method allows to address in a single pulse a large number of non zero atomic velocity classes and it produces a nearly unity transfer efficiency. We demonstrate this cooling method using cesium atoms in a far-detuned crossed dipole trap. Three-dimensional cooling of $1 \times 10^{5}$ atoms down to $2 \mu$K is performed in 100 ms. In this preliminary experiment the final atomic density is $1.3\times 10^{12}$ at/cm$^3$ (within a factor of 2) and the phase-space density increase over the uncooled sample is 20. Numerical simulations indicate that temperatures below the single photon recoil temperature should be achievable with this method.

id: 1109.5290
title: Quantum Gravity: Mixed States from Diffeomorphism Anomalies
authors: A. P. Balachandran, Amilcar R. de Queiroz
comments: 20 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5290
abstract: In a previous paper, we discussed simple examples like particle on a circle and molecules to argue that mixed states can arise from anomalous symmetries. This idea was applied to the breakdown (anomaly) of color SU(3) in the presence of non-abelian monopoles. Such mixed states create entropy as well. In this article, we extend these ideas to the topological geons of Friedman and Sorkin in quantum gravity. The "large diffeos" or mapping class groups can become anomalous in their quantum theory as we show. One way to eliminate these anomalies is to use mixed states, thereby creating entropy. These ideas may have something to do with black hole entropy as we speculate.

id: 1109.5344
title: Design and Stability of Discrete-Time Quantum Filters with Measurement Imperfections
authors: Abhinav Somaraju, Igor Dotsenko, Clement Sayrin, Pierre Rouchon
comments: Submitted to the American Control Conference 2012
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5344
abstract: This work considers the theory underlying a discrete-time quantum filter recently used in a quantum feedback experiment. It proves that this filter taking into account decoherence and measurement errors is optimal and stable. We present the general framework underlying this filter and show that it corresponds to a recursive expression of the least-square optimal estimation of the density operator in the presence of measurement imperfections. By measurement imperfections, we mean in a very general sense unread measurement performed by the environment (decoherence) and active measurement performed by non-ideal detectors. However, we assume to know precisely all the Kraus operators and also the detection error rates. Such recursive expressions combine well known methods from quantum filtering theory and classical probability theory (Bayes' law). We then demonstrate that such a recursive filter is always stable with respect to its initial condition: the fidelity between the optimal filter state (when the initial filter state coincides with the real quantum state) and the filter state (when the initial filter state is arbitrary) is a sub-martingale.

id: 1109.5445
title: Apparent Lorentz violation with superluminal Majorana neutrinos at OPERA?
authors: F. Tamburini, M. Laveder
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure, 1 table, updated with new data, new figure. Higgs mass expected at (273.56 {\pm} 0.01) GeV
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5445
abstract: From the data release of OPERA - CNGS experiment, and publicly announced on 23 September 2011, we cast a phenomenological model based on a Majorana neutrino state carrying a fictitious imaginary mass term, already discussed by Majorana in 1932. This mass term can be induced by the interaction with the matter of the Earth's crust during the 735 Km travel. Within the experimental errors, we prove that the model fits with OPERA, MINOS and supernova SN1987a data. Possible violations to Lorentz invariance due to quantum gravity effects have been considered.

id: 1109.5462
title: Attosecond streaking of core lines of copper dihalides
authors: J.D. Lee
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5462
abstract: In the attosecond (as) streaking of Cu 3s core-level photoemission of copper dihalides, we predict theoretically that the satellite ($3d^9$) is emitted later than the main line ($3d^{10}L^{-1}$; $L$: ligand). The emission time delay is originated from the electron correlation between the core level and 3d shell, which leads to the difference in core-hole screening between satellite and main lines. Further, we find that the time delay corresponds to a quantification of the extrinsic loss of photoemission.

id: 1109.5470
title: Quantum spin Hamiltonians for the SU(2)_k WZW model
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen, J. Ignacio Cirac, German Sierra
comments: 38 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. P11014 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5470
abstract: We propose to use null vectors in conformal field theories to derive model Hamiltonians of quantum spin chains and corresponding ground state wave function(s). The approach is quite general, and we illustrate it by constructing a family of Hamiltonians whose ground states are the chiral correlators of the SU(2)_k WZW model for integer values of the level k. The simplest example corresponds to k=1 and is essentially a nonuniform generalization of the Haldane-Shastry model with long-range exchange couplings. At level k=2, we analyze the model for N spin 1 fields. We find that the Renyi entropy and the two-point spin correlator show, respectively, logarithmic growth and algebraic decay. Furthermore, we use the null vectors to derive a set of algebraic, linear equations relating spin correlators within each model. At level k=1, these equations allow us to compute the two-point spin correlators analytically for the finite chain uniform Haldane-Shastry model and to obtain numerical results for the nonuniform case and for higher-point spin correlators in a very simple way and without resorting to Monte Carlo techniques.

id: 1109.5495
title: Deterministic preparation of Dicke states of donor nuclear spins in silicon by cooperative pumping
authors: Yu Luo, Hongyi Yu, Wang Yao
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 155304 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5495
abstract: For donor nuclear spins in silicon, we show how to deterministically prepare various symmetric and asymmetric Dicke states which span a complete basis of the many-body Hilbert space. The state preparation is realized by cooperative pumping of nuclear spins by coupled donor electrons, and the required controls are in situ to the prototype Kane proposal for quantum computation. This scheme only requires a sub-gigahertz donor exchange coupling which can be readily achieved without atomically precise donor placement, hence it offers a practical way to prepare multipartite entanglement of spins in silicon with current technology. All desired Dicke states appear as the steady state under various pumping scenarios and therefore the preparation is robust and does not require accurate temporal controls. Numerical simulations with realistic parameters show that Dicke states of 10-20 qubits can be prepared with high fidelity in presence of decoherence and unwanted dynamics.

id: 1109.5585
title: Interaction beween polarons and analogous effects in polarized Fermi gases
authors: S. Giraud, R. Combescot
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013605 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5585
abstract: We consider an imbalanced mixture of two different ultracold Fermi gases, which are strongly interacting. Calling spin-down the minority component and spin-up the majority component, the limit of small relative density $x=n\ds /n\us$ is usually considered as a gas of non interacting polarons. This allows to calculate, in the expansion of the total energy of the system in powers of $x$, the terms proportional to $x$ (corresponding to the binding energy of the polaron) and to $x^{5/3}$ (corresponding to the kinetic energy of the polaron Fermi sea). We investigate in this paper terms physically due to an interaction between polarons and which are proportional to $x^2$ and $x^{7/3}$. We find three such terms. A first one corresponds to the overlap between the clouds dressing two polarons. The two other ones are due to the modification of the single polaron binding energy caused by the non-zero density of polarons. The second term is due to the restriction of the polaron momentum by the Fermi sea formed by the other polarons. The last one results from the modification of the spin-up Fermi sea brought by the other polarons. The calculation of all these terms is made at the simplest level of a single particle-hole excitation. It is performed for all the possible interaction strengths within the stability range of the polaron. At unitarity the last two terms give a fairly weak contribution while the first one is strong and leads to a marked disagreement with Monte-Carlo results. The possible origins of this discrepancy are discussed.

id: 1109.5591
title: Phase-slippage and self-trapping in a self-induced bosonic Josephson junction
authors: M. Abad, M. Guilleumas, R. Mayol, M. Pi, D. M. Jezek
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 035601 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5591
abstract: A dipolar condensate confined in a toroidal trap constitutes a self-induced Josepshon junction when the dipoles are oriented perpendicularly to the trap symmetry axis and the s-wave scattering length is small enough. The ring-shaped double-well potential coming from the anisotropic character of the mean-field dipolar interaction is robust enough to sustain self-trapping dynamics, which takes place when the initial population imbalance between the two wells is large. We show that in this system the self-trapping regime is directly related to a vortex-induced phase-slip dynamics. A vortex and antivortex are spontaneously nucleated in the low density regions, before a minimum of the population imbalance is reached, and then cross the toroidal section in opposite directions through the junctions.This vortex dynamics yields a phase slip between the two weakly linked condensates causing an inversion of the particle flux.

id: 1109.5634
title: Homoepitaxial Growth of Single Crystal Diamond Membranes for Quantum Information Processing
authors: Igor Aharonovich, Jonathan C. Lee, Andrew P. Magyar, Bob B. Buckley, Christopher G. Yale, David D. Awschalom, Evelyn L. Hu
comments: Copyright rights with a scientific journal
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5634
abstract: Fabrication of devices designed to fully harness the unique properties of quantum mechanics through their coupling to quantum bits (qubits) is a prominent goal in the field of quantum information processing (QIP). Among various qubit candidates, nitrogen vacancy (NV) centers in diamond have recently emerged as an outstanding platform for room temperature QIP. However, formidable challenges still remain in processing diamond and in the fabrication of thin diamond membranes, which are necessary for planar photonic device engineering. Here we demonstrate epitaxial growth of single crystal diamond membranes using a conventional microwave chemical vapor deposition (CVD) technique. The grown membranes, only a few hundred nanometers thick, show bright luminescence, excellent Raman signature and good NV center electronic spin coherence times. Microdisk cavities fabricated from these membranes exhibit quality factors of up to 3000, overlapping with NV center emission. Our methodology offers a scalable approach for diamond device fabrication for photonics, spintronics, optomechanics and sensing applications.

id: 1109.5673
title: Entanglement of excited states in critical spin chians
authors: Miguel Ibanez Berganza, Francisco Castilho Alcaraz, German Sierra
comments: 23 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5673
abstract: Renyi and von Neumann entropies quantifying the amount of entanglement in ground states of critical spin chains are known to satisfy a universal law which is given by the Conformal Field Theory (CFT) describing their scaling regime. This law can be generalized to excitations described by primary fields in CFT, as was done in reference (Alcaraz et. al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 201601 (2011)), of which this work is a completion. An alternative derivation is presented, together with numerical verifications of our results in different models belonging to the c=1,1/2 universality classes. Oscillations of the Renyi entropy in excited states and descendant fields are also discussed.

id: 1109.5756
title: Control of 1,3-Cyclohexadiene Photoisomerization Using Light-Induced Conical Intersections
authors: Jaehee Kim, Hongli Tao, James L. White, Vladimir S. Petrovic, Todd J. Martinez, Philip H. Bucksbaum
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5756
abstract: We have studied the photo-induced isomerization from 1,3-cyclohexadiene to 1,3,5-hexatriene in the presence of an intense ultrafast laser pulse. We find that the laser field maximally suppresses isomerization if it is both polarized parallel to the excitation dipole and present 50 fs after the initial photoabsorption, at the time when the system is expected to be in the vicinity of a conical intersection that mediates this structural transition. A modified ab initio multiple spawning (AIMS) method shows that the laser induces a resonant coupling between the excited state and the ground state, i.e., a light-induced conical intersection. The theory accounts for the timing and direction of the effect.

id: 1109.5769
title: Efficient Energy Transfer in Light-Harvesting Systems, II: Quantum-Classical Comparison, Flux Network, and Robustness Analysis
authors: Jianlan Wu, Fan Liu, Jian Ma, Robert J. Silbey, Jianshu Cao
comments: submitted to Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5769
abstract: Following the calculation of optimal energy transfer in thermal environment in our first paper (Wu et al., New J. Phys., 2010, 12, 105012), full quantum dynamics and leading-order `classical' hopping kinetics are compared in the seven-site Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) protein complex. The difference between these two dynamic descriptions is due to higher-order quantum corrections. Two thermal bath models, classical white noise (the Haken-Strobl-Reineker model) and quantum Debye model, are considered. In the seven-site FMO model, we observe that higher-order corrections lead to negligible changes in the trapping time or in energy transfer efficiency around the optimal and physiological conditions (2% in the HSR model and 0.1% in the quantum Debye model for the initial site at BChl 1). However, using the concept of integrated flux, we can identify significant differences in branching probabilities of the energy transfer network between hopping kinetics and quantum dynamics (26% in the HSR model and 32% in the quantum Debye model for the initial site at BChl 1). This observation indicates that the quantum coherence can significantly change the distribution of energy transfer pathways in the flux network with the efficiency nearly the same. The quantum-classical comparison of the average trapping time with the removal of the bottleneck site, BChl 4, demonstrates the robustness of the efficient energy transfer by the mechanism of multi-site quantum coherence. To reconcile with the latest eight-site FMO model, the quantum-classical comparison with the flux network analysis is summarized in the appendix. The eight-site FMO model yields similar trapping time and network structure as the seven-site FMO model but leads to a more disperse distribution of energy transfer pathways.

id: 1109.5807
title: Universality and the three-body parameter of helium-4 trimers
authors: Pascal Naidon, Emiko Hiyama, Masashito Ueda
comments: 7 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012502 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5807
abstract: We consider a system of three helium-4 atoms, which is so far the simplest realistic three-body system exhibiting the Efimov effect, in order to analyse deviations from the universal Efimov three-body spectrum. We first calculate the bound states using a realistic two-body potential, and then analyse how they can be reproduced by simple effective models beyond Efimov's universal theory. We find that the non-universal variations of the first two states can be well reproduced by models parametrized with only three quantities: the scattering length and effective range of the original potential, and the strength of a small three-body force. Furthermore, the three-body parameter which fixes the origin of the infinite set of three-body levels is found to be consistent with recent experimental observations in other atomic species.

id: 1109.5881
title: On Max Born's "Vorlesungen ueber Atommechanik, Erster Band"
authors: Domenico Giulini
comments: 28 pages, 2 figures. V2: Some misprints corrected and several references added
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5881
abstract: A little more than half a year before Matrix Mechanics was born, Max Born finished his book "Vorlesungen ueber Atommechanik, Erster Band", which is a state-of-the-art presentation of Bohr-Sommerfeld quantisation. This book, which today seems almost forgotten, is remarkable for its epistemological as well as technical aspects. Here I wish to highlight one aspect in each of these two categories, the first being concerned with the r\^ole of axiomatisation in the heuristics of physics, the second with the problem of quantisation proper before Heisenberg and Schr\"odinger. This paper is a contribution to the project "History and Foundations of Quantum Physics" of the Max Planck Institute for the History of Sciences in Berlin and will appear in the book "Research and Pedagogy. The History of Quantum Physics through its Textbooks", edited by M.Badino and J.Navarro.

id: 1109.5904
title: The generalized Gibbs ensemble as a pseudo-initial state: its predictive power revealed in a second quench
authors: J. M. Zhang, F. C. Cui, Jiangping Hu
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 041138 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5904
abstract: The generalized Gibbs ensemble has been shown to be relevant in the relaxation of a completely integrable system subject to a quantum quench, in the sense that it accurately predicts the steady values of some physical variables. We proceed to further question its relevance by giving the quenched system a second quench. The concern is whether the generalized Gibbs ensemble can also accurately predict the relaxed system's response to the second quench. Two case studies with the transverse Ising model and the hard-core bosons in one dimension yield an affirmative answer. The relevance of the generalized Gibbs ensemble in the non-equilibrium dynamics of integrable systems is then greatly strengthened.

id: 1109.5905
title: Detecting inertial effects with airborne matter-wave interferometry
authors: Remi Geiger, Vincent M¨¦noret, Guillaume Stern, Nassim Zahzam, Patrick Cheinet, Baptiste Battelier, Andr¨¦ Villing, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Moron, Michel Lours, Yannick Bidel, Alexandre Bresson, Arnaud Landragin, Philippe Bouyer
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures. The final version of this article is available in OPEN access (free) from the editor website at this http URL
journal: Nat. Commun. 2:474 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Space Physics (physics.space-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5905
abstract: Inertial sensors relying on atom interferometry offer a breakthrough advance in a variety of applications, such as inertial navigation, gravimetry or ground- and space-based tests of fundamental physics. These instruments require a quiet environment to reach their performance and using them outside the laboratory remains a challenge. Here we report the first operation of an airborne matter-wave accelerometer set up aboard a 0g plane and operating during the standard gravity (1g) and microgravity (0g) phases of the flight. At 1g, the sensor can detect inertial effects more than 300 times weaker than the typical acceleration fluctuations of the aircraft. We describe the improvement of the interferometer sensitivity in 0g, which reaches 2 x 10-4 ms-2 / \surdHz with our current setup. We finally discuss the extension of our method to airborne and spaceborne tests of the Universality of free fall with matter waves.

id: 1109.5983
title: Topological States and Adiabatic Pumping in Quasicrystals
authors: Yaacov E. Kraus, Yoav Lahini, Zohar Ringel, Mor Verbin, Oded Zilberberg
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, 4 appendices
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 106402 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5983
abstract: The unrelated discoveries of quasicrystals and topological insulators have in turn challenged prevailing paradigms in condensed-matter physics. We find a surprising connection between quasicrystals and topological phases of matter: (i) quasicrystals exhibit nontrivial topological properties and (ii) these properties are attributed to dimensions higher than that of the quasicrystal. Specifically, we show, both theoretically and experimentally, that one-dimensional quasicrystals are assigned two-dimensional Chern numbers and, respectively, exhibit topologically protected boundary states equivalent to the edge states of a two-dimensional quantum Hall system.We harness the topological nature of these states to adiabatically pump light across the quasicrystal. We generalize our results to higher-dimensional systems and other topological indices. Hence, quasicrystals offer a new platform for the study of topological phases while their topology may better explain their surface properties.

id: 1109.6024
title: Dynamical Quantum Hall Effect in the Parameter Space
authors: V. Gritsev, A. Polkovnikov
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures added figure with anisotropic chain
journal: PNAS, 109, 6457 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6024
abstract: Geometric phases in quantum mechanics play an extraordinary role in broadening our understanding of fundamental significance of geometry in nature. One of the best known examples is the Berry phase (M.V. Berry (1984), Proc. Royal. Soc. London A, 392:45) which naturally emerges in quantum adiabatic evolution. So far the applicability and measurements of the Berry phase were mostly limited to systems of weakly interacting quasi-particles, where interference experiments are feasible. Here we show how one can go beyond this limitation and observe the Berry curvature and hence the Berry phase in generic systems as a non-adiabatic response of physical observables to the rate of change of an external parameter. These results can be interpreted as a dynamical quantum Hall effect in a parameter space. The conventional quantum Hall effect is a particular example of the general relation if one views the electric field as a rate of change of the vector potential. We illustrate our findings by analyzing the response of interacting spin chains to a rotating magnetic field. We observe the quantization of this response, which term the rotational quantum Hall effect.

id: 1109.6045
title: Phase Coherence and Fragmentation of Two-Component BECs Loaded in State-Dependent Optical Lattices
authors: Hyunoo Shim, Thomas Bergeman
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6045
abstract: A binary mixture of interacting Bose-Einstein Condensates (BEC) in the presence of fragmentation-driving external lattice potentials forms two interdependent mean-field lattices made of each component. These effective mean-field lattices, like ordinary optical lattices, can induce fragmentation and phase coherence loss of BECs between lattice sites. We consider the nonequilibrium dynamics of two hyperfine states of 1D Bose-Einstein condensates confined by a harmonic trap, subjected to state-dependent optical lattices. Our numerical mean-field calculations using the truncated Wigner approximation (TWA), include quantum and thermal fluctuations. We show loss of phase coherence in an unequal mixture of two-component BECs in a gradual ramp-up of one or two applied optical lattices, and we study coherence loss from mean-field lattices as a function of lattice height.

id: 1109.6168
title: Advancing hierarchical equations of motion for efficient evaluation of coherent two-dimensional spectroscopy
authors: Jian Xu, Rui-Xue Xu, Darius Abramavicius, Houdao Zhang, YiJing Yan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6168
abstract: To advance hierarchial equations of motion as a standard theory for quantum dissipative dynamics, we put forward a mixed Heisenberg--Schrodinger scheme with block-matrix implementation on efficient evaluation of nonlinear optical response function. The new approach is also integrated with optimized hierarchical theory and numerical filtering algorithm. Different configurations of coherent two-dimensional spectroscopy of model excitonic dimer systems are investigated, with focus on the effects of intermolecular transfer coupling and bi-exciton interaction.

id: 1109.6181
title: Optimal accessing and non-accessing structures for graph protocols
authors: Sylvain Gravier, J¨¦r?me Javelle, Mehdi Mhalla, Simon Perdrix
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6181
abstract: An accessing set in a graph is a subset B of vertices such that there exists D subset of B, such that each vertex of V\B has an even number of neighbors in D. In this paper, we introduce new bounds on the minimal size kappa'(G) of an accessing set, and on the maximal size kappa(G) of a non-accessing set of a graph G. We show strong connections with perfect codes and give explicitly kappa(G) and kappa'(G) for several families of graphs. Finally, we show that the corresponding decision problems are NP-Complete.

id: 1109.6217
title: Different dimensionality trends in the Landau damping of magnons in iron, cobalt and nickel: time dependent density functional study
authors: Pawe? Buczek, Arthur Ernst, Leonid M. Sandratskii
comments: 32 pages, 21 figures, to be submitted to PRB
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6217
abstract: We study the Landau damping of ferromagnetic magnons in Fe, Co, and Ni as the dimensionality of the system is reduced from three to two. We resort to the \textit{ab initio} linear response time dependent density functional theory in the adiabatic local spin density approximation. The numerical scheme is based on the Korringa-Kohn-Rostoker Green's function method. The key points of the theoretical approach and the implementation are discussed. We investigate the transition metals in three different forms: bulk phases, free-standing thin films and thin films supported on a nonmagnetic substrate. We demonstrate that the dimensionality trends in Fe and Ni are opposite: in Fe the transition from bulk bcc crystal to Fe/Cu(100) film reduces the damping whereas in Ni/Cu(100) film the attenuation increases compared to bulk fcc Ni. In Co, the strength of the damping depends relatively weakly on the sample dimensionality. We explain the difference in the trends on the basis of the underlying electronic structure. The influence of the substrate on the spin-wave damping is analyzed by employing Landau maps representing wave-vector resolved spectral density of the Stoner excitations.

id: 1109.6247
title: Atom interferometry and the Einstein equivalence principle
authors: Peter Wolf, Luc Blanchet, Christian J. Bord¨¦, Serge Reynaud, Christophe Salomon, Clande Cohen-Tannoudji
comments: 5 pages, to appear in the proceedings of the "46th Rencontres de Moriond and GPhyS Colloquium on Gravitational Waves and Experimental Gravity", la Thuile, March 20-27, 2011
journal: Experimental Gravity and Gravitational Waves, (Th\'e Gioi, 2011) p.327-331
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6247
abstract: The computation of the phase shift in a symmetric atom interferometer in the presence of a gravitational field is reviewed. The difference of action-phase integrals between the two paths of the interferometer is zero for any Lagrangian which is at most quadratic in position and velocity. We emphasize that in a large class of theories of gravity the atom interferometer permits a test of the weak version of the equivalence principle (or universality of free fall) by comparing the acceleration of atoms with that of ordinary bodies, but is insensitive to that aspect of the equivalence principle known as the gravitational redshift or universality of clock rates.

id: 1109.6327
title: On the number of Nambu-Goldstone bosons and its relation to charge densities
authors: Haruki Watanabe, Tomas Brauner
comments: 9 pages, REVTeX 4.1; v2: Appendix D completely rewritten, numerous other minor modifications throughout the text
journal: Phys.Rev.D84:125013,2011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6327
abstract: The low-energy physics of systems with spontaneous symmetry breaking is governed by the associated Nambu-Goldstone (NG) bosons. While NG bosons in Lorentz-invariant systems are well understood, the precise characterization of their number and dispersion relations in a general quantum many-body system is still an open problem. An inequality relating the number of NG bosons and their dispersion relations to the number of broken symmetry generators was found by Nielsen and Chadha. In this paper, we give a presumably first example of a system in which the Nielsen-Chadha inequality is actually not saturated. We suggest that the number of NG bosons is exactly equal to the number of broken generators minus the number of pairs of broken generators whose commutator has a nonzero vacuum expectation value. This naturally leads us to a proposal for a different classification of NG bosons.

id: 1109.6480
title: Semiclassical methods of deformation quantisation in transport theory
authors: M. I. Krivoruchenko
comments: 26 pages, PDF. To appear in: Quantum Mechanics, Vol. 3, Ed. M. R. Pahlavani (InTech - Open Access Publisher, Zagreb, 2012)
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6480
abstract: We provide an introduction to deformation quantisation and discuss the application of the formalism in solving the evolution problem for many-body systems in terms of semiclassical expansion. In any fixed order of expansion over the Planck's constant, the evolution problem can be reduced to a statistical-mechanics problem of calculating an ensemble of quantum characteristics in the phase space and their Jacobi fields. In comparison with the corresponding rules of classical statistical mechanics, the rules for computing the probabilities and time-dependent averages of observables are modified. The evolution equations represent a finite system of first-order ordinary differential equations for quantum trajectories in the phase space and the associated Jacobi fields. Quantum characteristics allow for the consistent inclusion of specific quantum effects, such as non-localities and coherence, in the description of the propagation of particles in the transport models. Since the late 1980s - early 1990s, when the first transport models were created for modeling heavy-ion collisions, computing power has increased by about five orders of magnitude. This dramatic rise in computing power makes it possible to include Jacobi fields in the collision dynamics, to extend beyond the classical treatment of phase-space trajectories, currently adopted in all of the transport models.

id: 1109.6506
title: Collective quantum jumps of Rydberg atoms
authors: Tony E. Lee, H. H?ffner, M. C. Cross
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 023602 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6506
abstract: We study an open quantum system of atoms with long-range Rydberg interaction, laser driving, and spontaneous emission. Over time, the system occasionally jumps between a state of low Rydberg population and a state of high Rydberg population. The jumps are inherently collective and in fact exist only for a large number of atoms. We explain how entanglement and quantum measurement enable the jumps, which are otherwise classically forbidden.

id: 1109.6554
title: Transverse electric conductivity in quantum collisional plasma in Mermin approach
authors: A. V. Latyshev, A. A. Yushkanov
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6554
abstract: Formulas for transversal electric conductivity and dielectric permeability of quantum collisional plasma are deduced. The kinetic equation for a density matrix in relaxation approaching in momentum space is used. It is shown, that when Planck's constant tends to zero, these deduced formulas pass in classical expressions and when frequency of electron collision tends to zero (i.e. plasma passes in collisionless plasma), the deduced formulas pass in deduced earlier by Lindhard. It is shown also, that when the wave number tends to zero, quantum conductivity passes in the classical one. Graphic comparison of the deduced conductivity with Lindhard's conductivity and with classical conductivity is carry out.

id: 1109.6599
title: Sources of negative tunneling magneto-resistance in multilevel quantum dots with ferromagnetic contacts
authors: S. Koller, J. Paaske, M. Grifoni
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, supplemental material
journal: Phys. Rev. B, 045313 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6599
abstract: We analyze distinct sources of spin-dependent energy level shifts and their impact on the tunneling magnetoresistance (TMR) of interacting quantum dots coupled to collinearly polarized ferromagnetic leads. Level shifts due to virtual charge fluctuations can be quantitatively evaluated within a diagrammatic representation of our transport theory. The theory is valid for multilevel quantum dot systems and we exemplarily apply it to carbon nanotube quantum dots, where we show that the presence of many levels can qualitatively influence the TMR effect.

id: 1109.6613
title: Functional Subsystems and Quantum Redundancy in Photosynthetic Light Harvesting
authors: Nolan Skochdopole, David A. Mazziotti
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2011, 2, 2989
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6613
abstract: The Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) antennae complex, responsible for light harvesting in green sulfur bacteria, consists of three monomers, each with seven chromophores. Here we show that multiple subsystems of the seven chromophores can transfer energy from either chromophore 1 or 6 to the reaction center with an efficiency matching or in many cases exceeding that of the full seven chromophore system. In the FMO complex these functional subsystems support multiple quantum pathways for efficient energy transfer that provide a built-in quantum redundancy. There are many instances of redundancy in nature, providing reliability and protection, and in photosynthetic light harvesting this quantum redundancy provides protection against the temporary or permanent loss of one or more chromophores. The complete characterization of functional subsystems within the FMO complex offers a detailed map of the energy flow within the FMO complex, which has potential applications to the design of more efficient photovoltaic devices.

id: 1109.6639
title: Fidelity susceptibility in the two-dimensional spin-orbit models
authors: Wen-Long You, Yu-Li Dong
comments: 11 pages. 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 174426 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6639
abstract: We study the quantum phase transitions in the two-dimensional spin-orbit models in terms of fidelity susceptibility and reduced fidelity susceptibility. An order-to-order phase transition is identified by fidelity susceptibility in the two-dimensional Heisenberg XXZ model with Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya interaction on a square lattice. The finite size scaling of fidelity susceptibility shows a power-law divergence at criticality, which indicates the quantum phase transition is of second order. Two distinct types of quantum phase transitions are witnessed by fidelity susceptibility in Kitaev-Heisenberg model on a hexagonal lattice. We exploit the symmetry of two-dimensional quantum compass model, and obtain a simple analytic expression of reduced fidelity susceptibility. Compared with the derivative of ground-state energy, the fidelity susceptibility is a bit more sensitive to phase transition. The violation of power-law behavior for the scaling of reduced fidelity susceptibility at criticality suggests that the quantum phase transition belongs to a first-order transition. We conclude that fidelity susceptibility and reduced fidelity susceptibility show great advantage to characterize diverse quantum phase transitions in spin-orbit models.

id: 1109.6649
title: Classical-quantum correspondence and wave packet solutions of the Dirac equation in a curved spacetime
authors: Mayeul Arminjon, Frank Reifler
comments: 13 pages (standard 12pt). Text of a talk given at the "Geometry, Integrability & Quantization" Conference, Varna (Bulgaria), June 2011
journal: J. of Geometry & Symmetry in Physics 24 (2011) pp. 77-88
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6649
abstract: The idea of wave mechanics leads naturally to assume the well-known relation $E=\hbar \omega $ in the specific form $H=\hbar W$, where $H$ is the classical Hamiltonian of a particle and $W$ is the dispersion relation of the sought-for wave equation. We derive the expression of $H$ in a curved spacetime with an electromagnetic field. Then we derive the Dirac equation from factorizing the polynomial dispersion equation corresponding with $H$. Conversely, summarizing a recent work, we implement the geometrical optics approximation into a canonical form of the Dirac Lagrangian. Euler-Lagrange equations are thus obtained for the amplitude and phase of the wave function. From them, one is led to define a 4-velocity field which obeys exactly the classical equation of motion. The complete de Broglie relations are then derived exact equations.

id: 1109.6666
title: Graphene and non-Abelian quantization
authors: H. Falomir, J. Gamboa, M. Loewe, M. Nieto
comments: 23 pages, 4 figures. Version to appear in the Journal of Physics A. The title has been changed into "Graphene and non-Abelian quantization". The motivation and presentation of the paper has been changed. An appendix and Section 6 on the evaluation of the Hall conductivity have been added. References added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 135308
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6666
abstract: In this article we employ a simple nonrelativistic model to describe the low energy excitation of graphene. The model is based on a deformation of the Heisenberg algebra which makes the commutator of momenta proportional to the pseudo-spin. We solve the Landau problem for the resulting Hamiltonian which reduces, in the large mass limit while keeping fixed the Fermi velocity, to the usual linear one employed to describe these excitations as massless Dirac fermions. This model, extended to negative mass, allows to reproduce the leading terms in the low energy expansion of the dispersion relation for both nearest and next-to-nearest neighbor interactions. Taking into account the contributions of both Dirac points, the resulting Hall conductivity, evaluated with a $\zeta$-function approach, is consistent with the anomalous integer quantum Hall effect found in graphene. Moreover, when considered in first order perturbation theory, it is shown that the next-to-leading term in the interaction between nearest neighbor produces no modifications in the spectrum of the model while an electric field perpendicular to the magnetic field produces just a rigid shift of this spectrum. PACS: 03.65.-w, 81.05.ue, 73.43.-f

id: 1109.6735
title: Characterization of a two-transmon processor with individual single-shot qubit readout
authors: A. Dewes, F. R. Ong, V. Schmitt, R. Lauro, N. Boulant, P. Bertet, D. Vion, D. Esteve
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6735
abstract: We report the characterization of a two-qubit processor implemented with two capacitively coupled tunable superconducting qubits of the transmon type, each qubit having its own non-destructive single-shot readout. The fixed capacitive coupling yields the \sqrt{iSWAP} two-qubit gate for a suitable interaction time. We reconstruct by state tomography the coherent dynamics of the two-bit register as a function of the interaction time, observe a violation of the Bell inequality by 22 standard deviations after correcting readout errors, and measure by quantum process tomography a gate fidelity of 90%.

id: 1109.6750
title: Solving the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen puzzle: the origin of non-locality in Aspect-type experiments
authors: Werner A. Hofer
comments: 5 pages 1 figure. Added an analysis of quantum steering. The result is that under certain conditions the experimental result at B can be predicted if the polarization angle and the result at A are known. The paper has been accepted for publication in Frontiers of Physics. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1108.4350
journal: Frontiers of Physics 7, 504-508 (2012)
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6750
abstract: So far no mechanism is known, which could connect the two measurements in an Aspect-type experiment. Here, we suggest such a mechanism, based on the phase of a photon's field during propagation. We show that two polarization measurements are correlated, even if no signal passes from one point of measurement to the other. The non-local connection of a photon pair is the result of its origin at a common source, where the two fields acquire a well defined phase difference. Therefore, it is not actually a non-local effect in any conventional sense. We expect that the model and the detailed analysis it allows will have a major impact on quantum cryptography and quantum computation.

id: 1109.6792
title: Universal relations for the two-dimensional spin-1/2 Fermi gas with contact interactions
authors: Manuel Valiente, Nikolaj Zinner, Klaus Molmer
comments: 4 pages. Version accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 063626 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6792
abstract: We present universal relations for a two-dimensional Fermi gas with pairwise contact interactions. The derivation of these relations is made possible by obtaining the explicit form of a generalized function -- selector -- in the momentum representation. The selector implements the short-distance boundary condition between two fermions in a straightforward manner, and leads to simple derivations of the universal relations, in the spirit of Tan's original method for the three-dimensional gas.

id: 1109.6872
title: Exponential Complexity of the Quantum Adiabatic Algorithm for certain Satisfiability Problems
authors: Itay Hen, A. P. Young
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 84, 061152 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6872
abstract: We determine the complexity of several constraint satisfaction problems using the quantum adiabatic algorithm in its simplest implementation. We do so by studying the size dependence of the gap to the first excited state of "typical" instances. We find that at large sizes N, the complexity increases exponentially for all models that we study. We also compare our results against the complexity of the analogous classical algorithm WalkSAT and show that the harder the problem is for the classical algorithm the harder it is also for the quantum adiabatic algorithm.

id: 1109.6895
title: Quantum-correlated two-photon transitions to excitons in semiconductor quantum wells
authors: L. J. Salazar, D. A. Guzm¨¢n, F. J. Rodr¨ªguez, L. Quiroga
comments: Extended Introduction and results discussion. Results unchanged.2 new figures. Added references.Published version
journal: Optics Express Vol. 20, Iss. 4, pp. 4470-4483 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6895
abstract: The dependence of the excitonic two-photon absorption on the quantum correlations (entanglement) of exciting biphotons by a semiconductor quantum well is studied. We show that entangled photon absorption can display very unusual features depending on space-time-polarization biphoton parameters and absorber density of states for both bound exciton states as well as for unbound electron-hole pairs. We report on the connection between biphoton entanglement, as quantified by the Schmidt number, and absorption by a semiconductor quantum well. Comparison between frequency-anti-correlated, unentangled and frequency-correlated biphoton absorption is addressed. We found that exciton oscillator strengths are highly increased when photons arrive almost simultaneously in an entangled state. Two-photon-absorption becomes a highly sensitive probe of photon quantum correlations when narrow semiconductor quantum wells are used as two-photon absorbers.

id: 1109.5672
title: Wess-Zumino Consistency Condition for Entanglement Entropy
authors: Shamik Banerjee
comments: 14 pages, presentation improved
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.5672
abstract: In this brief note, we consider the variation of the entanglement entropy of a region as the shape of the entangling surface is changed. We show that the variation satisfies a Wess-Zumino like integrability condition in field theories which can be consistently coupled to gravity. In this case the "anomaly" is localized on the entangling surface. The solution of the integrability condition should give all the nontrivial finite local terms which can appear in the variation of the entanglement entropy.

id: 1109.3785
title: On the first Solvay Congress in 1911
authors: Norbert Straumann
comments: 28 pages, 2 figures, version to appear in Eur. Phys. J. H
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3785
abstract: Late in October 1911, eighteen leading scientists from all over Europe met to the first of a famous sequence of Solvay conferences in Brussels. This historical meeting was mainly devoted to "The Theory of Radiation and the Quanta", at a time when the foundations of physics were totally shaken. Although "nothing positive came out" (Einstein), it is interesting to see the diverging attitudes of Europe's most famous scientists in the middle of the quantum revolution. After a few general remarks about the conference, I shall focus on some of the most interesting contributions and discussions. Einstein, at 32 the youngest, was clearly most aware of the profound nature of the crises. He gave the final talk entitled "The Present State of the Problem of Specific Heats", but he put his theme into the larger context of the quantum problem, and caused a barrage of challenges, in particular from Lorentz, Planck, Poincar\'{e}, and others.

id: 1109.6170
title: The 2d Gross-Neveu Model for Pseudovector Fermions and Tachyonic Mass Generation
authors: V. K. Oikonomou
comments: References added
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6170
abstract: Recent observations in the OPERA experiment suggest that the neutrino could propagate with speed that is superluminal. Based on early theoretical work on tachyonic fermions we shall study a modification of the Gross-Neveu model in two dimensions. We shall see that the theory results to the dynamical generation of real and imaginary masses. These imaginary masses indicate the possibility that tachyonic solutions (or instabilities) could exist in the theory. The implications of a tachyonic neutrino coming from astrophysical sources are critically discussed. Moreover, we present a toy model that consists of an U(2,2) invariant Dirac Lagrangian. This theory can have tachyonic masses as solutions. A natural mass splitting between the solutions is a natural outcome of the formalism.

id: 1109.0493
title: Imaging of quantum Hall states in ultracold atomic gases
authors: James S. Douglas, Keith Burnett
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053608 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0493
abstract: We examine off-resonant light scattering from ultracold atoms in the quantum Hall regime. When the light scattering is spin dependent, we show that images formed in the far field can be used to distinguish states of the system. The spatial dependence of the far-field images is determined by the two-particle spin-correlation functions, which the images are related to by a transformation. Quasiholes in the system appear in images of the density formed by collecting the scattered light with a microscope, where the quasihole statistics are revealed by the reduction in density at the quasihole position.

id: 1109.2931
title: Uncharged compactlike and fractional Lorentz-violating BPS vortices in the CPT-even sector of the standard model extension
authors: C. Miller, R. Casana, M. M. Ferreira Jr, E. da Hora
comments: 13 pages Latex2e
journal: Phys.Rev. D86 (2012) 065011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.2931
abstract: We have investigated and verified the existence of stable uncharged Bogomol'nyi-Prasad-Sommerfeld (BPS) vortices in the framework of an Abelian Maxwell-Higgs model supplemented with CPT-even and Lorentz-violating (LV) terms belonging to the gauge and Higgs sectors of the standard model extension. The analysis is performed in two situations: first, one by considering the Lorentz violation only in the gauge sector and then in both gauge and Higgs sectors. In the first case, it is observed that the model supports vortices somehow equivalent to the ones appearing in a dielectric medium. The Lorentz violation controls the radial extension (core of the solution) and the magnetic field amplitude of the Abrikosov-Nielsen-Olesen vortices, yielding compactlike defects in an alternative and simpler way than that of $k-$field models. At the end, we consider the Lorentz-violating terms in the gauge and Higgs sectors. It is shown that the full model also supports compactlike uncharged BPS vortices in a modified vacuum, but this time there are two LV parameters controlling the defect structure. Moreover, an interesting novelty is introduced by the LV-Higgs sector: fractional vortex solutions.

id: 1109.6147
title: Explicit combinatorial design
authors: Xiongfeng Ma, Zhen Zhang, Xiaoqing Tan
comments: 13 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6147
abstract: A combinatorial design is a family of sets that are almost disjoint, which is applied in pseudo random number generations and randomness extractions. The parameter, $\rho$, quantifying the overlap between the sets within the family, is directly related to the length of a random seed needed and the efficiency of an extractor. Nisan and Wigderson proposed an explicit construction of designs in 1994. Later in 2003, Hartman and Raz proved a bound of $\rho\le e^2$ for the Nisan-Wigderson construction in a limited parameter regime. In this work, we prove a tighter bound of $\rho<e$ with the entire parameter range by slightly refining the Nisan-Wigderson construction. Following the block idea used by Raz, Reingold, and Vadhan, we present an explicit weak design with $\rho=1$.

id: 1109.4782
title: Dipolar Molecules in Optical Lattices
authors: Tomasz Sowi¨½ski, Omjyoti Dutta, Philipp Hauke, Luca Tagliacozzo, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 5 figures, 1 supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 115301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.4782
abstract: We study the extended Bose--Hubbard model describing an ultracold gas of dipolar molecules in an optical lattice, taking into account all on-site and nearest-neighbor interactions, including occupation-dependent tunneling and pair tunneling terms. Using exact diagonalization and the multiscale entanglement renormalization ansatz, we show that these terms can destroy insulating phases and lead to novel quantum phases. These considerable changes of the phase diagram have to be taken into account in upcoming experiments with dipolar molecules.

id: 1109.0426
title: Complex 2D Matrix Model and Geometrical Map on Complex-Nc Plane
authors: Kanabu Nawa, Sho Ozaki, Hideko Nagahiro, Daisuke Jido, Atsushi Hosaka
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures, 1 table, figures and appendixes added, results unchanged
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.0426
abstract: We study the parameter dependence of the internal structure of resonance states by formulating Complex two-dimensional (2D) Matrix Model, where the two dimensions represent two-levels of resonances. We calculate a critical value of the parameter at which "nature transition" with character exchange occurs between two resonance states, from the viewpoint of geometry on complex-parameter space. Such critical value is useful to know the internal structure of resonance states with variation of the parameter in the system. We apply the model to analyze the internal structure of hadrons with variation of the color number Nc from infinity to a realistic value 3. By regarding 1/Nc as the variable parameter in our model, we calculate a critical color number of nature transition between hadronic states in terms of quark-antiquark pair and mesonic molecule as exotics from the geometry on complex-Nc plane. For the large-Nc effective theory, we employ the chiral Lagrangian induced by holographic QCD with D4/D8/D8-bar multi-D brane system in the type IIA superstring theory.

id: 1109.1241
title: Quasiparticle dynamics in a Bose insulator probed by inter-band Bragg spectroscopy
authors: Nicole Fabbri, Sebastian D. Huber, David Cl¨¦ment, Leonardo Fallani, Chiara Fort, Massimo Inguscio, Ehud Altman
comments: The new version contains improved theoretical treatment and data analysis
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 109 055301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.1241
abstract: We investigate experimentally and theoretically the dynamical properties of a Mott insulator in decoupled one-dimensional chains. Using a theoretical analysis of the Bragg excitation scheme we show that the spectrum of inter-band transitions holds information on the single-particle Green's function of the insulator. In particular the existence of particle-hole coherence due to quantum fluctuations in the Mott state is clearly seen in the Bragg spectra and quantified. Finally we propose a scheme to directly measure the full, momentum resolved spectral function as obtained in angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy of solids.

