id: 1110.4366
title: The quantum walk search algorithm: Factors affecting efficiency
authors: Neil B. Lovett, Matthew Everitt, Robert M. Heath, Viv Kendon
comments: 37 pages, 34 figures - submitted to Mathematical Structures in Computer Science
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4366
abstract: We numerically study the quantum walk search algorithm of Shenvi, Kempe and Whaley [PRA \textbf{67} 052307] and the factors which affect its efficiency in finding an individual state from an unsorted set. Previous work has focused purely on the effects of the dimensionality of the dataset to be searched. Here, we consider the effects of interpolating between dimensions, connectivity of the dataset, and the possibility of disorder in the underlying substrate: all these factors affect the efficiency of the search algorithm. We show that, as well as the strong dependence on the spatial dimension of the structure to be searched, there are also secondary dependencies on the connectivity and symmetry of the lattice, with greater connectivity providing a more efficient algorithm. In addition, we also show that the algorithm can tolerate a non-trivial level of disorder in the underlying substrate.

id: 1110.5055
title: Theory of "Weak Value" and Quantum Mechanical Measurements
authors: Yutaka Shikano
comments: to be published from "Measurements in Quantum Mechanics", edited by M. R. Pahlavani (InTech, 2012) Chapter 4 page 75. Yutaka Shikano (2012). ISBN: 978-953-51-0058-4 Available from: this http URL
journal: "Measurements in Quantum Mechanics", edited by M. R. Pahlavani (InTech, 2012) p. 75
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5055
abstract: We review the definition and the concepts of the weak values and some measurement model to extract the weak value. This material is based on the author Ph.D. thesis "Time in Weak Values and Discrete Time Quantum Walk" at Tokyo Institute of Technology (2011).

id: 1110.5353
title: Quantum Copy-Protection and Quantum Money
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 14-page conference abstract; full version hasn't appeared and will never appear. Being posted to arXiv mostly for archaeological purposes. Explicit money scheme has since been broken by Lutomirski et al (arXiv:0912.3825). Other quantum money material has been superseded by results of Aaronson and Christiano (coming soon). Quantum copy-protection ideas will hopefully be developed in separate work
journal: Proceedings of IEEE Conference on Computational Complexity, pages 229-242, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5353
abstract: Forty years ago, Wiesner proposed using quantum states to create money that is physically impossible to counterfeit, something that cannot be done in the classical world. However, Wiesner's scheme required a central bank to verify the money, and the question of whether there can be unclonable quantum money that anyone can verify has remained open since. One can also ask a related question, which seems to be new: can quantum states be used as copy-protected programs, which let the user evaluate some function f, but not create more programs for f? This paper tackles both questions using the arsenal of modern computational complexity. Our main result is that there exist quantum oracles relative to which publicly-verifiable quantum money is possible, and any family of functions that cannot be efficiently learned from its input-output behavior can be quantumly copy-protected. This provides the first formal evidence that these tasks are achievable. The technical core of our result is a "Complexity-Theoretic No-Cloning Theorem," which generalizes both the standard No-Cloning Theorem and the optimality of Grover search, and might be of independent interest. Our security argument also requires explicit constructions of quantum t-designs. Moving beyond the oracle world, we also present an explicit candidate scheme for publicly-verifiable quantum money, based on random stabilizer states; as well as two explicit schemes for copy-protecting the family of point functions. We do not know how to base the security of these schemes on any existing cryptographic assumption. (Note that without an oracle, we can only hope for security under some computational assumption.)

id: 1110.1917
title: Von Neumann Entanglement and Decoherence in Two Dimensional Quantum Walks
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: It will be interesting to consider basic quantities of information theory to give a precise formulation of the measure of entanglement between subsytems (coin and position)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1917
abstract: Using the concept of von Neumann entropy, we quantify the information content of the various components of the quantum walk system, including the mutual information between its subsystems (coin and position) and use it to give a precise formulation of the measure of entanglement between subsystems.

id: 1110.5350
title: A Quantum-like Approach to the Stock Market
authors: Diederik Aerts, Bart D'Hooghe, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: In M. D'Ariano, S.-M. Fei, E. Haven, B. Hiesmayr, G. Jaeger, A. Khrennikov, J.-A. Larsson (Eds.), Foundations of Probability and Physics - 6, AIP Conference Proceedings, 1424, pp. 495-506, 2012
subjects: General Finance (q-fin.GN); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5350
abstract: Modern approaches to stock pricing in quantitative finance are typically founded on the 'Black-Scholes model' and the underlying 'random walk hypothesis'. Empirical data indicate that this hypothesis works well in stable situations but, in abrupt transitions such as during an economical crisis, the random walk model fails and alternative descriptions are needed. For this reason, several proposals have been recently forwarded which are based on the formalism of quantum mechanics. In this paper we apply the 'SCoP formalism', elaborated to provide an operational foundation of quantum mechanics, to the stock market. We argue that a stock market is an intrinsically contextual system where agents' decisions globally influence the market system and stocks prices, determining a nonclassical behavior. More specifically, we maintain that a given stock does not generally have a definite value, e.g., a price, but its value is actualized as a consequence of the contextual interactions in the trading process. This contextual influence is responsible of the non-Kolmogorovian quantum-like behavior of the market at a statistical level. Then, we propose a 'sphere model' within our 'hidden measurement formalism' that describes a buying/selling process of a stock and shows that it is intuitively reasonable to assume that the stock has not a definite price until it is traded. This result is relevant in our opinion since it provides a theoretical support to the use of quantum models in finance.

id: 1110.6115
title: Photon propagation in a discrete fiber network: An interplay of coherence and losses
authors: Alois Regensburger, Christoph Bersch, Benjamin Hinrichs, Georgy Onishchukov, Andreas Schreiber, Christine Silberhorn, Ulf Peschel
comments: To appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 233902 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6115
abstract: We study light propagation in a photonic system that shows stepwise evolution in a discretized environment. It resembles a discrete-time version of photonic waveguide arrays or quantum walks. By introducing controlled photon losses to our experimental setup, we observe unexpected effects like sub-exponential energy decay and formation of complex fractal patterns. This demonstrates that the interplay of linear losses, discreteness and energy gradients leads to genuinely new coherent phenomena in classical and quantum optical experiments. Moreover, the influence of decoherence is investigated.

