id: 1110.0057
title: Multipartite electronic entanglement purification with charge detection
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Fu-Guo Deng, Gui-Lu Long
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375 (2011) 396-400
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0057
abstract: We present a multipartite entanglement purification scheme in a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state for electrons based on their spins and their charges. This scheme works for purification with two steps, i.e., bit-flipping error correction and phase-error flip error correction. By repeating these two steps, the parties in quantum communication can get some high-fidelity multipartite entangled electronic systems.

id: 1110.0059
title: Efficient multipartite entanglement purification with the entanglement link from a subspace
authors: Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures, 2 tables. We correct the error in the address of the author in the published version (Phys. Rev. A 84, 052312 (2011))
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052312 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0059
abstract: We present an efficient multipartite entanglement purification protocol (MEPP) for N-photon systems in a Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state with parity-check detectors. It contains two parts. One is the conventional MEPP with which the parties can obtain a high-fidelity N-photon ensemble directly, similar to the MEPP with controlled-not gates. The other is our recycling MEPP in which the entanglement link is used to produce some $N$-photon entangled systems from entangled N'-photon subsystems (2 \leq N'<N) coming from the instances which are just discarded in all existing conventional MEPPs. The entangled N'-photon subsystems are obtained efficiently by measuring the photons with potential bit-flip errors. With these two parts, the present MEPP has a higher efficiency than all other conventional MEPPs.

id: 1110.0069
title: Are dynamical quantum jumps detector-dependent?
authors: Howard M. Wiseman, Jay M. Gambetta
comments: 4+ pages, 1 figure. Accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 220402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0069
abstract: Dynamical quantum jumps were initially conceived by Bohr as objective events associated with the emission of a light quantum by an atom. Since the early 1990s they have come to be understood as being associated rather with the detection of a photon by a measurement device, and that different detection schemes result in different types of jumps (or diffusion). Here we propose experimental tests to rigorously prove the detector-dependence of the stochastic evolution of an individual atom. The tests involve no special preparation of the atom or field, and the required efficiency can be as low as \eta ~58%.

id: 1110.0071
title: Long-range and frustrated spin-spin interactions in crystals of cold polar molecules
authors: Y. L. Zhou, M. Ortner, P. Rabl
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0071
abstract: We describe a simple scheme for the implementation and control of effective spin-spin interactions in self-assembled crystals of cold polar molecules. In our scheme spin states are encoded in two long-lived rotational states of the molecules and coupled via state dependent dipole-dipole forces to the lattice vibrations. We show that by choosing an appropriate time dependent modulation of the induced dipole moments the resulting phonon-mediated interactions compete with the direct dipole-dipole coupling and lead to long-range and tunable spin-spin interaction patterns. We illustrate how this technique can be used for the generation of multi-particle entangled spin states and the implementation of spin models with longe-range and frustrated interactions which exhibit non-trivial phases of magnetic ordering.

id: 1110.0072
title: Time-dependent pointer states of the generalized spin-boson model and consequences regarding the decoherence of the central system
authors: Hoofar Daneshvar, G.W.F. Drake
comments: 28 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0072
abstract: We consider a spin-boson Hamiltonian which is generalized such that the Hamiltonians for the system ($\hat{H}_{\cal S}$) and the interaction with the environment ($\hat{H}_{\rm int}$) do not commute with each other. Considering a single-mode quantized field in exact resonance with the tunneling matrix element of the system, we obtain the time-evolution operator for our model. Using our time-evolution operator we calculate the time-dependent pointer states of the system and the environment (which are characterized by their ability not to entangle with each other) for the case that the environment initially is prepared in the coherent state. We show that our solution for the pointer states of the system and the environment is valid over a length of time which is proportional to $\bar{n}$, the average number of bosons in the environment. We also obtain a closed form for the offdiagonal element of the reduced density matrix of the system and study the decoherence of the central system in our model. We show that for the case that the system initially is prepared in one of its pointer states, the offdiagonal element of the reduced density matrix of the system will be a \emph{sinusoidal function} with a slow decaying envelope which is characterized by a decay time proportional to $\bar{n}$; while it will experience a much faster decoherence, when the system initially is \emph{not} prepared in one of its initial pointer states.

id: 1110.0100
title: Long Distance Continuous-Variable Quantum Key Distribution with a Gaussian Modulation
authors: Paul Jouguet, S¨¦bastien Kunz-Jacques, Anthony Leverrier
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, 5 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062317 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0100
abstract: We designed high-efficiency error correcting codes allowing to extract an errorless secret key in a continuous-variable quantum key distribution protocol using a Gaussian modulation of coherent states and a homodyne detection. These codes are available for a wide range of signal-to-noise ratios on an AWGN channel with a binary modulation and can be combined with a multidimensional reconciliation method proven secure against arbitrary collective attacks. This improved reconciliation procedure considerably extends the secure range of a continuous-variable quantum key distribution with a Gaussian modulation, giving a secret key rate of about 10^{-3} bit per pulse at a distance of 120 km for reasonable physical parameters.

id: 1110.0101
title: Pairwise Quantum Correlations for Superpositions of Dicke States
authors: Zhengjun Xi, Heng-Na Xiong, Yongming Li, Xiaoguang Wang
comments: 17pages, 8 figures,slightly improved and slightly extended version,and added some references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0101
abstract: Pairwise correlation is really an important property for multi-qubit states. For the two-qubit X states extracted from Dicke states and their superposition states, we obtain a compact expression of the quantum discord by numerical check. We then apply the expression to discuss the quantum correlation of the reduced two-qubit states of Dicke states and their superpositions, and the results are compared with those obtained by entanglement of formation, which is a quantum entanglement measure.

id: 1110.0157
title: Entanglement, the quantum formalism and the classical world
authors: Alex Matzkin
comments: Based on the talk given at the International Symposium "75 years of Quantum Entanglement" (Kolkata, 2011). To be published by AIP Conf Proc
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1384, 27, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0157
abstract: 75 years after the term "entanglement" was coined to a peculiar feature inherent to quantum systems, the connection between quantum and classical mechanics remains an open problem. Drawing on recent results obtained in semiclassical systems, we discuss here the fate of entanglement in a closed system as Planck's constant becomes vanishingly small. In that case the generation of entanglement in a quantum system is perfectly reproduced by properly defined correlations of the corresponding classical system. We speculate on what these results could imply regarding the status of entanglement and of the ensuing quantum correlations.

id: 1110.0218
title: Multipartite nonlocality swapping
authors: Chao Li, Ming Yang, Qing Yang, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0218
abstract: Nonlocality swapping of bipartite binary correlated boxes can be realized by a \emph{coupler} ($\chi$) in nonsignaling models. By studying the swapping process we find that the previous bipartite coupler can be applied to the swapping of two multipartite boxes, and then generate a multipartite box with more users than that of any of the boxes before swapping. Here quantum bound still appears in the scheme. The bipartite coupler also can be applied to a hybrid scheme of generating a multipartite extremal box from many PR boxes. As the analogue of multipartite entanglement swapping, we generalize the nonlocality swapping of bipartite binary boxes to multipartite binary boxes by using a multipartite coupler $\chi_{N}$, and get the probability of success by connecting the coupler to the generalized Svetlichny inequality. The multipartite coupler acting on many multipartite boxes makes multipartite nonlocality swapping be a more efficient device to manipulate nonlocality between many users. The results show that Tsirelson's bound for quantum nonlocality emerges only when two of the $n$ boxes involved in the coupler process are noisy ones.

id: 1110.0223
title: Ultrafast Quantum Gates in Circuit QED
authors: G. Romero, D. Ballester, Y. M. Wang, V. Scarani, E. Solano
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Updated version to be published in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 120501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0223
abstract: We present a method of implementing ultrafast two-qubit gates valid for the ultrastrong coupling (USC) and deep strong coupling (DSC) regimes of light-matter interaction, considering state-of-the-art circuit quantum electrodynamics (QED) technology. Our proposal includes a suitable qubit architecture and is based on a four-step sequential displacement of an intracavity mode, operating at a time proportional to the inverse of the resonator frequency. Through ab initio calculations, we show that these quantum gates can be performed at subnanosecond time scales, while keeping the fidelity above 99%.

id: 1110.0320
title: A Robust Quantum Random Number Generator Based on Bosonic Stimulation
authors: H. Akshata Shenoy, S. Omkar, R. Srikanth, T. Srinivas
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0320
abstract: We propose a method to realize a robust quantum random number generator based on bosonic stimulation. A particular implementation that employs weak coherent pulses and conventional avalanche photo-diode detectors (APDs) is discussed.

id: 1110.0325
title: Parametrization of spin-1 classical states
authors: Olivier Giraud, Petr Braun, Daniel Braun
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0325
abstract: We give an explicit parametrization of the set of mixed quantum states and of the set of mixed classical states for a spin--1. Classical states are defined as states with a positive Glauber-Sudarshan P-function. They are at the same time the separable symmetric states of two qubits. We explore the geometry of this set, and show that its boundary consists of a two-parameter family of ellipsoids. The boundary does not contain any facets, but includes straight-lines corresponding to mixtures of pure classical states.

id: 1110.0326
title: Optical quantum swapping in a coherent atomic medium
authors: Aurelien Dantan
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 97, 34010 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0326
abstract: We propose to realize a passive optical quantum swapping device which allows for the exchange of the quantum fluctuations of two bright optical fields interacting with a coherent atomic medium in an optical cavity. The device is based on a quantum interference process between the fields within the cavity bandwidth arising from coherent population trapping in the atomic medium.

id: 1110.0331
title: Controllable effects of quantum fluctuations on spin free-induction decay at room temperature
authors: Xin-Yu Pan, Gang-Qin Liu, Dong-Qi Liu, Zhan-Feng Jiang, Nan Zhao, Ren-Bao Liu
comments: 4 pages 4 figures, experiment & theory
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0331
abstract: Fluctuations of local fields cause decoherence of quantum objects. It is generally believed that at high temperatures, thermal noises are much stronger than quantum fluctuations unless the thermal effects are suppressed by certain techniques such as spin echo. Here we report the discovery of strong quantum-fluctuation effects of nuclear spin baths on free-induction decay of single electron spins in solids at room temperature. We find that the competition between the quantum and thermal fluctuations is controllable by an external magnetic field. These findings are based on Ramsey interference measurement of single nitrogen-vacancy center spins in diamond and numerical simulation of the decoherence, which are in excellent agreement.

id: 1110.0340
title: Bound state energies and wave functions of spherical quantum dots in presence of a confining potential model
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0340
abstract: We obtain the exact energy spectra and corresponding wave functions of the radial Schr\"odinger equation (RSE) for any (n,l) state in the presence of a combination of psudoharmonic, Coulomb and linear confining potential terms using an exact analytical iteration method. The interaction potential model under consideration is Cornell-modified plus harmonic (CMpH) type which is a correction form to the harmonic, Coulomb and linear confining potential terms. It is used to investigates the energy of electron in spherical quantum dot and the heavy quarkonia (QQ-onia).

id: 1110.0382
title: Dynamics of entanglement for a two-parameter class of states in a qubit-qutrit system
authors: Hai-Rui Wei, Bao-Cang Ren, Tao Li, Ming Hua, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, 1 table. A negligible error for type on Eq(7) is corrected
journal: Commun. Theor. Phys. 57 (2012) 983-990
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0382
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of entanglement for a two-parameter class of states in a hybrid qubit-qutrit system under the influence of various dissipative channels. Our results show that entanglement sudden death (ESD) is a general phenomenon and it usually takes place in a qubit-qutrit system interacting with various noisy channels, not only the case with dephasing and depolarizing channels observed by others. ESD can only be avoided for some initially entangled states under some particular noisy channels. Moreover, the environment affects the entanglement and the coherence of the system in very different ways.

id: 1110.0416
title: Non-local geometric phase in two-photon interferometry
authors: Anthony Martin, Olivier Alibart, Jean-Christoph Flesch, Joseph Samuel, Supurna Sinha, S¨¦bastien Tanzilli, Anders Kastberg
comments: 
journal: EPL 97 (2012) 10003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0416
abstract: We report the experimental observation of the nonlocal geometric phase in Hanbury Brown-Twiss polarized intensity interferometry. The experiment involves two independent, polar- ized, incoherent sources, illuminating two polarized detectors. Varying the relative polarization angle between the detectors introduces a geometric phase equal to half the solid angle on the Poincar\'e sphere traced out by a pair of single photons. Local measurements at either detector do not reveal the effect of the geometric phase, which appears only in the coincidence counts between the two detectors, showing a genuinely nonlocal effect. We show experimentally that coincidence rates of photon arrival times at separated detectors can be controlled by the two photon geometric phase. This effect can be used for manipulating and controlling photonic entanglement.

id: 1110.0418
title: Contextual-value approach to the generalized measurement of observables
authors: J. Dressel, A. N. Jordan
comments: 36 pages, 5 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022123 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0418
abstract: We present a detailed motivation for and definition of the contextual values of an observable, which were introduced by Dressel et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 104 240401 (2010)]. The theory of contextual values extends the well-established theory of generalized state measurements by bridging the gap between partial state collapse and the observables that represent physically relevant information about the system. To emphasize the general utility of the concept, we first construct the full theory of contextual values within an operational formulation of classical probability theory, paying special attention to observable construction, detector coupling, generalized measurement, and measurement disturbance. We then extend the results to quantum probability theory built as a superstructure on the classical theory, pointing out both the classical correspondences to and the full quantum generalizations of both L\"uder's rule and the Aharonov-Bergmann-Lebowitz rule in the process. We find in both cases that the contextual values of a system observable form a generalized spectrum that is associated with the independent outcomes of a partially correlated and generally ambiguous detector; the eigenvalues are a special case when the detector is perfectly correlated and unambiguous. To illustrate the approach, we apply the technique to both a classical example of marble color detection and a quantum example of polarization detection. For the quantum example we detail two devices: Fresnel reflection from a glass coverslip, and continuous beam displacement from a calcite crystal. We also analyze the three-box paradox to demonstrate that no negative probabilities are necessary in its analysis. Finally, we provide a derivation of the quantum weak value as a limit point of a pre- and postselected conditioned average and provide sufficient conditions for the derivation to hold.

id: 1110.0442
title: Quantum Correlation in One-dimensional Extend Quantum Compass Model
authors: Wen-Long You
comments: 8 pages, 14 figures, to appear in Eur. Phys. J. B
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 85, 83 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0442
abstract: We study the correlations in the one-dimensional extended quantum compass model in a transverse magnetic field. By exactly solving the Hamiltonian, we find that the quantum correlation of the ground state of one-dimensional quantum compass model is vanishing. We show that quantum discord can not only locate the quantum critical points, but also discern the orders of phase transitions. Furthermore, entanglement quantified by concurrence is also compared.

id: 1110.0476
title: A new class of three-body states
authors: Nicolais Guevara, Yujun Wang, B. D. Esry
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0476
abstract: We calculate the three-body spectrum for identical bosons interacting via attractive $1/r^2$ potentials. We have found an infinite number of three-body states even when the pair interactions are too weak to support any two-body states. These new states thus share this surprising scenario with the Efimov effect, but are not themselves Efimov states. Our effect occurs for both identical bosons and identical fermions, and it persists in the presence of two-body bound states.

id: 1110.0549
title: On the origin of probability in quantum mechanics
authors: Stephen D.H. Hsu
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures. This version to appear as a Brief Review in Modern Physics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0549
abstract: I give a brief introduction to many worlds or "no wavefunction collapse" quantum mechanics, suitable for non-specialists. I then discuss the origin of probability in such formulations, distinguishing between objective and subjective notions of probability.

id: 1110.0555
title: Complex solutions to Painleve IV equation through supersymmetric quantum mechanics
authors: David Bermudez, David J. Fernandez C
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Talk given at the Advanced Summer School 2011, Cinvestav (Mexico City), July 2011
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1420 (2012) 47-51
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0555
abstract: In this work, supersymmetric quantum mechanics will be used to obtain complex solutions to Painleve IV equation with real parameters. We will also focus on the properties of the associated Hamiltonians, i.e. the algebraic structure, the eigenfunctions and the energy spectra.

id: 1110.0573
title: QuTiP: An open-source Python framework for the dynamics of open quantum systems
authors: J. R. Johansson, P. D. Nation, Franco Nori
comments: 16 pages, 12 figures
journal: Comp. Phys. Comm. 183 1760 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0573
abstract: We present an object-oriented open-source framework for solving the dynamics of open quantum systems written in Python. Arbitrary Hamiltonians, including time-dependent systems, may be built up from operators and states defined by a quantum object class, and then passed on to a choice of master equation or Monte-Carlo solvers. We give an overview of the basic structure for the framework before detailing the numerical simulation of open system dynamics. Several examples are given to illustrate the build up to a complete calculation. Finally, we measure the performance of our library against that of current implementations. The framework described here is particularly well-suited to the fields of quantum optics, superconducting circuit devices, nanomechanics, and trapped ions, while also being ideal for use in classroom instruction.

id: 1110.0599
title: True random numbers from amplified quantum vacuum
authors: M. Jofre, M. Curty, F. Steinlechner, G. Anzolin, J.P. Torres, M.W. Mitchell, V. Pruneri
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Optics Express, vol. 19, issue 21, pp. 20665-20672 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0599
abstract: Random numbers are essential for applications ranging from secure communications to numerical simulation and quantitative finance. Algorithms can rapidly produce pseudo-random outcomes, series of numbers that mimic most properties of true random numbers while quantum random number generators (QRNGs) exploit intrinsic quantum randomness to produce true random numbers. Single-photon QRNGs are conceptually simple but produce few random bits per detection. In contrast, vacuum fluctuations are a vast resource for QRNGs: they are broad-band and thus can encode many random bits per second. Direct recording of vacuum fluctuations is possible, but requires shot-noise-limited detectors, at the cost of bandwidth. We demonstrate efficient conversion of vacuum fluctuations to true random bits using optical amplification of vacuum and interferometry. Using commercially-available optical components we demonstrate a QRNG at a bit rate of 1.11 Gbps. The proposed scheme has the potential to be extended to 10 Gbps and even up to 100 Gbps by taking advantage of high speed modulation sources and detectors for optical fiber telecommunication devices.

id: 1110.0645
title: Strategies and payoffs in quantum minority games
authors: Puya Sharif, Hoshang Heydari
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures; Proceedings of the International Conference on Advances in Quantum Theory, Volume 1327, AIP,(2011)
journal: Proc. AQT, Volume 1327, AIP(2011), 477-481
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0645
abstract: Game theory is the mathematical framework for analyzing strategic interactions in conflict and competition situations. In recent years quantum game theory has earned the attention of physicists, and has emerged as a branch of quantum information theory [1]. With the aid of entanglement and linear superposition of strategies, quantum games are shown to yield signifcant advantage over their classical counterparts. In this paper we explore optimal and equilibrium solutions to quantum minority games. Initial states with different level of entanglement are investigated. Focus will be on 4 and 6 player games with some N-player generalizations.

id: 1110.0656
title: Geometric analysis of entangled qubit pairs
authors: A. Ramsak
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 103037 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0656
abstract: Two entangled electron spins, or qubits, are analyzed in terms of ordinary three-dimensional space geometric properties, as are the angles between their angular momenta. This formulation allows concurrence, a measure of quantum entanglement, to be expressed as expectation values of trigonometric functions of the azimuthal angle between the two angular momenta.

id: 1110.0660
title: A quantum relay chip based on telecommunication integrated optics technology
authors: A. Martin, O. Alibart, M. P. De Micheli, D. B. Ostrowsky, S. Tanzilli
comments: 16 pages, 8 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 025002 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0660
abstract: We investigate an integrated optical circuit on lithium niobate designed to implement the teleportation-based quantum relay scheme for one-way quantum communication at a telecom wavelength. Such an advanced quantum circuit merges for the first time, both optical-optical and electro-optical non-linear functions necessary to implement the desired on-chip single qubit teleportation. On one hand, spontaneous parametric down-conversion is used to produce entangled photon-pairs. On the other hand, we take advantage of two photon routers, consisting of electro-optically controllable couplers, to separate the paired photons and to perform a Bell state measurement, respectively. After having validated all the individual functions in the classical regime, we have performed a Hong-Ou-Mandel (HOM) experiment to mimic a one-way quantum communication link. Such a quantum effect, seen as a prerequisite towards achieving teleportation, has been obtained, at one of the routers, when the chip was coupled to an external single photon source. The two-photon interference pattern shows a net visibility of 80%, which validates the proof of principle of a "quantum relay circuit" for qubits carried by telecom photons. In case of optimized losses, such a chip could increase the maximal achievable distance of one-way quantum key distribution links by a factor 1.8. Our approach and results emphasize the high potential of integrated optics on lithium niobate as a key technology for future reconfigurable quantum information manipulation.

id: 1110.0723
title: Alternative analysis to perturbation theory
authors: J. Martinez-Carranza, F. Soto-Eguibar, H. Moya-Cessa
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: European Physical Journal D, 66, 22 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0723
abstract: We develop an alternative approach to time independent perturbation theory in non-relativistic quantum mechanics. The method developed has the advantage to provide in one operation the correction to the energy and to the wave function, additionally we can analyze the time evolution of the system. To verify our results, we apply our method to the harmonic oscillator perturbed by a quadratic potential. An alternative form of the Dyson series, in matrix form instead of integral form, is also obtained.

id: 1110.0727
title: Weak measurement of the Dirac distribution
authors: Jeff S. Lundeen, Charles Bamber
comments: Reverted to older longer version, added references to recent work
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0727
abstract: Recent work [J.S. Lundeen et al. Nature, 474, 188 (2011)] directly measured the wavefunction by weakly measuring a variable followed by a normal (i.e. `strong') measurement of the complementary variable. We generalize this method to mixed states by considering the weak measurement of the product of the two observables, which, as a non-Hermitian operator, is normally unobservable. This generalized method provides mixed states an operational definition related to the operator representation proposed by Dirac. Uniquely, it can be performed `in situ', determing the quantum state without destroying it.

id: 1110.0732
title: Z-States Algebra for a Tunable Multi-Party Entanglement-Distillation Protocol
authors: Iaakov Exman, Radel Ben-Av
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Distributed, Parallel, and Cluster Computing (cs.DC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0732
abstract: W-States have achieved the status of the standard fully symmetric entangled states, for many entanglement application purposes. Z-States are a generalization of W-States that display an elegant algebra, enabling short paths to desired results. This paper describes Z-States algebra starting from neat definitions and laying down explicitly some fundamental theorems on composition and distillation, needed for applications. These theorems are synthesized into a generic tunable Entanglement-Distillation Protocol. Applications are readily developed based upon the tunable protocol. A few examples are provided to illustrate the approach generality. A concomitant graphical representation allows fast comprehension of the protocol inputs, operations and outcomes.

id: 1110.0754
title: Bound states in open coupled asymmetrical waveguides and quantum wires
authors: Paolo Amore, Martin Rodriguez, Cesar A. Terrero-Escalante
comments: 11 pages, 19 figures, 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0754
abstract: The behavior of bound states in asymmetric cross, T and L shaped configurations is considered. Because of the symmetries of the wavefunctions, the analysis can be reduced to the case of an electron localized at the intersection of two orthogonal crossed wires of different width. Numerical calculations show that the fundamental mode of this system remains bound for the widths that we have been able to study directly; moreover, the extrapolation of the results obtained for finite widths suggests that this state remains bound even when the width of one arm becomes infinitesimal. We provide a qualitative argument which explains this behavior and that can be generalized to the lowest energy states in each symmetry class. In the case of odd-odd states of the cross we find that the lowest mode is bounded when the width of the two arms is the same and stays bound up to a critical value of the ratio between the widths; in the case of the even-odd states we find that the lowest mode is unbound up to a critical value of the ratio between the widths. Our qualitative arguments suggest that the bound state survives as the width of the vertical arm becomes infinitesimal.

id: 1110.0782
title: Solution to the Equations of the Moment Expansions
authors: Paolo Amore, Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0782
abstract: We develop a formula for matching a Taylor series about the origin and an asymptotic exponential expansion for large values of the coordinate. We test it on the expansion of the generating functions for the moments and connected moments of the Hamiltonian operator. In the former case the formula produces the energies and overlaps for the Rayleigh-Ritz method in the Krylov space. We choose the harmonic oscillator and a strongly anharmonic oscillator as illustrative examples for numerical test. Our results reveal some features of the connected-moments expansion that were overlooked in earlier studies and applications of the approach.

id: 1110.0784
title: Optimal rotation of a qubit under dynamic measurement and velocity control
authors: Srinivas Sridharan
comments: 6 pages
journal: In American Control Conference June 2012 pages 5078, 5083
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0784
abstract: In this article we explore a modification in the problem of controlling the rotation of a two level quantum system from an initial state to a final state in minimum time. Specifically we consider the case where the qubit is being weakly monitored -- albeit with an assumption that both the measurement strength as well as the angular velocity are assumed to be control signals. This modification alters the dynamics significantly and enables the exploitation of the measurement backaction to assist in achieving the control objective. The proposed method yields a significant speedup in achieving the desired state transfer compared to previous approaches. These results are demonstrated via numerical solutions for an example problem on a single qubit.

id: 1110.0787
title: Bell inequalities and entanglement at quantum phase transition in the XXZ Model
authors: L. Justino, Thiago R. de Oliveira
comments: Published version. English improved and Sec. II shortened, after referee suggestions. 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052128 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0787
abstract: Entanglement and violation of Bell inequalities are aspects of quantum nonlocality that have been often confused in the past. It is now known that this equivalence is only true for pure states. Even though almost all the studies of quantum correlations at quantum phase transitions deal only with entanglement, we here argue that Bell inequalities can also reveal a general quantum phase transition. This is also shown for a particular case of two spin-1/2 particles in an infinite one-dimensional chain described by the XXZ model. In this case, the Bell inequality is able to signal not only the first-order phase transition, but also the infinite-order Kosterlitz-Thouless quantum phase transition, which cannot be revealed either by the energy of the system nor by the bipartite entanglement. We also show that although the nearest-neighbor spins are entangled, they, unexpectedly, never violate the Bell inequality. This indicates that the type of entanglement which is relevant for quantum phase transition is not trivial, i.e., it cannot be revealed by the Bell inequality.

id: 1110.0845
title: Reflective Ghost Imaging through Turbulence
authors: Nicholas D. Hardy, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0845
abstract: Recent work has indicated that ghost imaging may have applications in standoff sensing. However, most theoretical work has addressed transmission-based ghost imaging. To be a viable remote-sensing system, the ghost imager needs to image rough-surfaced targets in reflection through long, turbulent optical paths. We develop, within a Gaussian-state framework, expressions for the spatial resolution, image contrast, and signal-to-noise ratio of such a system. We consider rough-surfaced targets that create fully developed speckle in their returns, and Kolmogorov-spectrum turbulence that is uniformly distributed along all propagation paths. We address both classical and nonclassical optical sources, as well as a computational ghost imager.

id: 1110.0940
title: Two approximations to the bound states of Dirac-Hulthen problem
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair, Ramazan Sever
comments: 29 pages, 7 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:hep-th/0503208
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. and Theor. 44 (2011) 355301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0940
abstract: The bound state (energy spectrum and two-spinor wave functions) solutions of the Dirac equation with the Hulthen potential for all angular momenta based on the spin and pseudospin symmetry are obtained. The parametric generalization of the Nikiforov-Uvarov method is used in the calculations. The orbital dependency (spin-orbit and pseudospin-orbit dependent coupling too singular 1/r^{2}) of the Dirac equation are included to the solution by introducing a more accurate approximation scheme to deal with the centrifugal (pseudo-centrifugal) term. The approximation is also made for the less singular 1/r orbital term in the Dirac equation for a wider energy spectrum. The nonrelativistic limits are also obtained on mapping of parameters.

id: 1110.0943
title: Bound states of the Klein-Gordon equation in D-dimensions with some physical scalar and vector exponential-type potentials including orbital centrifugal term
authors: Sameer M. Ikhdair
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: Journal of Quantum Information Science 1 (2) (2011) 73-86
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0943
abstract: The approximate analytic bound state solutions of the Klein-Gordon equation with equal scalar and vector exponential-type potentials including the centrifugal potential term are obtained for any arbitrary orbital angular momentum number l and dimensional space D. The relativistic/non-relativistic energy spectrum equation and the corresponding unnormalized radial wave functions, in terms of the Jacobi polynomials P_{n}^{({\alpha},{\beta})}(z), where {\alpha}>-1, {\beta}>-1 and z\in[-1,+1] or the generalized hypergeometric functions _{2}F_{1}(a,b;c;z), are found. The Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method is used in the solution. The solutions of the Eckart, Rosen-Morse, Hulth\'en and Woods-Saxon potential models can be easily obtained from these solutions. Our results are identical with those ones appearing in the literature. Finally, under the PT-symmetry, we can easily obtain the bound state solutions of the trigonometric Rosen-Morse potential.

id: 1110.0958
title: Analytically Solvable 2D Potentials: Bound States
authors: S. M. Al-Marzoug, H. Bahlouli, M. S. Abdelmonem
comments: 11 pages, 3 tables. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1106.3683
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0958
abstract: Using a suitable Laguerre basis set that ensures a tridiagonal matrix representation of the reference Hamiltonian, we were able to evaluate in closed form the matrix representation of the associated Hamiltonian for few exactly solvable 2D potentials. This enabled us to treat analytically the full Hamiltonian and compute the associated bound states spectrum as the eigenvalues of the associated analytical matrix representing their Hamiltonians. Finally we compared our results satisfactorily with those obtained using the Gauss quadrature numerical integration approach.

id: 1110.0974
title: The Logic of Consistent Histories: A Reply to Maudlin
authors: Robert B. Griffiths
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0974
abstract: The relationship between quantum logic, standard propositional logic, and the (consistent) histories rules for quantum reasoning is discussed. It is shown that Maudlin's claim [Am. J. Phys. 79 (2011) 954] that the histories approach is inconsistent, is incorrect. The histories approach is both internally consistent and adequate for discussing the physical situations considered by Maudlin.

id: 1110.0986
title: Representation of Quantum Field Theory by Elementary Quantum Information
authors: Martin Kober
comments: 7 pages
journal: Int.J.Theor.Phys.51:8,2476-2487,2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0986
abstract: In this paper is considered relativistic quantum field theory expressed by elementary units of quantum information as they are considered as fundamental entity of nature by Carl Friedrich von Weizsaecker. Through quantization of a Weyl spinor describing an elementary unit of quantum information and consisting of four real components one obtains four pairs of creation and annihilation operators acting in a tensor space of states containing many units of quantum information. There can be constructed position and momentum operators from the creation and annihilation operators and based on these operators the Poincare group can be represented in this abstract tensor space of quantum information. A general state in the tensor space can be mapped to a state in Minkowski space-time by using the position representation of the eigenstates of the occupation number operators which correspond to the eigenstates of the harmonic oscillator. This yields a description of relativistic quantum mechanics. Quantization of the coefficients of a general state in the tensor space leads to many particle theory and thus to quantum field theory.

id: 1110.0991
title: The effect of spin-lattice relaxation on multiple-quantum NMR coherences in solids
authors: E.B. Fel'dman, A.N. Pyrkov
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0991
abstract: A phenomenological theory of spin-lattice relaxation of multiple-quantum coherences in systems of two dipolar coupled spins at low temperatures is developed. Intensities of multiple-quantum NMR coherences depending on the spin-lattice relaxation time are obtained. It is shown that the theory is also applicable to finite spin chains when the approximation of nearest neighbour interaction is used. An application of this theory to an estimation of the influence of decoherence processes on quantum entanglement and its fluctuations is briefly discussed.

id: 1110.1011
title: Effects of time reversal symmetry in dynamical decoupling
authors: Alexandre M. Souza, Gonzalo A. ?lvarez, Dieter Suter
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032306 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1011
abstract: Dynamical decoupling (DD) is a technique for preserving the coherence of quantum mechanical states in the presence of a noisy environment. It uses sequences of inversion pulses to suppress the environmental perturbations by periodically refocusing them. It has been shown that different sequences of inversion pulses show vastly different performance, in particular also concerning the correction of experimental pulse imperfections. Here, we investigate specifically the role of time-reversal symmetry in the building-blocks of the pulse sequence. We show that using time symmetric building blocks often improves the performance of the sequence compared to sequences formed by time asymmetric building blocks. Using quantum state tomography of the echoes generated by the sequences, we analyze the mechanisms that lead to loss of fidelity and show how they can be compensated by suitable concatenation of symmetry-related blocks of decoupling pulses.

id: 1110.1020
title: Stabilization of Stochastic Quantum Dynamics via Open and Closed Loop Control
authors: Francesco Ticozzi, Kazunori Nishio, Claudio Altafini
comments: 
journal: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control 58(1): 74-85, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1020
abstract: In this paper we investigate parametrization-free solutions of the problem of quantum pure state preparation and subspace stabilization by means of Hamiltonian control, continuous measurement and quantum feedback, in the presence of a Markovian environment. In particular, we show that whenever suitable dissipative effects are induced either by the unmonitored environment or by non Hermitian measurements, there is no need for feedback control to accomplish the task. Constructive necessary and sufficient conditions on the form of the open-loop controller can be provided in this case. When open-loop control is not sufficient, filtering-based feedback control laws steering the evolution towards a target pure state are provided, which generalize those available in the literature.

id: 1110.1024
title: Driving two atoms in an optical cavity into an entangled steady state using engineered decay
authors: Florentin Reiter, Michael J. Kastoryano, Anders S. S?rensen
comments: 37 pages, 14 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 053022 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1024
abstract: We propose various schemes for the dissipative preparation of a maximally entangled steady state of two atoms in an optical cavity. Harnessing the natural decay processes of cavity photon loss and spontaneous emission, we use an effective operator formalism to identify and engineer effective decay processes, which reach an entangled steady state of two atoms as the unique fixed point of the dissipative time evolution. We investigate various aspects that are crucial for the experimental implementation of our schemes in present-day and future cavity quantum electrodynamics systems and analytically derive the optimal parameters, the error scaling and the speed of convergence of our protocols. Our study shows promising performance of our schemes for existing cavity experiments and favorable scaling of fidelity and speed with respect to the cavity parameters.

id: 1110.1042
title: The curious nonexistence of Gaussian 2-designs
authors: Robin Blume-Kohout, Peter S. Turner
comments: 9 pages, no pretty figures (sorry!)
journal: Comm. Math. Phys 326, 755-771 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1042
abstract: 2-designs -- ensembles of quantum pure states whose 2nd moments equal those of the uniform Haar ensemble -- are optimal solutions for several tasks in quantum information science, especially state and process tomography. We show that Gaussian states cannot form a 2-design for the continuous-variable (quantum optical) Hilbert space L2(R). This is surprising because the affine symplectic group HWSp (the natural symmetry group of Gaussian states) is irreducible on the symmetric subspace of two copies. In finite dimensional Hilbert spaces, irreducibility guarantees that HWSp-covariant ensembles (such as mutually unbiased bases in prime dimensions) are always 2-designs. This property is violated by continuous variables, for a subtle reason: the (well-defined) HWSp-invariant ensemble of Gaussian states does not have an average state because the averaging integral does not converge. In fact, no Gaussian ensemble is even close (in a precise sense) to being a 2-design. This surprising difference between discrete and continuous quantum mechanics has important implications for optical state and process tomography.

id: 1110.1054
title: Why the Entanglement of Formation is not generally monogamic
authors: F. F. Fanchini, M. C. de Oliveira, L. K. Castelano, M. F. Cornelio
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. Extended version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 032317 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1054
abstract: Differently from correlation of classical systems, entanglement of quantum systems cannot be distributed at will - if one system A is maximally entangled with another system B, it cannot be entangled at all to a third system C. This concept, known as the monogamy of entanglement, manifests when the entanglement of A with a pair BC, can be divided as contributions of entanglement between A and B and A and C, plus a term \tau_{ABC} involving genuine tripartite entanglement and so expected to be always positive. A very important measure in Quantum Information Theory, the Entanglement of Formation (EOF), fails to satisfy this last requirement. Here we present the reasons for that and show a set of conditions that an arbitrary pure tripartite state must satisfy for EOF to become a monogamous measure, ie, for \tau_{ABC} \ge 0. The relation derived is connected to the discrepancy between quantum and classical correlations, being \tau_{ABC} negative whenever the quantum correlation prevails over the classical one. This result is employed to elucidate features of the distribution of entanglement during a dynamical evolution. It also helps to relate all monogamous instances of EOF to the Squashed Entanglement, an always monogamous entanglement measure.

id: 1110.1082
title: Casimir forces beyond the proximity approximation
authors: G. Bimonte, T. Emig, R. L. Jaffe, M. Kardar
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: EPL 97, 50001 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1082
abstract: The proximity force approximation (PFA) relates the interaction between closely spaced, smoothly curved objects to the force between parallel plates. Precision experiments on Casimir forces necessitate, and spur research on, corrections to the PFA. We use a derivative expansion for gently curved surfaces to derive the leading curvature modifications to the PFA. Our methods apply to any homogeneous and isotropic materials; here we present results for Dirichlet and Neumann boundary conditions and for perfect conductors. A Pad\'e extrapolation constrained by a multipole expansion at large distance and our improved expansion at short distances, provides an accurate expression for the sphere-plate Casimir force at all separations.

id: 1110.1085
title: A Bayesian approach to compatibility, improvement, and pooling of quantum states
authors: M. S. Leifer, R. W. Spekkens
comments: 30 pages, revTeX
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 47(27) 275301 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1085
abstract: In approaches to quantum theory in which the quantum state is regarded as a representation of knowledge, information, or belief, two agents can assign different states to the same quantum system. This raises two questions: when are such state assignments compatible? and how should the state assignments of different agents be reconciled? In this paper, we address these questions from the perspective of the recently developed conditional states formalism for quantum theory [arXiv:1107.5849]. Specifically, we derive a compatibility criterion proposed by Brun, Finkelstein and Mermin from the requirement that, upon acquiring data, agents should update their states using a quantum generalization of Bayesian conditioning. We provide two alternative arguments for this criterion, based on the objective and subjective Bayesian interpretations of probability theory. We then apply the same methodology to the problem of quantum state improvement, i.e. how to update your state when you learn someone else's state assignment, and to quantum state pooling, i.e. how to combine the state assignments of several agents into a single assignment that accurately represents the views of the group. In particular, we derive a pooling rule previously proposed by Spekkens and Wiseman under much weaker assumptions than those made in the original derivation. All of our results apply to a much broader class of experimental scenarios than have been considered previously in this context.

id: 1110.1133
title: Property testing of unitary operators
authors: Guoming Wang
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052328 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1133
abstract: In this paper, we systematically study property testing of unitary operators. We first introduce a distance measure that reflects the average difference between unitary operators. Then we show that, with respect to this distance measure, the orthogonal group, quantum juntas (i.e. unitary operators that only nontrivially act on a few qubits of the system) and Clifford group can be all efficiently tested. In fact, their testing algorithms have query complexities independent of the system's size and have only one-sided error. Then we give an algorithm that tests any finite subset of the unitary group, and demonstrate an application of this algorithm to the permutation group. This algorithm also has one-sided error and polynomial query complexity, but it is unknown whether it can be efficiently implemented in general.

id: 1110.1170
title: Reply to Comment on "Deterministic six states protocol for quantum communication" [arXiv:1107.4435v1 [quant-ph] / Phys. Lett. A 374 (2010) 1097]
authors: J.S. Shaari, M. Lucamarini, Asma' Ahmad Bahari
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1170
abstract: We reply to the Comment made in arXiv:1107.4435v1 [quant-ph] (Phys. Lett. A \textbf{374} (2010) 1097) by noting some erroneous considerations therein resulting in a misleading view of the quantum key distribution protocol in question. We then correct the rates provided for the Intercept-and-Resend attack and we complete the analysis of Eve's attack based on a double CNOT gate.

id: 1110.1184
title: Microwave photonics with Josephson junction arrays: negative refraction index and entanglement through disorder
authors: David Zueco, Juan Jos¨¦ Mazo, Enrique Solano, Juan Jos¨¦ Garc¨ªa-Ripoll
comments: minor changes. Version to be published in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 024503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1184
abstract: We study different architectures for a photonic crystal in the microwave regime based on superconducting transmission lines interrupted by Josephson junctions, both in one and two dimensions. A study of the scattering properties of a single junction in the line shows that the junction behaves as a perfect mirror when the photon frequency matches the Josephson plasma frequency. We generalize our calculations to periodic arrangements of junctions, demonstrating that they can be used for tunable band engineering, forming what we call a quantum circuit crystal. Two applications are discussed in detail. In a two-dimensional structure we demonstrate the phenomenon of negative refraction. We finish by studying the creation of stationary entanglement between two superconducting qubits interacting through a disordered media.

id: 1110.1202
title: Adaptive schemes for incomplete quantum process tomography
authors: Yong Siah Teo, Berthold-Georg Englert, Jaroslav Rehacek, Zdenek Hradil
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062125 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1202
abstract: We propose an iterative algorithm for incomplete quantum process tomography, with the help of quantum state estimation, based on the combined principles of maximum-likelihood and maximum-entropy. The algorithm yields a unique estimator for an unknown quantum process when one has less than a complete set of linearly independent measurement data to specify the quantum process uniquely. We apply this iterative algorithm adaptively in various situations and so optimize the amount of resources required to estimate the quantum process with incomplete data.

id: 1110.1220
title: Standard Quantum Teleportation of an Arbitrary N-Qubit State, Non-Existence of Magic Basis and Existence of Magic Partial Bases for 2N Entangled Qubit States with N>1
authors: Hari Prakash, Vikram Verma
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1220
abstract: We present a simple and precise protocol for standard quantum teleportation of N-qubit state, considering the most general resource q-channel and Bell states. We find condition on these states for perfect teleportation and give explicitly the unitary transformation required to be done by Bob for achieving perfect teleportation. We discuss connection of our simple theory with the complicated related work on this subject and with character matrix, transformation, judgment and kernel operators defined in this context. We also prove that the magic basis discussed by Hill and Wootters [Phys. Rev. Lett. 78 (1997) 5022] does not exist for entangled 2N-qubit states with N > 1 but magic partial bases, similar to those discussed recently by Prakash and Maurya [Optics Commun. 284 (2011) 5024] do exist. We give explicitly all magic partial bases for N = 2.

id: 1110.1225
title: Spin and pseudospin symmetry along with orbital dependency of the Dirac-Hulthen problem
authors: Sameer Ikhdair, C¨¹neyt Berkdemir, Ramazan Sever
comments: 14 pages and 3 figures
journal: Appl. Math. Comput. 217 (2011) 9019-9032
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1225
abstract: The role of the Hulthen potential on the spin and pseudospin symmetry solutions is investigated systematically by solving the Dirac equation with attractive scalar S(r) and repulsive vector V(r) potentials. The spin and pseudospin symmetry along with orbital dependency (pseudospin-orbit and spin-orbit dependent couplings) of the Dirac equation are included to the solution by introducing the Hulthen-square approximation. This effective approach is based on forming the spin and pseudo-centrifugal kinetic energy term from the square of the Hulthen potential. The analytical solutions of the Dirac equation for the Hulthen potential with the spin-orbit and pseudospin-orbit-dependent couplings are obtained by using the Nikiforov-Uvarov (NU) method. The energy eigenvalue equations and wave functions for various degenerate states are presented for several spin-orbital, pseudospin-orbital and radial quantum numbers under the condition of the spin and pseudospin symmetry. Keywords: Spin and pseudospin symmetry; orbital dependency; Dirac equation; Hulthen potential; Nikiforov-Uvarov Method.

id: 1110.1261
title: Mechanics: non-classical, non-quantum
authors: Elliott Francesco Tammaro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1261
abstract: A non-classical, non-quantum theory, or NCQ, is any fully consistent theory that differs fundamentally from both the corresponding classical and quantum theories, while exhibiting certain features common to both. Such theories are of interest for two primary reasons. Firstly, NCQs arise prominently in semi-classical approximation schemes. Their formal study may yield improved approximation techniques in the near-classical regime. More importantly for the purposes of this note, it may be possible for NCQs to reproduce quantum results over experimentally tested regimes while having a well defined classical limit, and hence are viable alternative theories. We illustrate an NCQ by considering an explicit class of NCQ mechanics. Here this class will be arrived at via a natural generalization of classical mechanics formulated in terms of a probability density functional.

id: 1110.1289
title: Highly efficient broadband conversion of light polarization by composite retarders
authors: S. S. Ivanov, A. A. Rangelov, N. V. Vitanov, T. Peters, T. Halfmann
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures; check JOSA A 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1289
abstract: Driving on an analogy with the technique of composite pulses in quantum physics, we propose highly efficient broadband polarization converters composed of sequences of ordinary retarders rotated at specific angles with respect to their fast-polarization axes.

id: 1110.1355
title: Hybrid Qubit gates in circuit QED: A scheme for quantum bit encoding and information processing
authors: O. P. de Sa Neto, M. C. de Oliveira
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45, 185505 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1355
abstract: Solid state superconducting devices coupled to coplanar transmission lines offer an exquisite architecture for quantum optical phenomena probing as well as for quantum computation implementation, being the object of intense theoretical and experimental investigation lately. In appropriate conditions the transmission line radiation modes can get strongly coupled to a superconducting device with only two levels -for that reason called artificial atom or qubit. Employing this system we propose a hybrid two-quantum bit gate encoding involving quantum electromagnetic field qubit states prepared in a coplanar transmission line capacitively coupled to a single charge qubit. Since dissipative effects are more drastic in the solid state qubit than in the field one, it can be employed for storage of information, whose efficiency against the action of an ohmic bath show that this encoding can be readily implemented with present day technology. We extend the investigation to generate entanglement between several solid state qubits and the field qubit through the action of external classical magnetic pulses.

id: 1110.1361
title: Cold and trapped metastable noble gases
authors: Wim Null Vassen, Claude Cohen-Tannoudji, Mich¨¨le Leduc, Denis Boiron, Christoph I Westbrook, Andrew Truscott, Ken Baldwin, Gerhard Birkl, Pablo Cancio, Marek Trippenbach
comments: 
journal: Reviews of Modern Physics 84, 1 (2012) 175
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1361
abstract: We review experimental and theoretical work on cold, trapped metastable noble gases. We em- phasize the aspects which distinguish work with these atoms from the large body of work on cold, trapped atoms in general. These aspects include detection techniques and collision processes unique to metastable atoms. We describe several experiments exploiting these unique features in fields including atom optics and statistical physics. We also discuss precision measurements on these atoms including fine structure splittings, isotope shifts, and atomic lifetimes.

id: 1110.1381
title: Experimental Demonstration of Blind Quantum Computing
authors: Stefanie Barz, Elham Kashefi, Anne Broadbent, Joseph F. Fitzsimons, Anton Zeilinger, Philip Walther
comments: 
journal: Science 335, 303 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1381
abstract: Quantum computers, besides offering substantial computational speedups, are also expected to provide the possibility of preserving the privacy of a computation. Here we show the first such experimental demonstration of blind quantum computation where the input, computation, and output all remain unknown to the computer. We exploit the conceptual framework of measurement-based quantum computation that enables a client to delegate a computation to a quantum server. We demonstrate various blind delegated computations, including one- and two-qubit gates and the Deutsch and Grover algorithms. Remarkably, the client only needs to be able to prepare and transmit individual photonic qubits. Our demonstration is crucial for future unconditionally secure quantum cloud computing and might become a key ingredient for real-life applications, especially when considering the challenges of making powerful quantum computers widely available.

id: 1110.1388
title: Effects on quantum physics of the local availability of mathematics and space time dependent scaling factors for number systems
authors: Paul Benioff
comments: 31 pages, 2 figures, To appear as chapter in book, Quantum Theory, Publ. by Intech: Typos corrected, some paragraphs rewritten
journal: Chapter 2, in Quantum Theory, I. Cotaescu, Editor, Intech open access publisher, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1388
abstract: The work is based on two premises: local availability of mathematics to an observer at any space time location, and the observation that number systems, as structures satisfying axioms for the number type being considered, can be scaled by arbitrary, positive real numbers. Local availability leads to the assignment of mathematical universes, $V_{x},$ to each point, $x,$ of space time. $V_{x}$ contains all the mathematics that an observer, $O_{x},$ at $x,$ can know. Each $V_{x}$ contains many types of mathematical systems. These include the different types of numbers (natural numbers, integers, rationals, and real and complex numbers), Hilbert spaces, algebras, and many other types of systems. Space time dependent scaling of number systems is used to define representations, in $V_{x}$, of real and complex number systems in $V_{y}$. The representations are scaled by a factor $r_{y,x}$ relative to the systems in $V_{x}.$ For $y$ a neighbor point of $x,$ $r_{y,x}$ is the exponential of the scalar product of a gauge field, $\vec{A}(x),$ and the vector from $x$ to $y.$ For $y$ distant from $x,$ $r_{y,x}$ is a path integral from $x$ to $y.$ Some consequences of the two premises will be examined. Number scaling has no effect on general comparisons of numbers obtained as computations or as experimental outputs. The effect is limited to mathematical expressions that include space or space time integrals or derivatives. The effect of $\vec{A}$ on wave packets and canonical momenta in quantum theory, and some properties of $\vec{A}$ in gauge theories, is described.

id: 1110.1399
title: Heisenberg Uncertainty Relation for Coarse-grained Observables
authors: Lukasz Rudnicki, Stephen P. Walborn, Fabricio Toscano
comments: 
journal: Europhys. Lett. 97, 38003 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1399
abstract: We ask which is the best strategy to reveal uncertainty relations between comple- mentary observables of a continuous variable system for coarse-grained measurements. This leads to the derivation of new uncertainty relations for coarse-grained measurements that are always valid, even for detectors with low precision. These relations should be particularly relevant in experimental demonstrations of squeezing in quantum optics, quantum state reconstruction, and the development of trustworthy entanglement criteria.

id: 1110.1429
title: Adiabatic Mach-Zehnder interferometer via an array of trapped ions
authors: Yan-Min Hu, Mang Feng, Chaohong Lee
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 043604 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1429
abstract: We explore the possibility of implementing a Heisenberg-limited Mach-Zehnder interferometry via an array of trapped ions, which obey a quantum Ising model within a transverse field. Based upon adiabatic processes of increasing the Ising interaction and then decreasing the transverse field, we demonstrate a perfect transition from paramagnetism to ferromagnetic states, which can be used as the beam splitter for the multi-ion Mach-Zehnder interferometry. The achieved NOON state of the ions enables the Heisenberg-limited interferometry. Using currently available techniques for ultracold ions, we discuss the experimental feasibility of our scheme with global operations.

id: 1110.1440
title: Toward Global Quantum Communication: Beam Wandering Preserves Nonclassicality
authors: D. Yu. Vasylyev, A. A. Semenov, W. Vogel
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 220501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1440
abstract: Tap-proof long-distance quantum communication requires a deep understanding of the strong losses in transmission channels. Here we provide a rigorous treatment of the effects of beam wandering, one of the leading disturbances in atmospheric channels, on the quantum properties of light. From first principles we derive the probability distribution of the beam transmissivity, with the aim to completely characterize the quantum state of light. It turns out that beam wandering may preserve nonclassical effects, such as entanglement, quadrature and photon number squeezing, much better than a standard attenuating channel of the same losses.

id: 1110.1449
title: Teleportation of the one-qubit state with environment-disturbed recovery operations
authors: Ming-Liang Hu
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: European Physical Journal D, 2011, 64(2-3): 531-538
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1449
abstract: We study standard protocol $\mathcal{P}_0$ for teleporting the one-qubit state with both the transmission process of the two qubits constitute the quantum channel and the recovery operations performed by Bob disturbed by the decohering environment. The results revealed that Bob's imperfect operations do not eliminate the possibility of nonclassical teleportation fidelity provided he shares an ideal channel state with Alice, while the transmission process is constrained by a critical time $t_{0,c}$ longer than which will result in failure of $\mathcal{P}_0$ if the two qubits are corrupted by the decohering environment. Moreover, we found that under the condition of the same decoherence rate $\gamma$, the teleportation protocol is significantly more fragile when it is executed under the influence of the noisy environment than those under the influence of the dissipative and dephasing environments.

id: 1110.1461
title: State transfer in dissipative and dephasing environments
authors: Ming-Liang Hu
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: European Physical Journal D, 2010, 59(3): 497-507
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1461
abstract: By diagonalization of a generalized superoperator for solving the master equation, we investigated effects of dissipative and dephasing environments on quantum state transfer, as well as entanglement distribution and creation in spin networks. Our results revealed that under the condition of the same decoherence rate $\gamma$, the detrimental effects of the dissipative environment are more severe than that of the dephasing environment. Beside this, the critical time $t_c$ at which the transfer fidelity and the concurrence attain their maxima arrives at the asymptotic value $t_0=\pi/2\lambda$ quickly as the spin chain length $N$ increases. The transfer fidelity of an excitation at time $t_0$ is independent of $N$ when the system subjects to dissipative environment, while it decreases as $N$ increases when the system subjects to dephasing environment. The average fidelity displays three different patterns corresponding to $N=4r+1$, $N=4r-1$ and $N=2r$. For each pattern, the average fidelity at time $t_0$ is independent of $r$ when the system subjects to dissipative environment, and decreases as $r$ increases when the system subjects to dephasing environment. The maximum concurrence also decreases as $N$ increases, and when $N\rightarrow\infty$, it arrives at an asymptotic value determined by the decoherence rate $\gamma$ and the structure of the spin network.

id: 1110.1473
title: Dynamical Decoupling of Spin-Clusters using Solid State NMR
authors: Abhishek Shukla, T. S. Mahesh
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1473
abstract: In this work we experimentally study the efficiency of various dynamical decoupling sequences for suppressing decoherence of single as well as multiple quantum coherences on large spin-clusters. The system involves crystallites of a powdered sample containing a large number of molecular protons interacting via long-range dipole-dipole interaction. The multiple quantum coherences are prepared by progressively creating correlations in the spin lattice using standard pulse sequences implementing two-quantum average Hamiltonian. The spin system is then subjected to various dynamical decoupling sequences, followed by conversion into observable single quantum coherence by using time-reversal sequence. The experiments reveal superior performance of the recently introduced RUDD sequences in suppressing the decoherence.

id: 1110.1480
title: State transfer in intrinsic decoherence spin channels
authors: Ming-Liang Hu, Han-Li Lian
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures
journal: European Physical Journal D, 2009, 55(3): 711-721
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1480
abstract: By analytically solving the master equation, we investigate quantum state transfer, creation and distribution of entanglement in the model of Milburn's intrinsic decoherence. Our results reveal that the ideal spin channels will be destroyed by the intrinsic decoherence environment, and the detrimental effects become severe as the decoherence rate $\gamma$ and the spin chain length $N$ increase. For infinite evolution time, both the state transfer fidelity and the concurrence of the created and distributed entanglement approach steady state values, which are independent of the decoherence rate $\gamma$ and decrease as the spin chain length $N$ increases. Finally, we present two modified spin chains which may serve as near perfect spin channels for long distance state transfer even in the presence of intrinsic decoherence environments $\mathcal {F}{[\rho(t)]}$.

id: 1110.1481
title: Measurement of Translational Diffusion Constant using Noon State
authors: Abhishek Shukla, Manvendra Sharma, T. S. Mahesh
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1481
abstract: A method for measuring translational diffusion constant in liquids via NOON state is described using a quantum circuit and is experimentally demonstrated using a model system. When compared with the standard single quantum method, the NOON state method requirs shorter diffusion delays and weaker gradients. These improvements depend on the on the size of the NOON state. Due to the high sensitivity of the NOON state for the changes in the local magnetic fields, this method enables studying slow diffusion and studying diffusion with limited strengths of pulsed-field-gradients.

id: 1110.1486
title: Reduction of heating rate in a microfabricated ion trap by pulsed-laser cleaning
authors: D T C Allcock, L Guidoni, T P Harty, C J Ballance, M G Blain, A M Steane, D M Lucas
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1486
abstract: Laser-cleaning of the electrodes in a planar micro-fabricated ion trap has been attempted using ns pulses from a tripled Nd:YAG laser at 355nm. The effect of the laser pulses at several energy density levels has been tested by measuring the heating rate of a single 40Ca+ trapped ion as a function of its secular frequency. A reduction of the electric-field noise spectral density by ~50% has been observed and a change in the frequency dependence also noticed. This is the first reported experiment where the "anomalous heating" phenomenon has been reduced by removing the source as opposed to reducing its thermal driving by cryogenic cooling. This technique may open the way to better control of the electrode surface quality in ion microtraps.

id: 1110.1489
title: Signatures of three coalescing eigenfunctions
authors: Gilles Demange, Eva-Maria Graefe
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures. Typos corrected, slightly extended, to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A 45 (2012) 025303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1489
abstract: Parameter dependent non-Hermitian quantum systems typically not only possess eigenvalue degeneracies, but also degeneracies of the corresponding eigenfunctions at exceptional points. While the effect of two coalescing eigenfunctions on cyclic parameter variation is well investigated, little attention has hitherto been paid to the effect of more than two coalescing eigenfunctions. Here a characterisation of behaviours of symmetric Hamiltonians with three coalescing eigenfunctions is presented, using perturbation theory for non-Hermitian operators. Two main types of parameter perturbations need to be distinguished, which lead to characteristic eigenvalue and eigenvector patterns under cyclic variation. A physical system is introduced for which both behaviours might be experimentally accessible.

id: 1110.1551
title: Composite quantum systems and environment-induced heating
authors: Almut Beige, Andreas Kurcz, Adam Stokes
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1389, 969 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1551
abstract: In recent years, much attention has been paid to the development of techniques which transfer trapped particles to very low temperatures. Here we focus our attention on a heating mechanism which contributes to the finite temperature limit in laser sideband cooling experiments with trapped ions. It is emphasized that similar heating processes might be present in a variety of composite quantum systems whose components couple individually to different environments. For example, quantum optical heating effects might contribute significantly to the very high temperatures which occur during the collapse phase in sonoluminescence experiments. It might even be possible to design composite quantum systems, like atom-cavity systems, such that they continuously emit photons even in the absence of external driving.

id: 1110.1582
title: Displacement operator for quantum systems with position-dependent mass
authors: R. N. Costa Filho, M. P. Almeida, G. A. Farias, J. S. Andrade Jr
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1582
abstract: A translation operator is introduced to describe the quantum dynamics of a position-dependent mass particle in a null or constant potential. From this operator, we obtain a generalized form of the momentum operator as well as a unique commutation relation for $\hat x$ and $\hat p_\gamma$. Such a formalism naturally leads to a Schr\"odinger-like equation that is reminiscent of wave equations typically used to model electrons with position-dependent (effective) masses propagating through abrupt interfaces in semiconductor heterostructures. The distinctive features of our approach is demonstrated through analytical solutions calculated for particles under null and constant potentials like infinite wells in one and two dimensions and potential barriers.

id: 1110.1587
title: Phase estimation with two-mode squeezed-vacuum and parity detection restricted to finite resources
authors: Keith R. Motes, Petr M. Anisimov, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1587
abstract: A recently proposed phase-estimation protocol that is based on measuring the parity of a two-mode squeezed-vacuum state at the output of a Mach-Zehnder interferometer shows that Cram\'{e}r-Rao bound sensitivity can be obtained [P.\ M.\ Anisimov, et al., Phys.\ Rev.\ Lett.\ {\bf104}, 103602 (2010)]. This sensitivity, however, is expected in the case of an infinite number of parity measurements made on an infinite number of photons. Here we consider the case of a finite number of parity measurements and a finite number of photons, implemented with photon-number-resolving detectors. We use Bayesian analysis to characterize the sensitivity of the phase estimation in this scheme. We have found that our phase estimation becomes biased near 0 or $\pi/2$ phase values. Yet there is an in-between region where the bias becomes negligible. In this region, our phase estimation scheme saturates the Cram\'{e}r-Rao bound and beats the shot-noise limit.

id: 1110.1645
title: Classical and nonclassical randomness in quantum measurements
authors: Douglas Farenick, Sarah Plosker, Jerrod Smith
comments: to appear in Journal of Mathematical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1645
abstract: The space of positive operator-valued measures on the Borel sets of a compact (or even locally compact) Hausdorff space with values in the algebra of linear operators acting on a d-dimensional Hilbert space is studied from the perspectives of classical and non-classical convexity through a transform $\Gamma$ that associates any positive operator-valued measure with a certain completely positive linear map of the homogeneous C*-algebra $C(X)\otimes B(H)$ into $B(H)$. This association is achieved by using an operator-valued integral in which non-classical random variables (that is, operator-valued functions) are integrated with respect to positive operator-valued measures and which has the feature that the integral of a random quantum effect is itself a quantum effect. A left inverse $\Omega$ for $\Gamma$ yields an integral representation, along the lines of the classical Riesz Representation Theorem for certain linear functionals on $C(X)$, of certain (but not all) unital completely positive linear maps $\phi:C(X)\otimes B(H) \rightarrow B(H)$. The extremal and C*-extremal points of the space of POVMS are determined.

id: 1110.1650
title: Group Action in Topos Quantum Physics
authors: Cecilia Flori
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1650
abstract: Topos theory has been suggested first by Isham and Butterfield, and then by Isham and D\"oring, as an alternative mathematical structure within which to formulate physical theories. In particular it has been used to reformulate standard quantum mechanics in such a way that a novel type of logic is used to represent propositions. In this paper we extend this formulation to include the notion of a group and group transformation in such a way that we overcome the problem of twisted presheaves. In order to implement this we need to change the type of topos involved, so as to render the notion of continuity of the group action meaningful.

id: 1110.1664
title: Unification of different views of decoherence and discord
authors: Patrick J. Coles
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures. Final version, to appear in Phys. Rev. A. Notation has been improved to make the paper more readable
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042103 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1664
abstract: Macroscopic behavior such as the lack of interference patterns has been attributed to "decoherence", a word with several possible definitions such as (1) the loss of off-diagonal density matrix elements, (2) the flow of information to the environment, (3) the loss of complementary information, and (4) the loss of the ability to create entanglement in a measurement. In this article, we attempt to unify these distinct definitions by providing general quantitative connections between them, valid for all finite-dimensional quantum systems or quantum processes. The most important application of our results is to the understanding of quantum discord, a measure of the non-classicality of the correlations between quantum systems. We show that some popular measures of discord measure the information missing from the purifying system and hence quantify security, which can be stated operationally in terms of distillable secure bits. The results also give some strategies for constructing discord measures.

id: 1110.1675
title: Controlling collisional decoherence of ultracold molecules in superposition states by an external magnetic field
authors: Jie Cui, Roman V. Krems
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1675
abstract: We present expressions demonstrating that collisional decoherence of ultracold atoms or molecules in a coherent superposition of non-degenerate quantum states is suppressed when both the real and imaginary parts of the scattering lengths for the states in the coherent superposition are equal. We show that the rate of collisional decoherence can be enhanced or suppressed by varying an external magnetic field near a Feshbach resonance. For some resonances, the suppression is very dramatic. We propose a method for measuring the scattering length of ultracold particles in excited quantum states exhibiting Feshbach resonances.

id: 1110.1723
title: Discrimination of measurement contexts in quantum mechanics
authors: Rafael Sala Mayato, Gonzalo Muga
comments: 9 pages
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 375, Issue 36, 22 August 2011, Pages 3167-3170
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1723
abstract: We demonstrate that it is possible to discern the way that has been followed to measure a quantum observable that can be expressed in terms of different products of observables, whereas no such discrimination is possible by assigning predetermined values. Specifically we show how to distinguish different routes (contexts) to measure C=AB=A'B', when C,A,B and C,A',B' commute with each other, but A and B do not commute with A' and B'.

id: 1110.1768
title: Limits to the Universality of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Brian D. Josephson
comments: 
journal: Found. Phys. 18, 1195-1204 (1988)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1768
abstract: Niels Bohr's arguments indicating the non-applicability of quantum methodology to the study of the ultimate details of life given in his book "Atomic physics and human knowledge" conflict with the commonly held opposite view. The bases for the usual beliefs are examined and shown to have little validity. Significant differences do exist between the living organism and the type of system studied successfully in the physics laboratory. Dealing with living organisms in quantum-mechanical terms with the same degree of rigour as is normal for non-living systems would seem not to be possible without considering also questions of the origins of life and of the universe.

id: 1110.1818
title: Security of a new two-way continuous-variable quantum key distribution protocol
authors: Maozhu Sun, Xiang Peng, Yujie Shen, Hong Guo
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures, accepted for publication in International Journal of Quantum Information
journal: Int. J. Quanum Inform. 10, 1250059 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1818
abstract: The original two-way continuous-variable quantum-key-distribution (CV QKD) protocols [S. Pirandola, S. Mancini, S. Lloyd, and S. L. Braunstein, Nature Physics 4, 726 (2008)] give the security against the collective attack on the condition of the tomography of the quantum channels. We propose a family of new two-way CV QKD protocols and prove their security against collective entangling cloner attacks without the tomography of the quantum channels. The simulation result indicates that the new protocols maintain the same advantage as the original two-way protocols whose tolerable excess noise surpasses that of the one-way CV-QKD protocol. We also show that all sub-protocols within the family have higher secret key rate and much longer transmission distance than the one-way CV-QKD protocol for the noisy channel.

id: 1110.1870
title: Robust Trapped-Ion Quantum Logic Gates by Continuous Dynamical Decoupling
authors: A. Bermudez, P. O. Schmidt, M. B. Plenio, A. Retzker
comments: Slightly longer than the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 040302(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1870
abstract: We introduce a novel scheme that combines phonon-mediated quantum logic gates in trapped ions with the benefits of continuous dynamical decoupling. We demonstrate theoretically that a strong driving of the qubit decouples it from external magnetic-field noise, enhancing the fidelity of two-qubit quantum gates. Moreover, the scheme does not require ground-state cooling, and is inherently robust to undesired ac-Stark shifts. The underlying mechanism can be extended to a variety of other systems where a strong driving protects the quantum coherence of the qubits without compromising the two-qubit couplings.

id: 1110.1901
title: Realizing flexible two-qubit controlled phase gate with a hybrid solid-state system
authors: Feng-yang Zhang, Ying Shi, Chong Li, He-shan Song
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1901
abstract: We propose a theoretical scheme for realizing {\deg}exible two-qubit controlled phase gate. A transmission line resonator is used to induce the coupling between nitrogen-vacancy (N-V) in diamond and superconducting qubit. The N-V center acts as control qubit and the superconducting qubit as target qubit. Through adjusting external flux, we obtain desired coupling between random superconducting qubit and transmission line resonator. Moreover, our protocol might be implemented via the current experimental technology.

id: 1110.1918
title: Generalized Holstein model for spin-dependent electron transfer reaction
authors: Li-Ping Yang, Qing Ai, C. P. Sun
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A 85, 032707 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1918
abstract: Some chemical reactions are described by electron transfer (ET) processes. The underlying mechanism could be modeled as a polaron motion in the molecular crystal-the Holstein model. By taking spin degrees of freedom into consideration, we generalize the Holstein model (molecular crystal model) to microscopically describe an ET chemical reaction. In our model, the electron spins in the radical pair simultaneously interact with a magnetic field and their nuclear-spin environments. By virtue of the perturbation approach, we obtain the chemical reaction rates for different initial states. It is discovered that the chemical reaction rate of the triplet state demonstrates its dependence on the direction of the magnetic field while the counterpart of the singlet state does not. This difference is attributed to the explicit dependence of the triplet state on the direction when the axis is rotated. Our model may provide a possible candidate for the microscopic origin of avian compass.

id: 1110.1945
title: Dual-probe decoherence microscopy: Probing pockets of coherence in a decohering environment
authors: Jan Jeske, Jared H. Cole, Clemens M¨¹ller, Michael Marthaler, Gerd Sch?n
comments: 29 pages, 10 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 023013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1945
abstract: We study the use of a pair of qubits as a decoherence probe of a non-trivial environment. This dual-probe configuration is modelled by three two-level-systems which are coupled in a chain in which the middle system represents an environmental two-level-system (TLS). This TLS resides within the environment of the qubits and therefore its coupling to perturbing fluctuations (i.e. its decoherence) is assumed much stronger than the decoherence acting on the probe qubits. We study the evolution of such a tripartite system including the appearance of a decoherence-free state (dark state) and non-Markovian behaviour. We find that all parameters of this TLS can be obtained from measurements of one of the probe qubits. Furthermore we show the advantages of two qubits in probing environments and the new dynamics imposed by a TLS which couples to two qubits at once.

id: 1110.2040
title: Correlation Dynamics of Qubit-Qutrit Systems in a Classical Dephasing Environment
authors: G. Karpat, Z. Gedik
comments: 16 pages, 2 figures. Taking the recent update of arxiv:1010.1920v3 into account, we have very slightly modified our discussion of geometric discord to avoid any misunderstanding. The results of the present version (v3), including the analysis of geometric discord, remain completely unchanged as compared to the published version
journal: Physics Letters A 375, 4166 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2040
abstract: We study the time evolution of classical and quantum correlations for hybrid qubit-qutrit systems in independent and common classical dephasing environments. Our discussion involves a comparative analysis of the Markovian dynamics of negativity, quantum discord, geometric measure of quantum discord and classical correlation. For the case of independent environments, we have demonstrated the phenomenon of sudden transition between classical and quantum decoherence for qubit-qutrit states. In the common environment case, we have shown that dynamics of quantum and geometric discords might be completely independent of each other for a certain time interval, although they tend to be eventually in accord.

id: 1110.2112
title: GHz Rabi flopping to Rydberg states in hot atomic vapor cells
authors: B. Huber, T. Baluktsian, M. Schlagm¨¹ller, A. K?lle, H. K¨¹bler, R. L?w, T. Pfau
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2112
abstract: We report on the observation of Rabi oscillations to a Rydberg state on a timescale below one nanosecond in thermal rubidium vapor. We use a bandwidth-limited pulsed excitation and observe up to 6 full Rabi cycles within a pulse duration of ~ 4 ns. We find good agreement between the experiment and numerical simulations based on a surprisingly simple model. This result shows that fully coherent dynamics with Rydberg states can be achieved even in thermal atomic vapor thus suggesting small vapor cells as a platform for room temperature quantum devices. Furthermore the result implies that previous coherent dynamics in single atom Rydberg gates can be accelerated by three orders of magnitude.

id: 1110.2122
title: A simple derivation of the Lindblad equation
authors: Carlos Alexandre Brasil, Felipe Fernandes Fanchini, Reginaldo de Jesus Napolitano
comments: 11 pages
journal: Revista Brasileira de Ensino de F\'isica 35 (2013) 1303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2122
abstract: We present a derivation of the Lindblad equation - an important tool for the treatment of non-unitary evolutions - that is accessible to undergraduate students in physics or mathematics with a basic background on quantum mechanics. We consider a specific case, corresponding to a very simple situation, where a primary system interacts with a bath of harmonic oscillators at zero temperature, with an interaction Hamiltonian that resembles the Jaynes-Cummings format. We start with the Born-Markov equation and, tracing out the bath degrees of freedom, we obtain an equation in the Lindblad form. The specific situation is very instructive, for it makes it easy to realize that the Lindblads represent the effect on the main system caused by the interaction with the bath, and that the Markov approximation is a fundamental condition for the emergence of the Lindbladian operator. The formal derivation of the Lindblad equation for a more general case requires the use of quantum dynamical semi-groups and broader considerations regarding the environment and temperature than we have considered in the particular case treated here.

id: 1110.2139
title: Decoherence at constant excitation
authors: Juan Mauricio Torres, Emerson Sadurni, Thomas H. Seligman
comments: 
journal: Physica Scripta, 2012, 014030
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2139
abstract: We present a simple exactly solvable extension of of the Jaynes-Cummings model by adding dissipation. This is done such that the total number of excitations is conserved. The Liouville operator in the resulting master equation can be reduced to blocks of $4\times 4$ matrices.

id: 1110.2199
title: False loss of coherence
authors: William G. Unruh
comments: 18 pages. This paper was published in {\bf Relativistic Quantum Measurement and Decoherence}, ed F. Petruccione, Springer Velag(2000) and is being placed on the arxiv now for future reference and for ease in retrieval
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2199
abstract: The loss of coherence of a quantum system coupled to a heat bath as expressed by the reduced density matrix is shown to lead to the miss-characterization of some systems as being incoherent when they are not. The spin boson problem and the harmonic oscillator with massive scalar field heat baths are given as examples of reduced incoherent density matrices which nevertheless still represent perfectly coherent systems.

id: 1110.2217
title: Temperature of a Decoherent Oscillator with Strong Coupling
authors: William G. Unruh
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2217
abstract: The temperature of an oscillator coupled to the vacuum state of a heat bath via ohmic coupling is non-zero, as measured by the reduced density matrix of the oscillator. This paper shows that the actual temperature, as measured by a thermometer is still zero (or in the thermal state of the bath, the temperature of the bath). The decoherence temperature is due to "false-decoherence", with the heat bath state being dragged along with the oscillator.

id: 1110.2231
title: Energy and momentum entanglement in parametric downconversion
authors: Pablo L. Saldanha, C. H. Monken
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures. v3: Minor changes on the text. Some references were included
journal: Am. J. Phys. 81, 28 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2231
abstract: We present a simple treatment for the phenomenon of parametric downconversion considering the coherent scattering of one pump photon into a photon pair by a nonlinear crystal. The energy and momentum entanglement of the quantum state of the generated twin photons are seen as a consequence of the fundamental indistinguishability of the time and the position in which the photon pair is created inside the crystal. We also discuss some consequences of the system entanglement.

id: 1110.2232
title: Quantum Circuit Design for Solving Linear Systems of Equations
authors: Yudong Cao, Anmer Daskin, Steven Frankel, Sabre Kais
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. The errors are corrected. For the general case, discussions are added to account for recent results. The 4x4 example is replaced by a 2x2 one due to recent experimental efforts. The 2x2 example was devised at the time of writing v1 but not included in v1 for brevity
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2232
abstract: Recently, it is shown that quantum computers can be used for obtaining certain information about the solution of a linear system Ax=b exponentially faster than what is possible with classical computation. Here we first review some key aspects of the algorithm from the standpoint of finding its efficient quantum circuit implementation using only elementary quantum operations, which is important for determining the potential usefulness of the algorithm in practical settings. Then we present a small-scale quantum circuit that solves a 2x2 linear system. The quantum circuit uses only 4 qubits, implying a tempting possibility for experimental realization. Furthermore, the circuit is numerically simulated and its performance under different circuit parameter settings is demonstrated.

id: 1110.2298
title: Describing Spin-Selective Reactions of Radical Pairs Using Quantum Jump Approaches
authors: Alpha Lee
comments: 17 pages LaTeX including 1 figure. This work has been supported by a Nuffield Undergraduate Research Bursary
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2298
abstract: Recently, spin-selective radical pair reactions have been studied using concepts from quantum measurement theory. In this Article, we show that the approach taken by Kominis (Physical Review E, 83, 2011, 056118) leads to erroneous results due to a problematic treatment of quantum jumps. Correct consideration of quantum jumps leads to either the traditional master equation or the Jones-Hore master equation.

id: 1110.2308
title: Stochastic Quantization and Casimir Forces
authors: Pablo Rodriguez-Lopez, Ricardo Brito, Rodrigo Soto
comments: Submitted to EPL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2308
abstract: In this paper we show how the stochastic quantization method developed by Parisi and Wu can be used to obtain Casimir forces. Both quantum and thermal fluctuations are taken into account by a Langevin equation for the field. The method allows the Casimir force to be obtained directly, derived from the stress tensor instead of the free energy. It only requires the spectral decomposition of the Laplacian operator in the given geometry. The formalism provides also an expression for the fluctuations of the force. As an application we compute the Casimir force on the plates of a finite piston of arbitrary cross section. Fluctuations of the force are also directly obtained, and it is shown that, in the piston case, the variance of the force is twice the force squared.

id: 1110.2312
title: Spontaneous breaking of permutation symmetry in pseudo-Hermitian quantum mechanics
authors: Jun-Qing Li, Yan-Gang Miao
comments: 16 pages, no figures; v2: 21 pages, clarifications and references added; v3: minor modification, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042110 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2312
abstract: By adding an imaginary interacting term proportional to ip_1p_2 to the Hamiltonian of a free anisotropic planar oscillator, we construct a new model which is described by the PT-pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonian with the permutation symmetry of two dimensions. We prove that our model is equivalent to the Pais-Uhlenbeck oscillator and thus establish a relationship between our PT-pseudo-Hermitian system and the fourth-order derivative oscillator model. We also point out the spontaneous breaking of permutation symmetry which plays a crucial role in giving a real spectrum free of interchange of positive and negative energy levels in our model. Moreover, we find that the permutation symmetry of two dimensions in our Hamiltonian corresponds to the identity (not in magnitude but in attribute) of two different frequencies in the Pais-Uhlenbeck oscillator, and reveal that the unequal-frequency condition imposed as a prerequisite upon the Pais-Uhlenbeck oscillator can reasonably be explained as the spontaneous breaking of this identity.

id: 1110.2346
title: Feynman Path Integral approach to electron diffraction for one and two slits, analytical results
authors: Mathieu Beau
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2346
abstract: In this article we present an analytic solution of the famous problem of diffraction and interference of electrons through one and two slits (for simplicity, only the one-dimensional case is considered). In addition to exact formulas, we exhibit various approximations of the electron distribution which facilitate the interpretation of the results. Our derivation is based on the Feynman path integral formula and this work could therefore also serve as an interesting pedagogical introduction to Feynman's formulation of quantum mechanics for university students dealing with the foundations of quantum mechanics.

id: 1110.2364
title: Single photon absorption and dynamic control of a coupled quantum dot-cavity system
authors: Robert Johne, Andrea Fiore
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053850 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2364
abstract: We theoretically investigate the dynamic interaction of a quantum dot in a nanocavity with timesymmetric single photon pulses. The simulations, based on a wavefunction approach, reveal that almost perfect single photon absorption occurs for quantum dot-cavity systems operating on the edge between strong and weak coupling regime. The computed maximum absorptions probability is close to unity for pulses with a typical length comparable to the half of the Rabi period. Furthermore, the dynamic control of the quantum dot energy via electric fields allows the freezing of the light-matter interaction leaving the quantum dot in its excited state. Shaping of single photon wavepackets by the electric field control is limited by the occurrence of chirping of the single photon pulse. This understanding of the interaction of single photon pulses with the quantum dot-cavity system provides the basis for the development of advanced protocols for quantum information processing in the solid state.

id: 1110.2371
title: Maximally and minimally correlated states attainable within a closed evolving system
authors: Sania Jevtic, David Jennings, Terry Rudolph
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 110403 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2371
abstract: The amount of correlation attainable between the components of a quantum system is constrained if the system is closed. We provide some examples, largely from the field of quantum thermodynamics, where knowing the maximal possible variation in correlations is useful. The optimization problem it raises requires us to search for the maximally and minimally correlated states on a unitary orbit, with and without energy conservation. This is fully solvable for the smallest system of two qubits. For larger systems the problem is reduced to a manageable, classical optimization.

id: 1110.2394
title: Testing microscopic discretization
authors: Miguel Navascues, David Perez-Garcia, Ignacio Villanueva
comments: Proof of strong NP-hardness. Connection with random walks. New asymptotic results. Numerous typos corrected
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 085304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2394
abstract: What can we say about the spectra of a collection of microscopic variables when only their coarse-grained sums are experimentally accessible? In this paper, using the tools and methodology from the study of quantum nonlocality, we develop a mathematical theory of the macroscopic fluctuations generated by ensembles of independent microscopic discrete systems. We provide algorithms to decide which multivariate gaussian distributions can be approximated by sums of finitely-valued random vectors. We study non-trivial cases where the microscopic variables have an unbounded range, as well as asymptotic scenarios with infinitely many macroscopic variables. From a foundational point of view, our results imply that bipartite gaussian states of light cannot be understood as beams of independent d-dimensional particle pairs. It is also shown that the classical description of certain macroscopic optical experiments, as opposed to the quantum one, requires variables with infinite cardinality spectra.

id: 1110.2415
title: Uncertainty relation for photons
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula, Zofia Bialynicka-Birula
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 140401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2415
abstract: Uncertainty relation for photons that overcomes the difficulties caused by the nonexistence of the photon position operator is derived in quantum electrodynamics. The photon energy density plays the role of the probability density in configuration space. It is shown that the measure of the spatial extension based on the energy distribution in space combined with a measure of the spread in the photon momentum leads to an inequality that is a natural counterpart of the standard Heisenberg relation. Unexpectedly, the equation satisfied by the photon wave function in momentum space which saturates the uncertainty relations has the form of the Schr\"odinger equation in coordinate space in the presence of electric and magnetic charges.

id: 1110.2431
title: Optimally chosen Nakajima-Zwanzig master equation for mean field approximation
authors: Joshua Wilkie, Yin Mei Wong
comments: 25 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2431
abstract: We define an ensemble of projection operators, each of which has an exact associated Nakajima-Zwanzig master equation for quantum open system evolution. A mean field approximation for the memory kernels is introduced that yields, for an optimally chosen projection operator, a completely determined inhomogeneous master equation. Previous proofs of positivity and equilibration are extended to these new inhomogeneous non-Markovian master equations. We study a nitrogen vacancy center in diamond interacting with 13C impurities to illustrate the method.

id: 1110.2433
title: Wave and Particle Limit for Multiple Barrier Tunneling
authors: Stefano De Leo, Pietro Rotelli
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: Journal of Physics A 44, 435305-15 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2433
abstract: The particle approach to one-dimensional potential scattering is applied to non relativistic tunnelling between two, three and four identical barriers. We demonstrate as expected that the infinite sum of particle contributions yield the plane wave results. In particular, the existence of resonance/transparency for twin tunnelling in the wave limit is immediately obvious. The known resonances for three and four barriers are also derived. The transition from the wave limit to the particle limit is exhibit numerically.

id: 1110.2476
title: Dynamical rotational frequency shift
authors: Iwo Bialynicki-Birula, Zofia Bialynicka-Birula
comments: To appear in The Angular Momentum of Light, edited by D. Andrews and M. Babiker, CUP 2011
journal: The Angular Momentum of Light, CUP 2012, pp. 162-173
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2476
abstract: The term rotational frequency shift (RFS) has been used in different contexts and it was given different meanings. Other terms have also been used (azimuthal Doppler shift, angular Doppler shift) to describe various related phenomena. In this article we stick to the meaning of the rotational frequency shift given by us in Phys. Rev. Lett.78, 2539 (1977). In order to make a clear distinction between our RFS and other related shifts we use the term dynamical RFS (DRFS). We will study the spectral properties of radiation emitted by rotating quantum sources.

id: 1110.2494
title: Spectral Gap Amplification
authors: Rolando D. Somma, Sergio Boixo
comments: 14 pages. New version has an improved section on adiabatic simulations of quantum circuits
journal: SIAM Journal on Computing, 42 (2013) 593--610
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2494
abstract: A large number of problems in science can be solved by preparing a specific eigenstate of some Hamiltonian H. The generic cost of quantum algorithms for these problems is determined by the inverse spectral gap of H for that eigenstate and the cost of evolving with H for some fixed time. The goal of spectral gap amplification is to construct a Hamiltonian H' with the same eigenstate as H but a bigger spectral gap, requiring that constant-time evolutions with H' and H are implemented with nearly the same cost. We show that a quadratic spectral gap amplification is possible when H satisfies a frustration-free property and give H' for these cases. This results in quantum speedups for optimization problems. It also yields improved constructions for adiabatic simulations of quantum circuits and for the preparation of projected entangled pair states (PEPS), which play an important role in quantum many-body physics. Defining a suitable black-box model, we establish that the quadratic amplification is optimal for frustration-free Hamiltonians and that no spectral gap amplification is possible, in general, if the frustration-free property is removed. A corollary is that finding a similarity transformation between a stoquastic Hamiltonian and the corresponding stochastic matrix is hard in the black-box model, setting limits to the power of some classical methods that simulate quantum adiabatic evolutions.

id: 1110.2530
title: The quantumness of correlations revealed in local measurements exceeds entanglement
authors: Marco Piani, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures; terminology slightly revised, few remarks added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 040301(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2530
abstract: We analyze a family of measures of general quantum correlations for composite systems, defined in terms of the bipartite entanglement necessarily created between systems and apparatuses during local measurements. For every entanglement monotone $E$, this operational correspondence provides a different measure $Q_E$ of quantum correlations. Examples of such measures are the relative entropy of quantumness, the quantum deficit, and the negativity of quantumness. In general, we prove that any so defined quantum correlation measure is always greater than (or equal to) the corresponding entanglement between the subsystems, $Q_E \ge E$, for arbitrary states of composite quantum systems. We analyze qualitatively and quantitatively the flow of correlations in iterated measurements, showing that general quantum correlations and entanglement can never decrease along von Neumann chains, and that genuine multipartite entanglement in the initial state of the observed system always gives rise to genuine multipartite entanglement among all subsystems and all measurement apparatuses at any level in the chain. Our results provide a comprehensive framework to understand and quantify general quantum correlations in multipartite states.

id: 1110.2532
title: Gaussian geometric discord
authors: Gerardo Adesso, Davide Girolami
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures. To appear in IJQI Special Issue on Quantum Correlations: Entanglement and beyond
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 9, 1773 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2532
abstract: We extend the geometric measure of quantum discord, introduced and computed for two-qubit states in [B. Dakic, C. Brukner, and V. Vedral, Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 190502 (2010)], to quantify non-classical correlations in composite Gaussian states of continuous variable systems. We lay the formalism for the evaluation of a Gaussian geometric discord in two-mode Gaussian states, and present explicit formulas for the class of two-mode squeezed thermal states. In such a case, under physical constraints of bounded mean energy, geometric discord is shown to admit upper and lower bounds for a fixed value of the conventional (entropic) quantum discord. We finally discuss alternative geometric approaches to quantify Gaussian quadrature correlations.

id: 1110.2553
title: Quantum Repeaters based on Deterministic Storage of a Single Photon in distant Atomic Ensembles
authors: D. Aghamalyan, Yu. Malakyan
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.A 84, 042305 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2553
abstract: Quantum repeaters hold the promise to prevent the photon losses in communication channels. Most recently, the serious efforts have been applied to achieve scalable distribution of entanglement over long distances. However, the probabilistic nature of entanglement generation and realistic quantum memory storage times make the implementation of quantum repeaters an outstanding experimental challenge. We propose a quantum repeater protocol based on the deterministic storage of a single photon in atomic ensembles confined in distant high-finesse cavities and show that this system is capable of distributing the entanglement over long distances with a much higher rate as compared to previous protocols, thereby alleviating the limitations on the quantum memory lifetime by several orders of magnitude. Our scheme is robust with respect to phase fluctuations in the quantum channel, while the fidelity imperfection is fixed and negligibly small at each step of entanglement swapping.

id: 1110.2594
title: Schemes of transmission of classical information via quantum channels with many senders: discrete and continuous variables cases
authors: L. Czekaj, J. K. Korbicz, R. W. Chhajlany, P. Horodecki
comments: 19 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012316 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2594
abstract: Superadditivity effects in the classical capacity of discrete multi-access channels (MACs) and continuous variable (CV) Gaussian MACs are analysed. New examples of the manifestation of superadditivity in the discrete case are provided including, in particular, a channel which is fully symmetric with respect to all senders. Furthermore, we consider a class of channels for which {\it input entanglement across more than two copies of the channels is necessary} to saturate the asymptotic rate of transmission from one of the senders to the receiver. The 5-input entanglement of Shor error correction codewords surpass the capacity attainable by using arbitrary two-input entanglement for these channels. In the CV case, we consider the properties of the two channels (a beam-splitter channel and a "non-demolition" XP gate channel) analyzed in [Czekaj {\it et al.}, Phys. Rev. A {\bf 82}, 020302 (R) (2010)] in greater detail and also consider the sensitivity of capacity superadditivity effects to thermal noise. We observe that the estimates of amount of two-mode squeezing required to achieve capacity superadditivity are more optimistic than previously reported.

id: 1110.2750
title: Non-locality of energy separating transformations for Dirac electrons in a magnetic field
authors: Tomasz M. Rusin, Wlodek Zawadzki
comments: 11 pages 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 315301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2750
abstract: We investigate a non-locality of Moss-Okninski transformation (MOT) used to separate positive and negative energy states in the 3+1 Dirac equation for relativistic electrons in the presence of a magnetic field. Properties of functional kernels generated by the MOT are analyzed and kernel non-localities are characterized by calculating their second moments parallel and perpendicular to the magnetic field. Transformed functions are described and investigated by computing their variances. It is shown that the non-locality of the energy-separating transformation in the direction parallel to the magnetic field is characterized by the Compton wavelength $\lambda_c=\hbar/mc$. In the plane transverse to magnetic field the non-locality depends both on magnetic radius $L=(\hbar/eB)^{1/2}$ and $\lambda_c$. The non-locality of MO transformation for the 2+1 Dirac equation is also considered.

id: 1110.2900
title: Spectra of Harmonium in a magnetic field using an initial value representation of the semiclassical propagator
authors: Frank Grossmann, Tobias Kramer
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2900
abstract: For two Coulombically interacting electrons in a quantum dot with harmonic confinement and a constant magnetic field, we show that time-dependent semiclassical calculations using the Herman-Kluk initial value representation of the propagator lead to eigenvalues of the same accuracy as WKB calculations with Langer correction. The latter are restricted to integrable systems, however, whereas the time-dependent initial value approach allows for applications to high-dimensional, possibly chaotic dynamics and is extendable to arbitrary shapes of the potential.

id: 1110.2901
title: Why momentum width matters for atom interferometry with Bragg pulses
authors: Stuart S. Szigeti, John E. Debs, Joseph J. Hope, Nicholas P. Robins, John D. Close
comments: 25 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2901
abstract: We theoretically consider the effect of the atomic source's momentum width on the efficiency of Bragg mirrors and beamsplitters and, more generally, on the phase sensitivity of Bragg pulse atom interferometers. By numerical optimization, we show that an atomic cloud's momentum width places a fundamental upper bound on the maximum transfer efficiency of a Bragg mirror pulse, and furthermore limits the phase sensitivity of a Bragg pulse atom interferometer. We quantify these momentum width effects, and precisely compute how mirror efficiencies and interferometer phase sensitivities vary as functions of Bragg order and source type. Our results and methodology allow for an efficient optimization of Bragg pulses and the comparison of different atomic sources, and will help in the design of large momentum transfer Bragg mirrors and beamsplitters for use in atom-based inertial sensors.

id: 1110.2978
title: Hybrid quantum circuit with a superconducting qubit coupled to a spin ensemble
authors: Y. Kubo, C. Grezes, A. Dewes, T. Umeda, J. Isoya, H. Sumiya, N. Morishita, H. Abe, S. Onoda, T. Ohshima, V. Jacques, A. Dr¨¦au, J.-F. Roch, I. Diniz, A. Auffeves, D. Vion, D. Esteve, P. Bertet
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures, plus supplementary information
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 220501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2978
abstract: We report the experimental realization of a hybrid quantum circuit combining a superconducting qubit and an ensemble of electronic spins. The qubit, of the transmon type, is coherently coupled to the spin ensemble consisting of nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in a diamond crystal via a frequency-tunable superconducting resonator acting as a quantum bus. Using this circuit, we prepare arbitrary superpositions of the qubit states that we store into collective excitations of the spin ensemble and retrieve back later on into the qubit. These results constitute a first proof of concept of spin-ensemble based quantum memory for superconducting qubits.

id: 1110.2994
title: Large-time evolution of electron in photon bath
authors: Kirill Kazakov, Vladimir Nikitin
comments: 26 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2994
abstract: The problem of infrared divergence of the effective electromagnetic field produced by elementary charges is revisited using the model of an electron freely evolving in a photon bath. It is shown that for any finite travel time, the effective field of the electron is infrared-finite, and that in each order of perturbation theory the radiative contributions grow without bound in the large-time limit. Using the Schwinger-Keldysh formalism, factorization of divergent contributions in multi-loop diagrams is proved, and summation of the resulting infinite series is performed. It is demonstrated that the effective electromagnetic field of the electron vanishes in the large-time limit, and that this vanishing respects the total charge conservation and the Gauss law. It is concluded that the physical meaning of infrared singularity in the effective field is the existence of a peculiar irreversible spreading of electric charges, caused by their interaction with the photon field. This spreading exists in vacuum as well as at finite temperature, and shows itself in a damping of the off-diagonal elements of the momentum-space density matrix of electron, but does not affect its momentum probability distribution. It precludes preparation of spatially localized particle states at finite times by operating with free particle states in the remote past. Relationship of the obtained results to the Bloch-Nordsieck theorem is established, and discussed from the standpoint of measurability of the electromagnetic field. The effect of irreversible spreading on the electron diffraction in the classic two-slit experiment is determined, and is shown to be detectable in principle by modern devices already at room temperature.

id: 1110.2998
title: Equivalent Quantum Circuits
authors: Juan Carlos Garcia-Escartin, Pedro Chamorro-Posada
comments: 12 pages. Tutorial on quantum circuit analysis. Graphical point of view based on circuit equivalences. Many figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2998
abstract: Quantum algorithms and protocols are often presented as quantum circuits for a better understanding. We give a list of equivalence rules which can help in the analysis and design of quantum circuits. As example applications we study quantum teleportation and dense coding protocols in terms of a simple XOR swapping circuit and give an intuitive picture of a basic gate teleportation circuit.

id: 1110.3026
title: Monogamy of quantum correlations in three qubit pure states using Rajagopal-Rendell (RR) quantum deficit
authors: Sudha, A. R. Usha Devi, A. K. Rajagopal
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures, 1 table
journal: Physical Review A 85, 012103 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3026
abstract: The limitation on the shareability of quantum entanglement over several parties, the so-called monogamy of entanglement, is an issue that has caught considerable attention of quantum informa- tion community over the last decade. A natural question of interest in this connection is whether monogamy of correlations is true for correlations other than entanglement. This issue is examined here by choosing quantum deficit, proposed by Rajagopal and Rendell, an operational measure of correlations. In addition to establishing the polygamous nature of the class of three qubit sym- metric pure states characterized by two distinct Majorana spinors (to which the W states belong), those with three distinct Majorana spinors (to which GHZ states belong) are shown to either obey or violate monogamy relations. While the generalized W states can be mono/polygamous, the generalized GHZ states exhibit monogamy with respect to quantum deficit. The issue of us- ing monogamy conditions based on quantum deficit to witness the states belonging to SLOCC inequivalent classes is discussed in the light of these results.

id: 1110.3057
title: Quantum Correlations in Large-Dimensional States of High Symmetry
authors: Eric Chitambar
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032110 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3057
abstract: In this article, we investigate how quantum correlations behave for the so-called Werner and pseudo-pure families of states. The latter refers to states formed by mixing any pure state with the totally mixed state. We derive closed expressions for the Quantum Discord (QD) and the Relative Entropy of Quantumness (REQ) for these families of states. For Werner states, the classical correlations are seen to vanish in high dimensions while the amount of quantum correlations remain bounded and become independent of whether or not the the state is entangled. For pseudo-pure states, nearly the opposite effect is observed with both the quantum and classical correlations growing without bound as the dimension increases and only as the system becomes more entangled. Finally, we verify that pseudo-pure states satisfy the conjecture of [\textit{Phys. Rev. A} \textbf{84}, 052110 (2011)] which says that the Geometric Measure of Discord (GD) always upper bounds the squared Negativity of the state.

id: 1110.3060
title: Breakdown of the classical description of a local system
authors: Eran Kot, Niels Gr?nbech-Jensen, Bo M. Nielsen, Jonas S. Neergaard-Nielsen, Eugene S. Polzik, Anders S. S?rensen
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3060
abstract: We provide a straightforward demonstration of a fundamental difference between classical and quantum mechanics for a single local system; namely the absence of a joint probability distribution of the position $x$ and momentum $p$. Elaborating on a recently reported criterion by Bednorz and Belzig [Phys. Rev. A {\bf 83}, 52113] we derive a simple criterion that must be fulfilled for any joint probability distribution in classical physics. We demonstrate the violation of this criterion using homodyne measurement of a single photon state, thus proving a straightforward signature of the breakdown of a classical description of the underlying state. Most importantly, the criterion used does not rely on quantum mechanics and can thus be used to demonstrate non-classicality of systems not immediately apparent to exhibit quantum behavior. The criterion is directly applicable any system described by the continuous canonical variables x and p, such as a mechanical or an electrical oscillator and a collective spin of a large ensemble.

id: 1110.3067
title: How to best sample a periodic probability distribution, or on the accuracy of Hamiltonian finding strategies
authors: Christopher Ferrie, Christopher E. Granade, D. G. Cory
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, 3 appendices; Quantum Information Processing, Online First, 20 April 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3067
abstract: Projective measurements of a single two-level quantum mechanical system (a qubit) evolving under a time-independent Hamiltonian produce a probability distribution that is periodic in the evolution time. The period of this distribution is an important parameter in the Hamiltonian. Here, we explore how to design experiments so as to minimize error in the estimation of this parameter. While it has been shown that useful results may be obtained by minimizing the risk incurred by each experiment, such an approach is computationally intractable in general. Here, we motivate and derive heuristic strategies for experiment design that enjoy the same exponential scaling as fully optimized strategies. We then discuss generalizations to the case of finite relaxation times, T_2 < \infty.

id: 1110.3127
title: Hamilton's turns as visual tool-kit for designing of single-qubit unitary gates
authors: B. Neethi Simon, C. M. Chandrashekar, Sudhavathani Simon
comments: 16 Pages, 14 Figures, Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022323 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3127
abstract: Unitary evolutions of a qubit are traditionally represented geometrically as rotations of the Bloch sphere, but the composition of such evolutions is handled algebraically through matrix multiplication [of SU(2) or SO(3) matrices]. Hamilton's construct, called turns, provides for handling the latter pictorially through the as addition of directed great circle arcs on the unit sphere S$^2 \subset \mathbb{R}^3$, resulting in a non-Abelian version of the parallelogram law of vector addition of the Euclidean translation group. This construct is developed into a visual tool-kit for handling the design of single-qubit unitary gates. As an application, it is shown, in the concrete case wherein the qubit is realized as polarization states of light, that all unitary gates can be realized conveniently through a universal gadget consisting of just two quarter-wave plates (QWP) and one half-wave plate (HWP). The analysis and results easily transcribe to other realizations of the qubit: The case of NMR is obtained by simply substituting $\pi/2$ and $\pi$ pulses respectively for QWPs and HWPs, the phases of the pulses playing the role of the orientation of fast axes of these plates.

id: 1110.3139
title: Testing quantum entanglement with local measurement
authors: Qing Xie, X.-X. Wu, X.-M. Ding, W.-L. Yang, R.-H. Yue, H. Fan
comments: 5 pages
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett. 29, 070306 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3139
abstract: We propose to detect quantum entanglement by a condition of local measurments. We find that this condition can detect efficiently the pure entangled states for both discrete and continuous variable systems. It does not depend on interference of decoherence from noise and detection loss in some systems, which allows a loophole-free test in real experiments. In particular, it is a necessary condition for the violation of some generalized Bell inequalities.

id: 1110.3186
title: Escape behaviour of a quantum particle in a loop coupled to a lead
authors: Ph. A. Jacquet
comments: 33 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3186
abstract: We consider a one-dimensional loop of circumference $L$ crossed by a constant magnetic flux $\Phi$ and connected to an infinite lead with coupling parameter $\epsilon$. Assuming that the initial state $\psi_0$ of the particle is confined inside the loop and evolves freely, we analyse the time evolution of the nonescape probability $P(\psi_0,L,\Phi,\epsilon,t)$, which is the probability that the particle will still be inside the loop at some later time $t$.

id: 1110.3190
title: Quantum Computing: Theoretical versus Practical Possibility
authors: G. S. Paraoanu
comments: 14 pages
journal: Phys. Perspect. 13 (2011), 359-372
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3190
abstract: An intense effort is being made today to build a quantum computer. Instead of presenting what has been achieved, I invoke here analogies from the history of science in an attempt to glimpse what the future might hold. Quantum computing is possible in principle - there are no known laws of Nature that prevent it - yet scaling up the few qubits demonstrated so far has proven to be exceedingly difficult. While this could be regarded merely as a technological or practical impediment, I argue that this difficulty might be a symptom of new laws of physics waiting to be discovered. I also introduce a distinction between "strong" and "weak" emergentist positions. The former assumes that a critical value of a parameter exists (one that is most likely related to the complexity of the states involved) at which the quantum-mechanical description breaks down, in other words, that quantum mechanics will turn out to be an incomplete description of reality. The latter assumes that quantum mechanics will remain as a universally valid theory, but that the classical resources required to build a real quantum computer scale up with the number of qubits, which hints that a limiting principle is at work.

id: 1110.3234
title: Gaussian Quantum Information
authors: Christian Weedbrook, Stefano Pirandola, Raul Garcia-Patron, Nicolas J. Cerf, Timothy C. Ralph, Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Seth Lloyd
comments: 51 pages, 7 figures, submitted to Reviews of Modern Physics
journal: Reviews of Modern Physics 84, 621 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3234
abstract: The science of quantum information has arisen over the last two decades centered on the manipulation of individual quanta of information, known as quantum bits or qubits. Quantum computers, quantum cryptography and quantum teleportation are among the most celebrated ideas that have emerged from this new field. It was realized later on that using continuous-variable quantum information carriers, instead of qubits, constitutes an extremely powerful alternative approach to quantum information processing. This review focuses on continuous-variable quantum information processes that rely on any combination of Gaussian states, Gaussian operations, and Gaussian measurements. Interestingly, such a restriction to the Gaussian realm comes with various benefits, since on the theoretical side, simple analytical tools are available and, on the experimental side, optical components effecting Gaussian processes are readily available in the laboratory. Yet, Gaussian quantum information processing opens the way to a wide variety of tasks and applications, including quantum communication, quantum cryptography, quantum computation, quantum teleportation, and quantum state and channel discrimination. This review reports on the state of the art in this field, ranging from the basic theoretical tools and landmark experimental realizations to the most recent successful developments.

id: 1110.3300
title: Entanglement of disjoint blocks in the one dimensional Spin 1 VBS
authors: Raul A. Santos, Vladimir Korepin
comments: 28 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 125307
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3300
abstract: Starting with the valence bond solid (VBS) ground state of the 1D AKLT Hamiltonian, we make a partition of the system in 2 subsystems $A$ and $B$, where $A$ is a block of $L$ consecutive spins and $B$ is it's complement. In that setting we compute the partial transpose density matrix with respect to $A$, $\rho^{T_A}$. We obtain the spectrum of the transposed density matrix of the VBS pure system. Subsequently we define two disjoint blocks, $A$ and $B$ containing $L_A$ and $L_B$ spins respectively, separated by $L$ sites. Tracing away the spins which do not belong to $A\cup B$, we find an expression for the reduced density matrix of the $A$ and $B$ blocks $\rho(A,B)$. With this expression (in the thermodynamic limit), we compute the entanglement spectrum and other several entanglement measures, as the purity $P={\rm tr}(\rho(A,B)^2)$, the negativity $\mathcal{N}$, and the mutual entropy.

id: 1110.3329
title: Two-photon quantum interference from separate nitrogen vacancy centers in diamond
authors: Hannes Bernien, Lilian Childress, Lucio Robledo, Matthew Markham, Daniel Twitchen, Ronald Hanson
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 043604 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3329
abstract: We report on the observation of quantum interference of the emission from two separate nitrogen vacancy (NV) centers in diamond. Taking advantage of optically induced spin polarization in combination with polarization filtering, we isolate a single transition within the zero-phonon line of the non-resonantly excited NV centers. The time-resolved two-photon interference contrast of this filtered emission reaches 66%. Furthermore, we observe quantum interference from dissimilar NV centers tuned into resonance through the dc Stark effect. These results pave the way towards measurement-based entanglement between remote NV centers and the realization of quantum networks with solid-state spins.

id: 1110.3331
title: Quantum phases with differing computational power
authors: Jian Cui, Mile Gu, Leong Chuan Kwek, Marcelo Fran?a Santos, Heng Fan, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, with published title "Quantum phases with differing computational power"
journal: Nat. Commun. 3: 812 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3331
abstract: The observation that concepts from quantum information has generated many alternative indicators of quantum phase transitions hints that quantum phase transitions possess operational significance with respect to the processing of quantum information. Yet, studies on whether such transitions lead to quantum phases that differ in their capacity to process information remain limited. Here We show that there exist quantum phase transitions that cause a distinct qualitative change in our ability to simulate certain quantum systems under perturbation of an external field by local operations and classical communication. In particular, we show that in certain quantum phases of the XY model, adiabatic perturbations of the external magnetic field can be simulated by local spin operations, whereas the resulting effect within other phases results in coherent non-local interactions. We discuss the potential implications to adiabatic quantum computation, where a computational advantage exists only when adiabatic perturbation results in coherent multi-body interactions.

id: 1110.3337
title: Effective quantum equations for the semiclassical description of the Hydrogen atom
authors: Guillermo Chac¨®n-Acosta, H¨¦ctor H. Hern¨¢ndez
comments: 22 pages, 28 Figures, PACS numbers: 03.65.-w, 03.65.Sq The full document was restructured and rewritten, some subsections were removed and 12 figures were added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3337
abstract: We study the Hydrogen atom as a quantum mechanical system with a Coulomb like potential, with a semiclassical approach based on an effective description of quantum mechanics. This treatment allows us to describe the quantum state of the system as a system of infinite many classical equations for expectation values of configuration variables, their moments and quantum dispersions. It also provides a semiclassical description of the orbits and the evolution of observables and spreadings and their back-reaction on the evolution.

id: 1110.3348
title: Open quantum dynamics of single-photon optomechanical devices
authors: Ting Hong, Huan Yang, Haixing Miao, Yanbei Chen
comments: 14 pages and 9 figures. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3348
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of a Michelson interferometer with Fabry-Perot cavity arms and one movable end mirror, and driven by a single photon --- an optomechanical device previously studied by Marshall et al. as a device that searches for gravity decoherence. We obtain an exact analytical solution for the system's quantum mechanical equations of motion, including details about the exchange of the single photon between the cavity mode and the external continuum. The resulting time evolution of the interferometer's fringe visibility displays interesting new features when the incoming photon's frequency uncertainty is narrower or comparable to the cavity's line width --- only in the limiting case of much broader-band photon does the result return to that of Marshall et al., but in this case the photon is not very likely to enter the cavity and interact with the mirror, making the experiment less efficient and more susceptible to imperfections. In addition, we show that in the strong-coupling regime, by engineering the incoming photon's wave function, it is possible to prepare the movable mirror into an arbitrary quantum state of a multi-dimensional Hilbert space.

id: 1110.3359
title: Mean field description of the Dicke Model
authors: Jorge G. Hirsch, Octavio Castanos, Ramon Lopez-Pena, Eduardo Nahmad-Achar
comments: To appear in the Proc. of FPP6 - Foundations of Probability and Physics-6 conference at Linnaeus University in V\"axj\"o, Sweden, June 13-16, 2011, American Institute of Physics Conference Proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3359
abstract: A mean field description of the Dicke model is presented, employing the Holstein-Primakoff realization of the angular momentum algebra. It is shown that, in the thermodynamic limit, when the number of atoms interacting with the photons goes to infinity the energy surface takes a simple form, allowing for a direct description of many observables.

id: 1110.3396
title: Quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno effects induced by either frequent measurements, modulations, or a mix of them
authors: Wenxian Zhang, A. G. Kofman, Jun Zhuang, J. Q. You, Franco Nori
comments: 7 pages, 4 eps figures, RevTex 4 format
journal: Phys. Lett. A 377, 1837-1843 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3396
abstract: Using numerical calculations, we compare the collective transition probabilities of many spins in random magnetic fields, subject to either frequent projective measurements, frequent phase modulations, or a mix of modulations and measurements. For three different distribution functions (Gaussian, Lorentzian, and exponential) we consider here, the transition probability under frequent modulations is suppressed most if the pulse delay is short and the evolution time is larger than a critical value. Furthermore, decoherence freezing (with a transition rate equals to zero) occurs when there are frequent phase modulations, while the transition rate only decreases when there are frequent measurements and a mix of them, as the pulse delay approaches zero. In the large pulse-delay region, however, the transition probabilities under frequent modulations are enhanced more than those under either frequent measurements or a mix of modulations and measurements.

id: 1110.3418
title: Creation of quantum correlations between two atoms in a dissipative environment from an initial vacuum state
authors: Ferdi Altintas, Resul Eryigit
comments: Effects of counter-rotating interaction terms on quantum discord
journal: Physics Letters A 376 (2012) pp. 1791-1796
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3418
abstract: We have investigated the effect of counter-rotating terms on the dynamics of entanglement and quantum discord between two identical atoms interacting with a lossy single mode cavity field for a system initially in a vacuum state. The counter-rotating terms are found to lead to steady states in the long time limit which can have high quantum discord, but have no entanglement. The effect of cavity decay rate on this steady state quantum discord has been also investigated, surprisingly, the increase in cavity decay rate is found to both enhance and maximize the steady quantum discord for separable states.

id: 1110.3456
title: Dissipative dynamics of few-photons superposition states: A dynamical invariant
authors: Hong-Yan Wen, Jing Cheng, Y. Yang, L. F. Wei
comments: 17 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3456
abstract: By numerically calculating the time-evolved Wigner functions, we investigate the dynamics of a few-photon superposed (e.g., up to two ones) state in a dissipating cavity. It is shown that, the negativity of the Wigner function of the photonic state unquestionably vanishes with the cavity's dissipation. As a consequence, the nonclassical effects related to the negativity of the Wigner function should be weakened gradually. However, it is found that the value of the second-order correlation function $g^{(2)}(0)$ (which serves usually as the standard criterion of a typical nonclassical effect, i.e., $g^{(2)}(0)<1$ implies that the photon is anti-bunching) is a dynamical invariant during the dissipative process of the cavity. This feature is also proven analytically and suggests that $g^{(2)}(0)$ might not be a good physical parameter to describe the photonic decays. Alternatively, we find that the anti-normal-order correlation function $g^{(2A)}(0)$ changes with the cavity's dissipation and thus is more suitable to describe the dissipative-dependent cavity. Finally, we propose an experimental approach to test the above arguments with a practically-existing cavity QED system.

id: 1110.3478
title: Coherent control of collective atom phase for ultralong, inversion-free photon echoes
authors: B. S. Ham
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3478
abstract: To overcome fundamental limitations of the \pi optical pulse-induced population inversion and optical decay-caused short storage time in conventional photon echoes, a coherent control of collective atoms is studied for inversion-free, optical decay-halted photon echoes, where the constraint of photon storage time is now replaced by a spin population decay process. Using phase-controlled double rephasing, an inversion-free photon echo scheme is obtained, where no spontaneous or stimulated emission-driven quantum noise exists. Thus, the present method can be applied for ultralong quantum memories in quantum repeaters for long-distance quantum communications.

id: 1110.3499
title: Measurement-induced nonlocality for an arbitrary bipartite state
authors: Sayyed Yahya Mirafzali, Iman Sargolzahi, Ali Ahanj, Kurosh Javidan, Mohsen Sarbishaei
comments: 6 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3499
abstract: Measurement-induced nonlocality is a measure of nonlocalty introduced by Luo and Fu [Phys. Rev. Lett \textbf{106}, 120401 (2011)]. In this paper, we study the problem of evaluation of Measurement-induced nonlocality (MIN) for an arbitrary $m\times n$ dimensional bipartite density matrix $\rho$ for the case where one of its reduced density matrix, $\rho^{a}$, is degenerate (the nondegenerate case was explained in the preceding reference). Suppose that, in general, $\rho^{a}$ has $d$ degenerate subspaces with dimension $m_{i} (m_{i} \leq m, i=1, 2, ..., d)$. We show that according to the degeneracy of $\rho^{a}$, if we expand $\rho$ in a suitable basis, the evaluation of MIN for an $m\times n$ dimensional state $\rho$, is degraded to finding the MIN in the $m_{i}\times n$ dimensional subspaces of state $\rho$. This method can reduce the calculations in the evaluation of MIN. Moreover, for an arbitrary $m\times n$ state $\rho$ for which $m_{i}\leq 2$, our method leads to the exact value of the MIN. Also, we obtain an upper bound for MIN which can improve the ones introduced in the above mentioned reference. In the final, we explain the evaluation of MIN for $3\times n$ dimensional states in details.

id: 1110.3501
title: On the properties of the Volkov solutions of the Klein-Gordon equation
authors: Madalina Boca
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 445303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3501
abstract: We present an elementary proof based on a direct calculation of the property of completeness at constant time of the solutions of the Klein-Gordon equation for a charged particle in a plane wave electromagnetic field. We also review different forms of the orthogonality and completeness relations previously presented in the literature and we discuss the possibility to construct the Feynman propagator for the particle in a plane-wave laser pulse as an expansion in terms of Volkov solutions. We show that this leads to a rigorous justification for the expression of the transition amplitude, currently used in the literature, for a class of laser assisted or laser induced processes.

id: 1110.3509
title: Quantum resonance, Anderson localisation and selective manipulations in molecular mixtures by ultrashort laser pulses
authors: Johannes Flo?, Ilya Sh. Averbukh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3509
abstract: We demonstrate that the current laser technology used for field-free molecular alignment via a cascade of Raman rotational transitions allows for observing long-discussed non-linear quantum phenomena in the dynamics of the periodically kicked rotor. This includes the scaling of the absorbed energy near the conditions of quantum resonance and Anderson-like localisation in the angular momentum. Based on these findings, we suggest a novel approach to tunable selective rotational excitation and alignment in a molecular mixture, using trains of short laser pulses. We demonstrate the efficiency of this approach by applying it to a mixture of two nitrogen isotopologues (14N2 and 15N2), and show that strong selectivity is possible even at room temperature.

id: 1110.3516
title: The structure of reversible computation determines the self-duality of quantum theory
authors: Markus P. Mueller, Cozmin Ududec
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure. v2: published version. Title slightly changed, interpretation of Theorem 2 corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 130401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3516
abstract: Predictions for measurement outcomes in physical theories are usually computed by combining two distinct notions: a state, describing the physical system, and an observable, describing the measurement which is performed. In quantum theory, however, both notions are in some sense identical: outcome probabilities are given by the overlap between two state vectors - quantum theory is self-dual. In this paper, we show that this notion of self-duality can be understood from a dynamical point of view. We prove that self-duality follows from a computational primitive called bit symmetry: every logical bit can be mapped to any other logical bit by a reversible transformation. Specifically, we consider probabilistic theories more general than quantum theory, and prove that every bit-symmetric theory must necessarily be self-dual. We also show that bit symmetry yields stronger restrictions on the set of allowed bipartite states than the no-signalling principle alone, suggesting reversible time evolution as a possible reason for limitations of non-locality.

id: 1110.3537
title: An atomic interface between microwave and optical photons
authors: M. Hafezi, Z. Kim, S. L. Rolston, L. A. Orozco, B. L. Lev., J. M. Taylor
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 020302(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3537
abstract: A complete physical approach to quantum information requires a robust interface among flying qubits, long-lifetime memory and computational qubits. Here we present a unified interface for microwave and optical photons, potentially connecting engineerable quantum devices such as superconducting qubits at long distances through optical photons. Our approach uses an ultracold ensemble of atoms for two purposes: quantum memory and to transduce excitations between the two frequency domains. Using coherent control techniques, we examine an approach for converting and storing quantum information between microwave photons in superconducting resonators, ensembles of ultracold atoms, and optical photons as well as a method for transferring information between two resonators.

id: 1110.3538
title: Optomechanically induced non-reciprocity in microring resonators
authors: Mohammad Hafezi, Peter Rabl
comments: 13 pages, 7 figure, V2: some presentation changes (accepted in optics express)
journal: Optics Express 20, 7672 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3538
abstract: We describe a new approach for on-chip optical non-reciprocity which makes use of strong optomechanical interaction in microring resonators. By optically pumping the ring resonator in one direction, the optomechanical coupling is only enhanced in that direction, and consequently, the system exhibits a non-reciprocal response. For different configurations, this system can function either as an optical isolator or a coherent non-reciprocal phase shifter. We show that the operation of such a device on the level of single-photon could be achieved with existing technology.

id: 1110.3610
title: Reflectivity and transmissivity of an optical cavity coupled to two-level atoms: Coherence properties and the influence of atomic phase noise
authors: Brian Julsgaard, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013844 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3610
abstract: We consider N identical two-level atoms coupled to an optical cavity, which is coherently driven by an external field. In the limit of small atomic excitation, the reflection and transmission coefficients for both fields and intensities are calculated analytically. In addition, the frequency content of the cavity field and hence also the emission spectrum of the cavity is determined. It is discussed in particular how individual collisional dephasing and common atomic energy-level fluctuations prevent the cavity field from being in a coherent state, which in turn affects the outgoing fields.

id: 1110.3623
title: Microscopic theory of energy dissipation and decoherence in solid-state systems: A reformulation of the conventional Markov limit
authors: Michele Pepe, David Taj, Rita Claudia Iotti, Fausto Rossi
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3623
abstract: We present and discuss a general density-matrix description of energy-dissipation and decoherence phenomena in open quantum systems, able to overcome the intrinsic limitations of the conventional Markov approximation. In particular, the proposed alternative adiabatic scheme does not threaten positivity at any time. The key idea of our approach rests in the temporal symmetrization and coarse graining of the scattering term in the Liouville-von Neumann equation, before applying the reduction procedure over the environment degrees of freedom. The resulting dynamics is genuinely Lindblad-like and recovers the Fermi's golden rule features in the semiclassical limit. Applications to the prototypical case of a semiconductor quantum dot exposed to incoherent phonon excitation peaked around a central mode are discussed, highlighting the success of our formalism with respect to the critical issues of the conventional Markov limit.

id: 1110.3646
title: Density Matrix Recursion Method: Genuine Multisite Entanglement Distinguishes Odd from Even Quantum Heisenberg Ladders
authors: Himadri Shekhar Dhar, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, iopart.cls, final edited version
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 013043 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3646
abstract: We introduce an analytical iterative method, the density matrix recursion method, to generate arbitrary reduced density matrices of superpositions of short-range dimer coverings on periodic or non-periodic quantum spin-1/2 ladder lattices, with an arbitrary number of legs. The method can be used to calculate bipartite as well as multipartite physical properties, including bipartite and multi-partite entanglement. We apply this technique to distinguish between even- and odd-legged ladders. Specifically, we show that while genuine multi-partite entanglement decreases with increasing system size for the even-legged ladder states, it does the opposite for odd-legged ones.

id: 1110.3656
title: Nonlocality tests enhanced by a third observer
authors: Daniel Cavalcanti, Rafael Rabelo, Valerio Scarani
comments: 4 pags, 4 figs. v2: fig 3 corrected. V3: refs corrected. Close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 040402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3656
abstract: We consider Bell tests involving bipartite states shared between three parties. We show that the simple inclusion of a third part may greatly simplify the measurement scenario (in terms of the number of measurement settings per part) and allows the identification of previously unknown nonlocal resources.

id: 1110.3721
title: Feasibility of loophole-free nonlocality tests with a single photon
authors: Rafael Chaves, Jonatan Bohr Brask
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062110 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3721
abstract: Recently much interest has been directed towards designing setups that achieve realistic loss thresholds for decisive tests of local realism, in particular in the optical regime. We analyse the feasibility of such Bell tests based on a W-state shared between multiple parties, which can be realised for example by a single photon shared between spatial modes. We develop a general error model to obtain thresholds on the efficiencies required to violate local realism, and also consider two concrete optical measurement schemes.

id: 1110.3725
title: Entanglement frustration in multimode Gaussian states
authors: Cosmo Lupo, Stefano Mancini, Paolo Facchi, Giuseppe Florio, Saverio Pascazio
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. Contribution to "Folding and Unfolding: Interactions from Geometry. Workshop in honour of Giuseppe Marmo's 65th birthday", 8-12 June 2011, Ischia (NA) Italy
journal: Int. J. Geom. Methods Mod. Phys 9, 1260022 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3725
abstract: Bipartite entanglement between two parties of a composite quantum system can be quantified in terms of the purity of one party and there always exists a pure state of the total system that maximizes it (and minimizes purity). When many different bipartitions are considered, the requirement that purity be minimal for all bipartitions gives rise to the phenomenon of entanglement frustration. This feature, observed in quantum systems with both discrete and continuous variables, can be studied by means of a suitable cost function whose minimizers are the maximally multipartite-entangled states (MMES). In this paper we extend the analysis of multipartite entanglement frustration of Gaussian states in multimode bosonic systems. We derive bounds on the frustration, under the constraint of finite mean energy, in the low and high energy limit.

id: 1110.3730
title: Quantum Simulation of Interacting Fermion Lattice Models in Trapped Ions
authors: J. Casanova, A. Mezzacapo, L. Lamata, E. Solano
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures + Supplementary Material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 190502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3730
abstract: We propose a method of simulating efficiently many-body interacting fermion lattice models in trapped ions, including highly nonlinear interactions in arbitrary spatial dimensions and for arbitrarily distant couplings. We map products of fermionic operators onto nonlocal spin operators and decompose the resulting dynamics in efficient steps with Trotter methods, yielding an overall protocol that employs only polynomial resources. The proposed scheme can be relevant in a variety of fields as condensed-matter or high-energy physics, where quantum simulations may solve problems intractable for classical computers.

id: 1110.3737
title: Squeezed light at 1550 nm with a quantum noise reduction of 12.3 dB
authors: Moritz Mehmet, Stefan Ast, Tobias Eberle, Sebastian Steinlechner, Henning Vahlbruch, Roman Schnabel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3737
abstract: Continuous-wave squeezed states of light at the wavelength of 1550 nm have recently been demonstrated, but so far the obtained factors of noise suppression still lag behind today's best squeezing values demonstrated at 1064 nm. Here we report on the realization of a half-monolithic nonlinear resonator based on periodically-poled potassium titanyl phosphate which enabled the direct detection of up to 12.3 dB of squeezing at 5 MHz. Squeezing was observed down to a frequency of 2 kHz which is well within the detection band of gravitational wave interferometers. Our results suggest that a long-term stable 1550 nm squeezed light source can be realized with strong squeezing covering the entire detection band of a 3rd generation gravitational-wave detector such as the Einstein Telescope.

id: 1110.3757
title: Local two-qubit entanglement-annihilating channels
authors: Sergey N. Filippov, Tomas Rybar, Mario Ziman
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012303 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3757
abstract: We address the problem of the robustness of entanglement of bipartite systems (qubits) interacting with dynamically independent environments. In particular, we focus on characterization of so-called local entanglement-annihilating two-qubit channels, which set the maximum permissible noise level allowing to perform entanglement-enabled experiments. The differences, but also subtle relations between entanglement-breaking and local entanglement-annihilating channels are emphasized. A detailed characterization of latter ones is provided for a variety of channels including depolarizing, unital, (generalized) amplitude-damping, and extremal channels. We consider also the convexity structure of local entanglement-annihilating qubit channels and introduce a concept of entanglement-annihilation duality.

id: 1110.3788
title: Topologically Protected Quantum State Transfer in a Chiral Spin Liquid
authors: Norman Y. Yao, Chris R. Laumann, Alexey V. Gorshkov, Hendrik Weimer, Liang Jiang, J. Ignacio Cirac, Peter Zoller, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: Nat. Commun. 4:1585 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3788
abstract: Topology plays a central role in ensuring the robustness of a wide variety of physical phenomena. Notable examples range from the robust current carrying edge states associated with the quantum Hall and the quantum spin Hall effects to proposals involving topologically protected quantum memory and quantum logic operations. Here, we propose and analyze a topologically protected channel for the transfer of quantum states between remote quantum nodes. In our approach, state transfer is mediated by the edge mode of a chiral spin liquid. We demonstrate that the proposed method is intrinsically robust to realistic imperfections associated with disorder and decoherence. Possible experimental implementations and applications to the detection and characterization of spin liquid phases are discussed.

id: 1110.3795
title: Quantum nonlocality based on finite-speed causal influences leads to superluminal signaling
authors: Jean-Daniel Bancal, Stefano Pironio, Antonio Acin, Yeong-Cherng Liang, Valerio Scarani, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 5+8 pages, 4 figures, version similar to the published one
journal: Nature Physics 8, 867 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3795
abstract: The experimental violation of Bell inequalities using spacelike separated measurements precludes the explanation of quantum correlations through causal influences propagating at subluminal speed. Yet, any such experimental violation could always be explained in principle through models based on hidden influences propagating at a finite speed v>c, provided v is large enough. Here, we show that for any finite speed v with c<v<infinity, such models predict correlations that can be exploited for faster-than-light communication. This superluminal communication does not require access to any hidden physical quantities, but only the manipulation of measurement devices at the level of our present-day description of quantum experiments. Hence, assuming the impossibility of using nonlocal correlations for superluminal communication, we exclude any possible explanation of quantum correlations in terms of influences propagating at any finite speed. Our result uncovers a new aspect of the complex relationship between multipartite quantum nonlocality and the impossibility of signalling.

id: 1110.3862
title: Macroscopic Quantum States and Quantum Phase Transition in Dicke Models of Arbitrary Atom-Number
authors: Jinling Lian, Yuanwei Zhang, J.-Q. Liang
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3862
abstract: The energy spectrum of Dicke Hamiltonians with and without the rotating wave approximation for arbitrary atom-number is obtained analytically with the variational method, in which the effective pseudo-spin Hamiltonian resulted from the expectation value in the boson-field coherent state is diagonalized by the spin-coherent-state transformation. In addition to the ground-state energy an excited macroscopic quantum-state is found corresponding to the south-and-north-pole gauges of the spin-coherent states respectively. Our results of ground-state energies in exact agreement with various approaches show that these models exhibit a zero-temperature quantum phase transition of second-order for any number of atoms, which however was commonly considered as a phenomenon of the thermodynamic limit with the atom-number tending to infinite. The critical behavior of geometric phase is analyzed, which displays no singularity at the critical point.

id: 1110.3903
title: The applications of the general and reduced Yangian algebras
authors: Li-Guo Qin, Li-Jun Tian, Yan-Ling Jin, Guo-Hong Yang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3903
abstract: The applications of the general and reduced Yangian Y(sl(2)) and Y(su(3)) algebras are discussed. By taking a special constraint, the representation of Y(sl(2)) and Y(su(3)) can be divided into two 2 \times 2 and three 3 \times 3 blocks diagonal respectively. The general and reduced Yangian Y(sl(2)) and Y(su(3)) are applied to the bi-qubit system and the mixed light pseudoscalar meson state, respectively. We can find that the general ones are not able to make the initial states disentangled by acting on the initial states, however the reduced ones are able to make the initial state disentangled. In addition, we show the effects of Y(su(3)) generators on the the decay channel.

id: 1110.3911
title: Generation of a decoherence-free entangled state using a radio frequency dressed state
authors: Atsushi Noguchi, Shinsuke Haze, Kenji Toyoda, Shinji Urabe
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3911
abstract: We propose the generation of entangled states with trapped calcium ions using a combination of an rf dressed state and a spin dependent force. Using this method, a decoherence-free entangled state of rf qubits can be directly generated and ideally its fidelity is close to unity. We demonstrate an rf entangled state with a fidelity of 0.68, which has a coherence time of more than 200 ms by virtue of the fact that it is an eigenstate with energy gaps between adjacent levels.Using the same technique, we also produce a qutrit-qutrit entangled state with a fidelity of 0.77, which exceeds the threshold value for separability of 2/3.

id: 1110.3915
title: Quantum noise in the mirror-field system: A field theoretic approach
authors: Jen-Tsung Hsiang, Tai-Hung Wu, Da-Shin Lee, Sun-Kun King, Chun-Hsien Wu
comments: 29 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3915
abstract: We employ the field theoretic approach to study the quantum noise problem in the mirror-field system, where a perfectly reflecting mirror is illuminated by a single-mode coherent state of the massless scalar field. The associated radiation pressure is described by a surface integral of the stress-tensor of the field. The read-out field is measured by a monople detector, form which the effective distance between the detector and mirror can be obtained. In the slow-motion limit of the mirror, we are able to identify various sources of quantum noise that lead to uncertainty of the read-out measurement. Since the mirror is driven by radiation pressure, the sources of noise, other than the shot nose given by the intrinsic fluctuations of the incident state, may also result from random motion of mirror due to radiation pressure fluctuations and from modified field fluctuations induced by the displacement of the mirror. Correlation between different sources of noise can be established as the consequence of interference between the incident field and the reflected field out of the mirror in the read-out measurement. The overall uncertainty is found to decrease (increase) due to the negative (positive) correlation. In the case of negative correlation, the uncertainty can be lowered than the value predicted by the standard quantum limit. We also examine the validity of the particle number approach, which is often used in quantum optics, and compared its results with those given by the field theoretical approach. Finally we discuss the backreaction effects, induced by the radiation pressure, that alter the dynamics of the mean displacement of the mirror, and we argue this backreaction can be ignored for a slowly moving mirror.

id: 1110.3936
title: Efficient generation of single and entangled photons on a silicon photonic integrated chip
authors: Jacob Mower, Dirk Englund
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3936
abstract: We present a protocol for generating on-demand, indistinguishable single photons on a silicon photonic integrated chip. The source is a time-multiplexed spontaneous parametric down-conversion element that allows optimization of single-photon versus multiphoton emission while realizing high output rate and indistinguishability. We minimize both the scaling of active elements and the scaling of active element loss with multiplexing. We then discuss detection strategies and data processing to further optimize the procedure. We simulate an improvement in single-photon-generation efficiency over previous time-multiplexing protocols, assuming existing fabrication capabilities. We then apply this system to generate heralded Bell states. The generation efficiency of both nonclassical states could be increased substantially with improved fabrication procedures.

id: 1110.3946
title: Why Probability appears in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Jerome Blackman, Wu-Teh Hsiang
comments: This paper has been accepted for publication in the March 2013 issue of Physics Essays
journal: Physics Essays,2013. Vol 26, No 1, pp.34 - 39
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3946
abstract: Early in the development of quantum theory Bohr introduced what came to be called the Copenhagen interpretation. Specifically, the square of the absolute value of the wave function was to be used as a probability density. There followed lengthy arguments about this ranging from alternative universes to Schr\"odinger's cat. Einstein famously remarked "I am convinced that He (God) does not play dice." The purpose of this paper is to present a mathematical model of the measuring process that shows that the Copenhagen interpretation can actually follow from the fact that the time development of quantum systems is governed by the usual one parameter group of unitary transformations exp(iHt) and that probability enters into the theory in the way it usually does in physics, namely, by having a large number of deterministic equations that can only be handled probabilistically

id: 1110.3977
title: Gaussian Entanglement for Quantum Key Distribution from a Single-Mode Squeezing Source
authors: Tobias Eberle, Vitus H?ndchen, J?rg Duhme, Torsten Franz, Fabian Furrer, Roman Schnabel, Reinhard F. Werner
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 15 (5), 053049, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3977
abstract: We report the suitability of an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) entanglement source for gaussian continuous-variable quantum key distribution at 1550 nm. Our source is based on a single continuous-wave squeezed vacuum mode combined with a vacuum mode at a balanced beam splitter. Extending a recent security proof, we characterize the source by quantifying the extractable length of a composable secure key from a finite number of samples under the assumption of collective attacks. We show that distances in the order of 10 km are achievable with this source for a reasonable sample size despite the fact that the entanglement was generated including a vacuum mode. Our security analysis applies to all states having an asymmetry in the field quadrature variances, including those generated by superposition of two squeezed modes with different squeezing strengths.

id: 1110.4108
title: Correlation tensor criteria for genuine multiqubit entanglement
authors: Wieslaw Laskowski, Marcin Markiewicz, Tomasz Paterek, Marek Zukowski
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062305 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4108
abstract: We present a development of a geometric approach to entanglement indicators. The method is applied to detect genuine multiqubit entanglement. The criteria are given in form of non-linear conditions imposed on correlation tensors. Thus they involve directly observable quantities, and in some cases require only few specific measurements to find multiqubit entanglement. The non-linearity of each of the criteria allows detection of entanglement in wide classes of states. In contrast to entanglement witnesses, which in the space of Hermitian operators define a hyperplane, the new conditions define a geometric figure encapsulating the non-fully entangled states within it.

id: 1110.4182
title: Simulation of fault-tolerant quantum circuits on quantum computational tensor network
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae, Keisuke Fujii
comments: 23 pages, 2 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1106.3720
journal: Supplementary material of Sci. Rep. 2, 508 (2012); arXiv:1106.3720
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4182
abstract: In the framework of quantum computational tensor network [D. Gross and J. Eisert, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf98}, 220503 (2007)], which is a general framework of measurement-based quantum computation, the resource many-body state is represented in a tensor-network form, and universal quantum computation is performed in a virtual linear space, which is called a correlation space, where tensors live. Since any unitary operation, state preparation, and the projection measurement in the computational basis can be simulated in a correlation space, it is natural to expect that fault-tolerant quantum circuits can also be simulated in a correlation space. However, we point out that not all physical errors on physical qudits appear as linear completely-positive trace-preserving errors in a correlation space. Since the theories of fault-tolerant quantum circuits known so far assume such noises, this means that the simulation of fault-tolerant quantum circuits in a correlation space is not so straightforward for general resource states.

id: 1110.4200
title: Geometric Phases for Coherent States
authors: Da-Bao Yang, Jing-Ling Chen, Chunfeng Wu, C. H. Oh
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4200
abstract: We explore geometric phases of coherent states and some of their properties. A better and elegant expression of geometric phase for coherent state is derived. It is used to obtain the explicit form of the geometric phase for entangled coherent states, several interesting results followed by considering different cases for the parameters. The effects of entanglement and harmonic potential on the geometric phase are discussed.

id: 1110.4204
title: Spin Hamilton Operators, Symmetry Breaking, Energy Level Crossing and Entanglement
authors: Willi-Hans Steeb, Yorick Hardy, Jacqueline de Greef
comments: 
journal: Z. Naturforsch. 67a, 608-612 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4204
abstract: We study finite-dimensional product Hilbert spaces, coupled spin systems, entanglement and energy level crossing. The Hamilton operators are based on the Pauli group. We show that swapping the interacting term can lead from unentangled eigenstates to entangled eigenstates and from an energy spectrum with energy level crossing to avoided energy level crossing.

id: 1110.4221
title: The dark resonances in the case of the absorption of optical radiation in double tunneling-coupled quantum wells
authors: A. N. Litvinov, K. A. Barantsev, B. G. Matisov, G. A. Kazakov, Yu. V. Rozhdestvensky
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4221
abstract: This work is devoted to the research of conditions of the dark resonance (coherent population trapping) of the interaction of the laser radiation with tunneling-coupled quantum wells. The phase sensitive dependence of dark resonances has been investigated. We obtained that destruction as well as restoration of the dark resonances of the coherent population trapping is possible in dependence on algebraic sum of the phases of exciting fields. It is shown that the phase variation of exciting fields influences on the absorption and dispersion of the probe field in a medium with quantum wells.

id: 1110.4249
title: Quantum Bang-Bang control of entangle states
authors: R. Rossi Jr
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4249
abstract: The effect of quantum "Bang-Bang" control on entangled states is studied. A system of two initially entangled qubits interacting with a bosonic environment is considered. The interaction induces a loss of the initial entanglement of the two qubits and for specific initial states it causes "entanglement sudden death". A pulsed control of both qubits leads to the preservation of the entanglement. It is also shown that a single pulse performed after the sudden death time induces an entanglement revival in the two qubits system.

id: 1110.4250
title: Particle Counting Statistics of Time and Space Dependent Fields
authors: Sibylle Braungardt, Mirta Rodr¨ªguez, Roy J. Glauber, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85 033818 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4250
abstract: The counting statistics give insight into the properties of quantum states of light and other quantum states of matter such as ultracold atoms or electrons. The theoretical description of photon counting was derived in the 1960s and was extended to massive particles more recently. Typically, the interaction between each particle and the detector is assumed to be limited to short time intervals, and the probability of counting particles in one interval is independent of the measurements in previous intervals. There has been some effort to describe particle counting as a continuous measurement, where the detector and the field to be counted interact continuously. However, no general formula applicable to any time and space dependent field has been derived so far. In our work, we derive a fully time and space dependent description of the counting process for linear quantum many-body systems, taking into account the back-action of the detector on the field. We apply our formalism to an expanding Bose-Einstein condensate of ultracold atoms, and show that it describes the process correctly, whereas the standard approach gives unphysical results in some limits. The example illustrates that in certain situations, the back-action of the detector cannot be neglected and has to be included in the description.

id: 1110.4255
title: Single-photon spectroscopy of a single molecule
authors: Y. L. A. Rezus, S. G. Walt, R. Lettow, A. Renn, G. Zumofen, S. Goetzinger, V. Sandoghdar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4255
abstract: Exploring the interaction of light and matter at the ultimate limit of single photons and single emitters is of great interest both from a fundamental point of view and for emerging applications in quantum engineering. However, the difficulty of generating single photons with specific wavelengths, bandwidths and brightness as well as the weak interaction probability of a single photon with an optical emitter pose a formidable challenge toward this goal. Here, we demonstrate a general approach based on the creation of single photons from a single emitter and their use for performing spectroscopy on a second emitter situated at a distance. Although we used organic molecules as emitters, our strategy is readily extendable to other material systems such as quantum dots and color centers. Our work ushers in a new line of experiments that provide access to the coherent and nonlinear couplings of few emitters and few propagating photons.

id: 1110.4276
title: Calculating Unknown Eigenvalues with a Quantum Algorithm
authors: Xiao-Qi Zhou, Pruet Kalasuwan, Timothy C. Ralph, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 7, 223-228 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4276
abstract: Quantum algorithms are able to solve particular problems exponentially faster than conventional algorithms, when implemented on a quantum computer. However, all demonstrations to date have required already knowing the answer to construct the algorithm. We have implemented the complete quantum phase estimation algorithm for a single qubit unitary in which the answer is calculated by the algorithm. We use a new approach to implementing the controlled-unitary operations that lie at the heart of the majority of quantum algorithms that is more efficient and does not require the eigenvalues of the unitary to be known. These results point the way to efficient quantum simulations and quantum metrology applications in the near term, and to factoring large numbers in the longer term. This approach is architecture independent and thus can be used in other physical implementations.

id: 1110.4309
title: The Double Slit Experiment With Polarizers
authors: M. Holden, D.G.C. McKeon, T.N. Sherry
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4309
abstract: The double slit experiment provides a standard way of demonstrating how quantum mechanics works. We consider modifying the standard arrangement so that a photon beam incident upon the double slit encounters a polarizer in front of either one or both of the slits.

id: 1110.4331
title: Controllable operation for distant qubits in a two-dimensional quantum network
authors: Z.-R. Zhong, X. Lin, B. Zhang, Z.-B. Yang
comments: 6 pages,4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 66 (2012) 316
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4331
abstract: We propose a theoretical scheme to realize the coherent coupling of multiple atoms in a quantum network which is composed of a two-dimensional (2D) array of coupled cavities. In the scheme, the pairing off-resonant Raman transitions of different atoms, induced by the cavity modes and external fields, can lead to selective coupling between arbitrary atoms trapped in separated cavities. Based on this physical mechanism, quantum gates between any pair of qubits and parallel two-qubit operations can be performed in the 2D system. The scheme provides a new perspective for coherent manipulation of quantum systems in 2D quantum networks.

id: 1110.4363
title: The Schmidt number and partially entanglement breaking channels in infinite dimensions
authors: M. E. Shirokov
comments: 20 pages, the minor corrections have been made
journal: Mathematical Notes, 2013, Vol. 93, No. 5, pp. 758-771
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4363
abstract: A definition of the Schmidt number of a state of an infinite dimensional bipartite quantum system is given and properties of the corresponding family of Schmidt classes are considered. The existence of states with a given Schmidt number such that any their countable convex decomposition does not contain pure states with finite Schmidt rank is established. Partially entanglement breaking channels in infinite dimensions are studied. Several properties of these channels well known in finite dimensions are generalized to the infinite dimensional case. At the same time, the existence of partially entanglement breaking channels (in particular, entanglement breaking channels) such that all operators in any their Kraus representations have infinite rank is proved.

id: 1110.4366
title: The quantum walk search algorithm: Factors affecting efficiency
authors: Neil B. Lovett, Matthew Everitt, Robert M. Heath, Viv Kendon
comments: 37 pages, 34 figures - submitted to Mathematical Structures in Computer Science
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4366
abstract: We numerically study the quantum walk search algorithm of Shenvi, Kempe and Whaley [PRA \textbf{67} 052307] and the factors which affect its efficiency in finding an individual state from an unsorted set. Previous work has focused purely on the effects of the dimensionality of the dataset to be searched. Here, we consider the effects of interpolating between dimensions, connectivity of the dataset, and the possibility of disorder in the underlying substrate: all these factors affect the efficiency of the search algorithm. We show that, as well as the strong dependence on the spatial dimension of the structure to be searched, there are also secondary dependencies on the connectivity and symmetry of the lattice, with greater connectivity providing a more efficient algorithm. In addition, we also show that the algorithm can tolerate a non-trivial level of disorder in the underlying substrate.

id: 1110.4419
title: Birman-Wenzl-Murakami Algebra and the Topological Basis
authors: Chengcheng Zhou, Kang Xue, Gangcheng Wang, Chunfang Sun, Guijiao Du
comments: 11pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4419
abstract: In this paper, we use entangled states to construct 9x9-matrix representations of Temperley-Lieb algebra (TLA), then a family of 9x9-matrix representations of Birman-Wenzl-Murakami algebra (BWMA) have been presented. Based on which, three topological basis states have been found. And we apply topological basis states to recast nine-dimensional BWMA into its three-dimensional counterpart. Finally, we find the topological basis states are spin singlet states in special case.

id: 1110.4485
title: New features of scattering from a one-dimensional non-Hermitian (complex) potential
authors: Zafar Ahmed
comments: 10 pages, one Table, one Figure, important changes, appeared as an FTC (J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45(2012) 032004)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4485
abstract: For complex one-dimensional potentials, we propose the asymmetry of both reflectivity and transmitivity under time-reversal: $R(-k)\ne R(k)$ and $T(-k) \ne T(k)$, unless the potentials are real or PT-symmetric. For complex PT-symmetric scattering potentials, we propose that $R_{left}(-k)=R_{right}(k)$ and $T(-k)=T(k)$. So far, the spectral singularities (SS) of a one-dimensional non-Hermitian scattering potential are witnessed/conjectured to be at most one. We present a new non-Hermitian parametrization of Scarf II potential to reveal its four new features. Firstly, it displays the just acclaimed (in)variances. Secondly, it can support two spectral singularities at two pre-assigned real energies ($E_*=\alpha^2,\beta^2$) either in $T(k)$ or in $T(-k)$, when $\alpha\beta>0$. Thirdly, when $\alpha \beta <0$ it possesses one SS in $T(k)$ and the other in $T(-k)$. Fourthly, when the potential becomes PT-symmetric $[(\alpha+\beta)=0]$, we get $T(k)=T(-k)$, it possesses a unique SS at $E=\alpha^2$ in both $T(-k)$ and $T(k)$. Lastly, for completeness, when $\alpha=i\gamma$ and $\beta=i\delta$, there are no SS, instead we get two negative energies $-\gamma^2$ and $-\delta^2$ of the complex PT-symmetric Scarf II belonging to the two well-known branches of discrete bound state eigenvalues and no spectral singularity exists in this case. We find them as $E^{+}_{M}=-(\gamma-M)^2$ and $E^{-}_{N}=-(\delta-N)^2$; $M(N)=0,1,2,...$ with $0 \le M (N)< \gamma (\delta)$. {PACS: 03.65.Nk,11.30.Er,42.25.Bs}

id: 1110.4492
title: Information dynamics and new geometric foundations of quantum theory
authors: Ryszard Pawe? Kostecki
comments: To appear in: Khrennikov A. (ed.), Proceedings of the Foundations of Probability and Physics 6 conference, Linneuniversitetet, Vaxjo, June 13-16, 2011, AIP Conf. Proc., Springer, Berlin
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4492
abstract: We discuss new approach to mathematical foundations of quantum theory, which is completely independent of Hilbert spaces and measure spaces. New kinematics is defined by non-linear geometry of spaces of integrals on abstract non-commutative algebras. New dynamics is defined by constrained maximisation of quantum relative entropy. We recover Hilbert space based approach (including unitary evolution and the von Neumann--L\"{u}ders rule) and measure theoretic approach to probability theory (including Bayes' rule) as special cases of our approach.

id: 1110.4495
title: Quantum Superposition of Massive Objects and Collapse Models
authors: Oriol Romero-Isart
comments: 19 pages, 17 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052121 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4495
abstract: We analyze the requirements to test some of the most paradigmatic collapse models with a protocol that prepares quantum superpositions of massive objects. This consists of coherently expanding the wave function of a ground-state-cooled mechanical resonator, performing a squared position measurement that acts as a double slit, and observing interference after further evolution. The analysis is performed in a general framework and takes into account only unavoidable sources of decoherence: blackbody radiation and scattering of environmental particles. We also discuss the limitations imposed by the experimental implementation of this protocol using cavity quantum optomechanics with levitating dielectric nanospheres.

id: 1110.4538
title: Nonlinear Temporal Dynamics of Strongly Coupled Quantum Dot-Cavity System
authors: Arka Majumdar, Dirk Englund, Michal Bajcsy, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4538
abstract: We theoretically analyze and simulate the temporal dynamics of strongly coupled quantum dot-cavity system driven by a resonant laser pulse. We observe the signature of Rabi oscillation in the time resolved response of the system (i.e., in the numerically calculated cavity output), derive simplified linear and non-linear semi-classical models that approximate well the system's behavior in the limits of high and low power drive pulse, and describe the role of quantum coherence in the exact dynamics of the system. Finally, we also present experimental data showing the signature of the Rabi oscillation in time domain.

id: 1110.4540
title: Nonexistence of a universal quantum machine to examine the precision of unknown quantum states
authors: Shengshi Pang, Shengjun Wu, Zeng-Bing Chen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062313 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4540
abstract: In this work, we reveal a new type of impossibility discovered in our recent research which forbids comparing the closeness of multiple unknown quantum states with any non-trivial threshold in a perfect or an unambiguous way. This impossibility is distinct from the existing impossibilities in that it is a "collective" impossibility on multiple quantum states while most other "no-go" theorems concern with only one single state each time, i.e., it is an impossibility on a non-local quantum operation. This novel impossibility may provide a new insight into the nature of quantum mechanics and it implies more limitations on quantum information tasks than the existing "no-go" theorems.

id: 1110.4549
title: Comment on `Underlining some limitations of the statistical formalism in quantum mechanics' by Fratini and Hayrapetyan
authors: Andr¨¢s Bodor, Lajos Di¨®si
comments: 2pp, version rejected by Physica Scripta
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4549
abstract: We point out that Fratini and Hayrapetyan ignored the randomness of mixing, a basic request to prepare a statistical ensemble rather than an ensemble in general. Their analysis is irrelevant for standard statistical ensembles, their conclusions about the limitations of standard theory become unjustified.

id: 1110.4574
title: Attacking practical quantum key distribution system with wavelength dependent beam splitter and multi-wavelength sources
authors: Hong-Wei Li, Shuang Wang, Jing-Zheng Huang, Wei Chen, Zhen-Qiang Yin, Fang-Yi Li, Zheng Zhou, Dong Liu, Yang Zhang, Guang-Can Guo, Wan-Su Bao, Zheng-Fu Han
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 84, 062308 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4574
abstract: Unconditional security of quantum key distribution protocol can be guaranteed by the basic property of quantum mechanics. Unfortunately, the practical quantum key distribution system always have some imperfections, and the practical system may be attacked if the imperfection can be controlled by the eavesdropper Eve. Applying the fatal security loophole introduced by the imperfect beam splitter's wavelength dependent optical property, we propose wavelength-dependent attacking model, which can be applied to almost all practical quantum key distribution systems with the passive state modulation and photon state detection after the practical beam splitter. Utilizing our attacking model, we experimentally demonstrate the attacking system based on practical polarization encoding quantum key distribution system with almost 100% success probability. Our result demonstrate that all practical devices require tightened security inspection for avoiding side channel attacks in practical quantum key distribution experimental realizations.

id: 1110.4597
title: Optimal reducibility of all Stochastic Local Operation and Classical Communication equivalent W states
authors: Swapan Rana, Preeti Parashar
comments: 8 pages (double column), 1 figure; accepted in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052331 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4597
abstract: We show that all multipartite pure states that are SLOCC equivalent to the $N$-qubit $W$ state, can be uniquely determined (among arbitrary states) from their bipartite marginals. We also prove that only $(N-1)$ of the bipartite marginals are sufficient and this is also the optimal number. Thus, contrary to the $GHZ$ class, $W$-type states preserve their reducibility under SLOCC. We also study the optimal reducibility of some larger classes of states. The generic Dicke states $|GD_N^\ell\ran$ are shown to be optimally determined by their ($\ell+1$)-partite marginals. The class of `$G$' states (superposition of $W$ and $\bar{W}$) are shown to be optimally determined by just two $(N-2)$-partite marginals.

id: 1110.4602
title: Quantum phase properties of nonlinear optical phenomena
authors: R. Tanas, A. Miranowicz, Ts. Gantsog
comments: 81 pages, 18 figures. Volume XXXV of Progress in Optics is out of print, while the topic of our review article seems to be still of interest
journal: Progress in Optics, Vol. 35 (1996), 355--446
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4602
abstract: We review some quantum-phase descriptions of optical fields. We focus on real fields that can be generated in practice in various nonlinear optical processes. Thus, we rather avoid discussions of phase formalisms as such and try to exploit their practical applicability in the description of optical fields. In the description of the phase properties we use two different, though related formalisms: the Pegg-Barnett Hermitian phase formalism and the formalism based on $s$-parametrized phase distributions.

id: 1110.4617
title: Continuous-Variable Quantum Key Distribution using Thermal States
authors: Christian Weedbrook, Stefano Pirandola, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures. Updated from published version with some minor corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022318 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4617
abstract: We consider the security of continuous-variable quantum key distribution using thermal (or noisy) Gaussian resource states. Specifically, we analyze this against collective Gaussian attacks using direct and reverse reconciliation where both protocols use either homodyne or heterodyne detection. We show that in the case of direct reconciliation with heterodyne detection, an improved robustness to channel noise is achieved when large amounts of preparation noise is added, as compared to the case when no preparation noise is added. We also consider the theoretical limit of infinite preparation noise and show a secure key can still be achieved in this limit provided the channel noise is less than the preparation noise. Finally, we consider the security of quantum key distribution at various electromagnetic wavelengths and derive an upper bound related to an entanglement-breaking eavesdropping attack and discuss the feasibility of microwave quantum key distribution.

id: 1110.4641
title: Origin and meaning of quantum nonlocality
authors: L. de la Pe?a, A. M. Cetto, A. Vald¨¦s-Hern¨¢ndez, H. M. Fran?a
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4641
abstract: Quantum nonlocality is revisited from a novel point of view by studying the problem of an originally classical particle immersed in the stochastic zero-point radiation field (zpf). The entire system is left to evolve until it reaches a state in which the radiative terms cancel each other in the mean in a first approximation. The ensuing approximate statistical description reduced to the particle's configuration space contains a nonclassical term due to the dispersion of the momentum, which depends on the density of particles {\rho}(x) and thus is nonlocal. This description is shown to be equivalent to Schr\"odinger's equation and its complex conjugate. The nonlocal term is recognized as the so-called quantum potential, thus solving the long standing problem of the origin and meaning of this term. Further, the relationship between the Wigner function and a true Kolmogorovian probability density in phase space is discussed from the perspective provided by this theory.

id: 1110.4663
title: Chaos and statistical relaxation in quantum systems of interacting particles
authors: L.F.Santos, F.Borgonovi, F.M.Izrailev
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett., 108 (2012) 094102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4663
abstract: We propose a method to study the transition to chaos in isolated quantum systems of interacting particles. It is based on the concept of delocalization of eigenstates in the energy shell, controlled by the Gaussian form of the strength function. We show that although the fluctuations of energy levels in integrable and non-integrable systems are principally different, global properties of the eigenstates may be quite similar, provided the interaction between particles exceeds some critical value. In this case the quench dynamics can be described analytically, demonstrating the universal statistical relaxation of the systems irrespectively of whether they are integrable or not.

id: 1110.4690
title: Thermalization from a general canonical principle
authors: Shuai Cui, Jun-Peng Cao, Hui Jing, Heng Fan, Wu-Ming Liu
comments: 9 pages, 15 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4690
abstract: We investigate the time evolution of a generic and finite isolated quantum many-body system starting from a pure quantum state. We find the kinematical general canonical principle proposed by Popescu-Short-Winter for statistical mechanics can be built in a more solid ground by studying the thermalization, i.e. comparing the density matrices themselves rather than the measures of distances. In particular, this allows us to explicitly identify that, from any instantaneous pure state after thermalization, the state of subsystem is like from a microcanonical ensemble or a generalized Gibbs ensemble, but neither a canonical nor a thermal ones due to finite-size effect. Our results are expected to bring the task of characterizing the state after thermalization to completion. In addition, thermalization of coupled systems with different temperatures corresponding to mixed initial states is studied.

id: 1110.4695
title: Decoherence control: Universal protection of two-qubit states and two-qubit gates using continuous driving fields
authors: Adam Zaman Chaudhry, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures (improved introduction, made connections with early studies of dynamically corrected quantum gates)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012315 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4695
abstract: A field configuration utilizing local static and oscillating fields is constructed to achieve universal (but low-order) protection of two-qubit states. That is, two-qubit states can be protected against arbitrary system-environment coupling if the driving field frequency, as compared with the cutoff frequency of the environment, is sufficiently large. Equally important, we show that it is possible to construct driving fields to protect two-qubit entangling gates against decoherence, without assuming any particular form of system-environment coupling. Using a non-Markovian master equation, we further demonstrate the effectiveness of our continuous dynamical decoupling fields in protecting entanglement and the excellent performance of protected two-qubit gates in generating entanglement. The results are complementary to current studies of entanglement protection using universal dynamical decoupling pulse sequences.

id: 1110.4718
title: Reducing multi-photon rates in pulsed down-conversion by temporal multiplexing
authors: Matthew A. Broome, Marcelo P. Almeida, Alessandro Fedrizzi, Andrew G. White
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Optics Express (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4718
abstract: We present a simple technique to reduce the emission rate of higher-order photon events from pulsed spontaneous parametric down-conversion. The technique uses extra-cavity control over a mode locked ultrafast laser to simultaneously increase repetition rate and reduce the energy of each pulse from the pump beam. We apply our scheme to a photonic quantum gate, showing improvements in the non-classical interference visibility for 2-photon and 4-photon experiments, and in the quantum-gate fidelity and entangled state production in the 2-photon case.

id: 1110.4766
title: Quantum Theory and Conceptuality: Matter, Stories, Semantics and Space-Time
authors: Diederik Aerts
comments: 14 pages
journal: Scientiae Studia, 11, pp. 75-100, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4766
abstract: We elaborate the new interpretation of quantum theory that we recently proposed, according to which quantum particles are considered conceptual entities mediating between pieces of ordinary matter which are considered to act as memory structures for them. Our aim is to identify what is the equivalent for the human cognitive realm of what physical space-time is for the realm of quantum particles and ordinary matter. For this purpose, we identify the notion of 'story' as the equivalent within the human cognitive realm of what ordinary matter is in the physical quantum realm, and analyze the role played by the logical connectives of disjunction and conjunction with respect to the notion of locality. Similarly to what we have done in earlier investigations on this new quantum interpretation, we use the specific cognitive environment of the World-Wide Web to elucidate the comparisons we make between the human cognitive realm and the physical quantum realm.

id: 1110.4771
title: Information propagation in a quantum system. Examples of open spin-1/2 chains
authors: A.I.Zenchuk
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. V. 45 (2012) 115306(11pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4771
abstract: If the information is encoded into the state of the subsystem $S$ of a quantum system initially (at $t=0$), then it becomes distributed over the whole quantum system at $t>0$ due to the quantum interactions. Consequently, this information, in general, can be extracted, either completely or partially, from any subsystem of a quantum system. {We suggest a method of extraction of information, which is based on the polarization measurements on the receiver $R$}.

id: 1110.4792
title: Comparison of quantum binary experiments
authors: Anna Jencova
comments: 13 pages; version accepted in Rep. Math. Phys, minor changes
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4792
abstract: A quantum binary experiment consists of a pair of density operators on a finite dimensional Hilbert space. An experiment E is called \epsilon-deficient with respect to another experiment F if, up to \epsilon, its risk functions are not worse than the risk functions of F, with respect to all statistical decision problems. It is known in the theory of classical statistical experiments that 1. for pairs of probability distributions, one can restrict to testing problems in the definition of deficiency and 2. that 0-deficiency is a necessary and sufficient condition for existence of a stochastic mapping that maps one pair onto the other. We show that in the quantum case, the property 1. holds precisely if E consist of commuting densities. As for property 2., we show that if E is 0-deficient with respect to F, then there exists a completely positive mapping that maps E onto F, but it is not necessarily trace preserving.

id: 1110.4799
title: Bosonic and k-fermionic coherent states for a class of polynomial Weyl-Heisenberg algebras
authors: Mohammed Daoud, Maurice R. Kibler
comments: 25 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 45 (2012) 244036
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4799
abstract: The aim of this article is to construct \`a la Perelomov and \`a la Barut-Girardello coherent states for a polynomial Weyl-Heisenberg algebra. This generalized Weyl-Heisenberg algebra, noted A(x), depends on r real parameters and is an extension of the one-parameter algebra introduced in Daoud M and Kibler MR 2010 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 115303 which covers the cases of the su(1,1) algebra (for x > 0), the su(2) algebra (for x < 0) and the h(4) ordinary Weyl-Heisenberg algebra (for x = 0). For finite-dimensional representations of A(x) and A(x,s), where A(x,s) is a truncation of order s of A(x) in the sense of Pegg-Barnett, a connection is established with k-fermionic algebras (or quon algebras). This connection makes it possible to use generalized Grassmann variables for constructing certain coherent states. Coherent states of the Perelomov type are derived for infinite-dimensional representations of A(x) and for finite-dimensional representations of A(x) and A(x,s) through a Fock-Bargmann analytical approach based on the use of complex (or bosonic) variables. The same approach is applied for deriving coherent states of the Barut-Girardello type in the case of infinite-dimensional representations of A(x). In contrast, the construction of \`a la Barut-Girardello coherent states for finite-dimensional representations of A(x) and A(x,s) can be achieved solely at the price to replace complex variables by generalized Grassmann (or k-fermionic) variables. Some of the results are applied to su(2), su(1,1) and the harmonic oscillator (in a truncated or not truncated form).

id: 1110.4804
title: Sympathetic Wigner function tomography of a dark trapped ion
authors: Safoura Sadat Mirkhalaf, Klaus Molmer
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4804
abstract: A protocol is provided to reconstruct the Wigner function for the motional state of a trapped ion via fluorescence detection on another ion in the same trap. This "sympathetic tomography" of a dark ion without optical transitions suitable for state measurements is based on the mapping of its motional state onto one of the collective modes of the ion pair. The quantum state of this vibrational eigenmode is subsequently measured through sideband excitation of the bright ion. Physical processes to implement the desired state transfer and read-out are derived, and the accomplishment of the scheme for different mass ratios is evaluated.

id: 1110.4806
title: Environment-Assisted Error Correction of Single-Qubit Phase Damping
authors: Benjamin Trendelkamp-Schroer, Julius Helm, Walter T. Strunz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4806
abstract: Open quantum system dynamics of random unitary type may in principle be fully undone. Closely following the scheme of environment-assisted error correction proposed by Gregoratti and Werner [M. Gregoratti and R. F. Werner, J. Mod. Opt. 50(6), 915-933 (2003)], we explicitly carry out all steps needed to invert a phase-damping error on a single qubit. Furthermore, we extend the scheme to a mixed-state environment. Surprisingly, we find cases for which the uncorrected state is closer to the desired state than any of the corrected ones.

id: 1110.4819
title: Drude model and Lifshitz formula
authors: M. Bordag
comments: accepted for publication in EPJC
journal: Eur. Phys. J. C, 71:1788, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4819
abstract: Since nearly 10 years, it is known that inserting the permittivity of the Drude model into the Lifshitz formula for free energy causes a violation of the third law of thermodynamics. In this paper we show that the standard Matsubara formulation for free energy contains a contribution that is non-perturbative in the relaxation parameter. We argue that the correct formula must have a perturbative expansion and conclude that the standard Matsubara formulation with the permittivity of the Drude model inserted is not correct. We trace the non-perturbative contribution in the complex frequency plane, where it shows up as a self-intersection or a bifurcation of the integration path.

id: 1110.4867
title: Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexed Quantum Key Distribution Using Entangled Photons
authors: Jacob Mower, F.N.C. Wong, Jeff H. Shapiro, Dirk Englund
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4867
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) enables two parties to establish a secret key over a potentially hostile channel by exchanging photonic quantum states, relying on the fact that it is impossible for an eavesdropper to tap the quantum channel without disturbing these photons in a way that can be detected [1]. Here we introduce a large-alphabet QKD protocol that makes optimal use of temporal and spectral correlations of entangled photons, reaching the maximum number of inde- pendent basis states (the Schmidt number) and enabling extremely high information content per photon together with an optimal rate of secret key generation. This protocol, which we call 'Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexed Quantum Key Distribution' (DWDM-QKD), derives its security by the conjugate nature of the temporal and spectral entanglement of photon pairs generated by spontaneous parametric down conversion. By using a combination of spectral and temporal bases, we can adjust the protocol to be resource efficient. We show that DWDM-QKD is well suited to approach the optimal key generation rate using present-day sources, detectors, and DWDM opti- cal networks from classical communications, as well as emerging optical interconnect and photonic integrated chip (PIC) systems.

id: 1110.4872
title: Causal structure of the entanglement renormalization ansatz
authors: C¨¦dric B¨¦ny
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 023020
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4872
abstract: We show that the multiscale entanglement renormalization ansatz (MERA) can be reformulated in terms of a causality constraint on discrete quantum dynamics. This causal structure is that of de Sitter space with a flat spacelike boundary, where the volume of a spacetime region corresponds to the number of variational parameters it contains. This result clarifies the nature of the ansatz, and suggests a generalization to quantum field theory. It also constitutes an independent justification of the connection between MERA and hyperbolic geometry which was proposed as a concrete implementation of the AdS-CFT correspondence.

id: 1110.4902
title: Flow of S-matrix poles for elementary quantum potentials
authors: B. Belchev, S.G. Neale, M.A. Walton
comments: 23 pages, 15 figures
journal: Can. J. Phys. 89 (2011) 1127-1140
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4902
abstract: The poles of the quantum scattering matrix (S-matrix) in the complex momentum plane have been studied extensively. Bound states give rise to S-matrix poles, and other poles correspond to non-normalizable anti-bound, resonance and anti-resonance states. They describe important physics, but their locations can be difficult to find. In pioneering work, Nussenzveig performed the analysis for a square well/wall, and plotted the flow of the poles as the potential depth/height varied. More than fifty years later, however, little has been done in the way of direct generalization of those results. We point out that today we can find such poles easily and efficiently, using numerical techniques and widely available software. We study the poles of the scattering matrix for the simplest piece-wise flat potentials, with one and two adjacent (non-zero) pieces. For the finite well/wall the flow of the poles as a function of the depth/height recovers the results of Nussenzveig. We then analyze the flow for a potential with two independent parts that can be attractive or repulsive, the two-piece potential. These examples provide some insight into the complicated behavior of the resonance, anti-resonance and anti-bound poles.

id: 1110.4947
title: Derivation of exact master equation with stochastic description: Dissipative harmonic oscillator
authors: Haifeng Li, Jiushu Shao, Shikuan Wang
comments: 24pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4947
abstract: A systematic procedure for deriving the master equation of a dissipative system is reported in the framework of stochastic description. For the Caldeira-Leggett model of the harmonic-oscillator bath, a detailed and elementary derivation of the bath-induced stochastic field is presented. The dynamics of the system is thereby fully described by a stochastic differential equation and the desired master equation would be acquired with statistical averaging. It is shown that the existence of a closed-form master equation depends on the specificity of the system as well as the feature of the dissipation characterized by the spectral density function. For a dissipative harmonic oscillator it is observed that the correlation between the stochastic field due to the bath and the system can be decoupled and the master equation naturally comes out. Such an equation possesses the Lindblad form in which time dependent coefficients are determined by a set of integral equations. It is proved that the obtained master equation is equivalent to the well-known Hu-Paz-Zhang equation based on the path integral technique. The procedure is also used to obtain the master equation of a dissipative harmonic oscillator in time-dependent fields.

id: 1110.4959
title: Quantum-statistical theory of Raman scattering processes
authors: Adam Miranowicz, Stanislaw Kielich
comments: 73 pages, 10 figures, published in: Modern Nonlinear Optics, eds. M. Evans and S. Kielich, Advances in Chemical Physics, vol. 85(III) (Wiley, New York, 1994) pp. 531--626. This volume is out of print, while the topic seems to be still of interest
journal: Adv. Chem. Phys. 85(III), 531-626 (1994)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4959
abstract: Raman scattering from a great number of phonon modes is described from a quantum-statistical point of view within the standing-wave model. The master equation for the completely quantum case, including laser pump depletion and stochastic coupling of Stokes and anti-Stokes modes, is derived and converted to classical equations: either into a generalized Fokker-Planck equation and an equation of motion for the characteristic function or into the master equation in Fock representation. These two approaches are developed both in linear and nonlinear regime. A detailed analysis of scattering into Stokes and anti-Stokes modes in linear regime, i.e., under parametric approximation, is presented. The existence of s-parametrized quasiprobability distributions, in particular the Glauber-Sudarshan P-function, is investigated. An analysis of Raman scattering into separate Stokes and anti-Stokes modes in nonlinear regime, thus including pump depletion, is given. The master equation in Fock representation is solved exactly for the complete density matrix using the Laplace transform method. Short-time solutions, steady-state solutions and approximate compact form solutions are obtained. Relations between the quasidistribution approach based on the Fokker-Planck equation and the density matrix approach based on the master equation in Fock representation are presented. The photocount distribution and its factorial moments as well as variances and extremal variances of quadratures are calculated in both approaches giving the basis for the analysis of the quantum properties of radiation such as sub-Poissonian photon-counting statistics and squeezing. Various statistical moments obtained from numerical calculations utilizing our exact solutions, from the approximate relations for short times, and those obtained under parametric approximation are compared.

id: 1110.4960
title: A symmetrization technique for continuous-variable quantum key distribution
authors: Anthony Leverrier
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022339 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4960
abstract: We introduce a symmetrization technique which can be used as an extra step in some continuous-variable quantum key distribution protocols. By randomizing the data in phase space, one can dramatically simplify the security analysis of the protocols, in particular in the case of collective attacks. The main application of this procedure concerns protocols with postselection, for which security was established only against Gaussian attacks until now. Here, we prove that under some experimentally verifiable conditions, Gaussian attacks are optimal among all collective attacks.

id: 1110.4990
title: Analyzing the contribution of individual resonance poles of the S-matrix to the two-channel scattering
authors: S. A. Rakityansky, N. Elander
comments: 51 pages, 22 figures
journal: Int. J. Quant. Chemistry, vol.106, 1105-1129 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4990
abstract: A two-channel problem is considered within a method based on first order differential equations that are equivalent to the corresponding Schr\"odinger equation but are more convenient for dealing with resonant phenomena. Using these equations, it is possible to directly calculate the Jost matrix for practically any complex value of the energy. The spectral points (bound and resonant states) can therefore be located in a rigorous way, namely, as zeros of the Jost matrix determinant. When calculating the Jost matrix, the differential equations are solved and thus, at the same time, the wave function is obtained with the correct asymptotic behavior that is embedded in the solution analytically. The method offers very accurate way of calculating not only total widths of resonances but their partial widths as well. For each pole of the S-matrix, its residue can be calculated rather accurately, which makes it possible to obtain the Mittag-Leffler type expansion of the S-matrix as a sum of the singular terms (representing the resonances) and the background term (contour integral). As an example, the two-channel model by Noro and Taylor is considered. It is demonstrated how the contributions of individual resonance poles to the scattering cross section can be analyzed using the Mittag-Leffler expansion and the Argand plot technique. This example shows that even poles situated far away from the physical real axis may give significant contributions to the cross section.

id: 1110.4991
title: Multi-channel analog of the effective-range expansion
authors: S. A. Rakityansky, N. Elander
comments: 33 pages, 10 figures
journal: J. Phys. A44 (2011) 115303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4991
abstract: Similarly to the standard effective range expansion that is done near the threshold energy, we obtain a generalized power-series expansion of the multi-channel Jost-matrix that can be done near an arbitrary point on the Riemann surface of the energy within the domain of its analyticity. In order to do this, we analytically factorize its momentum dependencies at all the branching points on the Riemann surface. The remaining single-valued matrix functions of the energy are then expanded in the power-series near an arbitrary point in the domain of the complex energy plane where it is analytic. A systematic and accurate procedure has been developed for calculating the expansion coefficients. This means that near an arbitrary point in the domain of physically interesting complex energies it is possible to obtain a semi-analytic expression for the Jost-matrix (and therefore for the S-matrix) and use it, for example, to locate the spectral points (bound and resonant states) as the S-matrix poles.

id: 1110.4995
title: su(3) intelligent states as coupled Su(3) coherent states
authors: Benjamin R. Lavoie, Hubert de Guise
comments: to appear in J.Phys.A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4995
abstract: We extend previous work on intelligent states and show how to construct su(3) intelligent states by coupling Su(3) coherent states. We also discuss some properties of the resulting states.

id: 1110.5011
title: A genuine maximally seven-qubit entangled state
authors: Xin-Wei Zha, Hai-Yang Song, Jian-Xia Qi, Dong Wang, Qian Lan
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 255302
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5011
abstract: Contrary to A.Borras et al.'s [1] conjecture, a genuine maximally seven-qubit entangled state is presented. We find a seven-qubit state whose marginal density matrices for subsystems of 1,2- qubits are all completely mixed and for subsystems of 3-qubits is almost completely mixed.

id: 1110.5055
title: Theory of "Weak Value" and Quantum Mechanical Measurements
authors: Yutaka Shikano
comments: to be published from "Measurements in Quantum Mechanics", edited by M. R. Pahlavani (InTech, 2012) Chapter 4 page 75. Yutaka Shikano (2012). ISBN: 978-953-51-0058-4 Available from: this http URL
journal: "Measurements in Quantum Mechanics", edited by M. R. Pahlavani (InTech, 2012) p. 75
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5055
abstract: We review the definition and the concepts of the weak values and some measurement model to extract the weak value. This material is based on the author Ph.D. thesis "Time in Weak Values and Discrete Time Quantum Walk" at Tokyo Institute of Technology (2011).

id: 1110.5058
title: Continuous Quantum Hypothesis Testing
authors: Mankei Tsang
comments: v1: first draft; v2: updated and submitted; v3: accepted by PRL, 5 pages, 1 figure, and Supplementary Material
journal: Physical Review Letters (Editors' Suggestion) 108, 170502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5058
abstract: I propose a general quantum hypothesis testing theory that enables one to test hypotheses about any aspect of a physical system, including its dynamics, based on a series of observations. For example, the hypotheses can be about the presence of a weak classical signal continuously coupled to a quantum sensor, or about competing quantum or classical models of the dynamics of a system. This generalization makes the theory useful for quantum detection and experimental tests of quantum mechanics in general. In the case of continuous measurements, the theory is significantly simplified to produce compact formulae for the likelihood ratio, the central quantity in statistical hypothesis testing. The likelihood ratio can then be computed efficiently in many cases of interest. Two potential applications of the theory, namely quantum detection of a classical stochastic waveform and test of harmonic-oscillator energy quantization, are discussed.

id: 1110.5064
title: Dispersion-based control of modal characteristics for parametric down-conversion in a multimode waveguide
authors: Michal Karpinski, Czeslaw Radzewicz, Konrad Banaszek
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. To appear in Optics Letters
journal: Opt. Lett. 37, 878 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5064
abstract: We report generation of near-infrared photon pairs in fundamental spatial modes via type-II spontaneous parametric down-conversion in a periodically poled potassium titanyl phosphate (KTiOPO4) nonlinear waveguide supporting multiple transverse modes. This demonstrates experimentally a versatile scheme for controlling the spatial characteristics of the produced nonclassical light based on exploitation of intermodal dispersion. The down-converted photons are characterized by the measurement of the beam quality factors in the heralded regime.

id: 1110.5070
title: Wronskian method and the Schr?dinger eigenvalue march
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5070
abstract: We compare the Wronskian method (WM) and the Schr\"odinger eigenvalue march or canonical function method (SEM--CFM) for the calculation of the energies and eigenfunctions of the Schr\"odinger equation. The Wronskians between linearly independent solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation provide a rigorous basis for some of the assumptions of the SEM-CFM, like, for example, the concept of "saturation". We compare the performance of both approaches on a simple one-dimensional model and suggest that taking into account the asymptotic behaviour of the wavefunction (as is already done in the WM) may make the SEM-CFM more efficient from a numerical point of view.

id: 1110.5077
title: Hard x-ray or gamma ray laser by a dense electron beam
authors: S. Son, S. J. Moon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5077
abstract: A coherent x-ray or gamma ray can be created from a dense electron beam propagating through an intense laser undulator. It is analyzed by using the Landau damping theory which suits better than the conventional linear analysis for the free electron laser, as the electron beam energy spread is high. The analysis suggests that the currently available physical parameters would enable the generation of the coherent gamma ray of up to 100 keV. The electron quantum diffraction suppresses the FEL action, by which the maximum radiation energy to be generated is limited.

id: 1110.5083
title: Observable measure of bipartite quantum correlations
authors: Davide Girolami, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Physical Review Letters 108, 150403 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5083
abstract: We introduce a measure Q of bipartite quantum correlations for arbitrary two-qubit states, expressed as a state-independent function of the density matrix elements. The amount of quantum correlations can be quantified experimentally by measuring the expectation value of a small set of observables on up to four copies of the state, without the need for a full tomography. We extend the measure to 2 x d systems, providing its explicit form in terms of observables and applying it to the relevant class of multiqubit states employed in the deterministic quantum computation with one quantum bit model. The number of required measurements to determine Q in our scheme does not increase with d. Our results provide an experimentally friendly framework to estimate quantitatively the degree of general quantum correlations in composite systems.

id: 1110.5101
title: Optimized Dynamical Decoupling Sequences in Protecting Two-Qubit States
authors: Yu Pan, Zai-Rong Xi, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 9 pages, two figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44, 175501 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5101
abstract: Aperiodic dynamical decoupling (DD) sequences of $\pi$ pulses are of great interest to decoherence control and have been recently extended from single-qubit to two-qubit systems. If the environmental noise power spectrum is made available, then one may further optimize aperiodic DD sequences to reach higher efficiency of decoherence suppression than known universal schemes. This possibility is investigated in this work for the protection of two-qubit states, using an exactly solvable pure dephasing model including both local and nonlocal noise. The performance of optimized DD sequences in protecting two-qubit states is compared with that achieved by nested Uhrig's DD (nested-UDD) sequences, for several different types of noise spectrum. Except for cases with noise spectrum decaying slowly in the high-frequency regime, optimized DD sequences with tens of control pulses can perform orders of magnitude better than that of nested-UDD. A two-qubit system with highly unbalanced local noise is also examined to shed more light on a recent experiment. Possible experiments that may be motivated by this work are discussed.

id: 1110.5109
title: Conditions on local operations to create quantum correlation
authors: Xueyuan Hu, Heng Fan, Duan-Lu Zhou, Wu-Ming Liu
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5109
abstract: We prove the condition for local trace-preserving channels to create quantum correlation from initially classical states. For two-qubit states, the necessary and sufficient condition for a channel that cannot create quantum correlation in any initially classical state is that it is either a completely decohering channel or a mixing channel. For states in higher dimensions, we show that even a mixing channel can create quantum correlation from a classically correlated state. Our results reveal that mixedness is important for creation of quantum correlation in high-dimension quantum systems.

id: 1110.5122
title: The quantum Bernoulli map
authors: Gonzalo Ordonez, Yingyue Boretz
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures. Submitted to Bussei Kenkyu, special volume honoring S. Tasaki
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5122
abstract: The classical Bernoulli and baker maps are two simple models of deterministic chaos. On the level of ensembles, it has been shown that the time evolution operator for these maps admits generalized spectral representations in terms of decaying eigenfunctions. We introduce the quantum version of the Bernoulli map. We define it as a projection of the quantum baker map. We construct a quantum analogue of the generalized spectral representation, yielding quantum decaying states represented by density matrices. The quantum decaying states develop a quasi-fractal shape limited by the quantum uncertainty.

id: 1110.5133
title: Towards practical classical processing for the surface code
authors: Austin G. Fowler, Adam C. Whiteside, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures, published version with some additional text
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 180501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5133
abstract: The surface code is unarguably the leading quantum error correction code for 2-D nearest neighbor architectures, featuring a high threshold error rate of approximately 1%, low overhead implementations of the entire Clifford group, and flexible, arbitrarily long-range logical gates. These highly desirable features come at the cost of significant classical processing complexity. We show how to perform the processing associated with an nxn lattice of qubits, each being manipulated in a realistic, fault-tolerant manner, in O(n^2) average time per round of error correction. We also describe how to parallelize the algorithm to achieve O(1) average processing per round, using only constant computing resources per unit area and local communication. Both of these complexities are optimal.

id: 1110.5139
title: Modified scalar product for the effective range approach: the molecular contribution
authors: Ludovic Pricoupenko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5139
abstract: The modified scalar product which permits to restore the self-adjoint character of the effective range approach is derived for one-channel contact models where a more general internal structure is included. In the case of the effective range approach, the modified scalar product is interpreted in the light of a generic two-channel model for a narrow Feshbach resonance as a way to take into account implicitly the molecular contribution of the closed channel.

id: 1110.5170
title: Demonstrating quantum speed-up in a superconducting two-qubit processor
authors: A. Dewes, R. Lauro, F.R. Ong, V. Schmitt, P. Milman, P. Bertet, D. Vion, D. Esteve
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5170
abstract: We operate a superconducting quantum processor consisting of two tunable transmon qubits coupled by a swapping interaction, and equipped with non destructive single-shot readout of the two qubits. With this processor, we run the Grover search algorithm among four objects and find that the correct answer is retrieved after a single run with a success probability between 0.52 and 0.67, significantly larger than the 0.25 achieved with a classical algorithm. This constitutes a proof-of-concept for the quantum speed-up of electrical quantum processors.

id: 1110.5191
title: Comment on 'Generalized Heisenberg algebra coherent states for power-law potentials'
authors: Shahid Iqbal, Farhan Saif
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5191
abstract: We argue that the statistical features of generalized coherent states for power-law potentials based on Heisenberg algebra, presented in a recent paper by Berrada et al (Phys. Lett. A, 375, 298 (2011)) are incorrect.

id: 1110.5200
title: Classification of Entanglement in Symmetric States
authors: Martin Aulbach
comments: PhD thesis, University of Leeds, July 2011. 170 pages
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inform. 10 (2012) 1230004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5200
abstract: Quantum states that are symmetric with respect to permutations of their subsystems appear in a wide range of physical settings, and they have a variety of promising applications in quantum information science. In this thesis the entanglement of symmetric multipartite states is categorised, with a particular focus on the pure multi-qubit case and the geometric measure of entanglement. An essential tool for this analysis is the Majorana representation, a generalisation of the single-qubit Bloch sphere representation, which allows for a unique representation of symmetric n qubit states by n points on the surface of a sphere. Here this representation is employed to search for the maximally entangled symmetric states of up to 12 qubits in terms of the geometric measure, and an intuitive visual understanding of the upper bound on the maximal symmetric entanglement is given. Furthermore, it will be seen that the Majorana representation facilitates the characterisation of entanglement equivalence classes such as Stochastic Local Operations and Classical Communication (SLOCC) and the Degeneracy Configuration (DC). It is found that SLOCC operations between symmetric states can be described by the Mobius transformations of complex analysis, which allows for a clear visualisation of the SLOCC freedoms and facilitates the understanding of SLOCC invariants and equivalence classes. In particular, explicit forms of representative states for all symmetric SLOCC classes of up to 5 qubits are derived. Well-known entanglement classification schemes such as the 4 qubit entanglement families or polynomial invariants are reviewed in the light of the results gathered here, which leads to sometimes surprising connections. Some interesting links and applications of the Majorana representation to related fields of mathematics and physics are also discussed.

id: 1110.5213
title: Increasing complexity with quantum physics
authors: Janet Anders, Karoline Wiesner
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures
journal: Chaos 21, 037102 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5213
abstract: We argue that complex systems science and the rules of quantum physics are intricately related. We discuss a range of quantum phenomena, such as cryptography, computation and quantum phases, and the rules responsible for their complexity. We identify correlations as a central concept connecting quantum information and complex systems science. We present two examples for the power of correlations: using quantum resources to simulate the correlations of a stochastic process and to implement a classically impossible computational task.

id: 1110.5262
title: Multiple-spin coherence transfer in linear Ising spin chains and beyond: numerically-optimized pulses and experiments
authors: Manoj Nimbalkar, Robert Zeier, Jorge L. Neves, S. Begam Elavarasi, Haidong Yuan, Navin Khaneja, Kavita Dorai, Steffen J. Glaser
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5262
abstract: We study multiple-spin coherence transfers in linear Ising spin chains with nearest neighbor couplings. These constitute a model for efficient information transfers in future quantum computing devices and for many multi-dimensional experiments for the assignment of complex spectra in nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. We complement prior analytic techniques for multiple-spin coherence transfers with a systematic numerical study where we obtain strong evidence that a certain analytically-motivated family of restricted controls is sufficient for time-optimality. In the case of a linear three-spin system, additional evidence suggests that prior analytic pulse sequences using this family of restricted controls are time-optimal even for arbitrary local controls. In addition, we compare the pulse sequences for linear Ising spin chains to pulse sequences for more realistic spin systems with additional long-range couplings between non-adjacent spins. We experimentally implement the derived pulse sequences in three and four spin systems and demonstrate that they are applicable in realistic settings under relaxation and experimental imperfections-in particular-by deriving broadband pulse sequences which are robust with respect to frequency offsets.

id: 1110.5284
title: The Bayes cost in the binary decision problem
authors: Bernhard K. Meister
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5284
abstract: The problem of quantum state discrimination between two wave functions with fixed prior is considered. The optimal minimum-error probability for the state discrimination is known to be given by the Helstrom bound. A new strategy is introduced here whereby a series of 'negative-result experiments' a la Renninger is carried out to modify the wave function. The resulting wave function is then probed using a conventional optimal strategy, and the error probability is calculated. It is shown that in some cases the Helstrom bound can be violated, i.e. the state discrimination can be realized with a smaller error probability.

id: 1110.5299
title: All-cavity electromagnetically induced transparency and optical switching: semiclassical theory
authors: Aurelien Dantan, Magnus Albert, Michael Drewsen
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013840 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5299
abstract: The transmission of a probe field experiencing electromagnetically induced transparency and optical switching in an atomic medium enclosed in an optical cavity is investigated. Using a semiclassical input-output theory for the interaction between an ensemble of four-level atoms and three optical cavity fields coupled to the same spatial cavity mode, we derive the steady-state transmission spectra of the probe field and discuss the dynamics of the intracavity field buildup. The analytical and numerical results are in good agreement with recent experiments with ion Coulomb crystals [M. Albert et al., Nature Photon. 5, 633 (2011)].

id: 1110.5353
title: Quantum Copy-Protection and Quantum Money
authors: Scott Aaronson
comments: 14-page conference abstract; full version hasn't appeared and will never appear. Being posted to arXiv mostly for archaeological purposes. Explicit money scheme has since been broken by Lutomirski et al (arXiv:0912.3825). Other quantum money material has been superseded by results of Aaronson and Christiano (coming soon). Quantum copy-protection ideas will hopefully be developed in separate work
journal: Proceedings of IEEE Conference on Computational Complexity, pages 229-242, 2009
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5353
abstract: Forty years ago, Wiesner proposed using quantum states to create money that is physically impossible to counterfeit, something that cannot be done in the classical world. However, Wiesner's scheme required a central bank to verify the money, and the question of whether there can be unclonable quantum money that anyone can verify has remained open since. One can also ask a related question, which seems to be new: can quantum states be used as copy-protected programs, which let the user evaluate some function f, but not create more programs for f? This paper tackles both questions using the arsenal of modern computational complexity. Our main result is that there exist quantum oracles relative to which publicly-verifiable quantum money is possible, and any family of functions that cannot be efficiently learned from its input-output behavior can be quantumly copy-protected. This provides the first formal evidence that these tasks are achievable. The technical core of our result is a "Complexity-Theoretic No-Cloning Theorem," which generalizes both the standard No-Cloning Theorem and the optimality of Grover search, and might be of independent interest. Our security argument also requires explicit constructions of quantum t-designs. Moving beyond the oracle world, we also present an explicit candidate scheme for publicly-verifiable quantum money, based on random stabilizer states; as well as two explicit schemes for copy-protecting the family of point functions. We do not know how to base the security of these schemes on any existing cryptographic assumption. (Note that without an oracle, we can only hope for security under some computational assumption.)

id: 1110.5372
title: A state-insensitive, compensated nanofiber trap
authors: C. Lacro?te, K. S. Choi, A. Goban, D. J. Alton, D. Ding, N. P. Stern, H. J. Kimble
comments: 20 pages, 12 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 023056 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5372
abstract: Laser trapping and interfacing of laser-cooled atoms in an optical fiber network is an important capability for quantum information science. Following the pioneering work of Balykin et al. and Vetsch et al., we propose a robust method of trapping single Cesium atoms with a two-color state-insensitive evanescent wave around a dielectric nanofiber. Specifically, we show that vector light shifts (i.e., effective inhomogeneous Zeeman broadening of the ground states) induced by the inherent ellipticity of the forward-propagating evanescent wave can be effectively canceled by a backward-propagating evanescent wave. Furthermore, by operating the trapping lasers at the magic wavelengths, we remove the differential scalar light shift between ground and excited states, thereby allowing for resonant driving of the optical D2 transition. This scheme provides a promising approach to trap and probe neutral atoms with long trap and coherence lifetimes with realistic experimental parameters.

id: 1110.5386
title: Non-Markovian dynamics and strong coupling between atomic transitions and a waveguide continuum edge
authors: Ting Chen, Ren-Bao Liu
comments: 8 pages 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 043830 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5386
abstract: In quantum communication and distributed quantum computing, one-dimensional waveguides provide directional transfer of quantum information. A single-mode waveguide has a density-of-states singularity at the lower cut-off frequency, which resembles sharp resonances of a cavity but with non-Markovian dynamics. Thus we put forward schemes of coupling atomic transitions and a waveguide continuum edge. We first present a scheme of spin-photon quantum interface operating in the non-Markovian regime for a $\Lambda$-type three-level system coupled to a waveguide. Then we show that strong coupling between atomic transitions and a waveguide continuum edge can lead to vacuum Rabi oscillations and bound polariton states.

id: 1110.5393
title: SU(3) phase states and finite Fourier transform
authors: Brandon Zanette, Hubert de Guise
comments: to appear in Physica Scripta
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5393
abstract: We describe the construction of SU(3) phase operators using Fourier-like transform on a hexagonal lattice. The advantages and disadvantages of this approach are contrasted with other results, in particular with the more traditional approach based on polar decomposition of operators.

id: 1110.5427
title: Conservation law of operator current in open quantum systems
authors: J. Salmilehto, P. Solinas, M. M?tt?nen
comments: 5 pages, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032110 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5427
abstract: We derive a fundamental conservation law of operator current for master equations describing reduced quantum systems. If this law is broken, the temporal integral of the current operator of an arbitrary system observable does not yield in general the change of that observable in the evolution. We study Lindblad-type master equations as examples and prove that the application of the secular approximation during their derivation results in a violation of the conservation law. We show that generally any violation of the law leads to artificial corrections to the complete quantum dynamics, thus questioning the accuracy of the particular master equation.

id: 1110.5442
title: Complete experimental characterization of a superconducting multiphoton nanodetector
authors: J. J. Renema, G. Frucci, Z. Zhou, F. Mattioli, A. Gaggero, R. Leoni, M. J. A. de Dood, A. Fiore, M. P. van Exter
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5442
abstract: We present a complete method to characterize multiphoton detectors with a small overall detection e?ciency. We do this by separating the nonlinear action of the multiphoton detection event from linear losses in the detector. Such a characterization is a necessary step for quantum information protocols with single and multiphoton detectors and can provide quantitative information to understand the underlying physics of a given detector. This characterization is applied to a superconducting multiphoton nanodetector, consisting of an NbN nanowire with a bowtie-shaped subwavelength constriction. Depending on the bias current, this detector has regimes with single and multiphoton sensitivity. We present the ?rst full experimental characterization of such a detector.

id: 1110.5460
title: Blind topological measurement-based quantum computation
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae, Keisuke Fujii
comments: 17 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature Communications 3, 1036 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5460
abstract: Blind quantum computation is a novel secure quantum-computing protocol that enables Alice, who does not have sufficient quantum technology at her disposal, to delegate her quantum computation to Bob, who has a fully fledged quantum computer, in such a way that Bob cannot learn anything about Alice's input, output and algorithm. A recent proof-of-principle experiment demonstrating blind quantum computation in an optical system has raised new challenges regarding the scalability of blind quantum computation in realistic noisy conditions. Here we show that fault-tolerant blind quantum computation is possible in a topologically protected manner using the Raussendorf-Harrington-Goyal scheme. The error threshold of our scheme is 0.0043, which is comparable to that (0.0075) of non-blind topological quantum computation. As the error per gate of the order 0.001 was already achieved in some experimental systems, our result implies that secure cloud quantum computation is within reach.

id: 1110.5482
title: Deriving quantum theory from its local structure and reversibility
authors: Gonzalo de la Torre, Lluis Masanes, Anthony J. Short, Markus P. Mueller
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 090403 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5482
abstract: We investigate the class of physical theories with the same local structure as quantum theory, but a potentially different global structure. It has previously been shown that any bipartite correlations generated by such a theory must be simulatable in quantum theory, but that this does not hold for tripartite correlations. Here we explore whether imposing an additional constraint on this space of theories - that of dynamical reversibility - will allow us to recover the global quantum structure. In the particular case in which the local systems are identical qubits, we show that any theory admitting at least one continuous reversible interaction must be identical to quantum theory.

id: 1110.5484
title: Improved Eavesdropping Detection Strategy in Quantum Direct Communication Protocol Based on Four-particle GHZ State
authors: Jian Li, Haifei Jin, Bo Jing
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0308173 by different authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5484
abstract: In order to improve the eavesdropping detection efficiency in two-step quantum direct communication protocol, an improved eavesdropping detection strategy using four-particle GHZ state is proposed, in which four-particle GHZ state is used to detect eavesdroppers. During the security analysis, the method of the entropy theory is introduced, and two detection strategies are compared quantitatively by using the constraint between the information which eavesdropper can obtain and the interference introduced. If the eavesdroppers intend to obtain all information, the eavesdropping detection rate of the original two-step quantum direct communication protocol by using EPR pair block as detection particles is 50%; while the proposed strategy's detection rate is 88%. In the end, the security of the proposed protocol is discussed. The analysis results show that the eavesdropping detection strategy presented is more secure.

id: 1110.5491
title: A Geometrical Manifold of Entropy for Fisher Information and Quantum Potential
authors: Germano Resconi, Ignazio Licata, Davide Fiscaletti
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5491
abstract: It is here proposed a geometric approach for the problem of describing entropy in a quantum system. We make use of an extension of tensor calculus called morphogenetic calculus. By using such formalism we express the entropy of a quantum system as the superposition of Boltzmann entropies. In this way we also provide a reading of the relational interpretation of quantum mechanics. Moreover we show that the Bohm quantum potential emerges as a consequence of the classical equilibrium under the constraint of a minimum condition of Fisher information. In this way, Bohm quantum potential appears as a non-Euclidean deformation of the probabilistic space. Finally we investigate the possible quantum-relativistic extensions of the theory and the connections with the problem of quantum gravity.

id: 1110.5503
title: Cooper pair current in the presence of flux noise
authors: P. Solinas, M. M?tt?nen, J. Salmilehto, J. P. Pekola
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5503
abstract: We study the effect of the flux noise on the Cooper pair current and pumping. We generalize the definition of the current in order to take into account the contribution induced by the environment. It turns out that this dissipative current vanishes for charge noise but it is finite in general for noise operators that do not commute with the charge operator. We discuss in a generic framework the effect of flux noise and present a way to engineer it by coupling the system to an additional external circuit. We calculate numerically the pumped charge through the device by solving the master equation for the reduced density matrix of the system and show how it depends on the coupling to the artificial environment.

id: 1110.5512
title: Testing the Structure of Multipartite Entanglement with Bell Inequalities
authors: Nicolas Brunner, James Sharam, Tamas Vertesi
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 110501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5512
abstract: We show that the rich structure of multipartite entanglement can be tested following a device-independent approach. Specifically we present Bell inequalities for distinguishing between different types of multipartite entanglement, without placing any assumptions on the measurement devices used in the protocol, in contrast with usual entanglement witnesses. We first address the case of three qubits and present Bell inequalities that can be violated by W states but not by GHZ states, and vice versa. Next, we devise 'sub-correlation Bell inequalities' for any number of parties, which can provably not be violated by a broad class of multipartite entangled states (generalizations of GHZ states), but for which violations can be obtained for W states. Our results give insight into the nonlocality of W states. The simplicity and robustness of our tests make them appealing for experiments.

id: 1110.5522
title: Continuous variable quantum key distribution with two-mode squeezed states
authors: Lars S. Madsen, Vladyslav C. Usenko, Mikael Lassen, Radim Filip, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature Communications 3, 1083 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5522
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) enables two remote parties to grow a shared key which they can use for unconditionally secure communication [1]. The applicable distance of a QKD protocol depends on the loss and the excess noise of the connecting quantum channel [2-10]. Several QKD schemes based on coherent states and continuous variable (CV) measurements are resilient to high loss in the channel, but strongly affected by small amounts of channel excess noise [2-6]. Here we propose and experimentally address a CV QKD protocol which uses fragile squeezed states combined with a large coherent modulation to greatly enhance the robustness to channel noise. As a proof of principle we experimentally demonstrate that the resulting QKD protocol can tolerate more noise than the benchmark set by the ideal CV coherent state protocol. Our scheme represents a very promising avenue for extending the distance for which secure communication is possible.

id: 1110.5537
title: Violation of Leggett-Garg inequalities in single quantum dot
authors: Yong-Nan Sun, Yang Zou, Rong-Chun Ge, Jian-Shun Tang, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. Lett.29,120302(2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5537
abstract: We investigate the violation of Leggett-Garg (LG) inequalities inquantum dots with the stationarity assumption. By comparing two types of LG inequalities, we find a better one which is easier to be tested in experiment. In addition, we show that the fine-structure splitting, background noise and temperature of quantum dots all influence the violation of LG inequalities.

id: 1110.5561
title: Relativity of Causal Structure in Quantum Theory
authors: Marco Zaopo
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5561
abstract: Quantum theory is a mathematical formalism to compute probabilities for outcomes happenning in physical experiments. These outcomes constitute events happening in space-time. One of these events represents the fact that a system located in the region of space where is situated a physical device has a certain value of a physical observable at the time when the device fires the outcome corresponding to that value of the observable. The causal structure of these events is customarily assumed fixed in an absolute way. In this paper we show that this assumption cannot be substantiated on operational grounds proving that two observers looking at the same quantum experiment can calculate the probabilities of the experiment assuming a different causal structure for the space-time events constituted by the outcomes. We will thus say that in quantum theory we have relativity of causal structure.

id: 1110.5565
title: Trigger-disabling Acquisition System for Quantum Key Distribution failsafe against Self-blinding
authors: M. Bawaj, M. Lucamarini, R. Natali, G. Di Giuseppe, P. Tombesi
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Version 2 corrected and improved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5565
abstract: Modern single-photon detectors based on avalanche photodiodes offer increasingly higher triggering speeds, thus fostering their use in several fields, prominently in the recent area of Quantum Key Distribution. To reduce the probability of an afterpulse, these detectors are usually equipped with a circuitry that disables the trigger for a certain time after a positive detection event, known as dead time. If the acquisition system connected to the detector is not properly designed, efficiency issues arise when the triggering rate is faster than the inverse of detector's dead-time. Moreover, when this happens with two or more detectors used in coincidence, a security risk called "self-blinding" can jeopardize the distribution of a secret quantum key. In this paper we introduce a trigger-disabling circuitry based on an FPGA-driven feedback loop, so to avoid the above-mentioned inconveniences. In the regime of single-photon-attenuated light, the electronics dynamically accept a trigger only after detectors' complete recovery from dead-time. This technique proves useful to work with detectors at their maximum speed and to increase the security of a quantum key distribution setup.

id: 1110.5566
title: Transitional dynamics of a phase qubit-resonator system: requirements for fast readout of a phase qubit
authors: G.P. Berman, A.A. Chumak, V.I. Tsifrinovich
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5566
abstract: We examine the non-stationary evolution of a coupled qubit-transmission line-resonator system coupled to an external drive and the resonator environment. By solving the equation for a non-stationary resonator field, we determined the requirements for a single-shot non-destructive dispersive measurement of the phase qubit state. Reliable isolation of the qubit from the "electromagnetic environment" is necessary for a dispersive readout and can be achieved if the whole system interacts with the external fields only through the resonator that is weakly coupled to the qubit. A set of inequalities involving resonator-qubit detuning and coupling parameter, the resonator leakage and the measurement time, together with the requirement of multi-photon outgoing flux is derived. It is shown, in particular, that a decrease of the measurement time requires an increase of the resonator leakage. This increase results in reducing the quality factor and decreasing the resolution of the resonator eigenfrequencies corresponding to different qubit states. The consistent character of the derived inequalities for two sets of experimental parameters is discussed. The obtained results will be useful for optimal design of experimental setups, parameters, and measurement protocols.

id: 1110.5579
title: The Renormalization Effects in the Microstrip-SQUID Amplifier
authors: G. P. Berman, A. A. Chumak, V. I. Tsifrinovich
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5579
abstract: The peculiarities of the microstrip-DC SQUID amplifier caused by the resonant structure of the input circuit are analyzed. It is shown that the mutual inductance, that couples the input circuit and the SQUID loop, depends on the frequency of electromagnetic field. The renormalization of the SQUID parameters due to the screening effect of the input circuit vanishes when the Josephson frequency is much greater than the signal frequency.

id: 1110.5583
title: On the qubit limit of cavity nonlinear optics
authors: Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 4 pages, 4 color figures, submitted to PRA/Brief; references modified 12/30/11
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5583
abstract: Many proposals for solid-state photonic implementations of quantum information processing utilize high-quality optical resonators to achieve strong coupling between guided fields and heterogeneously incorporated qubits. Given the practical difficulty of accurately placing quantum dots, vacancy centers, or other such atom-like emitters throughout a complex nanophotonic circuit, it would be natural to consider whether high-quality resonators could be used in conjunction with bulk optical nonlinearities to create optically-coupled qubit degrees of freedom via lithographic patterning of a homogeneous medium. A recent limit theorem for quantum stochastic differential equations can be used to prove rigorously that this should be possible, in principle, using resonators incorporating a strongly Kerr-nonlinear, $\chi^{(2)}$-nonlinear, or two-photon absorbing material with very low loss at the fundamental optical wavelength.

id: 1110.5584
title: Dynamical recurrence and the quantum control of coupled oscillators
authors: Marco G. Genoni, A. Serafini, M. S. Kim, Daniel Burgarth
comments: 5 pages (+ 1 page of supplemental material), 1 figure; v2: title changed and minor replacements in the rest of the paper
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 150501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5584
abstract: Controllability -- the possibility of performing any target dynamics by applying a set of available operations -- is a fundamental requirement for the practical use of any physical system. For finite-dimensional systems, as for instance spin systems, precise criterions to establish controllability, such as the so called rank criterion, are well known. However most physical systems require a description in terms of an infinite-dimensional Hilbert space whose controllability properties are poorly understood. Here, we investigate infinite-dimensional bosonic quantum systems -- encompassing quantum light, ensembles of bosonic atoms, motional degrees of freedom of ions, and nano-mechanical oscillators -- governed by quadratic Hamiltonians (such that their evolution is analogous to coupled harmonic oscillators). After having highlighted the intimate connection between controllability and recurrence in the Hilbert space, we prove that, for coupled oscillators, a simple extra condition has to be fulfilled to extend the rank criterion to infinite dimensional quadratic systems. Further, we present a useful application of our finding, by proving indirect controllability of a chain of harmonic oscillators.

id: 1110.5681
title: Encoding graphs into quantum states: an axiomatic approach
authors: Radu Ionicioiu, Tim P. Spiller
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062313 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5681
abstract: A fundamental problem in quantum information is to describe efficiently multipartite quantum states. An efficient representation in terms of graphs exists for several families of quantum states (graph, cluster, stabilizer states), motivating us to extend this construction to other classes. We introduce an axiomatic framework for mapping graphs to quantum states of a suitable physical system. Starting from three general axioms we derived a rich structure which includes and generalizes several classes of multipartite entangled state, like graph/stabilizer states, Gaussian cluster states, quantum random networks and projected entangled pair states (PEPS). Due to its flexibility we can extend the present formalism to include directed and weighted graphs.

id: 1110.5691
title: Comment on "Observation of anticorrelation in incoherent thermal light fields"
authors: Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Eric Lantz
comments: 4 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5691
abstract: Recently, Chen \em et al \rm.\ [Phys. Rev. A 84, 033835 (2011)] reported observation of anticorrelated photon coincidences in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer whose input light came from a mode-locked Ti:sapphire laser that had been rendered spatially incoherent by passage through a rotating ground-glass diffuser. They provided a quantum-mechanical explanation of their results, which ascribes the anticorrelation to two-photon interference. They also developed a classical-light treatment of the experiment, and showed that it was incapable of explaining the anticorrelation behavior. Here we show that semiclassical photodetection theory---i.e., classical electromagnetic fields plus photodetector shot noise---does indeed explain the anticorrelation found by Chen \em et al \rm.\ The key to our analysis is proper accounting for the disparate time scales associated with the laser's pulse duration, the speckle-correlation time, the interferometer's differential delay, and the duration of the photon-coincidence gate. Our result is consistent with the long-accepted dictum that laser light which has undergone linear-optics transformations is classical-state light, so that the quantum and semiclassical theories of photodetection yield quantitatively identical results for its measurement statistics. The interpretation provided by Chen \em et al \rm. for their observations implicitly contradicts that dictum

id: 1110.5693
title: Direct scheme for measuring the geometric quantum discord
authors: Jia-sen Jin, Feng-yang Zhang, Chang-shui Yu, He-shan Song
comments: 9 pages,1 figure, submitted to J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 115308
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5693
abstract: We propose a scheme to directly measure the exact value of geometric quantum discord of an arbitrary two-qubit state. We only need to perform the projective measurement in the all anti-symmetric subspace and our scheme is parametrically efficient in contrast to the widely adopted quantum state tomography scheme in the sense of less parameter estimations and projectors. Moreover, the present scheme can be easily realized with the current experimental techniques.

id: 1110.5721
title: The Security of SARG04 Protocol in Plug and Play Quantum Key Distribution system with an Untrusted Source
authors: Bingjie Xu, Xiang Peng, Hong Guo
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5721
abstract: The SARG04 protocol is one of the most frequently used protocol in commercial plug-and-play quantum key distribution (QKD) system, where an eavesdropper can completely control or change the photon number statistics of the QKD source. To ensure the security of SARG04 protocol in plug-and-play QKD system with an unknown and untrusted source, the bounds of a few statistical parameters of the source need to be monitored. An active or a passive source monitor schemes are proposed to verify these parameters. Furthermore, the practical issues due to statistical fluctuation and detection noise in the source monitoring process are quantitatively analyzed. Our simulation results show that the passive scheme can be efficiently applied to plug-and-play system with SARG04 protocol.

id: 1110.5746
title: Private and Quantum Capacities of More Capable and Less Noisy Quantum Channels
authors: Shun Watanabe
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure, In v2, fig 1 is modified because fig 1 in v1 incorrectly stated that the degradable class is included in the conjugate degradable class. Main results are unchanged. V3 is the published version. In v3, the title is changed by a suggestion from an editor
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012326 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5746
abstract: Two new classes of quantum channels, which we call more capable and less noisy, are introduced. The more capable class consists of channels such that the quantum capacities of the complementary channels to the environments are zero. The less noisy class consists of channels such that the private capacities of the complementary channels to the environment are zero. For the more capable class, it is clarified that the private capacity and quantum capacity coincide. For the less noisy class, it is clarified that the private capacity and quantum capacity can be single letter characterized.

id: 1110.5759
title: Quantum equilibration in finite time
authors: Anthony J. Short, Terence C. Farrelly
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5759
abstract: It has recently been shown that small quantum subsystems generically equilibrate, in the sense that they spend most of the time close to a fixed equilibrium state. This relies on just two assumptions: that the state is spread over many different energies, and that the Hamiltonian has non-degenerate energy gaps. Given the same assumptions, it has also been shown that closed systems equilibrate with respect to realistic measurements. We extend these results in two important ways. First, we prove equilibration over a finite (rather than infinite) time-interval, allowing us to bound the equilibration time. Second, we weaken the non degenerate energy gaps condition, showing that equilibration occurs provided that no energy gap is hugely degenerate.

id: 1110.5760
title: Creation of two vortex-entangled beams in a vortex beam collision with a plane wave
authors: I. P. Ivanov
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; v2: title modified, introduction rewritten and expanded, results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 033813 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5760
abstract: Physics of photons and electrons carrying orbital angular momentum (OAM) is an exciting field of research in quantum optics and electron microscopy. Usually, one considers propagation of these vortex beams in a medium or external fields and their absorption or scattering on fixed targets. Here we consider instead a beam-beam collision. We show that elastic scattering of a Bessel vortex beam with a counterpropagating plane wave naturally leads to two vortex-entangled outgoing beams. The vortex entanglement implies that the two final particles are entangled not only in their orbital helicities but also in opening angles of their momentum cones. Our results are driven by kinematics of vortex-beam scattering and apply to particle pairs of any nature: e-gamma, e^+e^-, ep, etc. This collisional vortex entanglement can be used to create pairs of OAM-entangled particles of different nature, and to transfer a phase vortex, for example, from low-energy electrons to high-energy protons.

id: 1110.5782
title: The Effect of Noise on the Dirac Phase of Electron in The Presence of Screw Dislocation
authors: Reza Torabi
comments: 
journal: Physica B, 407, 2109 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5782
abstract: The effect of noise on the Dirac phase of electron in the presence of screw dislocation is studied. An uncorrelated noise, which coincides with the nature of thermal fluctuations, is adopted. Results indicate that the Dirac phase is robust against existing noise in the system.

id: 1110.5790
title: Aspects of Time in Quantum Theory
authors: James M Yearsley
comments: PhD thesis, Imperial College London 2011. 158 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5790
abstract: We consider a number of aspects of the problem of defining time observables in quantum theory. Time observables are interesting quantities in quantum theory because they often cannot be associated with self-adjoint operators. Their definition therefore touches on foundational issues in quantum theory. Various operational approaches to defining time observables have been proposed in the past. Two of the most common are those based on pulsed measurements in the form of strings of projection operators and continuous measurements in the form of complex potentials. One of the major achievements of this thesis is to prove that these two operational approaches are equivalent. However operational approaches are somewhat unsatisfying by themselves. To provide a definition of time observables which is not linked to a particular measurement scheme we employ the decoherent, or consistent, histories approach to quantum theory. We focus on the arrival time, one particular example of a time observable, and we use the relationship between pulsed and continuous measurements to relate the decoherent histories approach to one based on complex potentials. This lets us compute the arrival time probability distribution in decoherent histories and we show that it agrees with semiclassical expectations in the right limit. We do this both for a free particle and for a particle coupled to an environment. Finally, we consider how the results discussed in this thesis relate to those derived by coupling a particle to a model clock. We show that for a general class of clock models the probabilities thus measured can be simply related to the ideal ones computed via decoherent histories.

id: 1110.5801
title: Entangled State Synthesis for Superconducting Resonators
authors: Frederick W. Strauch, Douglas Onyango, Kurt Jacobs, Raymond W. Simmonds
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022335 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5801
abstract: We present a theoretical analysis of methods to synthesize entangled states of two superconducting resonators. These methods use experimentally demonstrated interactions of resonators with artificial atoms, and offer efficient routes to generate nonclassical states. We analyze physical implementations, energy level structure, and the effects of decoherence through detailed dynamical simulations.

id: 1110.5802
title: Realistic limits on the nonlocality of an N-partite single-photon superposition
authors: Amine Laghaout, Gunnar Bj?rk, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5802
abstract: A recent paper [L. Heaney, A. Cabello, M. F. Santos, and V. Vedral, New Journal of Physics, 13, 053054 (2011)] revealed that a single quantum symmetrically delocalized over N modes, namely a W state, effectively allows for all-versus-nothing proofs of nonlocality in the limit of large N. Ideally, this finding opens up the possibility of using the robustness of the W states while realizing the nonlocal behavior previously thought to be exclusive to the more complex class of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states. We show that in practice, however, the slightest decoherence or inefficiency of the Bell measurements on W states will degrade any violation margin gained by scaling to higher N. The non-statistical demonstration of nonlocality is thus proved to be impossible in any realistic experiment.

id: 1110.5876
title: Refutation of Some Arguments Against my Disproof of Bell's Theorem
authors: Joy Christian
comments: 12 pages; References added. Published as a Chapter in Disproof of Bell's Theorem: Illuminating the Illusion of Entanglement (BrownWalker Press, Florida, 2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5876
abstract: In a couple of recent preprints Moldoveanu has suggested that there are errors in my disproof of Bell's theorem. Here I show that this claim is false. In particular, I show that my local-realistic framework is incorrectly and misleadingly presented in both of his preprints. In addition there are a number of serious mathematical and conceptual errors in his discussion of my framework. For example, contrary to his claim, my framework is manifestly non-contextual. In particular, quantum correlations are understood within it as purely topological effects, not contextual effects.

id: 1110.5892
title: Semi-optimal Practicable Algorithmic Cooling
authors: Yuval Elias, Tal Mor, Yossi Weinstein
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83 (2011) 042340
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5892
abstract: Algorithmic Cooling (AC) of spins applies entropy manipulation algorithms in open spin-systems in order to cool spins far beyond Shannon's entropy bound. AC of nuclear spins was demonstrated experimentally, and may contribute to nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. Several cooling algorithms were suggested in recent years, including practicable algorithmic cooling (PAC) and exhaustive AC. Practicable algorithms have simple implementations, yet their level of cooling is far from optimal; Exhaustive algorithms, on the other hand, cool much better, and some even reach (asymptotically) an optimal level of cooling, but they are not practicable. We introduce here semi-optimal practicable AC (SOPAC), wherein few cycles (typically 2-6) are performed at each recursive level. Two classes of SOPAC algorithms are proposed and analyzed. Both attain cooling levels significantly better than PAC, and are much more efficient than the exhaustive algorithms. The new algorithms are shown to bridge the gap between PAC and exhaustive AC. In addition, we calculated the number of spins required by SOPAC in order to purify qubits for quantum computation. As few as 12 and 7 spins are required (in an ideal scenario) to yield a mildly pure spin (60% polarized) from initial polarizations of 1% and 10%, respectively. In the latter case, about five more spins are sufficient to produce a highly pure spin (99.99% polarized), which could be relevant for fault-tolerant quantum computing.

id: 1110.5944
title: Communication cost of classically simulating a quantum channel with subsequent rank-1 projective measurement
authors: Alberto Montina
comments: corrected some minor typos
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 060303(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5944
abstract: A process of preparation, transmission and subsequent projective measurement of a qubit can be simulated by a classical model with only two bits of communication and some amount of shared randomness. However no model for n qubits with a finite amount of classical communication is known at present. A lower bound for the communication cost can provide useful hints for a generalization. It is known for example that the amount of communication must be greater than c 2^n, where c~0.01. The proof uses a quite elaborate theorem of communication complexity. Using a mathematical conjecture known as the "double cap conjecture", we strengthen this result by presenting a geometrical and extremely simple derivation of the lower bound 2^n-1. Only rank-1 projective measurements are involved in the derivation.

id: 1110.5953
title: Quantum nondemolition measurement of the Werner state
authors: Jia-sen Jin, Chang-shui Yu, Pei Pei, He-shan Song
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 82, 042112 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5953
abstract: We propose a theoretical scheme of quantum nondemolition measurement of two-qubit Werner state. We discuss our scheme with the two qubits restricted in a local place and then extend the scheme to the case in which two qubits are separated. We also consider the experimental realization of our scheme based on cavity quantum electrodynamics. It is very interesting that our scheme is robust against the dissipative effects introduced by the probe process. We also give a brief interpretation of our scheme finally.

id: 1110.5966
title: Atomic quantum state transferring and swapping via quantum Zeno dynamics
authors: Zhi-Cheng Shi, Yan Xia, Jie Song
comments: To appear in J. Opt. Soc. Am. B (JOSAB)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5966
abstract: In this paper, we first demonstrate how to realize quantum state transferring (QST) from one atom to another based on quantum Zeno dynamics. Then, the QST protocol is generalized to realize the quantum state swapping (QSS) between two arbitrary atoms with the help of a third one. Furthermore, we also consider the QSS within a quantum network. The influence of decoherence is analyzed by numerical calculation. The results demonstrate that the protocols are robust against cavity decay.

id: 1110.5979
title: Universal upper bound for the Holevo information induced by a quantum operation
authors: Lin Zhang, Junde Wu, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 9 pages, LaTeX, published version
journal: Physics Letters A 376 (2012): 3588-3592
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5979
abstract: Let $\cH_A\ot \cH_B$ be a bipartite system and $\rho_{AB}$ a quantum state on $\cH_A\ot \cH_B$, $\rho_A = \Ptr{B}{\rho_{AB}}$, $\rho_B = \Ptr{A}{\rho_{AB}}$. Then each quantum operation $\Phi_B$ on the quantum system $\cH_B$ can induce a quantum ensemble $\set{(p_\mu,\rho_{A,\mu})}$ on quantum system $\cH_A$. In this paper, we show that the Holevo quantity $\chi\set{(p_\mu,\rho_{A,\mu})}$ of the quantum ensemble $\set{(p_\mu,\rho_{A,\mu})}$ can be upper bounded by both subsystem entropies. By using the result, we answer partly a conjecture of Fannes, de Melo, Roga and \.{Z}yczkowski.

id: 1110.6056
title: Comment on `Simulation of Bell states with incoherent thermal light'
authors: Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6056
abstract: Recently, Chen \em et al\rm.\ [New J. Phys. {\bf 13} (2011) 083018] presented experimental results, accompanied by quantum-mechanical analysis, showing that the quantum interference behavior of Bell states could be simulated in a modified Mach-Zehnder interferometer whose inputs are pseudothermal light beams obtained by passing laser light through a rotating ground-glass diffuser. Their experiments and their theory presumed low-flux operation in which the simulated quantum interference is observed via photon-coincidence counting. We first show that the Chen \em et al\rm.\ photon-coincidence counting experiments can be fully explained with semiclassical photodetection theory, in which light is taken to be a classical electromagnetic wave, and the discreteness of the electron charge leads to shot noise as the fundamental photodetection noise. We then use semiclassical photodetection theory to show that the \em same\rm\ simulated quantum interference pattern can be observed in high-flux operation, when photocurrent cross-correlation is used instead of photon-coincidence counting.

id: 1110.6064
title: Refractive index perturbations -- Unruh effect, Hawking radiation or dynamical Casimir effect?
authors: Ralf Sch¨¹tzhold
comments: 10 pages, to appear in the Proceedings of the II Amazonian Symposium on Physics - Analogue Models of Gravity 30 Years Celebration
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6064
abstract: Motivated by recent experimental progress to manipulate the refractive index of dielectric materials by strong laser beams, we study some aspects of the quantum radiation created by such refractive index perturbations.

id: 1110.6121
title: Truly work-like work extraction
authors: Johan Aberg
comments: Main text reformulated. New figures. Some discussions added
journal: Nature Communications 4, 1925 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6121
abstract: The work content of non-equilibrium systems in relation to a heat bath is often analyzed in terms of expectation values of an underlying random work variable. However, we show that when optimizing the expectation value of the extracted work, the resulting extraction process is subject to intrinsic fluctuations, uniquely determined by the Hamiltonian and the initial distribution of the system. These fluctuations can be of the same order as the expected work content per se, in which case the extracted energy is unpredictable, thus intuitively more heat-like than work-like. This raises the question of the `truly' work-like energy that can extracted. Here we consider an alternative that corresponds to an essentially fluctuation-free extraction. We show that this quantity can be expressed in terms of a non-equilibrium generalization of the free energy, or equivalently in terms of a one-shot relative entropy measure introduced in information theory.

id: 1110.6128
title: Classical Hierarchical Correlation Quantification on Tripartite Qubit Mixed State Families
authors: Yuri Campbell, Jos¨¦ Roberto Castilho Piqueira
comments: 2 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6128
abstract: There are at least a number of ways to formally define complexity. Most of them relate to some kind of minimal description of the studied object. Being this one in form of minimal resources of minimal effort needed to generate the object itself. This is usually achieved by detecting and taking advantage of regularities within the object. Regularities can commonly be described in an information-theoretic approach by quantifying the amount of correlation playing a role in the system, this being spatial, temporal or both. This is the approach closely related to the extent that the whole cannot be understood as only the sum of its parts, but also by their interactions. Feature considered to be most fundamental. Nevertheless, this irreducibility, even in the basic quantum informational setting of composite states, is also present due to the intrinsic structure of Hilbert spaces' tensor product. In this approach, this irreducibility is quantified based on statistics of von Neumann measurements forming mutually unbiased bases. Upon two different kinds of tripartite qubit mixed state families, which hold the two possible distinct entangled states on this space. Results show that this quantification is sensible to the different kind of entanglement present on those families.

id: 1110.6157
title: Stochastic Schr?dinger Equation for a Non-Markovian Dissipative Qubit-Qutrit System
authors: Jun Jing, Ting Yu
comments: EPL in press
journal: EPL, 96 (2011) 44001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6157
abstract: We investigate the non-Markovian quantum dynamics of a hybrid open system consisting of one qubit and one qutrit by employing a stochastic Schr\"{o}dinger equation to generate diffusive quantum trajectories. We have established an exact quantum state diffusion (QSD) equation for the dissipative qubit-qutrit system coupled to a bosonic heat bath at zero temperature. As an important application, the non-Markovian QSD equation is employed to simulate the entanglement decay and generation measured by negativity. Finally, some steady state properties of the hybrid system are also discussed.

id: 1110.6169
title: On the role of potentials in the Aharonov-Bohm effect
authors: Lev Vaidman
comments: Presentation of the result is revised according to the comments of 5 referees. To be published as Rapid Communication in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6169
abstract: There is a consensus today that the the main lesson of the Aharonov-Bohm effect is that a picture of electromagnetism based on the local action of the field strengths is not possible in quantum mechanics. Contrary to this statement it is argued here that when the source of the electromagnetic potential is treated in the framework of quantum theory, the Aharonov-Bohm effect can be explained without the notion of potentials. It is explained by local action of the field of the electron on the source of the potential. The core of the Aharonov-Bohm effect is the same as the core of quantum entanglement: the quantum wave function describes all systems together.

id: 1110.6215
title: Reversible optical to microwave quantum interface
authors: Sh. Barzanjeh, M. Abdi, G. J. Milburn, P. Tombesi, D. Vitali
comments: 5 + 3 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 130503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6215
abstract: We describe a reversible quantum interface between an optical and a microwave field using a hybrid device based on their common interaction with a micro-mechanical resonator in a superconducting circuit. We show that, by employing state-of-the-art opto-electro-mechanical devices, one can realise an effective source of (bright) two-mode squeezing with an optical idler (signal) and a microwave signal, which can be used for high-fidelity transfer of quantum states between optical and microwave fields by means of continuous variable teleportation.

id: 1110.6255
title: Quantum hypothesis testing for quantum Gaussian states: Quantum analogues of chi-square, t and F tests
authors: Wataru Kumagai, Masahito Hayashi
comments: 34 pages, 3 figures
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics, 318(2), 535-574, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6255
abstract: We treat quantum counterparts of testing problems whose optimal tests are given by chi-square, t and F tests. These quantum counterparts are formulated as quantum hypothesis testing problems concerning quantum Gaussian states families, and contain disturbance parameters, which have group symmetry. Quantum Hunt-Stein Theorem removes a part of these disturbance parameters, but other types of difficulty still remain. In order to remove them, combining quantum Hunt-Stein theorem and other reduction methods, we establish a general reduction theorem that reduces a complicated quantum hypothesis testing problem to a fundamental quantum hypothesis testing problem. Using these methods, we derive quantum counterparts of chi-square, t and F tests as optimal tests in the respective settings.

id: 1110.6321
title: Entropy, Stochastic Matrices, and Quantum Operations
authors: Lin Zhang
comments: 12 pages, LaTeX, minor modificaitons, and a referece is added
journal: Linear and Multilinear Algebra 62(3), 396-405 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6321
abstract: The goal of the present paper is to derive some conditions on saturation of (strong) subadditivity inequality for the stochastic matrices. The notion of relative entropy of stochastic matrices is introduced by mimicking quantum relative entropy. Some properties of this concept are listed and the connection between the entropy of the stochastic quantum operations and that of stochastic matrices are discussed.

id: 1110.6334
title: Robust dynamical decoupling
authors: Alexandre M. Souza, Gonzalo A. ?lvarez, Dieter Suter
comments: 
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 2012 370, 4748-4769
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6334
abstract: Quantum computers, which process information encoded in quantum mechanical systems, hold the potential to solve some of the hardest computational problems. A substantial obstacle for the further development of quantum computers is the fact that the life time of quantum information is usually too short to allow practical computation. A promising method to increase the life time, known as dynamical decoupling, consists of applying a periodic series of inversion pulses to the quantum bits. In the present review, we give an overview of this technique and compare different pulse sequences proposed earlier. We show that pulse imperfections, which are always present in experimental implementations, limit the performance of dynamical decoupling. The loss of coherence due to the accumulation of pulse errors can even exceed the perturbation from the environment. This effect can be largely eliminated by a judicious design of pulses and sequences. The corresponding sequences are largely immune to pulse imperfections and provide an increase of the coherence time of the system by several orders of magnitude.

id: 1110.6361
title: Proper and improper density matrices and the consistency of the Deutsch model for Local Closed Timelike Curves
authors: A. C. Lobo, I. L. Paiva, P. R. Dieguez
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6361
abstract: We discuss the concept of proper and improper density matrixes and we argue that this issue is of fundamental importance for the understanding of the quantum-mechanical CTC model proposed by Deutsch. We arrive at the conclusion that under a realistic interpretation, the distinction between proper and improper density operators is not a relativistically covariant notion and this fact leads to the conclusion that the D-CTC model is physically inconsistent.

id: 1110.6379
title: Stability of linear and non-linear lambda and tripod systems in the presence of amplitude damping
authors: Viktoras Pyragas, Gediminas Juzeliunas
comments: 30 pages, 12 figures
journal: Viktoras Pyragas and Gediminas Juzeliunas 2012 J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 165503
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6379
abstract: We present the stability analysis of the dark states in the adiabatic passage for the linear and non-linear lambda and tripod systems in the presence of amplitude damping (losses). We perform an analytic evaluation of the real parts of eigenvalues of the corresponding Jacobians, the non-zero eigenvalues of which are found from the quadratic characteristic equations, as well as by the corresponding numerical simulations. For non-linear systems, we evaluate the Jacobians at the dark states. Similarly to the linear systems, here we also find the non-zero eigenvalues from the characteristic quadratic equations. We reveal a common property of all the considered systems showing that the evolution of the real parts of eigenvalues can be split into three stages. In each of them the evolution of the stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) is characterized by different effective dimension. This results in a possible adiabatic reduction of one or two degrees of freedom.

id: 1110.6381
title: Quantum discord and classical correlations in the bond-charge Hubbard model: quantum phase transitions, ODLRO and violation of the monogamy property for discord
authors: Michele Allegra, Paolo Giorda, Arianna Montorsi
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures; to appear in Physical Review B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 245133 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6381
abstract: We study the quantum discord (QD) and the classical correlations (CC) in a reference model for strongly correlated electrons, the one-dimensional bond-charge extended Hubbard model. We show that the comparison of QD and CC and of their derivatives in the direct and reciprocal lattice allows one to efficiently inspect the structure of two-point driven quantum phase transitions (QPTs), discriminating those at which off diagonal long range order (ODLRO) is involved. Moreover we observe that QD between pair of sites is a monotonic function of ODLRO, thus establishing a direct relation between the latter and two point quantum correlations different from the entanglement. The study of the ground state properties allows to show that for a whole class of permutation invariant (\eta-pair) states quantum discord can violate the monogamy property, both in presence and in absence of bipartite entanglement. In the thermodynamic limit, due to the presence of ODLRO, the violation for \eta-pair states is maximal, while for the purely fermionic ground state is finite. From a general perspective, all our results validate the importance of the concepts of QD and CC for the study of critical condensed-matter systems.

id: 1110.6392
title: Testing sequential quantum measurements: how can maximal knowledge be extracted?
authors: Eleonora Nagali, Simone Felicetti, Pierre-Louis de Assis, Vincenzo D'Ambrosio, Radim Filip, Fabio Sciarrino
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 2, 443 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6392
abstract: The extraction of information from a quantum system unavoidably implies a modification of the measured system itself. It has been demonstrated recently that partial measurements can be carried out in order to extract only a portion of the information encoded in a quantum system, at the cost of inducing a limited amount of disturbance. Here we analyze experimentally the dynamics of sequential partial measurements carried out on a quantum system, focusing on the trade-off between the maximal information extractable and the disturbance. In particular we consider two different regimes of measurement, demonstrating that, by exploiting an adaptive strategy, an optimal trade-off between the two quantities can be found, as observed in a single measurement process. Such experimental result, achieved for two sequential measurements, can be extended to N measurement processes.

id: 1110.6412
title: Synthesis of Quantum Circuits for Linear Nearest Neighbor Architectures
authors: Mehdi Saeedi, Robert Wille, Rolf Drechsler
comments: 14 pages, 11 figures, 3 tables
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Vol. 10, No. 3, pp. 355-377, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6412
abstract: While a couple of impressive quantum technologies have been proposed, they have several intrinsic limitations which must be considered by circuit designers to produce realizable circuits. Limited interaction distance between gate qubits is one of the most common limitations. In this paper, we suggest extensions of the existing synthesis flow aimed to realize circuits for quantum architectures with linear nearest neighbor (LNN) interaction. To this end, a template matching optimization, an exact synthesis approach, and two reordering strategies are introduced. The proposed methods are combined as an integrated synthesis flow. Experiments show that by using the suggested flow, quantum cost can be improved by more than 50% on average.

id: 1110.6450
title: Large-scale multipartite entanglement in the quantum optical frequency comb of a depleted-pump optical parametric oscillator
authors: Reihaneh Shahrokhshahi, Olivier Pfister
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, submitted for publication. Minor revisions, and a few references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6450
abstract: We show theoretically that multipartite entanglement is generated on a massive scale in the spectrum, or optical frequency comb, of a single optical parametric oscillator (OPO) emitting well above threshold. In this system, the quantum dynamics of the strongly depleted pump field are responsible for the onset of the entanglement by correlating the two-mode squeezed, bipartite-entangled pairs of OPO signal fields. (Such pairs are independent of one another in the undepleted, classical pump approximation.) We verify the multipartite nature of the entanglement by evaluating the van Loock-Furusawa criterion for a particular set of entanglement witnesses deduced from physical considerations.

id: 1110.6458
title: On the confinement of a quantum particle to a two-dimensional ring in systems described by the Dirac equation
authors: K. Bakke, Claudio Furtado
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6458
abstract: In this contribution, we propose a new model for studying the confinement of a spin-half particle to a two-dimensional quantum ring in systems described by the Dirac equation by introducing a new minimal coupling into the Dirac equation. We show that the introduction of this new minimal coupling into the Dirac equation yields a generalization of the two-dimensional model for a quantum ring proposed by Tan and Inkson [W.-C. Tan and J. C. Inkson, Semicond. Sci. Technol. {\bf11}, 1635 (1996)] for relativistic spin-half quantum particles.

id: 1110.6474
title: How to construct spin chains with perfect state transfer
authors: Luc Vinet, Alexei Zhedanov
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6474
abstract: It is shown how to systematically construct the $XX$ quantum spin chains with nearest-neighbor interactions that allow perfect state transfer (PST). Sets of orthogonal polynomials (OPs) are in correspondence with such systems. The key observation is that for any admissible one-excitation energy spectrum, the weight function of the associated OPs is uniquely prescribed. This entails the complete characterization of these PST models with the mirror symmetry property arising as a corollary. A simple and efficient algorithm to obtain the corresponding Hamiltonians is presented. A new model connected to a special case of the symmetric $q$-Racah polynomials is offered. It is also explained how additional models with PST can be derived from a parent system by removing energy levels from the one-excitation spectrum of the latter. This is achieved through Christoffel transformations and is also completely constructive in regards to the Hamiltonians.

id: 1110.6533
title: Quantum Potential Via General Hamilton - Jacobi Equation
authors: Maedeh Mollai, Mohammad Razavi, Safa Jami, Ali Ahanj
comments: 10 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6533
abstract: In this paper, we sketch and emphasize the automatic emergence of a quantum potential (QP) in general Hamilton-Jacobi equation via commuting relations, quantum canonical transformations and without the straight effect of wave function. The interpretation of QP in terms of independent entity is discussed along with the introduction of quantum kinetic energy. The method has been extended to relativistic regime, and same results have been concluded.

id: 1110.6573
title: On the Security of Interferometric Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Ran Gelles, Tal Mor
comments: 21 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6573
abstract: Photonic quantum key distribution is commonly implemented using interferometers, devices that inherently cause the addition of vacuum ancillas, thus enlarging the quantum space in use. This enlargement sometimes exposes the implemented protocol to new kinds of attacks that have not yet been analyzed. We consider several quantum key distribution implementations that use interferometers, and analyze the enlargement of the quantum space caused by the interferometers. While we prove that some interferometric implementations are robust (against simple attacks), we also show that several other implementations used in QKD experiments are totally insecure. This result is somewhat surprising since although we assume ideal devices and an underlying protocol which is proven secure (e.g., the Bennett-Brassard QKD), the realization is insecure. Our novel attack demonstrates the risks of using practical realizations without performing an extensive security analysis regarding the specific setup in use.

id: 1110.6576
title: Dynamical Casmir effect and Conductivity
authors: Xiao-Min Bei, Zhong-Zhu Liu
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6576
abstract: In this paper we find that the second law of thermodynamics requires an upper limit of the conductivity. To begin with we present an ideal model, the cavity with a mobile plate, for studying the thermodynamic properties of radiation field. It is shown that the pressure fluctuation of thermal radiation field in the cavity leads to the random motion of the plate and photons would be generated by dynamical Casimir effect. Meanwhile, such photons obey a non-thermal distribution. Then, to ensure the second law of thermodynamics, there must be a upper limit of the conductivity.

id: 1110.6583
title: From Ground States to Local Hamiltonians
authors: Jianxin Chen, Zhengfeng Ji, Bei Zeng, D. L. Zhou
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures, to be published in PRA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6583
abstract: Traditional quantum physics solves ground states for a given Hamiltonian, while quantum information science asks for the existence and construction of certain Hamiltonians for given ground states. In practical situations, one would be mainly interested in local Hamiltonians with certain interaction patterns, such as nearest neighbour interactions on some type of lattices. A necessary condition for a space $V$ to be the ground-state space of some local Hamiltonian with a given interaction pattern, is that the maximally mixed state supported on $V$ is uniquely determined by its reduced density matrices associated with the given pattern, based on the principle of maximum entropy. However, it is unclear whether this condition is in general also sufficient. We examine the situations for the existence of such a local Hamiltonian to have $V$ satisfying the necessary condition mentioned above as its ground-state space, by linking to faces of the convex body of the local reduced states. We further discuss some methods for constructing the corresponding local Hamiltonians with given interaction patterns, mainly from physical points of view, including constructions related to perturbation methods, local frustration-free Hamiltonians, as well as thermodynamical ensembles.

id: 1110.6587
title: Nonclassicality and decoherence of photon-added squeezed thermal state in thermal environment
authors: Li-Yun Hu, Zhi-Ming Zhang
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6587
abstract: Theoretical analysis is given of nonclassicality and decoherence of the field states generated by adding any number of photons to the squeezed thermal state (STS). Based on the fact that the squeezed number state can be considered as a single-variable Hermite polynomial excited state, the compact expression of the normalization factor is derived, a Legendre polynomial. The nonclassicality is investigated by exploring the sub-Poissonian and negative Wigner function (WF). The results show that the WF of single photon-added STS (PASTS) always has negative values at the phase space center. The decoherence effect on PASTS is examined by the analytical expression of WF. It is found that a longer threshold value of decay time is included in single PASTS than in single-photon subtraction STS.

id: 1110.6622
title: A fast "hybrid" silicon double quantum dot qubit
authors: Zhan Shi, C. B. Simmons, J. R. Prance, John King Gamble, Teck Seng Koh, Yun-Pil Shim, Xuedong Hu, D. E. Savage, M. G. Lagally, M. A. Eriksson, Mark Friesen, S. N. Coppersmith
comments: Includes text and supplemental material, 12 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 140503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6622
abstract: We propose a quantum dot qubit architecture that has an attractive combination of speed and fabrication simplicity. It consists of a double quantum dot with one electron in one dot and two electrons in the other. The qubit itself is a set of two states with total spin quantum numbers $S^2=3/4$ ($S=\half$) and $S_z = -\half$, with the two different states being singlet and triplet in the doubly occupied dot. The architecture is relatively simple to fabricate, a universal set of fast operations can be implemented electrically, and the system has potentially long decoherence times. These are all extremely attractive properties for use in quantum information processing devices.

id: 1110.6646
title: Transition of a mesoscopic bosonic gas into a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Alexej Schelle
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Fluctuation and Noise Letters (2012), Vol. 11 No. 4
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6646
abstract: The condensate number distribution during the transition of a dilute, weakly interacting gas of N=200 bosonic atoms into a Bose-Einstein condensate is modeled within number conserving master equation theory of Bose-Einstein condensation. Initial strong quantum fluctuations occuring during the exponential cycle of condensate growth reduce in a subsequent saturation stage, before the Bose gas finally relaxes towards the Gibbs-Boltzmann equilibrium.

id: 1110.6678
title: Quantization with Action-Angle Coherent States
authors: J.-P. Gazeau, R. Kanamoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6678
abstract: For a single degree of freedom confined mechanical system with given energy, we know that the motion is always periodic and action-angle variables are convenient choice as conjugate phase-space variables. We construct action-angle coherent states in view to provide a quantization scheme that yields precisely a given observed energy spectrum ${E_n}$ for such a system. This construction is based on a Bayesian approach: each family corresponds to a choice of probability distributions such that the classical energy averaged with respect to this probability distribution is precisely $E_n$ up to a constant shift. The formalism is viewed as a natural extension of the Bohr-Sommerfeld rule and an alternative to the canonical quantization. In particular, it also yields a satisfactory angle operator as a bounded self-adjoint operator.

id: 1110.6681
title: On the optimal measurement for quantum discord of two-qubit states
authors: Mingjun Shi, Chunxiao Sun, Fengjian Jiang, Xinhu Yan, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6681
abstract: We present an efficient method to solve the quantum discord of two-qubit X states exactly. A geometric picture is used to clarify whether and when the general POVM measurement is superior to von Neumann measurement. We show that either the von Neumann measurement or the three-element POVM measurement is optimal, and more interestingly, in the latter case the components of the postmeasurement ensemble are invariant for a class of states.

id: 1110.6686
title: High-order noise filtering in nontrivial quantum logic gates
authors: Todd Green, Hermann Uys, Michael J. Biercuk
comments: Revised and expanded to include filter function terms beyond first order in the Magnus expansion. Related manuscripts available from this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6686
abstract: Treating the effects of a time-dependent classical dephasing environment during quantum logic operations poses a theoretical challenge, as the application of non-commuting control operations gives rise to both dephasing and depolarization errors that must be accounted for in order to understand total average error rates. We develop a treatment based on effective Hamiltonian theory that allows us to efficiently model the effect of classical noise on nontrivial single-bit quantum logic operations composed of arbitrary control sequences. We present a general method to calculate the ensemble-averaged entanglement fidelity to arbitrary order in terms of noise filter functions, and provide explicit expressions to fourth order in the noise strength. In the weak noise limit we derive explicit filter functions for a broad class of piecewise-constant control sequences, and use them to study the performance of dynamically corrected gates, yielding good agreement with brute-force numerics.

id: 1110.6707
title: Non-adiabatic Fast Control of Mixed States based on Lewis-Riesenfeld Invariant
authors: Mohammad-Ali Fasihi, Yidun Wan, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures, version to appear in J. Phys. Soc. Jpn
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 81 (2012) 024007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6707
abstract: We apply the inversely-engineered control method based on Lewis-Riesenfeld invariants to control mixed states of a two-level quantum system. We show that the inversely-engineered control passages of mixed states - and pure states as special cases - can be made significantly faster than the conventional adiabatic control passages, which renders the method applicable to quantum computation. We devise a new type of inversely-engineered control passages, to be coined the antedated control passages, which further speed up the control significantly. We also demonstrate that by carefully tuning the control parameters, the inversely-engineered control passages can be optimized in terms of speed and energy cost.

id: 1110.6718
title: Dissipative preparation of entangled states between two spatially separated nitrogen-vacancy centers
authors: Peng-Bo Li, Shao-Yan Gao, Hong-Rong Li, Sheng-Li Ma, Fu-Li Li
comments: published version
journal: PRA 85, 042306 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6718
abstract: We present a novel scheme for the generation of entangled states of two spatially separated nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers with two whispering-gallery-mode (WGM) microresonators, which are coupled either by an optical fiber-taper waveguide, or by the evanescent fields of the WGM. We show that, the steady state of the two NV centers can be steered into a singlet-like state through a dissipative quantum dynamical process, where the cavity decay plays a positive role and can help drive the system to the target state. The protocol may open up promising perspectives for quantum communications and computations with this solid-state cavity quantum electrodynamic system.

id: 1110.6725
title: Physics as Quantum Information Processing: Quantum Fields as Quantum Automata
authors: Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano
comments: This version: further improvements in notation. Added reference. Work presented at the conference "Foundations of Probability and Physics-6" (FPP6) held on 12-15 June 2011 at the Linnaeus University, Vaaxjo, Sweden. Many new results, e.g. Feynman problem of qubit-ization of Fermi fields solved!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6725
abstract: Can we reduce Quantum Field Theory (QFT) to a quantum computation? Can physics be simulated by a quantum computer? Do we believe that a quantum field is ultimately made of a numerable set of quantum systems that are unitarily interacting? A positive answer to these questions corresponds to substituting QFT with a theory of quantum cellular automata (QCA), and the present work is examining this hypothesis. These investigations are part of a large research program on a "quantum-digitalization" of physics, with Quantum Theory as a special theory of information, and Physics as emergent from the same quantum-information processing. A QCA-based QFT has tremendous potential advantages compared to QFT, being quantum "ab-initio" and free from the problems plaguing QFT due to the continuum hypothesis. Here I will show how dynamics emerges from the quantum processing, how the QCA can reproduce the Dirac-field phenomenology at large scales, and the kind of departures from QFT that that should be expected at a Planck-scale discreteness. I will introduce the notions of linear field quantum automaton and local-matrix quantum automaton, in terms of which I will provide the solution to the Feynman's problem about the possibility of simulating a Fermi field with a quantum computer.

id: 1110.6756
title: Kinematic entanglement degradation of fermionic cavity modes
authors: Nicolai Friis, Antony R. Lee, David Edward Bruschi, Jorma Louko
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures; v2: minor changes to Sec.IV.B., updated references, journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. D 85, 025012 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6756
abstract: We analyse the entanglement and the non-locality of a (1+1)-dimensional massless Dirac field confined to a cavity on a worldtube that consists of inertial and uniformly accelerated segments, for small accelerations but arbitrarily long travel times. The correlations between the accelerated field modes and the modes in an inertial reference cavity are periodic in the durations of the individual trajectory segments, and degradation of the correlations can be entirely avoided by fine-tuning the individual or relative durations of the segments. Analytic results for selected trajectories are presented. Differences from the corresponding bosonic correlations are identified and extensions to massive fermions are discussed.

id: 1110.6771
title: High capacity spatial multimode quantum memories based on atomic ensembles
authors: Anna Grodecka-Grad, Emil Zeuthen, Anders S. S?rensen
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 133601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6771
abstract: We study spatial multimode quantum memories based on light storage in extended ensembles of Lambda-type atoms. We show that such quantum light-matter interfaces allow for highly efficient storage of many spatial modes. In particular, forward operating memories possess excellent scaling with the important physical parameters: quadratic scaling with the Fresnel number and even cubic with the optical depth of the atomic ensemble. Thus, the simultaneous use of both the longitudinal and transverse shape of the stored spin wave modes constitutes a valuable and so far overlooked resource for multimode quantum memories.

id: 1110.6783
title: Dressed bound states for attosecond dynamics in strong laser fields
authors: Vladislav S. Yakovlev, Michael Korbman, Armin Scrinzi
comments: accepted for publication in Chemical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6783
abstract: We propose a theoretical approach for the interpretation of pump-probe measurements where an attosecond pulse is absorbed in the presence of an intense laser pulse. This approach is based on abstractly defined dressed bound states, which capture the essential aspects of the interaction with the laser pulse and facilitate a perturbative description of transitions induced by the attosecond pulse. Necessary properties of dressed bound states are defined and various choices are discussed and compared to accurate numerical solutions of the time-dependent Schroedinger equation.

id: 1110.6815
title: The modern tools of quantum mechanics (A tutorial on quantum states, measurements, and operations)
authors: Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: Tutorial. 26 pages, 1 figure. Published in a special issue of EPJ - ST devoted to the memory of Federico Casagrande
journal: Eur. Phys. J. ST 203, 61 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6815
abstract: This tutorial is devoted to review the modern tools of quantum mechanics, which are suitable to describe states, measurements, and operations of realistic, not isolated, systems in interaction with their environment, and with any kind of measuring and processing devices. We underline the central role of the Born rule and and illustrate how the notion of density operator naturally emerges, together the concept of purification of a mixed state. In reexamining the postulates of standard quantum measurement theory, we investigate how they may formally generalized, going beyond the description in terms of selfadjoint operators and projective measurements, and how this leads to the introduction of generalized measurements, probability operator-valued measures (POVM) and detection operators. We then state and prove the Naimark theorem, which elucidates the connections between generalized and standard measurements and illustrates how a generalized measurement may be physically implemented. The "impossibility" of a joint measurement of two non commuting observables is revisited and its canonical implementations as a generalized measurement is described in some details. Finally, we address the basic properties, usually captured by the request of unitarity, that a map transforming quantum states into quantum states should satisfy to be physically admissible, and introduce the notion of complete positivity (CP). We then state and prove the Stinespring/Kraus-Choi-Sudarshan dilation theorem and elucidate the connections between the CP-maps description of quantum operations, together with their operator-sum representation, and the customary unitary description of quantum evolution. We also address transposition as an example of positive map which is not completely positive, and provide some examples of generalized measurements and quantum operations.

id: 1110.6823
title: Optimal quantum estimation of the coupling constant of Jaynes-Cummings interaction
authors: Marco G. Genoni, Carmen Invernizzi
comments: Submitted to a special issue of EPJ - ST devoted to the memory of Federico Casagrande
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6823
abstract: We address the estimation of the coupling constant of the Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian for a coupled qubit-oscillator system. We evaluate the quantum Fisher Information (QFI) for the system undergone the Jaynes-Cummings evolution, considering that the probe initial state is prepared in a Fock state for the oscillator and in a generic pure state for the qubit; we obtain that the QFI is exactly equal to the number of excitations present in the probe state. We then focus on the two subsystems, namely the qubit and the oscillator alone, deriving the two QFIs of the two reduced states, and comparing them with the previous result. Next we focus on feasible measurements on the system, and we find out that if population measurement on the qubit and Fock number measurement on the oscillator are performed together, the Cramer-Rao bound is saturated, that is the corresponding Fisher Information (FI) is always equal to the QFI. We compare also the performances of these measurements performed alone, that is when one of the two subsystem is ignored. We show that, when the qubit is prepared in either the ground or the excited state, the local measurements are still optimal.

id: 1110.6873
title: Correlation measures in bipartite states and entanglement irreversibility
authors: Shengjun Wu
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012329 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6873
abstract: We derive quantitative relations among several naturally defined measures of classical and nonclassical correlations in a bipartite quantum state. We also obtain an upper bound of entanglement irreversibility and a sufficient condition for reversible entanglement. The additivity of entanglement of formation is directly related to the additivity of quantum discord as well as a certain measure of classical correlation.

id: 1110.6910
title: Influence of the Coriolis force in atom interferometry
authors: Shau-Yu Lan, Pei-Chen Kuan, Brian Estey, Philipp Haslinger, Holger Mueller
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 090402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6910
abstract: In a light-pulse atom interferometer, we use a tip-tilt mirror to remove the influence of the Coriolis force from Earth's rotation and to characterize configuration space wave packets. For interferometers with large momentum transfer and large pulse separation time, we improve the contrast by up to 350% and suppress systematic effects. We also reach what is to our knowledge the largest spacetime area enclosed in any atom interferometer to date. We discuss implications for future high performance instruments.

id: 1110.0018
title: PT-symmetry, indefinite damping and dissipation-induced instabilities
authors: Oleg N. Kirillov
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physics Letters A 376 (2012), pp. 1244-1249
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0018
abstract: With perfectly balanced gain and loss, dynamical systems with indefinite damping can obey the exact PT-symmetry being marginally stable with a pure imaginary spectrum. At an exceptional point where the symmetry is spontaneously broken, the stability is lost via passing through a non-semisimple 1:1 resonance. In the parameter space of a general dissipative system, marginally stable PT-symmetric ones occupy singularities on the boundary of the asymptotic stability. To observe how the singular surface governs dissipation-induced destabilization of the PT-symmetric system when gain and loss are not matched, an extension of recent experiments with PT-symmetric LRC circuits is proposed.

id: 1110.0039
title: Two Particles in a Trap
authors: H. S. Kohler
comments: 7 pages 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0039
abstract: The Busch-formula relates the energy-spectrum of two point-like particles interacting in a 3-D isotropic Harmonic Oscillator trap to the free scattering phase-shifts of the particles. This formula is used to find an expression for the \it shift \rm in the spectrum from the unperturbed (non-interacting) spectrum rather than the spectrum itself. This shift is shown to be approximately $\Delta=-\delta(k)/\pi\times dE$, where $dE$ is the spacing between unperturbed energy levels. The resulting difference from the Busch-formula is typically 1/2% except for the lowest energy-state and small scattering length when it is 3%. It goes to zero when the scattering length $\rightarrow \pm \infty$. The energy shift $\Delta$ is familiar from a relatedproblem, that of two particles in a spherical infinite square-well trap of radius $R$ in the limit $R\rightarrow \infty$. The approximation ishowever as large as 30% for finite values of $R$, a situation quite different from the Harmonic Oscillator case. The square-well results for $R\rightarrow \infty$ led to the use ofin-medium (effective) interactions in nuclear matter calculations that were $\propto \Delta$ and known as the \it phase shift approximation \rm.Our results indicate that the validity of this approximation depends on the trapitself, a problem already discussed by DeWitt more than 50 years ago for acubical vs spherical trap.

id: 1110.0067
title: Imaging of the Coulomb driven quantum Hall edge states
authors: Keji Lai, Worasom Kundhikanjana, Michael A. Kelly, Zhi-Xun Shen, Javad Shabani, Mansour Shayegan
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures in the main text. Accepted by Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0067
abstract: The edges of a two-dimensional electron gas (2DEG) in the quantum Hall effect (QHE) regime are divided into alternating metallic and insulating strips, with their widths determined by the energy gaps of the QHE states and the electrostatic Coulomb interaction. Local probing of these submicrometer features, however, is challenging due to the buried 2DEG structures. Using a newly developed microwave impedance microscope, we demonstrate the real-space conductivity mapping of the edge and bulk states. The sizes, positions, and field dependence of the edge strips around the sample perimeter agree quantitatively with the self-consistent electrostatic picture. The evolution of microwave images as a function of magnetic fields provides rich microscopic information around the \nu = 2 QHE state.

id: 1110.0115
title: Propagation of sound on line vortices is superfluids: role of ergoregions
authors: Piotr Marecki
comments: 41 pages, minor errors corrected
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0115
abstract: We (re)cosider the propagation of small disturbances (sound waves) in the presence of a pinned irrotational vortex in a superfluid with the help of the formalism of acoustic spacetimes. We give closed formulas for the scattering angle for sound rays, formulate the sound-propagation problem in the Hamiltonian form, and discuss the form of boundary conditions at the core of the vortex, where the Hamiltonian has a singular point. The wave equation is simplified to a single ordinary differential equation of Mathieu type. We give an extensive discussion of perturbations localized close to the core, which are similar to what is known as the Kelvin waves. The spectra of modes depend strongly on the type of boundary condition employed close to the vortex core. The existence of the gapless Kelvin mode, which is one of the modes with angular number -1, is usually discussed in the context of unpinned vortices in superfluid helium or rotating Bose-Einstein condensates. We prove that this particular mode is absent if the vortex is pinned, and consequently one must discuss the full family of modes in this case. The question of whether or not the acoustic spacetime admits an ergoregion turns out to have a decisive (qualitative) influence on many aspects of sound-propagation phenomena.

id: 1110.0170
title: Dramatic impact of pumping mechanism on photon entanglement in microcavity
authors: Alexander Poddubny
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 075311 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0170
abstract: A theory of entangled photons emission from quantum dot in microcavity under continuous and pulsed incoherent pumping is presented. It is shown that the time-resolved two-photon correlations drastically depend on the pumping mechanism: the continuous pumping quenches the polarization entanglement and strongly suppresses photon correlation times. Analytical theory of the effect is presented.

id: 1110.0177
title: A Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Implementation of a Classical Deutsch-Jozsa Algorithm
authors: Alastair A. Abbott, Matthias Bechmann, Cristian S. Calude, Angelika Sebald
comments: 
journal: International Journal of Unconventional Computing, 2012, 8, 161-175
subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0177
abstract: Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) has been widely used as a demonstrative medium for showcasing the ability for quantum computations to outperform classical ones. A large number of such experiments performed have been implementations of the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm. It is known, however, that in some cases the Deutsch-Jozsa problem can be solved classically using as many queries to the black-box as in the quantum solution. In this paper we describe experiments in which we take the contrasting approach of using NMR as a classical computing medium, treating the nuclear spin vectors classically and utilising an alternative embedding of bits into the physical medium. This allows us to determine the actual Boolean function computed by the black-box for the n=1,2 cases, as opposed to only the nature (balanced or constant) as conventional quantum algorithms do. Discussion of these experiments leads to some clarification of the complications surrounding the comparison of different quantum algorithms, particularly black-box type algorithms.

id: 1110.0271
title: Alan Turing and the Origins of Complexity
authors: Miguel-Angel Martin-Delgado
comments: Invited contribution to 'ARBOR: scientific journal of CSIC' special edition devoted to commemorate the Year of Alan Turing. This special issue is entitled "The Legacy of Alan Turing". Coordinators: Manuel de Leon, Alberto Ibort and David Martin de Diego
journal: ARBOR Vol 189, No 764 (2013), a083
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0271
abstract: The 75th anniversary of Turing's seminal paper and his centennial year anniversary occur in 2011 and 2012, respectively. It is natural to review and assess Turing's contributions in diverse fields in the light of new developments that his thoughts has triggered in many scientific communities. Here, the main idea is to discuss how the work of Turing allows us to change our views on the foundations of Mathematics, much like quantum mechanics changed our conception of the world of Physics. Basic notions like computability and universality are discussed in a broad context, making special emphasis on how the notion of complexity can be given a precise meaning after Turing, i.e., not just qualitative but also quantitative. Turing's work is given some historical perspective with respect to some of his precursors, contemporaries and mathematicians who took up his ideas farther.

id: 1110.0354
title: Spin selective transport through helical molecular systems
authors: R. Gutierrez, E. Diaz, R. Naaman, G. Cuniberti
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures v2 (misprints corrected, new figures)
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0354
abstract: Highly spin selective transport of electrons through a helically shaped electrostatic potential is demonstrated in the frame of a minimal model approach. The effect is significant even in the case of weak spin-orbit coupling. Two main factors determine the selectivity, an unconventional Rashba- like spin-orbit interaction, reflecting the helical symmetry of the system, and a weakly dispersive electronic band of the helical system. The weak electronic coupling, associated with the small dispersion, leads to a low mobility of the charges in the system and allows even weak spin-orbit interactions to be effective. The results are expected to be generic for chiral molecular systems displaying low spin-orbit coupling and low conductivity.

id: 1110.0379
title: Optimal operating conditions of an entangling two-transmon gate
authors: A. D'Arrigo, E. Paladino
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 14, 053035 (2012)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0379
abstract: We identify optimal operating conditions of an entangling two-qubit gate realized by a capacitive coupling of two superconducting charge qubits in a transmission line resonator (the so called "transmons"). We demonstrate that the sensitivity of the optimized gate to 1/f flux and critical current noise is suppressed to leading order. The procedure only requires a preliminary estimate of the 1/f noise amplitudes. No additional control or bias line beyond those used for the manipulation of individual qubits are needed. The proposed optimization is effective also in the presence of relaxation processes and of spontaneous emission through the resonator (Purcell effect).

id: 1110.0388
title: Solutions of Schr?dinger Equation with Generalized Inverted Hyperbolic Potential
authors: Akpan N. Ikot, Oladunjoye A. Awoga, Louis E. Akpabio, Benedict I. Ita
comments: 20pages, 5figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0388
abstract: We present the bound state solutions of the Schr\"odinger equation with generalized inverted hyperbolic potential using the Nikiforov-Uvarov method. We obtain the energy spectrum and the wave function with this potential for arbitrary - state. We show that the results of this potential reduced to the standard known potentials - Rosen-Morse, Poschl - Teller and Scarf potential as special cases. We also discussed the energy equation and the wave function for these special cases.

id: 1110.0394
title: Interplay of Aharonov-Bohm, chirality, and aspect ratio effects in the axial conductance of a nanotube
authors: Eugene B. Kolomeisky, Joseph P. Straley, Hussain Zaidi
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, version to be published in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 073404 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0394
abstract: A magnetic flux applied along the axis of a nanotube can counteract the effect of the tube chirality and dramatically affect its conductance, leading to a way to determine the chirality of a nanotube. The effect of the applied flux is strongest in the long tube limit where the conductance is (i) either a sequence of sharp $4e^{2}/h$ height peaks located at integer (in units of the flux quantum) values of the flux (for an armchair tube) or (ii) a periodic sequence of pairs of $2e^{2}/h$ height peaks for a chiral tube, with the spacing determined by the chirality. In the short tube limit the conductance takes on the value that gives the universal conductivity of an undoped graphene sheet, with a small amplitude modulation periodic in the flux.

id: 1110.0421
title: Weyl problem and Casimir effects in spherical shell geometry
authors: Eugene B. Kolomeisky, Hussain Zaidi, Luke Langsjoen, Joseph P. Straley
comments: 9 pages, minor changes, additional references added, version to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042519 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0421
abstract: We compute the generic mode sum that quantifies the effect on the spectrum of a harmonic field when a spherical shell is inserted into vacuum. This encompasses a variety of problems including the Weyl spectral problem and the Casimir effect of quantum electrodynamics. This allows us to resolve several long-standing controversies regarding the question of universality of the Casimir self-energy; the resolution comes naturally through the connection to the Weyl problem. Specifically we demonstrate that in the case of a scalar field obeying Dirichlet or Neumann boundary conditions on the shell surface the Casimir self-energy is cutoff-dependent while in the case of the electromagnetic field perturbed by a conductive shell the Casimir self-energy is universal. We additionally show that an analog non-relativistic Casimir effect due to zero-point magnons takes place when a non-magnetic spherical shell is inserted inside a bulk ferromagnet.

id: 1110.0490
title: Reduced density matrix hybrid approach: An efficient and accurate method for adiabatic and non-adiabatic quantum dynamics
authors: Timothy C. Berkelbach, David R. Reichman, Thomas E. Markland
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 136, 034113 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0490
abstract: We present a new approach to calculate real-time quantum dynamics in complex systems. The formalism is based on the partitioning of a system's environment into "core" and "reservoir" modes, with the former to be treated quantum mechanically and the latter classically. The presented method only requires the calculation of the system's reduced density matrix averaged over the quantum core degrees of freedom which is then coupled to a classically evolved reservoir to treat the remaining modes. We demonstrate our approach by applying it to the spin-boson problem using the noninteracting blip approximation to treat the system and core, and Ehrenfest dynamics to treat the reservoir. The resulting hybrid methodology is accurate for both fast and slow baths, since it naturally reduces to its composite methods in their respective regimes of validity. In addition, our combined method is shown to yield good results in intermediate regimes where neither approximation alone is accurate and to perform equally well for both strong and weak system-bath coupling. Our approach therefore provides an accurate and efficient methodology for calculating quantum dynamics in complex systems.

id: 1110.0558
title: Spin-orbit-coupled dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Y. Deng, J. Cheng, H. Jing, C.-P. Sun, S. Yi
comments: 4+ pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 125301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0558
abstract: We propose an experimental scheme to create spin-orbit coupling in spin-3 Cr atoms using Raman processes. Employing linear Zeeman effect and optical Stark shift, two spin states within the ground electronic manifold are selected, which results in a pseudo-spin-1/2 model. We further study the ground state structures of a spin-orbit-coupled Cr condensate. We show that, in addition to the stripe structures induced by the spin-orbit coupling, the magnetic dipole-dipole interaction gives rise to the vortex phase, in which spontaneous spin vortex is formed.

id: 1110.0576
title: Doppler- and recoil-free laser excitation of Rydberg states via three-photon transitions
authors: I. I. Ryabtsev, I. I. Beterov, D. B. Tretyakov, V. M. Entin, E. A. Yakshina
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053409 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0576
abstract: Three-photon laser excitation of Rydberg states by three different laser beams can be arranged in a star-like geometry that simultaneously eliminates the recoil effect and Doppler broadening. Our analytical and numerical calculations for a particular laser excitation scheme 5S_{1/2}->5P_{3/2}->6S_{1/2}->nP in Rb atoms have shown that compared to the one- and two-photon laser excitation this approach provides much narrower line width and longer coherence time for both cold atom samples and hot vapors, if the intermediate one-photon resonances of the three-photon transition are detuned by more than respective single-photon Doppler widths. This method can be used to improve fidelity of Rydberg quantum gates and precision of spectroscopic measurements in Rydberg atoms.

id: 1110.0665
title: High-order harmonic generation from inhomogeneous fields
authors: M. F. Ciappina, J. Biegert, R. Quidant, M. Lewenstein
comments: 25 pages, 12 figures
journal: Physical Review A, 85, 033828 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0665
abstract: We present theoretical studies of high-order harmonic generation (HHG) produced by non-homogeneous fields as resulting from the illumination of plasmonic nanostructures with a short laser pulse. We show that both the inhomogeneity of the local fields and the confinement of the electron movement play an important role in the HHG process and lead to the generation of even harmonics and a significantly increased cutoff, more pronounced for the longer wavelengths cases studied. In order to understand and characterize the new HHG features we employ two different approaches: the numerical solution of the time dependent Schr\"odinger equation (TDSE) and the semiclassical approach known as Strong Field Approximation (SFA). Both approaches predict comparable results and show the new features, but using the semiclassical arguments behind the SFA and time-frequency analysis tools, we are able to fully understand the reasons of the cutoff extension.

id: 1110.0681
title: On the Recurrence Character of the Hadamard walk in the Plane
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: Contains an "Exercise" applying the weak limit theorem of [Grimmett et. al, Phys. Rev. E 69, 026119 (2004)]
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0681
abstract: We study return to the origin on the square lattice and investigate the stability properties of the Hadamard walk in the presence of bias.

id: 1110.0743
title: Detecting Quantum Critical Points using Bipartite Fluctuations
authors: Stephan Rachel, Nicolas Laflorencie, H. Francis Song, Karyn Le Hur
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures + suppl. material; final version, Phys. Rev. Lett. (in press)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 116401 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0743
abstract: We show that the concept of bipartite fluctuations F provides a very efficient tool to detect quantum phase transitions in strongly correlated systems. Using state of the art numerical techniques complemented with analytical arguments, we investigate paradigmatic examples for both quantum spins and bosons. As compared to the von Neumann entanglement entropy, we observe that F allows to find quantum critical points with a much better accuracy in one dimension. We further demonstrate that F can be successfully applied to the detection of quantum criticality in higher dimensions with no prior knowledge of the universality class of the transition. Promising approaches to experimentally access fluctuations are discussed for quantum antiferromagnets and cold gases.

id: 1110.0826
title: Tunneling of Graphene Massive Dirac Fermions through a Double Barrier
authors: Hocine Bahlouli, El Bouazzaoui Choubabi, Ahmed Jellal, Miloud Mekkaoui
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0826
abstract: We study the tunneling of Dirac fermions in graphene through a double barrier potential allowing the carriers to have an effective mass inside the barrier as generated by a lattice miss-match with the boron nitride substrate. The consequences of this gap opening on the transmission are investigated. The realization of resonant tunneling conditions is also analyzed.

id: 1110.0878
title: Off-resonant coupling between a single quantum dot and a nanobeam photonic crystal cavity
authors: Armand Rundquist, Arka Majumdar, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 99, 251907 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0878
abstract: We demonstrate off-resonant coupling between a single quantum dot and a nanobeam photonic crystal cavity, under resonant excitation of the quantum dot or the cavity. These results are consistent with previous descriptions of off-resonant coupling as an incoherent phonon-mediated process. The extension of this phenomenon to a nanobeam photonic crystal cavity presents interesting possibilities for coherent control of this interaction by tailoring the phonon density of states.

id: 1110.0989
title: Neutrino Velocity Anomalies: A Resolution without a Revolution
authors: Dmitry V. Naumov, Vadim A. Naumov
comments: 5 pages, 5 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.0989
abstract: We argue that the neutrino advance of time observed in MINOS and OPERA experiments can be explained in the framework of the standard relativistic quantum theory as a manifestation of the large effective transverse size of the eigenmass neutrino wavepackets.

id: 1110.1099
title: A test of the circular Unruh effect using atomic electrons
authors: Navid Rad, Douglas Singleton
comments: 16 pages, no figures Added discussion. To be published in EPJD
journal: Eur.Phys.J. D66 (2012)258
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1099
abstract: We propose a test for the circular Unruh effect using certain atoms - fluorine and oxygen. For these atoms the centripetal acceleration of the outer shell electrons implies an effective Unruh temperature in the range 1000 - 2000 K. This range of Unruh temperatures is large enough to shift the expected occupancy of the lowest energy level and nearby energy levels. In effect the Unruh temperature changes the expected pure ground state, with all the electrons in the lowest energy level, to a mixed state with some larger than expected occupancy of states near to the lowest energy level. Examining these atoms at low background temperatures and finding a larger than expected number of electrons in low lying excited levels, beyond what is expected due to the background thermal excitation, would provide experimental evidence for the Unruh effect.

id: 1110.1146
title: Convergence of quantum electrodynamics on the Poincare group
authors: V. V. Varlamov
comments: 32 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1146
abstract: Extended particles are considered in terms of the fields on the Poincar\'{e} group. Dirac like wave equations for extended particles of any spin are defined on the various homogeneous spaces of the Poincar\'{e} group. Free fields of the spin 1/2 and 1 (Dirac and Maxwell fields) are considered in detail on the eight-dimensional homogeneous space, which is equivalent to a direct product of Minkowski spacetime and two-dimensional complex sphere. It is shown that a massless spin-1 field, corresponding to a photon field, should be defined within principal series representations of the Lorentz group. Interaction between spin-1/2 and spin-1 fields is studied in terms of a trilinear form. An analogue of the Dyson formula for $S$-matrix is introduced on the eight-dimensional homogeneous space. It is shown that in this case elements of the $S$-matrix are defined by convergent integrals.

id: 1110.1203
title: Stochastic potential and quantum decoherence of heavy quarkonium in the quark-gluon plasma
authors: Yukinao Akamatsu, Alexander Rothkopf
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1203
abstract: We propose an open quantum systems approach to the physics of heavy quarkonia in a thermal medium, based on stochastic quantum evolution. This description emphasizes the importance of collisions with the environment and focuses on the concept of spatial decoherence of the heavy quarkonium wave function. It is shown how to determine the parameters of the dynamical evolution, i.e. the real potential and the noise strength, from a comparison with quantities to be obtained from lattice QCD. Furthermore the imaginary part of the lattice QCD heavy quark potential is found to be naturally related to the strength of the noise correlations. We discuss the time evolution of $Q\bar{Q}$ analytically in a limiting scenario for the spatial decoherence and provide a qualitative 1-dimensional numerical simulation of the real-time dynamics.

id: 1110.1204
title: A supercircle description of universal three-body states in two dimensions
authors: F. F. Bellotti, T. Frederico, M. T. Yamashita, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. 85, 025601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1204
abstract: We consider bound states of asymmetric three-body systems confined to two dimensions. In the universal regime, two energy ratios and two mass ratios provide complete knowledge of the three-body energy measured in units of one two-body energy. The lowest number of stable bound states is produced when one mass is larger than two similar masses. We focus on selected asymmetric systems of interest in cold atom physics. The scaled three-body energy and the two scaled two-body energies are related through an equation for a supercircle whose radius increases almost linearly with three-body energy. The exponents exhibit an increasing behavior with three-body energy. The mass dependence is highly non-trivial. We give a simple relation that predicts the universal three-body energy.

id: 1110.1239
title: Entanglement entropy in all dimensions
authors: Samuel L. Braunstein, Saurya Das, S. Shankaranarayanan
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures; Version 2: Matches with the published version
journal: JHEP 1307 (2013) 130
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1239
abstract: It has long been conjectured that the entropy of quantum fields across boundaries scales as the boundary area. This conjecture has not been easy to test in spacetime dimensions greater than four because of divergences in the von Neumann entropy. Here we show that the Renyi entropy provides a convergent alternative, yielding a quantitative measure of entanglement between quantum field theoretic degrees of freedom inside and outside hypersurfaces. For the first time, we show that the entanglement entropy in higher dimensions is proportional to the higher dimensional area. We also show that the Renyi entropy diverges at specific values of the Renyi parameter (q) in each dimension, but this divergence can be tamed by introducing a mass of the quantum field.

id: 1110.1256
title: Driving Rydberg-Rydberg transitions from a co-planar microwave waveguide
authors: S. D. Hogan, J. A. Agner, F. Merkt, T. Thiele, S. Filipp, A. Wallraff
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 063004 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1256
abstract: The coherent interaction between ensembles of helium Rydberg atoms and microwave fields in the vicinity of a solid-state co-planar waveguide is reported. Rydberg-Rydberg transitions, at frequencies between 25 GHz and 38 GHz, have been studied for states with principal quantum numbers in the range 30 - 35 by selective electric-field ionization. An experimental apparatus cooled to 100 K was used to reduce effects of blackbody radiation. Inhomogeneous, stray electric fields emanating from the surface of the waveguide have been characterized in frequency- and time-resolved measurements and coherence times of the Rydberg atoms on the order of 250 ns have been determined.

id: 1110.1270
title: Quantum chaos and effective thermalization
authors: Alexander Altland, Fritz Haake
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 073601 (2012)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1270
abstract: We demonstrate effective equilibration for unitary quantum dynamics under conditions of classical chaos. Focusing on the paradigmatic example of the Dicke model, we show how a constructive description of the thermalization process is facilitated by the Glauber $Q$ or Husimi function, for which the evolution equation turns out to be of Fokker-Planck type. The equation describes a competition of classical drift and quantum diffusion in contractive and expansive directions. By this mechanism the system follows a 'quantum smoothened' approach to equilibrium, which avoids the notorious singularities inherent to classical chaotic flows.

id: 1110.1305
title: Anomalous Transmission in Waveguides with Correlated Disorder in Surface Profiles
authors: F.M.Izrailev, N.M.Makarov
comments: 24 pages, 3 figures
journal: Structured Surfaces as Optical Metamaterials, ed. A.A.Maradudin, (Cambridge University Press, 2011) pp. 283-311
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1305
abstract: Short review of recent results on surface scattering in many-mode waveguides is presented. Main attention is paid to various mechanisms of surface scattering, and to the role of specific long-range correlations in surface profiles.

id: 1110.1342
title: Long-distance spin-spin coupling via floating gates
authors: Luka Trifunovic, Oliver Dial, Mircea Trif, James R. Wootton, Rediet Abebe, Amir Yacoby, Daniel Loss
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 2, 011006 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1342
abstract: The electron spin is a natural two level system that allows a qubit to be encoded. When localized in a gate defined quantum dot, the electron spin provides a promising platform for a future functional quantum computer. The essential ingredient of any quantum computer is entanglement---between electron spin qubits---commonly achieved via the exchange interaction. Nevertheless, there is an immense challenge as to how to scale the system up to include many qubits. Here we propose a novel architecture of a large scale quantum computer based on a realization of long-distance quantum gates between electron spins localized in quantum dots. The crucial ingredients of such a long-distance coupling are floating metallic gates that mediate electrostatic coupling over large distances. We show, both analytically and numerically, that distant electron spins in an array of quantum dots can be coupled selectively, with coupling strengths that are larger than the electron spin decay and with switching times on the order of nanoseconds.

id: 1110.1351
title: Nash Equilibria in Quantum Games
authors: Steven E. Landsburg
comments: 
journal: Proceedings of the American Mathematical Society 139 (2011), 4423-4434
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1351
abstract: For any two-by-two game $\G$, we define a new two-player game $\G^Q$. The definition is motivated by a vision of players in game $\G$ communicating via quantum technology according to a certain standard protocol originally introduced by Eisert and Wilkins [EW]. In the game $\G^Q$, each players' strategy set consists of the set of all probability distributions on the 3-sphere $S^3$. Nash equilibria in this game can be difficult to compute. Our main theorems classify all possible equilibria in $\G^Q$ for a Zariski-dense set of games $\G$ that we call {\it generic games}. First, we show that up to a suitable definition of equivalence, any strategy that arises in equilibrium is supported on at most four points; then we show that those four points must lie in one of a small number of geometric configurations. One easy consequence is that for zero-sum games, the payoff to either player in a mixed strategy quantum equilibrium must equal the average of that player's four possible payoffs.

id: 1110.1386
title: Probing biological light-harvesting phenomena by optical cavities
authors: Filippo Caruso, Semion K. Saikin, Enrique Solano, Susana F. Huelga, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 10 pages, 16 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 125424 (2012)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Optics (physics.optics); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1386
abstract: We propose a driven optical cavity quantum electrodynamics (QED) set up aimed at directly probing energy transport dynamics in photosynthetic biomolecules. We show that detailed information concerning energy transfer paths and delocalization of exciton states can be inferred (and exciton energies estimated) from the statistical properties of the emitted photons. This approach provides us with a novel spectroscopic tool for the interrogation of biological systems in terms of quantum optical phenomena which have been usually studied for atomic or solid-state systems, e.g. trapped atoms and semiconductor quantum dots.

id: 1110.1407
title: On optical forces in spherical whispering gallery mode resonators
authors: J. T. Rubin, L. Deych
comments: To pe published in Optics Express Focus Issue: "Collective phenomena in photonic, plasmonic and hybrid structures"
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1407
abstract: In this paper we discuss the force exerted by the field of an optical cavity on a polarizable dipole. We show that the modification of the cavity modes due to interaction with the dipole significantly alters the properties of the force. In particular, all components of the force are found to be non-conservative, and cannot, therefore, be derived from a potential energy. We also suggest a simple generalization of the standard formulas for the optical force on the dipole, which reproduces the results of calculations based on the Maxwell stress tensor.

id: 1110.1508
title: Superconducting qubit manipulated by fast pulses: experimental observation of distinct decoherence regimes
authors: F. Chiarello, E. Paladino, M. G. Castellano, C. Cosmelli, A. D'Arrigo, G. Torrioli, G. Falci
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 023031
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1508
abstract: A particular superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID)qubit, indicated as double SQUID qubit, can be manipulated by rapidly modifying its potential with the application of fast flux pulses. In this system we observe coherent oscillations exhibiting non-exponential decay, indicating a non trivial decoherence mechanism. Moreover, by tuning the qubit in different conditions (different oscillation frequencies) by changing the pulse height, we observe a crossover between two distinct decoherence regimes and the existence of an "optimal" point where the qubit is only weakly sensitive to intrinsic noise. We find that this behaviour is in agreement with a model considering the decoherence caused essentially by low frequency noise contributions, and discuss the experimental results and possible issues.

id: 1110.1518
title: Floquet analysis of real-time wavefunctions without solving the Floquet equation
authors: V. Kapoor, D. Bauer
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures, REVTeX4
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1518
abstract: We propose a method to obtain Floquet states---also known as light-induced states---and their quasi-energies from real-time wavefunctions without solving the Floquet equation. This is useful for the analysis of various phenomena in time-dependent quantum dynamics if the Hamiltonian is not strictly periodic, as in short laser pulses, for instance. There, the population of the Floquet states depends on the pulse form and is automatically contained in the real-time wavefunction but not in the standard Floquet approach. Several examples in the area of intense laser-atom interaction are exemplarily discussed: (i) the observation of even harmonics for an inversion-symmetric potential with a single bound state; (ii) the dependence of the population of Floquet states on (gauge) transformations and the emergence of an invariant, observable photoelectron spectrum; (iii) the driving of resonant transitions between dressed states, i.e., the dressing of dressed states, and (iv) spectral enhancements at channel closings due to the ponderomotive shift of above-threshold ionization peaks.

id: 1110.1545
title: Kicking electrons
authors: Martin Gerlach, Sebastian W¨¹ster, Jan M. Rost
comments: version 2: references added
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1545
abstract: The concept of dominant interaction hamiltonians is introduced and applied to classical planar electron-atom scattering. Each trajectory is governed in different time intervals by two variants of a separable approximate hamiltonian. Switching between them results in exchange of energy between the two electrons. A second mechanism condenses the electron-electron interaction to instants in time and leads to an exchange of energy and angular momentum among the two electrons in form of kicks. We calculate the approximate and full classical deflection functions and show that the latter can be interpreted in terms of the switching sequences of the approximate one. Finally, we demonstrate that the quantum results agree better with the approximate classical dynamical results than with the full ones.

id: 1110.1552
title: Few-Body Bound Complexes in One-dimensional Dipolar Gases and Non-Destructive Optical Detection
authors: N. T. Zinner, B. Wunsch, I. B. Mekhov, S.-J. Huang, D.-W. Wang, E. Demler
comments: 16 pages, 15 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 063606 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1552
abstract: We consider dipolar interactions between heteronuclear molecules in low-dimensional geometries. The setup consists of two one-dimensional tubes. We study the stability of possible few-body complexes in the regime of repulsive intratube interaction, where the binding arises from intertube attraction. The stable dimers, trimers, and tetramers are found and we discuss their properties for both bosonic and fermionic molecules. To observe these complexes we propose an optical non-destructive detection scheme that enables in-situ observation of the creation and dissociation of the few-body complexes. A detailed description of the expected signal of such measurements is given using the numerically calculated wave functions of the bound states. We also discuss implications on the many-body physics of dipolar systems in tubular geometries, as well as experimental issues related to the external harmonic confinement along the tube and the prospect of applying an in-tube optical lattice to increase the effective dipole strength.

id: 1110.1618
title: High-Q optomechanical GaAs nanomembranes
authors: Jin Liu, Koji Usami, Andreas Naesby, Tolga Bagci, Eugene S. Polzik, Peter Lodahl, S?ren Stobbe
comments: 3 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1618
abstract: We present a simple fabrication method for the realization of suspended GaAs nanomembranes for cavity quantum optomechanics experiments. GaAs nanomembranes with an area of 1.36 mm by 1.91 mm and a thickness of 160 nm are obtained by using a two-step selective wet-etching technique. The frequency noise spectrum reveals several mechanical modes in the kilohertz regime with mechanical Q-factors up to 2,300,000 at room temperature. The measured mechanical mode profiles agree well with a taut rectangular drumhead model. Our results show that GaAs nanomembranes provide a promising path towards quantum optical control of massive nanomechanical systems.

id: 1110.1622
title: Theoretical and numerical investigation of the size-dependent optical effects in metal nanoparticles
authors: Alexander A. Govyadinov, George Y. Panasyuk, John C. Schotland, Vadim A. Markel
comments: Accepted to PRB in this form
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 155461 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1622
abstract: We further develop the theory of quantum finite-size effects in metallic nanoparticles, which was originally formulated by Hache, Ricard and Flytzanis [J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 3, 1647 (1986)] and (in a somewhat corrected form) by Rautian [Sov. Phys. JETP 85, 451 (1997)]. These references consider a metal nanoparticle as a degenerate Fermi gas of conduction electrons in an infinitely-high spherical potential well. This model (referred to as the HRFR model below) yields mathematical expressions for the linear and the third-order nonlinear polarizabilities of a nanoparticle in terms of infinite nested series. These series have not been evaluated numerically so far and, in the case of nonlinear polarizability, they can not be evaluated with the use of conventional computers due to the high computational complexity involved. Rautian has derived a set of remarkable analytical approximations to the series but direct numerical verification of Rautian's approximate formulas remained a formidable challenge. In this work, we derive an expression for the third-order nonlinear polarizability, which is exact within the HRFR model but amenable to numerical implementation. We then evaluate the expressions obtained by us numerically for both linear and nonlinear polarizabilities. We investigate the limits of applicability of Rautian's approximations and find that they are surprizingly accurate in a wide range of physical parameters. We also discuss the limits of small frequencies (comparable or below the Drude relaxation constant) and of large particle sizes (the bulk limit) and show that these limits are problematic for the HRFR model, irrespectively of any additional approximations used. Finally, we compare the HRFR model to the purely classical theory of nonlinear polarization of metal nanoparticles developed by us earlier [Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 47402 (2008)].

id: 1110.1646
title: Bosonic and fermionic transport phenomena of ultra-cold atoms in 1D optical lattices
authors: Chih-Chun Chien, Michael Zwolak, Massimiliano Di Ventra
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 041601(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1646
abstract: Using the micro-canonical picture of transport -- a framework ideally suited to describe the dynamics of closed quantum systems such as ultra-cold atom experiments -- we show that the exact dynamics of non-interacting fermions and bosons exhibit very different transport properties when the system is set out of equilibrium by removing the particles from half of the lattice. We find that fermions rapidly develop a finite quasi steady-state current reminiscent of electronic transport in nanoscale systems. This result is robust -- it occurs with or without a harmonic confining potential and at zero or finite temperature. The zero-temperature bosonic current instead exhibits strong oscillatory behavior that decays into a steady-state of zero current only in the thermodynamic limit. These differences appear most strikingly in the different particle number fluctuations on half of the lattice as a consequence of the spin statistics. These predictions can be readily verified experimentally.

id: 1110.1649
title: Fermi polarons in two dimensions
authors: Richard Schmidt, Tilman Enss, Ville Pietil?, Eugene Demler
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 021602(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1649
abstract: We theoretically analyze inverse radiofrequency (rf) spectroscopy experiments in two-component Fermi gases. We consider a small number of impurity atoms interacting strongly with a bath of majority atoms. In two-dimensional geometries we find that the main features of the rf spectrum correspond to an attractive polaron and a metastable repulsive polaron. Our results suggest that the attractive polaron has been observed in a recent experiment [Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 105301 (2011)].

id: 1110.1653
title: Many-body Landau-Zener Transition in Cold Atom Double Well Optical Lattices
authors: Yinyin Qian, Ming Gong, Chuanwei Zhang
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013636 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1653
abstract: Ultra-cold atoms in optical lattices provide an ideal platform for exploring many-body physics of a large system arising from the coupling among a series of small identical systems whose few-body dynamics is exactly solvable. Using Landau-Zener (LZ) transition of bosonic atoms in double well optical lattices as an experimentally realizable model, we investigate such few to many body route by exploring the relation and difference between the small few-body (in one double well) and the large many-body (in double well lattice) non-equilibrium dynamics of cold atoms in optical lattices. We find the many-body coupling between double wells greatly enhances the LZ transition probability. The many-body dynamics in the double well lattice shares both similarity and difference from the few-body dynamics in one and two double wells. The sign of the on-site interaction plays a significant role on the many-body LZ transition. Various experimental signatures of the many-body LZ transition, including atom density, momentum distribution, and density-density correlation, are obtained.

id: 1110.1657
title: Complex Worldline Instantons and Quantum Interference in Vacuum Pair Production
authors: Cesim K. Dumlu, Gerald V. Dunne
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 84, 125023 (2011)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1657
abstract: We describe in detail a physical situation in which instantons are necessarily complex, not just Wick rotations of classical solutions to Euclidean spacetime. These complex instantons arise in the semiclassical evaluation of vacuum pair production rates, based on Feynman's worldline path integral formulation. Even though the path integral is a sum over all real closed trajectories in spacetime, the semiclassical description of non-perturbative pair production is dominated by closed classical trajectories that are generically complex. These closed trajectories contain segments associated with nonperturbative instanton suppression factors as well as segments producing phase factors that incorporate quantum interference effects. For a class of time-dependent electric fields we implement this procedure and demonstrate excellent quantitative agreement with alternative methods.

id: 1110.1669
title: Oscillations in the decay law: A possible quantum mechanical explanation of the anomaly in the experiment at the GSI facility
authors: Francesco Giacosa, Giuseppe Pagliara
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures, criticism considered, added Appendix and figures 4-5-6, in print on Quantum Matter
journal: Quantum Matter, 2, 54-59 (2013)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1669
abstract: We study the deviations from the usual exponential decay law for quantum mechanical systems. We show that simple and physically motivated deviations from the Breit-Wigner energy distribution of the unstable state are sufficient to generate peculiar deviations from the exponential decay law. Denoting with $p(t)$ the survival probability, its derivative $h(t)$ shows typically an oscillating behavior on top of the usual exponential function. We argue that this can be a viable explanation of the observed experimental results at GSI Darmstadt, where the function $h(t)$ has been experimentally measured for electron capture decays of Hydrogen-like ions. Moreover, if our interpretation is correct, we predict that by measuring $h(t)$ at times close to the initial one, the number of decays per second rapidly drops to zero.

id: 1110.1759
title: Critical points of the optimal quantum control landscape: a propagator approach
authors: Tak-San Ho, Herschel Rabitz, Gabriel Turinici
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Numerical Analysis (math.NA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1759
abstract: Numerical and experimental realizations of quantum control are closely connected to the properties of the mapping from the control to the unitary propagator. For bilinear quantum control problems, no general results are available to fully determine when this mapping is singular or not. In this paper we give suffcient conditions, in terms of elements of the evolution semigroup, for a trajectory to be non-singular. We identify two lists of "way-points" that, when reached, ensure the non-singularity of the control trajectory. It is found that under appropriate hypotheses one of those lists does not depend on the values of the coupling operator matrix.

id: 1110.1762
title: Anomalous Localization in Low-Dimensional Systems with Correlated Disorder
authors: F.M.Izrailev, A.A.Krokhin, N.M.Makarov
comments: 196 pages, 68 figures
journal: Phys. Rep. 512 (2012) 125-254
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1762
abstract: This review presents a unified view on the problem of Anderson localization in one-dimensional weakly disordered systems with short-range and long-range statistical correlations in random potentials. The following models are analyzed: the models with continuous potentials, the tight-binding models of the Anderson type, and various Kronig-Penney models with different types of perturbations. Main attention is payed to the methods of obtaining the localization length in dependence on the controlling parameters of the models. Specific interest is in an emergence of effective mobility edges due to certain long-range correlations in a disorder. The predictions of the theoretical and numerical analysis are compared to recent experiments on microwave transmission through randomly filled waveguides.

id: 1110.1799
title: Pure Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov state in optical lattices
authors: A-Hai Chen, Gao Xianlong
comments: revised version, in Phys. Rev. B 85, 134203 (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1799
abstract: We study the phase diagram of a one-dimensional, two-component attractive fermions on optical lattices in an off-diagonal confinement. We identify in this system a pure Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov (FFLO) state with spatially modulated superfluidity and polarization in a large parameter window, which provides an easier playground to detect the FFLO state experimentally. The clear signature of FFLO state is analyzed in the ground state properties, the pair correlation functions, and the magnetic structure factor, using the density-matrix renormalization group method.

id: 1110.1800
title: On the ground state of quantum graphs with attractive $¦Ä$-coupling
authors: Pavel Exner, Michal Jex
comments: LaTeX file, 7 pages, with one ps figure; minor improvements, to appear in Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1800
abstract: We study relations between the ground-state energy of a quantum graph Hamiltonian with attractive $\delta$ coupling at the vertices and the graph geometry. We derive a necessary and sufficient condition under which the energy increases with the increase of graph edge lengths. We show that this is always the case if the graph has no branchings while both change signs are possible for graphs with a more complicated topology.

id: 1110.1815
title: Liquid ground state, gap and excited states of a strongly correlated spin chain
authors: Igor Lesanovsky
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 105301 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1815
abstract: We present an exact solution of an experimentally realizable and strongly interacting one-dimensional spin system which is a limiting case of a quantum Ising model with long range interaction in a transverse and longitudinal field. Pronounced quantum fluctuations lead to a strongly correlated liquid ground state. For open boundary conditions the ground state manifold consists of four degenerate sectors whose quantum numbers are determined by the orientation of the edge spins. Explicit expressions for the entanglement properties, the excitation gap as well as the exact wave functions for a couple of excited states are analytically derived and discussed.

id: 1110.1843
title: New application of decomposition of U(1) gauge potential:Aharonov-Bohm effect and Anderson-Higgs mechanism
authors: Jian-Feng Li, Yu Jiang, Wei-Min Sun, Hong-Shi Zong, Fan Wang
comments: 6 pages, no figures, final version to appear in Modern Physics Letters B
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1843
abstract: In this paper we study the Aharonov-Bohm (A-B) effect and Anderson-Higgs mechanism in Ginzburg-Landau model of superconductors from the perspective of the decomposition of U(1) gauge potential. By the Helmholtz theorem, we derive exactly the expression of the transverse gauge potential $\vec{A}_\perp$ in A-B experiment, which is gauge-invariant and physical. For the case of a bulk superconductor, we find that the gradient of the total phase field $\theta$ provides the longitudinal component ${\vec A}_{\parallel}$, which reflects the Anderson-Higgs mechanism. For the case of a superconductor ring, the gradient of the longitudinal phase field $\theta_1$ provides the longitudinal component ${\vec A}_{\parallel}$, while the transverse phase field $\theta_2$ produces new physical effects such as the flux quantization inside a superconducting ring.

id: 1110.1888
title: Robust sub-shot-noise measurement via Rabi-Josephson oscillations in bimodal Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: I. Tikhonenkov, M. G. Moore, A. Vardi
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 063628 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1888
abstract: Mach-Zehnder atom interferometry requires hold-time phase-squeezing to attain readout accuracy below the standard quantum limit. This increases its sensitivity to phase-diffusion, restoring shot-noise scaling of the optimal signal-to-noise ratio, $s_o$, in the presence of interactions. The contradiction between the preparations required for readout accuracy and robustness to interactions, is removed by monitoring Rabi-Josephson oscillations instead of relative-phase oscillations during signal acquisition. Optimizing $s_o$ with a Gaussian squeezed input, we find that hold-time number squeezing satisfies both demands and that sub-shot-noise scaling is retained even for strong interactions.

id: 1110.1917
title: Von Neumann Entanglement and Decoherence in Two Dimensional Quantum Walks
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: It will be interesting to consider basic quantities of information theory to give a precise formulation of the measure of entanglement between subsytems (coin and position)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1917
abstract: Using the concept of von Neumann entropy, we quantify the information content of the various components of the quantum walk system, including the mutual information between its subsystems (coin and position) and use it to give a precise formulation of the measure of entanglement between subsystems.

id: 1110.1952
title: Quantum Zeno control of coherent dissociation
authors: C. Khripkov, A. Vardi
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 021606(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1952
abstract: We study the effect of dephasing on the coherent dissociation dynamics of an atom-molecule Bose-Einstein condensate. We show that when phase-noise intensity is strong with respect to the inverse correlation time of the stimulated process, dissociation is suppressed via a Bose enhanced Quantum Zeno effect. This is complementary to the quantum zeno control of phase-diffusion in a bimodal condensate by symmetric noise (Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 100}, 220403 (2008)) in that the controlled process here is phase-{\it formation} and the required decoherence mechanism for its suppression is purely phase noise.

id: 1110.1956
title: Temporal quantum fluctuations in the fringe-visibility of atom interferometers with interacting Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Doron Cohen, Amichay Vardi
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures; Progress in Optical science and Photonics, Vol. 1: Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking, Self-trapping, and Josephson Oscillations (Springer, New York, 2013), Ed. B. A. Malomed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1956
abstract: We formulate a semiclassical approach to study the dynamics of coherence loss and revival in a Bose-Josephson dimer. The phase-space structure of the bi-modal system in the Rabi, Josephson, and Fock interaction regimes, is reviewed and the prescription for its WKB quantization is specified. The local density of states (LDOS) is then deduced for any given preparation from its semiclassical projection onto the WKB eigenstates. The LDOS and the non-linear variation of its level-spacing are employed to construct the time evolution of the initial preparation and study the temporal fluctuations of interferometric fringe visibility. The qualitative behavior and characteristic timescales of these fluctuations are set by the pertinent participation number, quantifying the spectral content of the preparation. We employ this methodology to study the Josephson-regime coherence dynamics of several initial state preparations, including a Twin-Fock state and three different coherent states that we denote as 'Zero', 'Pi', and 'Edge' (the latter two are both on-separatrix preparations, while the Zero is the standard ground sate preparation). We find a remarkable agreement between the semiclassical predictions and numerical simulations of the full quantum dynamics. Consequently, a characteristic distinct behavior is implied for each of the different preparations.

id: 1110.2032
title: Correlation Functions and the Boundary qKZ Equation in a Fractured XXZ Chain
authors: Robert Weston
comments: 28 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2032
abstract: We consider correlation functions of the form <vac|O|vac>', where |vac> is the vacuum eigenstate of an infinite antiferromagnetic XXZ chain, |vac>' is the vacuum eigenstate of an infinite XXZ chain which is split in two, and O is a local operator. The Hamiltonian of the split chain has no coupling between sites 1 and 0 and has a staggered magnetic field at these two sites; it arises from a tensor product of left and right boundary transfer matrices. We find a simple, exact expression for <vac|vac>' and an exact integral expression for general <vac|O|vac>' using the vertex operator approach. We compute the integral when O=\sigma^z_1 and find a conjectural expression that is analogous to the known formula for the XXZ spontaneous magnetisation and reduces to it when the magnetic field is zero. We show that correlation functions obey a boundary qKZ equation of a different level to the infinite XXZ chain with one boundary.

id: 1110.2043
title: Emergence of triplet orbital pairing and non-Abelian states in ultracold multi-orbital optical lattices with quadratic band touching
authors: Jian-Hua Jiang
comments: Submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2043
abstract: It is found that all the {\em singlet orbital pairing} instabilities are {\em absent} in a class of spin-polarized multi-orbital systems with quadratic band touching, which opens the way for {\em triplet orbital pairing} order. The ground states are found to be {\em non-Abelian} states with p-wave orbital pairing in checkerboard (away from 1/2 filling) and kagome (above 1/3 filling) lattices with {\em isotropic} attractive interaction which can be realized in ultracold multi-orbital optical lattices. The special property of such systems is generalized to more classes of multi-orbital systems, where the fully-gapped {\em non-Abelian} states are possibly the ground states. Those findings are helpful in achieving topological quantum computation.

id: 1110.2044
title: Path integration in the field of a topological defect: the case of dispiration
authors: Akira Inomata, Georg Junker, James Raynolds
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 075301
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2044
abstract: The motion of a particle in the field of dispiration (due to a wedge disclination and a screw dislocation) is studied by path integration. By gauging $SO(2) \otimes T(1)$, first, we derive the metric, curvature, and torsion of the medium of dispiration. Then we carry out explicitly path integration for the propagator of a particle moving in the non-Euclidean medium under the influence of a scalar potential and a vector potential. We obtain also the winding number representation of the propagator by taking the non-trivial topological structure of the medium into account. We extract the energy spectrum and the eigenfunctions from the propagator. Finally we make some remarks for special cases. Particularly, paying attention to the difference between the result of the path integration and the solution of Schr\"odinger's equation in the case of disclination, we suggest that Schr\"odinger equation may have to be modified by a curvature term.

id: 1110.2129
title: Vacuum polarization induced by a cosmic string in anti-de Sitter spacetime
authors: E.R. Bezerra de Mello, A.A. Saharian
comments: 19 pages, 3 figures, discussion and references added, accepted for publication in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 115402
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2129
abstract: In this paper we investigate the vacuum expectation values (VEVs) of the field squared and the energy-momentum tensor associated with a massive scalar quantum field induced by a generalized cosmic string in D-dimensional anti-de Sitter (AdS) spacetime. In order to develop this analysis we evaluate the corresponding Wightman function. As we shall observe, this function is expressed as the sum of two terms: the first one corresponds to the Wightman function in pure AdS bulk and the second one is induced by the presence of the string. The second contribution is finite at coincidence limit and is used to provide closed expressions for the parts in the VEVs of the field squared and the energy-momentum tensor induced by the presence of the string. Because the analysis of vacuum polarizations effects in pure AdS spacetime have been developed in the literature, here we are mainly interested in the investigation of string-induced effects. We show that the curvature of the background spacetime has an essential influence on the VEVs at distances larger than the curvature radius. In particular, at large distances the decay of the string-induced VEVs is power-law for both massless and massive fields. The string-induced parts vanish on the AdS boundary and they dominate the pure AdS part for points near the AdS horizon.

id: 1110.2131
title: Entanglement entropy of a quantum unbinding transition and entropy of DNA
authors: Poulomi Sadhukhan, Somendra M. Bhattacharjee
comments: v2: 6 pages, 3 figures (title modified, more details and figures added)
journal: Europhys. Lett. 98 (2012) 10008
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2131
abstract: Two significant consequences of quantum fluctuations are entanglement and criticality. Entangled states may not be critical but a critical state shows signatures of universality in entanglement. A surprising result found here is that the entanglement entropy may become arbitrarily large and negative near the dissociation of a bound pair of quantum particles. Although apparently counter-intuitive, it is shown to be consistent and essential for the phase transition, by mapping to a classical problem of DNA melting. We associate the entanglement entropy to a subextensive part of the entropy of DNA bubbles, which is responsible for melting. The absence of any extensivity requirement in time makes this negative entropy an inevitable consequence of quantum mechanics in continuum. Our results encompass quantum critical points and first-order transitions in general dimensions.

id: 1110.2135
title: Vortex structures of a two-component BEC for large anisotropies
authors: Ran Wei, Erich Mueller
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 063611 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2135
abstract: We calculate the vortex structures of an elongated two-component Bose-Einstein condensate. We study how these structures depend on the intra-component and inter-component interaction strengths. We present analytic and numeric results respectively at weak and strong interactions; finding lattices with different interlocking geometries: triangular, square, rectangular and double-core.

id: 1110.2179
title: Effective and exact holographies from symmetries and dualities
authors: Zohar Nussinov, Gerardo Ortiz, Emilio Cobanera
comments: 53 pgs, 6 figs. Submitted to Nuclear Physics B
journal: Annals of Physics 327, 2491 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2179
abstract: The theoretical basis of the phenomenon of effective and exact dimensional reduction, or holographic correspondence, is investigated in a wide variety of physical systems. We first derive general inequalities linking quantum systems of different spatial (or spatio-temporal) dimensionality, thus establishing bounds on arbitrary correlation functions. These bounds enforce an {\em effective} dimensional reduction and become most potent in the presence of certain symmetries. {\em Exact} dimensional reduction can stem from a duality that (i) follows from properties of the local density of states, and/or (ii) from properties of Hamiltonian-dependent algebras of interactions. Dualities of the first type (i) are illustrated with large-$n$ vector theories whose local density of states may remain invariant under transformations that change the dimension. We argue that a broad class of examples of dimensional reduction may be understood in terms of the functional dependence of observables on the local density of states. Dualities of the second type (ii) are obtained via {\em bond algebras}, a recently developed algebraic tool. We apply this technique to systems displaying topological quantum order, and also discuss the implications of dimensional reduction for the storage of quantum information.

id: 1110.2221
title: Ultra-high Resolution Spectroscopy with atomic or molecular Dark Resonances: Exact steady-state lineshapes and asymptotic profiles in the adiabatic pulsed regime
authors: Thomas Zanon, Emeric de Clercq, Ennio Arimondo
comments: accepted for publication in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 84, 062502 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2221
abstract: Exact and asymptotic lineshape expressions are derived from the semi-classical density matrix representation describing a set of closed three-level atomic or molecular states including decoherences, relaxation rates and light-shifts. An accurate analysis of the exact steady-state Dark Resonance profile describing the Autler-Townes doublet, the Electromagnetically Induced Transparency or Coherent Population Trapping resonance and the Fano-Feshbach lineshape, leads to the linewidth expression of the two-photon Raman transition and frequency-shifts associated to the clock transition. From an adiabatic analysis of the dynamical Optical Bloch Equations in the weak field limit, a pumping time required to efficiently trap a large number of atoms into a coherent superposition of long-lived states is established. For a highly asymmetrical configuration with different decay channels, a strong two-photon resonance based on a lower states population inversion is established when the driving continuous-wave laser fields are greatly unbalanced. When time separated resonant two-photon pulses are applied in the adiabatic pulsed regime for atomic or molecular clock engineering, where the first pulse is long enough to reach a coherent steady-state preparation and the second pulse is very short to avoid repumping into a new dark state, Dark Resonance fringes mixing continuous-wave lineshape properties and coherent Ramsey oscillations are created. Those fringes allow interrogation schemes bypassing the power broadening effect. Frequency-shifts affecting the central clock fringe computed from asymptotic profiles and related to Raman decoherence process, exhibit non-linear shapes with the three-level observable used for quantum measurement. We point out that different observables experience different shifts on the lower-state clock transition.

id: 1110.2279
title: Path Integration in Conical Space
authors: Akira Inomata, Georg Junker
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2279
abstract: Quantum mechanics in conical space is studied by the path integral method. It is shown that the curvature effect gives rise to an effective potential in the radial path integral. It is further shown that the radial path integral in conical space can be reduced to a form identical with that in flat space when the discrete angular momentum of each partial wave is replaced by a specific non-integral angular momentum. The effective potential is found proportional to the squared mean curvature of the conical surface embedded in Euclidean space. The path integral calculation is compatible with the Schr\"odinger equation modified with the Gaussian and the mean curvature.

id: 1110.2282
title: Polarization of light and the spin state of photon
authors: Guihua Tian
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2282
abstract: The comparison of the polarization and spin of light is presented in the paper. It is shown that it is more easier and clearer to use the polarization of the light to explain the effect of the interaction of light and atoms than that of spin of the light. The paper also gives rise to the question whether or not the concept of spin for photon have any essence for its existence.

id: 1110.2388
title: Selectivity in Probabilistic Causality: Where Psychology Runs Into Quantum Physics
authors: Ehtibar N. Dzhafarov, Janne V. Kujala
comments: 12 pages; in the second version some typos were corrected; minor revision in the third version; typos corrected in the fourth version. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1108.3074
journal: Journal of Mathematical Psychology 56 (2012) 54-63
subjects: Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Statistics Theory (math.ST); Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2388
abstract: Given a set of several inputs into a system (e.g., independent variables characterizing stimuli) and a set of several stochastically non-independent outputs (e.g., random variables describing different aspects of responses), how can one determine, for each of the outputs, which of the inputs it is influenced by? The problem has applications ranging from modeling pairwise comparisons to reconstructing mental processing architectures to conjoint testing. A necessary and sufficient condition for a given pattern of selective influences is provided by the Joint Distribution Criterion, according to which the problem of "what influences what" is equivalent to that of the existence of a joint distribution for a certain set of random variables. For inputs and outputs with finite sets of values this criterion translates into a test of consistency of a certain system of linear equations and inequalities (Linear Feasibility Test) which can be performed by means of linear programming. While new in the behavioral context, both this test and the Joint Distribution Criterion on which it is based have been previously proposed in quantum physics, in dealing with generalizations of Bell inequalities for the quantum entanglement problem. The parallels between this problem and that of selective influences in behavioral sciences is established by observing that noncommuting measurements in quantum physics are mutually exclusive and can therefore be treated as different levels of one and the same factor.

id: 1110.2459
title: Sine-square deformation of solvable spin chains and conformal field theories
authors: Hosho Katsura
comments: 20pages, 3 figures, new examples and references added, typos corrected
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 115003
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2459
abstract: We study solvable spin chains, one-dimensional massless Dirac fermions, and conformal field theories (CFTs) with sine-square deformation (SSD), in which the Hamiltonian density is modulated by the function $f(x)=\sin^2 (\pi x/\ell)$, where $x$ is the position and $\ell$ is the length of the system. For the XY chain and the transverse field Ising chain at criticality, it is shown that the ground state of an open system with SSD is identical to that of a uniform chain with periodic boundary conditions. The same holds for the massless Dirac fermions with SSD, corresponding to the continuum limit of the gapless XY chain. For general CFTs, we find that the Hamiltonian of a system with SSD has an expression in terms of the generators of the Virasoro algebra. This allows us to show that the vacuum state is an exact eigenstate of the sine-square deformed Hamiltonian. Furthermore, for a restricted class of CFTs associated with affine Lie (Kac-Moody) algebras, including $c=1$ Gaussian CFT, we prove that the vacuum is an exact ground state of the deformed Hamiltonian. This explains why the SSD has succeeded in suppressing boundary effects in one-dimensional critical systems, as observed in previous numerical studies.

id: 1110.2468
title: Ab-initio approach to effective single-particle energies in doubly closed shell nuclei
authors: T. Duguet, G. Hagen
comments: 14 pages, 10 figures, published in Physical Review C
journal: Phys. Rev. C85 (2012) 034330
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2468
abstract: The present work discusses, from an ab-initio standpoint, the definition, the meaning, and the usefulness of effective single-particle energies (ESPEs) in doubly closed shell nuclei. We perform coupled-cluster calculations to quantify to what extent selected closed-shell nuclei in the oxygen and calcium isotopic chains can effectively be mapped onto an effective independent-particle picture. To do so, we revisit in detail the notion of ESPEs in the context of strongly correlated many-nucleon systems and illustrate the necessity to extract ESPEs through the diagonalization of the centroid {\it matrix}, as originally argued by Baranger. For the purpose of illustration, we analyse the impact of correlations on observable one-nucleon separation energies and non-observable ESPEs in selected closed-shell oxygen and calcium isotopes. We then state and illustrate the non-observability of ESPEs. Similarly to spectroscopic factors, ESPEs can indeed be modified by a redefinition of inaccessible quantities while leaving actual observables unchanged. This leads to the absolute necessity to employ consistent structure and reaction models based on the same nuclear Hamiltonian to extract the shell structure in a meaningful fashion from experimental data.

id: 1110.2475
title: Note on the role of symmetry in scattering from isospectral graphs and drums
authors: Ram Band, Adam Sawicki, Uzy Smilansky
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2475
abstract: We discuss scattering from pairs of isospectral quantum graphs constructed using the method described in [1, 2]. It was shown in [3] that scattering matrices of such graphs have the same spectrum and polar structure, provided that infinite leads are attached in a way which preserves the symmetry of isospectral construction. In the current paper we compare this result with the conjecture put forward by Okada et al. [4] that the pole distribution of scattering matrices in the exterior of isospectral domains in R^2 are different.

id: 1110.2514
title: Many Worlds, the Cluster-state Quantum Computer, and the Problem of the Preferred Basis
authors: Michael Cuffaro
comments: Added doi, acknowledgements, miscellaneous typo corrections
journal: Studies in History and Philosophy of Modern Physics 43 (2012), 35-42
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2514
abstract: I argue that the many worlds explanation of quantum computation is not licensed by, and in fact is conceptually inferior to, the many worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics from which it is derived. I argue that the many worlds explanation of quantum computation is incompatible with the recently developed cluster state model of quantum computation. Based on these considerations I conclude that we should reject the many worlds explanation of quantum computation.

id: 1110.2537
title: Magnetic Blockade Mechanism for Quantum Nucleation of Superconducting Vortex-Antivortex Pairs in Zero External Magnetic Field
authors: J. H. Miller Jr., A. I. Wijesinghe
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2537
abstract: We propose a magnetic dual of the Coulomb blockade effect for quantum nucleation of flux vortex pairs in high-Tc superconducting (HTS) films and grain boundaries in zero applied field. The magnetic blockade instability occurs at {\theta} = {\pi}, where {\theta} is the "vacuum" or theta angle. The {\theta} term has recently been discussed in the context of several other systems, including charge and spin density waves, topological insulators, the quantum Hall effect, and spontaneous CP violation. Our model predicts a sharp pair creation threshold current at {\theta} = {\pi}, analogous to the Coulomb blockade voltage of a tunnel junction, and explains the observed thickness dependence of critical currents in HTS coated conductors. We use the Schr\"odinger equation to compute the evolving macrostate amplitudes, coupled by a generalized tunneling matrix element. The simulations yield excellent quantitative agreement with measured voltage-current characteristics of bi-crystal and other HTS grain boundary junctions. The model also predicts non-sinusoidal behavior in the voltage oscillations resulting from time-correlated vortex tunneling.

id: 1110.2574
title: Synthesis and Optimization of Reversible Circuits - A Survey
authors: Mehdi Saeedi, Igor L. Markov
comments: 34 pages, 15 figures, 2 tables
journal: M. Saeedi and I. L. Markov, "Synthesis and Optimization of Reversible Circuits - A Survey", ACM Computing Surveys, 45, 2, Article 21 (34 pages), 2013
subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2574
abstract: Reversible logic circuits have been historically motivated by theoretical research in low-power electronics as well as practical improvement of bit-manipulation transforms in cryptography and computer graphics. Recently, reversible circuits have attracted interest as components of quantum algorithms, as well as in photonic and nano-computing technologies where some switching devices offer no signal gain. Research in generating reversible logic distinguishes between circuit synthesis, post-synthesis optimization, and technology mapping. In this survey, we review algorithmic paradigms --- search-based, cycle-based, transformation-based, and BDD-based --- as well as specific algorithms for reversible synthesis, both exact and heuristic. We conclude the survey by outlining key open challenges in synthesis of reversible and quantum logic, as well as most common misconceptions.

id: 1110.2590
title: Distributed cavity phase frequency shifts of the caesium fountain PTB-CSF2
authors: S. Weyers, V. Gerginov, N. Nemitz, R. Li, K. Gibble
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures, to be published in Metrologia
journal: Metrologia 49 (2012) 82-87
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2590
abstract: We evaluate the frequency error from distributed cavity phase in the caesium fountain clock PTB-CSF2 at the Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt with a combination of frequency measurements and ab initio calculations. The associated uncertainty is 1.3E-16, with a frequency bias of 0.4E-16. The agreement between the measurements and calculations explains the previously observed frequency shifts at elevated microwave amplitude. We also evaluate the frequency bias and uncertainty due to the microwave lensing of the atomic wavepackets. We report a total PTB-CSF2 systematic uncertainty of 4.1E-16.

id: 1110.2613
title: Trichromatic Open Digraphs for Understanding Qubits
authors: Alex Lang, Bob Coecke
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2011, arXiv:1210.0298
journal: EPTCS 95, 2012, pp. 193-209
subjects: Category Theory (math.CT); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2613
abstract: We introduce a trichromatic graphical calculus for quantum computing. The generators represent three complementary observables that are treated on equal footing, hence reflecting the symmetries of the Bloch sphere. We derive the Euler angle decomposition of the Hadamard gate within it as well as the so-called supplementary relationships, which are valid equations for qubits that were not derivable within Z/X-calculus of Coecke and Duncan. More specifically, we have: dichromatic Z/X-calculus + Euler angle decomposition of the Hadamard gate = trichromatic calculus.

id: 1110.2664
title: An extended scenario for the Schrodinger equation
authors: M. Capak, Y. Cancelik, O. L. Unsal, S. Atay, B. Gonul
comments: 17 pages and 2 tables, accepted by J. Math. Phys., October 2011
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52 (2011) 102102
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2664
abstract: The concept of the elegant work introduced by Levai in Ref. [5] is extended for the solutions of the Schrodinger equation with more realistic other potentials used in different disciplines of physics. The connection between the present model and the other alternative algebraic technique in the literature is discussed

id: 1110.2714
title: Probing single charge fluctuations in a semiconductor with laser spectroscopy on a quantum dot
authors: J. Houel, A. Kuhlmann, L. Greuter, F. Xue, M. Poggio, B. D. Gerardot, P. A. Dalgarno, A. Badolato, P. M. Petroff, A. Ludwig, D. Reuter, A. D. Wieckand, R. J. Warburton
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 107401 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2714
abstract: We probe local charge fluctuations in a semiconductor via laser spectroscopy on a nearby self-assembled quantum dot. We demonstrate that the quantum dot is sensitive to changes in the local environment at the single charge level. By controlling the charge state of localized defects, we are able to infer the distance of the defects from the quantum dot with +-5 nm resolution. The results identify and quantify the main source of charge noise in the commonly-used optical field-effect devices. Based on this understanding we achieve routinely close-totransform-limited quantum dot optical linewidths.

id: 1110.2832
title: Can apparent superluminal neutrino speeds be explained as a quantum weak measurement?
authors: M. V. Berry, N. Brunner, S. Popescu, P. Shukla
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 492001 (2011)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2832
abstract: Probably not.

id: 1110.3004
title: Entanglement Entropy of Fermi Liquids via Multi-dimensional Bosonization
authors: Wenxin Ding, Alexander Seidel, Kun Yang
comments: 18 pages, accepted version with major update
journal: Phys. Rev. X 2, 011012 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3004
abstract: The logarithmic violations of the area law, i.e. an "area law" with logarithmic correction of the form $S \sim L^{d-1} \log L$, for entanglement entropy are found in both 1D gapless system and for high dimensional free fermions. The purpose of this work is to show that both violations are of the same origin, and in the presence of Fermi liquid interactions such behavior persists for 2D fermion systems. In this paper we first consider the entanglement entropy of a toy model, namely a set of decoupled 1D chains of free spinless fermions, to relate both violations in an intuitive way. We then use multi-dimensional bosonization to re-derive the formula by Gioev and Klich [Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 100503 (2006)] for free fermions through a low-energy effective Hamiltonian, and explicitly show the logarithmic corrections to the area law in both cases share the same origin: the discontinuity at the Fermi surface (points). In the presence of Fermi liquid (forward scattering) interactions, the bosonized theory remains quadratic in terms of the original local degrees of freedom, and after regularizing the theory with a mass term we are able to calculate the entanglement entropy perturbatively up to second order in powers of the coupling parameter for a special geometry via the replica trick. We show that these interactions do not change the leading scaling behavior for the entanglement entropy of a Fermi liquid. At higher orders, we argue that this should remain true through a scaling analysis.

id: 1110.3021
title: Phase-Sensitive Detection for Unconventional Bose-Einstein Condensations
authors: Zi Cai, Lu-Ming Duan, Congjun Wu
comments: 4.5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 051601(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3021
abstract: We propose a phase-sensitive detection scheme to identify the unconventional $p_{x}\pm ip_{y}$ symmetry of the condensate wavefunctions of bosons, which have already been proposed and realized in high bands in optical lattices. Using the impulsive Raman operation combining with time-of-flight imaging, the off-diagonal correlation functions in momentum space give rise to the relative phase information between different components of condensate wavefunctions. This scheme is robust against the interaction and interband effects, and provides smoking gun evidence for unconventional Bose-Einstein condensations with nontrivial condensation symmetries.

id: 1110.3055
title: Pictures of complete positivity in arbitrary dimension
authors: Bob Coecke, Chris Heunen
comments: Final version
journal: EPTCS 95, 2012, pp. 27-35
subjects: Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3055
abstract: Two fundamental contributions to categorical quantum mechanics are presented. First, we generalize the CP-construction, that turns any dagger compact category into one with completely positive maps, to arbitrary dimension. Second, we axiomatize when a given category is the result of this construction.

id: 1110.3181
title: Naked Reissner-Nordstr?m singularity and quasiclassical bound states
authors: Valentin D. Gladush, Dmitry A. Kulikov
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3181
abstract: The bound-state problem for an uncharged massive scalar particle in the field of a naked Reissner-Nordstr\"om singularity is approached by means of the quasiclassical Bohr-Sommerfeld quantization. An approximate analytical expression for the energy levels of the system is derived. It is shown that in order to obtain non-vanishing binding energies the masses of both the central object and the particle should be comparable with the Planck mass.

id: 1110.3214
title: Quantification of correlations in quantum many-particle systems
authors: K. Byczuk, J. Kunes, W. Hofstetter, D. Vollhardt
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures; Final version including correction of typographical errors and new reference
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 087004 (2012); Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 189902 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3214
abstract: We introduce a well-defined and unbiased measure of the strength of correlations in quantum many-particle systems which is based on the relative von Neumann entropy computed from the density operator of correlated and uncorrelated states. The usefulness of this general concept is demonstrated by quantifying correlations of interacting electrons in the Hubbard model and in a series of transition-metal oxides using dynamical mean-field theory.

id: 1110.3285
title: On the Tunneling Properties of non-Planar Molecules in a Gas Medium
authors: Mohammad Bahrami, Angelo Bassi
comments: 9 pages, 3 Figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062115 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3285
abstract: We propose a simple, general, and accurate formula for analyzing the tunneling between classical configurations of a non-planar molecule in a gas medium, as a function of the thermodynamic parameters of the gas. We apply it to two interesting cases: i) The shift to zero frequency of the inversion line of ammonia, upon increase of the pressure of the gas; ii) The destruction of the coherent tunneling of D2S2 molecules in a gas of He. In both cases, we compare our analysis with previous theoretical and experimental results.

id: 1110.3306
title: Spontaneous Emission Spectra and Quantum Light-Matter Interactions from a Strongly-Coupled Quantum Dot Metal-Nanoparticle System
authors: C. Van Vlack, Philip Tr?st Kristensen, S. Hughes
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3306
abstract: We investigate the quantum optical properties of a single photon emitter coupled to a finite-size metal nanoparticle using a photon Green function technique that rigorously quantizes the electromagnetic fields. We first obtain pronounced Purcell factors and photonic Lamb shifts for both a 7-nm and 20-nm radius metal nanoparticle, without adopting a dipole approximation. We then consider a quantum-dot photon emitter positioned sufficiently near to the metal nanoparticle so that the strong coupling regime is possible. Accounting for non-dipole interactions, quenching, and photon transport from the dot to the detector, we demonstrate that the strong coupling regime should be observable in the far-field spontaneous emission spectrum, even at room temperature. The emission spectra show that the usual vacuum Rabi doublet becomes a rich spectral triplet or quartet with two of the four peaks anticrossing, which survives in spite of significant non-radiative decays. We discuss the emitted light spectrum and the effects of quenching for two different dipole polarizations.

id: 1110.3322
title: Luttinger Liquid Physics and Spin-Flip Scattering on Helical Edges
authors: M. Hohenadler, F. F. Assaad
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures (modified version with additional data)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 081106(R) (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3322
abstract: We investigate electronic correlation effects on edge states of quantum spin-Hall insulators within the Kane-Mele-Hubbard model by means of quantum Monte Carlo simulations. Given the U(1) spin symmetry and time-reversal invariance, the low-energy theory is the helical Tomanaga-Luttinger model, with forward scattering only. For weak to intermediate interactions, this model correctly describes equal-time spin and charge correlations, including their doping dependence. As apparent from the Drude weight, bulk states become relevant in the presence of electron-electron interactions, rendering the forward-scattering model incomplete. Strong correlations give rise to slowly decaying transverse spin fluctuations, and inelastic spin-flip scattering strongly modifies the single-particle spectrum, leading to graphene-like edge state signatures. The helical Tomanaga-Luttinger model is completely valid only asymptotically in the weak-coupling limit.

id: 1110.3479
title: Dynamical phase interferometry of cold atoms in optical lattices
authors: Uri London, Omri Gat
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3479
abstract: We study the propagation of cold-atom wave packets in an interferometer with a Mach-Zehnder topology based on the dynamical phase of Bloch oscillation in a weakly forced optical lattice with a narrow potential barrier that functions as a cold-atom wave packet splitter. We calculate analytically the atomic wave function, and show that the expected number of atoms in the two outputs of the interferometer oscillates rapidly as a function of the angle between the potential barrier and the forcing direction with period proportional to the external potential difference across a lattice spacing divided by the lattice band energy scale. The interferometer can be used as a high precision force probe whose principle of operation is different from current interferometers based on the overall position of Bloch oscillating wave packets.

id: 1110.3545
title: Stability of Chiral States, Role of Intermolecular Interactions and Molecular Parity Violation
authors: Mohammad Bahrami, Afshin Shafiee
comments: 5 pages, 2 Figures
journal: Comput. Theoret. Chem. 978 (2011), 84-87
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3545
abstract: We study the problem of stability of chiral states, also known as problem of chirality, within the framework of a two-dimensional approximation of a symmetric double-well potential. We show how the symmetry breaking of the potential due to the molecular parity violation can stop the tunneling in a coherent way, accordingly stabilize the chiral states. Then, we use the quantum Brownian motion within a linear Lindblad-type equation to model how the intermolecular interactions make the tunneling incoherent, thus inducing a racemization by dephasing. Finally, we investigate the normal physical conditions where the dephasing racemization does not suppress the effects of the molecular parity violation, accordingly the molecular parity violation may be observed experimentally.

id: 1110.3554
title: Boundary divergences in vacuum self-energies and quantum field theory in curved spacetime
authors: Francisco D. Mazzitelli, Jean Paul Nery, Alejandro Satz
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3554
abstract: It is well known that boundary conditions on quantum fields produce divergences in the renormalized energy-momentum tensor near the boundaries. Although irrelevant for the computation of Casimir forces between different bodies, the self-energy couples to gravity, and the divergences may, in principle, generate large gravitational effects. We present an analysis of the problem in the context of quantum field theory in curved spaces. Our model consists of a quantum scalar field coupled to a classical field that, in a certain limit, imposes Dirichlet boundary conditions on the quantum field. We show that the model is renormalizable and that the divergences in the renormalized energy-momentum tensor disappear for sufficiently smooth interfaces.

id: 1110.3582
title: Quantum fields on closed time-like curves
authors: J. L. Pienaar, C. R. Myers, T. C. Ralph
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures. Minor corrections, added references
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062316 (2011)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3582
abstract: Recently, there has been much interest in the evolution of quantum particles on closed time-like curves (CTCs). However, such models typically assume point-like particles with only two degrees of freedom - a very questionable assumption given the relativistic setting of the problem. We show that it is possible to generalise the Deutsch model of CTCs to fields using the equivalent circuit formalism. We give examples for coherent, squeezed and single-photon states interacting with the CTC via a beamsplitter. The model is then generalised further to account for the smooth transition to normal quantum mechanics as the CTC becomes much smaller than the size of the modes interacting on it. In this limit, we find that the system behaves like a standard quantum mechanical feedback loop.

id: 1110.3588
title: Inverse Landau-Zener-Stuckelberg problem for qubit-resonator systems
authors: S. N. Shevchenko, S. Ashhab, Franco Nori
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 094502 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3588
abstract: We consider theoretically a superconducting qubit - nanomechanical resonator (NR) system, which was realized by LaHaye et al. [Nature 459, 960 (2009)]. First, we study the problem where the state of the strongly driven qubit is probed through the frequency shift of the low-frequency NR. In the case where the coupling is capacitive, the measured quantity can be related to the so-called quantum capacitance. Our theoretical results agree with the experimentally observed result that, under resonant driving, the frequency shift repeatedly changes sign. We then formulate and solve the inverse Landau-Zener-Stuckelberg problem, where we assume the driven qubit's state to be known (i.e. measured by some other device) and aim to find the parameters of the qubit's Hamiltonian. In particular, for our system the qubit's bias is defined by the NR's displacement. This may provide a tool for monitoring of the NR's position.

id: 1110.3593
title: Infinitesimal propagation equation for atmospheric decoherence with multiphoton correlations
authors: Filippus S. Roux
comments: 10 pages, 1 Figures, extension of work done in arXiv:1102.5166v2
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3593
abstract: Previously a set of coupled first order differential equations were derived for the decoherence of a pair of spatial mode entangled photons, propagating along different paths through turbulence. Here we extend this analysis to the situation where both photons travel along the same path, which introduces the effect of multiple photon correlations. The resulting equation now contains additional terms that take these multiphoton correlations into account. At the same time, we provide a more thorough formulation of the quantized field, starting from a Lorentz invariant formulation, which is then explicitly broken by the choice of a particular propagation direction. The effect of the latter improvement in the quantization on the form of the final equation is minimal.

id: 1110.3625
title: High-reflectivity, high-Q micromechanical membranes via guided resonances for enhanced optomechanical coupling
authors: Catvu H. Bui, Jiangjun Zheng, S. W. Hoch, Lennon Y. T. Lee, J. G. E. Harris, Chee Wei Wong
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3625
abstract: Using Fano-type guided resonances (GRs) in photonic crystal (PhC) slab structures, we numerically and experimentally demonstrate optical reflectivity enhancement of high-Q SiNx membrane-type resonators used in membrane-in-the-middle optomechanical (OM) systems. Normal-incidence transmission and mechanical ringdown measurements of 50-nm-thick PhC membranes demonstrate GRs near 1064 nm, leading to a ~ 4\times increase in reflectivity while preserving high mechanical Q factors of up to ~ 5 \times 10^6. The results would allow improvement of membrane-in-the-middle OM systems by virtue of increased OM coupling, presenting a path towards ground state cooling of such a membrane and observations of related quantum effects.

id: 1110.3632
title: Breakdown of a perturbed Z_N topological phase
authors: M. D. Schulz, S. Dusuel, R. Orus, J. Vidal, K. P. Schmidt
comments: 27 pages, 10 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 025005 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3632
abstract: We study the robustness of a generalized Kitaev's toric code with Z_N degrees of freedom in the presence of local perturbations. For N=2, this model reduces to the conventional toric code in a uniform magnetic field. A quantitative analysis is performed for the perturbed Z_3 toric code by applying a combination of high-order series expansions and variational techniques. We provide strong evidences for first- and second-order phase transitions between topologically-ordered and polarized phases. Most interestingly, our results also indicate the existence of topological multi-critical points in the phase diagram.

id: 1110.3677
title: Cortical phase transitions, non-equilibrium thermodynamics and the time-dependent Ginzburg-Landau equation
authors: W. J. Freeman, R. Livi, M. Obinata, G. Vitiello
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures, research paper
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3677
abstract: The formation of amplitude modulated and phase modulated assemblies of neurons is observed in the brain functional activity. The study of the formation of such structures requires that the analysis has to be organized in hierarchical levels, microscopic, mesoscopic, macroscopic, each with its characteristic space-time scales and the various forms of energy, electric, chemical, thermal produced and used by the brain. In this paper, we discuss the microscopic dynamics underlying the mesoscopic and the macroscopic levels and focus our attention on the thermodynamics of the non-equilibrium phase transitions. We obtain the time-dependent Ginzburg-Landau equation for the non-stationary regime and consider the formation of topologically non-trivial structures such as the vortex solution. The power laws observed in functional activities of the brain is also discussed and related to coherent states characterizing the many-body dissipative model of brain.

id: 1110.3708
title: From particle in a box to PT -symmetric systems via isospectral deformation
authors: Philip Cherian, Kumar Abhinav, P. K. Panigrahi
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, figures have been updated and PACS numbers have been added, text have been updated with enhanced contents and references
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3708
abstract: A family of PT -symmetric complex potentials is obtained, which is isospectral to free particle in an infinite complex box in one dimension (1-D). These are generalizations to the cosec2 (x) potential, isospectral to particle in a real infinite box. In the complex plane, the infinite box is extended parallel to the real axis having a real width, which is found to be an integral multiple of a constant quantum factor, arising due to boundary conditions necessary for maintaining the PT -symmetry of the superpartner. As the spectra of the particle in a box is still real, it necessarily picks out the unbroken PT -sector of its superpartner, thereby invoking a close relation between PT -symmetry and SUSY for this case. As expected, the broken PT -sector has no isospectrality with any real system.

id: 1110.3716
title: Topologically induced avoided band crossing in an optical chequerboard lattice
authors: Matthias ?lschl?ger, Georg Wirth, Thorge Kock, Andreas Hemmerich
comments: 4 figs, Final version to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 075302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3716
abstract: We report on the condensation of bosons in the 4th band of an optical chequerboard lattice providing a topologically induced avoided band crossing involving the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th Bloch bands. When the condensate is slowly tuned through the avoided crossing, accelerated band relaxation arises and the zero momentum approximately $C4$-invariant condensate wave function acquires finite momentum order and reduced $C2$ symmetry. For faster tuning Landau-Zener oscillations between different superfluid orders arise, which are used to characterize the avoided crossing.

id: 1110.3738
title: Exceptional Polynomials and SUSY Quantum Mechanics
authors: K. V. S. Shiv Chaitanya, S. Sree Ranjani, Prasanta K. Panigrahi, R Radhakrishnan, V. Srinivasan
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3738
abstract: We show that the existence of exceptional polynomials leads to the presence of non-trivial supersymmetry. The existence of these polynomials reveals several distinct isospectral potentials for the Schr\"odinger equation. All Schr\"odinger equations having Laguerre and Jacobi polynomials as their solutions, have non-trivial supersymmetric partners with corresponding exceptional polynomials as solutions.

id: 1110.3753
title: Quantum aether and an invariant Planck scale
authors: Saurya Das, Elias C. Vagenas
comments: 3 pages, LaTeX, no figures, to appear in EPL
journal: Europhys.Lett.96:50005,2011
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3753
abstract: We argue that a quantum aether is consistent with the principle of relativity and can provide an economical way of having an invariant quantum gravity or Planck scale. We also show that it may change the effective scale at which quantum gravity effects may be observable.

id: 1110.3770
title: New insights into the entanglement of disjoint blocks
authors: Maurizio Fagotti
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, revised version accepted for publication in EPL
journal: 2012 EPL 97 17007
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3770
abstract: We study the entanglement of two disjoint blocks in spin-1/2 chains obtained by merging solvable models, such as XX and quantum Ising models. We focus on the universal quantities that can be extracted from the R\'enyi entropies S_\alpha. The most important information is encoded in some functions denoted by F_\alpha. We compute F_2 and we show that F_\alpha-1 and F_{v.N.}, corresponding to the von Neumann entropy, can be negative, in contrast to what observed in all models examined so far. An exact relation between the entanglement of disjoint subsystems in the XX model and that in a chain embodying two quantum Ising models is a by-product of our investigations.

id: 1110.3838
title: Purity distribution for generalized random Bures mixed states
authors: Ga?tan Borot, C¨¦line Nadal
comments: 
journal: J. Phys A: Mathematical and Theoretical, 45:7, 075209 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3838
abstract: We compute the distribution of the purity for random density matrices (i.e.random mixed states) in a large quantum system, distributed according to the Bures measure. The full distribution of the purity is computed using a mapping to random matrix theory and then a Coulomb gas method. We find three regimes that correspond to two phase transitions in the associated Coulomb gas. The first transition is characterized by an explosion of the third derivative on the left of the transition point. The second transition is of first order, it is characterized by the detachement of a single charge of the Coulomb gas. A key remark in this paper is that the random Bures states are closely related to the O(n) model for n=1. This actually led us to study "generalized Bures states" by keeping $n$ general instead of specializing to n=1.

id: 1110.3932
title: Optical Activity, Hund Paradox, and Molecular Parity Violation
authors: Mohammad Bahrami, Afshin Shafiee
comments: 4 pages, 1 Figure. This paper has been withdrawn by the author
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3932
abstract: We study the problem of stability of optical activity, also known as Hund paradox, in a two-dimensional approximation of a double-well potential. We discuss how the introduction of molecular parity violation breaks the symmetry of the potential. By using a dynamical approach, we show how this effect modifies the dynamics and can stabilize the chiral states for some molecules.

id: 1110.3973
title: Modified Regge calculus as an explanation of dark energy
authors: W.M. Stuckey, T.J. McDevitt, M. Silberstein
comments: 15 pages text, 6 figures. Revised as accepted for publication in Class. Quant. Grav
journal: Classical & Quantum Gravity 29, 055015 (2012)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3973
abstract: Using Regge calculus, we construct a Regge differential equation for the time evolution of the scale factor $a(t)$ in the Einstein-de Sitter cosmology model (EdS). We propose two modifications to the Regge calculus approach: 1) we allow the graphical links on spatial hypersurfaces to be large, as in direct particle interaction when the interacting particles reside in different galaxies, and 2) we assume luminosity distance $D_L$ is related to graphical proper distance $D_p$ by the equation $D_L = (1+z)\sqrt{\overrightarrow{D_p}\cdot \overrightarrow{D_p}}$, where the inner product can differ from its usual trivial form. The modified Regge calculus model (MORC), EdS and $\Lambda$CDM are compared using the data from the Union2 Compilation, i.e., distance moduli and redshifts for type Ia supernovae. We find that a best fit line through $\displaystyle \log{(\frac{D_L}{Gpc})}$ versus $\log{z}$ gives a correlation of 0.9955 and a sum of squares error (SSE) of 1.95. By comparison, the best fit $\Lambda$CDM gives SSE = 1.79 using $H_o$ = 69.2 km/s/Mpc, $\Omega_{M}$ = 0.29 and $\Omega_{\Lambda}$ = 0.71. The best fit EdS gives SSE = 2.68 using $H_o$ = 60.9 km/s/Mpc. The best fit MORC gives SSE = 1.77 and $H_o$ = 73.9 km/s/Mpc using $R = A^{-1}$ = 8.38 Gcy and $m = 1.71\times 10^{52}$ kg, where $R$ is the current graphical proper distance between nodes, $A^{-1}$ is the scaling factor from our non-trival inner product, and $m$ is the nodal mass. Thus, MORC improves EdS as well as $\Lambda$CDM in accounting for distance moduli and redshifts for type Ia supernovae without having to invoke accelerated expansion, i.e., there is no dark energy and the universe is always decelerating.

id: 1110.4040
title: Efficient photoionization for barium ion trapping using a dipole-allowed resonant two-photon transition
authors: G. Leschhorn, T. Hasegawa, T. Schaetz
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4040
abstract: Two efficient and isotope-selective resonant two-photon ionization techniques for loading barium ions into radio-frequency (RF)-traps are demonstrated. The scheme of using a strong dipole-allowed transition at \lambda=553 nm as a first step towards ionization is compared to the established technique of using a weak intercombination line (\lambda=413 nm). An increase of two orders of magnitude in the ionization efficiency is found favoring the transition at 553 nm. This technique can be implemented using commercial all-solid-state laser systems and is expected to be advantageous compared to other narrowband photoionization schemes of barium in cases where highest efficiency and isotope-selectivity are required.

id: 1110.4097
title: Effects of Interface Disorder on Valley Splitting in SiGe/Si/SiGe Quantum Wells
authors: Zhengping Jiang, Neerav Kharche, Timothy Boykin, Gerhard Klimeck
comments: 5 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 100, 103502 (2012)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4097
abstract: A sharp potential barrier at the Si/SiGe interface introduces valley splitting (VS), which lifts the 2-fold valley degeneracy in strained SiGe/Si/SiGe quantum wells (QWs). This work examines in detail the effects of Si/SiGe interface disorder on the VS in an atomistic tight binding approach based on statistical sampling. VS is analyzed as a function of electric field, QW thickness, and simulation domain size. Strong electric fields push the electron wavefunctions into the SiGe buffer and introduce significant VS fluctuations from device to device. A Gedankenexperiment with ordered alloys sheds light on the importance of different bonding configurations on VS. We conclude that a single SiGe band offset and effective mass cannot comprehend the complex Si/SiGe interface interactions that dominate VS.

id: 1110.4143
title: SiGe/Si quantum dot electron spin decoherence dependence on $^{73}$Ge
authors: Wayne M. Witzel, Rajib Rahman, Malcolm S. Carroll
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 205312 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4143
abstract: We theoretically study the nuclear spin induced decoherence of a quantum dot in Si that is confined at a SiGe interface. We calculate decoherence time dependence on $^{73}$Ge in the barrier layer to evaluate the importance of Ge as well as Si enrichment for long decoherence times. We use atomistic tight-binding modeling for an accurate account of the electron wavefunction which is particularly important for determining the contact hyperfine interactions with the Ge nuclear spins. We find decoherence times due to Ge spins at natural concentrations to be milliseconds. This suggests SiGe/Si quantum dot devices employing enriched Si will require enriched Ge as well in order to benefit from long coherence times. We provide a comparison of $T_2$ times for various fractions of nonzero spin isotopes of Si and Ge.

id: 1110.4171
title: Pseudo-Hermitian Quantum Dynamics of Tachyonic Spin-1/2 Particles
authors: U. D. Jentschura, B. J. Wundt
comments: 17 pages; RevTeX; one-columon style
journal: J.Phys.A 45 (2012) 444017
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4171
abstract: We investigate the spinor solutions, the spectrum and the symmetry properties of a matrix-valued wave equation whose plane-wave solutions satisfy the superluminal (tachyonic) dispersion relation E^2 = p^2 - m^2, where E is the energy, p is the spatial momentum, and m is the mass of the particle. The equation reads (i gamma^mu partial_mu - gamma^5 m) psi = 0, where gamma^5 is the fifth current. The tachyonic equation is shown to be CP invariant, and T invariant. The tachyonic Hamiltonian H_5 = alpha.p + beta gamma^5 m breaks parity and is non-Hermitian but fulfills the pseudo-Hermitian property H_5(r) = P H^+_5(-r) P^{-1} = PP H^+_5(-r) PP^{-1} where P is the parity matrix and PP is the full parity transformation. The energy eigenvalues and eigenvectors describe a continuous spectrum of plane-wave solutions (which correspond to real eigenvalues for |p|>=m and evanescent waves, which constitute resonances and antiresonances with complex-conjugate pairs of resonance eigenvalues (for |p|<=m) . In view of additional algebraic properties of the Hamiltonian which supplement the pseudo-Hermiticity, the existence of a resonance energy eigenvalues E implies that E^*, -E, and -E^* also constitute resonance energies of H_5.

id: 1110.4216
title: The geometry of the quantum Zeno effect
authors: Paolo Facchi, Saverio Pascazio
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Int. J. Geom. Methods Mod. Phys. 9, 1260024 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4216
abstract: The quantum Zeno effect is described in geometric terms. The quantum Zeno time (inverse standard deviation of the Hamiltonian) and the generator of the quantum Zeno dynamics are both given a geometric interpretation.

id: 1110.4254
title: Deterministic delivery of externally cold and precisely positioned single molecular ions
authors: G. Leschhorn, S. Kahra, T. Schaetz
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4254
abstract: We present the preparation and deterministic delivery of a selectable number of externally cold molecular ions. A laser cooled ensemble of Mg^+ ions subsequently confined in several linear Paul traps inter-connected via a quadrupole guide serves as a cold bath for a single or up to a few hundred molecular ions. Sympathetic cooling embeds the molecular ions in the crystalline structure. MgH^+ ions, that serve as a model system for a large variety of other possible molecular ions, are cooled down close to the Doppler limit and are positioned with an accuracy of one micrometer. After the production process, severely compromising the vacuum conditions, the molecular ion is efficiently transfered into nearly background-free environment. The transfer of a molecular ion between different traps as well as the control of the molecular ions in the traps is demonstrated. Schemes, optimized for the transfer of a specific number of ions, are realized and their efficiencies are evaluated. This versatile source applicable for broad charge-to-mass ratios of externally cold and precisely positioned molecular ions can serve as a container-free target preparation device well suited for diffraction or spectroscopic measurements on individual molecular ions at high repetition rates (kHz).

id: 1110.4367
title: Information Networks Secured by the Laws of Physics
authors: Laszlo B. Kish, Ferdinand Peper
comments: In press. Invited survey paper for the special issue "Frontiers of Information Network Science" of IEICE Transactions on the Fundamentals of Communications, Electronics, Information & Systems (Japan)
journal: IEICE Transactions on the Fundamentals of Communications, Electronics, Information & Systems, Vol. E95-B, No.05 (May 2012) pp.1501-1507
subjects: Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4367
abstract: In this paper, we survey the state of the art of the secure key exchange method that is secured by the laws of classical statistical physics, and involves the Kirchhoff's law and the generalized Johnson noise equation, too. We discuss the major characteristics and advantages of these schemes especially in comparison with quantum encryption, and analyze some of the technical challenges of its implementation, too. Finally, we outline some ideas about how to use already existing and currently used wire lines, such as power lines, phone lines, internet lines to implement unconditionally secure information networks.

id: 1110.4417
title: Improved master equation approach to quantum transport: From Born to self-consistent Born approximation
authors: Jun Li, Jinshuang Jin, Xin-Qi Li, YiJing Yan
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 140, 244111 (2014)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4417
abstract: Beyond the second-order Born approximation, we develop an improved master equation approach to quantum transport by virtue of a self-consistent Born approximation. The basic idea is replacing the free Green's function in the tunneling self-energy by an effective reduced propagator under the Born approximation. We found that the effect of this simple improvement is remarkable, for instance, it can not only recover the exact result of noninteracting transport under arbitrary voltages, but also predict the challenging nonequilibrium Kondo effect. In addition to having an elegant structure, the application convenience and accuracy of the proposed scheme, as demonstrated by the examples in this work, may suggest it a useful tool for quantum transports.

id: 1110.4529
title: Surface acoustic wave controlled carrier injection into self-assembled quantum dots and quantum posts
authors: Hubert J. Krenner, Stefan V?lk, Florian J. R. Sch¨¹lein, Florian Knall, Achim Wixforth, Dirk Reuter, Andreas D. Wieck, Hyochul Kim, Tuan A. Truong, Pierre M. Petroff
comments: Proceedings of ISCS 2011; to appear in physics status solidi (c)
journal: physica status solidi (c) 9, 407-410 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4529
abstract: We report on recent progress in the acousto-electrical control of self-assembled quantum dot and quantum post using radio frequency surface acoustic waves (SAWs). We show that the occupancy state of these optically active nanostructures can be controlled via the SAW-induced dissociation of photogenerated excitons and the resulting sequential bipolar carrier injection which strongly favors the formation of neutral excitons for quantum posts in contrast to conventional quantum dots. We demonstrate high fidelity preparation of the neutral biexciton which makes this approach suitable for deterministic entangled photon pair generation. The SAW driven acoustic charge conveyance is found to be highly efficient within the wide quantum well surrounding the quantum posts. Finally we present the direct observation of acoustically triggered carrier injection into remotely positioned, individual quantum posts which is required for a low-jitter SAW-triggered single photon source.

id: 1110.4629
title: A proposal for a feasible quantum-optical experiment to test the validity of the No-Signaling Theorem
authors: Demetrios A. Kalamidas
comments: Accepted for publication in the 'Journal of the Optical Society of America B' (JOSA B)
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4629
abstract: Motivated by a proposal from Greenberger [Physica Scripta T76, p.57 (1998) ] for superluminal signaling, and inspired by an experiment from Zou, Wang, and Mandel [Phys. Rev. Lett. 67, p.318 (1991) ] showing interference effects within multi-particle entanglement without coincidence detection, we propose a feasible quantum-optical scheme that purports to manifest the capacity for superluminal transfer of information between distant parties

id: 1110.4630
title: Quantum Mechanics, Spacetime Locality, and Gravity
authors: Yasunori Nomura
comments: 45 pages, 3 figures, longer version of the abstract in the body of the paper; some clarifications and refinements
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4630
abstract: Quantum mechanics introduces the concept of probability at the fundamental level, yielding the measurement problem. On the other hand, recent progress in cosmology has led to the "multiverse" picture, in which our observed universe is only one of the many, bringing an apparent arbitrariness in defining probabilities, called the measure problem. In this paper, we discuss how these two problems are intimately related with each other, developing a complete picture for quantum measurement and cosmological histories in the quantum mechanical universe. On one hand, quantum mechanics eliminates the arbitrariness of defining probabilities in the multiverse, as discussed in arXiv:1104.2324. On the other hand, the multiverse allows for understanding why we observe an ordered world obeying consistent laws of physics, by providing an infinite-dimensional Hilbert space. This results in the irreversibility of quantum measurement, despite the fact that the evolution of the multiverse state is unitary. In order to describe the cosmological dynamics correctly, we need to identify the structure of the Hilbert space for a system with gravity. We argue that in order to keep spacetime locality, the Hilbert space for dynamical spacetime must be defined only in restricted spacetime regions: in and on the (stretched) apparent horizon as viewed from a fixed reference frame. This requirement arises from eliminating all the redundancies and overcountings in a general relativistic, global spacetime description of nature. It is responsible for horizon complementarity as well as the "observer dependence" of horizons/spacetime---these phenomena arise to represent changes of the reference frame in the relevant Hilbert space. This can be viewed as an extension of the Poincare transformation in the quantum gravitational context, as the Lorentz transformation is viewed as an extension of the Galilean transformation.

id: 1110.4678
title: Quantum Strategies
authors: Gordon B. Dahl, Steven E. Landsburg
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4678
abstract: We investigate the consequences of allowing players to adopt strategies which take advantage of quantum randomization devices. In games of full information, the resulting equilibria are always correlated equilibria, but not all correlated equilibria appear as quantum equilibria. The classical and quantum theories diverge further in games of private information. In the quantum context, we show that Kuhn's equivalence between behavioral and mixed strategies breaks down. As a result, quantum technology allows players to achieve outcomes that would not be achievable with any classical technology short of direct communication; in particular they do not occur as correlated equilibria. In general, in games of private information, quantum technology allows players to achieve outcomes that are Pareto superior to any classical correlated equilibrium, but not necessarily Pareto optimal. A simple economic example illustrates these points.

id: 1110.4721
title: Long-time asymptotics of the long-range Emch-Radin model
authors: Michael Kastner
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures. Compared to the published version, a 1/2 has been corrected in Eq. (9) and subsequent equations; the modifications are insubstantial and leave the main results of the article unaltered. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1103.0836
journal: Cent. Eur. J. Phys. 10, 637-644 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4721
abstract: The long-time asymptotic behavior is studied for a long-range variant of the Emch-Radin model of interacting spins. We derive upper and lower bounds on the expectation values of a class of observables. We prove analytically that the time scale at which the system relaxes to equilibrium diverges with the system size N, displaying quasistationary nonequilibrium behavior. This finding implies that, for large enough N, equilibration will not be observed in an experiment of finite duration.

id: 1110.4734
title: Nonlinear quantum interferometry with Bose condensed atoms
authors: Chaohong Lee, Jiahao Huang, Haiming Deng, Hui Dai, Jun Xu
comments: 22 pages, 10 figures, resubmitted to Frontiers of Physics. The references have been updated
journal: Front. Phys., 2012, 7(1): 109-130
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4734
abstract: In quantum interferometry, it is vital to control and utilize nonlinear interactions for achieving high-precision measurements. Attribute to their long coherent time and high controllability, ultracold atoms including Bose condensed atoms have been widely used for implementing quantum interferometry. Here, we review the recent progresses in theoretical studies of quantum interferometry with Bose condensed atoms. In particular, we focus on the nonlinear phenomena induced by the atom-atom interaction and how to control and utilize these nonlinear phenomena. Under the mean-field description, due to the atom-atom interaction, matter-wave solitons appear in the interference patterns, and macroscopic quantum self-trapping exists in the Bose-Josephson junctions. Under the many-body description, the atom-atom interaction can generate non-classical entanglement, which may be utilized to achieve high-precision measurements beyond the standard quantum limit.

id: 1110.4742
title: Spin Relaxation in Ge/Si Core-Shell Nanowire Qubits
authors: Yongjie Hu, Ferdinand Kuemmeth, Charles M. Lieber, Charles M. Marcus
comments: 
journal: Nature Nanotechnology 7, 47--50 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4742
abstract: Controlling decoherence is the most challenging task in realizing quantum information hardware. Single electron spins in gallium arsenide are a leading candidate among solid- state implementations, however strong coupling to nuclear spins in the substrate hinders this approach. To realize spin qubits in a nuclear-spin-free system, intensive studies based on group-IV semiconductor are being pursued. In this case, the challenge is primarily control of materials and interfaces, and device nanofabrication. We report important steps toward implementing spin qubits in a predominantly nuclear-spin-free system by demonstrating state preparation, pulsed gate control, and charge-sensing spin readout of confined hole spins in a one-dimensional Ge/Si nanowire. With fast gating, we measure T1 spin relaxation times in coupled quantum dots approaching 1 ms, increasing with lower magnetic field, consistent with a spin-orbit mechanism that is usually masked by hyperfine contributions.

id: 1110.4828
title: Non-isospectral Hamiltonians, intertwining operators and hidden hermiticity
authors: Fabio Bagarello
comments: in press in Phys. Lett. A
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4828
abstract: We have recently proposed a strategy to produce, starting from a given hamiltonian $h_1$ and a certain operator $x$ for which $[h_1,xx^\dagger]=0$ and $x^\dagger x$ is invertible, a second hamiltonian $h_2$ with the same eigenvalues as $h_1$ and whose eigenvectors are related to those of $h_1$ by $x^\dagger$. Here we extend this procedure to build up a second hamiltonian, whose eigenvalues are different from those of $h_1$, and whose eigenvectors are still related as before. This new procedure is also extended to crypto-hermitian hamiltonians.

id: 1110.4890
title: Laser radiation pressure slowing of a molecular beam
authors: J. F. Barry, E. S. Shuman, E. B. Norrgard, D. DeMille
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures. Supplementary material updated/
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4890
abstract: There is substantial interest in producing samples of ultracold molecules for possible applications in quantum computation, quantum simulation of condensed matter systems, precision measurements, controlled chemistry, and high precision spectroscopy. A crucial step to obtaining large samples of ultracold, trapped molecules is developing a means to bridge the gap between typical molecular source velocities (~150-600 m/s) and velocities for which trap loading or confinement is possible (~5-20 m/s). Here we show deceleration of a beam of neutral strontium monofluoride (SrF) molecules using radiative force. Under certain conditions, the deceleration results in a substantial flux of molecules with velocities <50 m/s. The observed slowing, from ~140 m/s, corresponds to scattering ~10000 photons. We also observe longitudinal velocity compression under different conditions. Combined with molecular laser cooling techniques, this lays the groundwork to create slow and cold molecular beams suitable for trap loading.

id: 1110.4935
title: Generation of mechanical squeezing via magnetic dipoles on cantilevers
authors: H. Seok, L. F. Buchmann, S. Singh, S. K. Steinke, P. Meystre
comments: 11 pages, 11 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 033822 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4935
abstract: A scheme to squeeze the center-of-mass motional quadratures of a quantum mechanical oscillator below its standard quantum limit is proposed and analyzed theoretically. It relies on the dipole-dipole coupling between a magnetic dipole mounted on the tip of a cantilever to equally oriented dipoles located on a mesoscopic tuning fork. We also investigate the influence of several sources of noise on the achievable squeezing, including classical noise in the driving fork and the clamping noise in the oscillator. A detection of the state of the cantilever based on state transfer to a light field is considered. We investigate possible limitations of that scheme.

id: 1110.4963
title: Zeno dynamics in wave-packet diffraction spreading
authors: M. A. Porras, A. Luis, I. Gonzalo, A. S. Sanz
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052109 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4963
abstract: We analyze a simple and feasible practical scheme displaying Zeno, anti-Zeno, and inverse-Zeno effects in the observation of wave-packet spreading caused by free evolution. The scheme is valid both in spatial diffraction of classical optical waves and in time diffraction of a quantum wave packet. In the optical realization, diffraction spreading is observed by placing slits between a light source and a light-power detector. We show that the occurrence of Zeno or anti-Zeno effects depends just on the frequency of observations between the source and detector. These effects are seen to be related to the diffraction mode theory in Fabry-Perot resonators.

id: 1110.4980
title: Non-Abelian Quantum Hall Effect in Topological Flat Bands
authors: Yi-Fei Wang, Hong Yao, Zheng-Cheng Gu, Chang-De Gong, D. N. Sheng
comments: 5 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 126805 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4980
abstract: Inspired by recent theoretical discovery of robust fractional topological phases without a magnetic field, we search for the non-Abelian quantum Hall effect (NA-QHE) in lattice models with topological flat bands (TFBs). Through extensive numerical studies on the Haldane model with three-body hard-core bosons loaded into a TFB, we find convincing numerical evidence of a stable $\nu=1$ bosonic NA-QHE, with the characteristic three-fold quasi-degeneracy of ground states on a torus, a quantized Chern number, and a robust spectrum gap. Moreover, the spectrum for two-quasihole states also shows a finite energy gap, with the number of states in the lower energy sector satisfying the same counting rule as the Moore-Read Pfaffian state.

id: 1110.4988
title: Pade approximation of the S-matrix as a way of locating quantum resonances and bound states
authors: S. A. Rakityansky, S. A. Sofianos, N. Elander
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 14857-14869
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.4988
abstract: It is shown that the spectral points (bound states and resonances) generated by a central potential of a single-channel problem, can be found using rational parametrization of the S-matrix. To achieve this, one only needs values of the S-matrix along the real positive energy axis. No calculations of the S-matrix at complex energies or a complex rotation are necessary. The proposed method is therefore universal in that it is applicable to any potential (local, non-local, discontinuous, etc.) provided that there is a way of obtaining the S-matrix (or scattering phase-shifts) at real collision energies. Besides this, combined with any method that extracts the phase-shifts from the scattering data, the proposed rational parametrization technique would be able to do the spectral analysis using the experimental data.

id: 1110.5033
title: Exactly Solvable Fermion Chain Describing a $¦Í=1/3$ Fractional Quantum Hall State
authors: Masaaki Nakamura, Zheng-Yuan Wang, Emil J. Bergholtz
comments: 5 pages. 3 figures, the final version, a related paper arXiv:1206.3071
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 016401 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5033
abstract: We introduce an exactly solvable fermion chain that describes a $\nu=1/3$ fractional quantum Hall (FQH) state beyond the thin-torus limit. The ground state of our model is shown to be unique for each center of mass sector, and it has a matrix product representation that enables us to exactly calculate order parameters, correlation functions, and entanglement spectra. The ground state of our model shows striking similarities with the BCS wave functions and quantum spin-1 chains. Using the variational method with matrix product ansatz, we analytically calculate excitation gaps and vanishing of the compressibility expected in the FQH state. We also show that the above results can be related to a $\nu=1/2$ bosonic FQH state.

id: 1110.5074
title: Using interference for high fidelity quantum state transfer in optomechanics
authors: Ying-Dan Wang, Aashish A. Clerk
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 153603 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5074
abstract: We revisit the problem of using a mechanical resonator to perform the transfer of a quantum state between two electromagnetic cavities (e.g. optical and microwave). We show that this system possesses an effective mechanical dark state which is immune to mechanical dissipation; utilizing this feature allows highly efficient transfer of intra-cavity states, as well as of itinerant photon states. We provide simple analytic expressions for the fidelity of transferring both Gaussian and non-Gaussian states.

id: 1110.5100
title: On the corrections beyond proximity force approximation (PFA)
authors: L. P. Teo, M. Bordag, V. Nikolaev
comments: 9 pages. Some changes in the conclusion
journal: Phys. Rev. D. 84 (2011), 125037
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5100
abstract: We recalculate the first analytic correction beyond PFA for a sphere in front of a plane for a scalar field and for the electromagnetic field. We use the method of Bordag and Nikolaev [J.Phys.A, {\bf 41} (2008) p.164002]. We confirm their result for Dirichlet boundary conditions whereas we find a different one for Robin, Neumann and conductor boundary conditions. The difference can be traced back to a sign error. As a result, the corrections depend on the Robin parameter. Agreement is found with a very recent method of derivative expansion.

id: 1110.5136
title: "Stringy" Coherent States Inspired By Generalized Uncertainty Principle
authors: Subir Ghosh, Pinaki Roy
comments: Substantial changes with exact and corrected equations given, no change in basic conclusions, one figure to be supplied on request, to appear in Phys.Lett.B
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5136
abstract: In this Letter we have explicitly constructed Generalized Coherent States for the Non-Commutative Harmonic Oscillator that directly satisfy the Generalized Uncertainty Principle (GUP). Our results have a smooth commutative limit. The states show fractional revival which provides an independent bound on the GUP parameter. Using this and similar bounds we derive the largest possible value of the (GUP induced) minimum length scale. Mandel parameter analysis shows that the statistics is Sub-Poissionian.

id: 1110.5192
title: Optimized Bose-Einstein-condensate production in a dipole trap based on a 1070-nm multifrequency laser: Influence of enhanced two-body loss on the evaporation process
authors: Thomas Lauber, Johannes Kueber, Oliver Wille, Gerhard Birkl
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 043641 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5192
abstract: We present an optimized strategy for the production of tightly confined Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC) of 87Rb in a crossed dipole trap with direct loading from a magneto-optical trap. The dipole trap is created with light of a multifrequency fiber laser with a center wavelength of 1070nm. Evaporative cooling is performed by ramping down the laser power only. A comparison of the resulting atom number in an almost pure BEC to the initial atom number and the value for the gain in phase space density per atom lost confirm that this straightforward strategy is very efficient. We observe that the temporal characteristics of evaporation sequence are strongly influenced by power-dependent two-body losses resulting from enhanced optical pumping to the higher-energy hyperfine state. We characterize these losses and compare them to results obtained with a single-frequency laser at 1030nm.

id: 1110.5235
title: Can dephasing generate non-local spin correlations?
authors: Colin Benjamin
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0808.3638
journal: Euro Phys. Lett. 96, 67001 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5235
abstract: By examining the full counting statistics of a non adiabatic pure spin pump with particular emphasis on the second and third moments, it is shown that incoherent or sequential transport, in contrast to coherent transport, can change non-local spin shot noise cross-correlations from being anti-correlated to being completely correlated, a truly counterintuitive result. The third moment on the other hand is shown to be much more resilient and its nature remains unaltered in incoherent transport regime. However, phenomenologically including dephasing modifies this picture as both Shot noise and more so the third moment are non-trivially affected. In fact non-local spin correlations are completely positive for maximal dephasing.

id: 1110.5245
title: Particle injection into a chain: decoherence versus relaxation for Hermitian and non-Hermitian dynamics
authors: F. Gebhard, K. zu Muenster, J. Ren, N. Sedlmayr, J. Sirker, B. Ziebarth
comments: 22 pages, 16 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. (Berlin) 524, 286 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5245
abstract: We investigate a model system for the injection of fermionic particles from filled source sites into an empty chain. We study the ensuing dynamics for Hermitian as well as for non-Hermitian time evolution where the particles cannot return to the bath sites (quantum ratchet). A non-homogeneous hybridization between bath and chain sites permits transient currents in the chain. Non-interacting particles show decoherence in the thermodynamic limit: the average particle number and the average current density in the chain become stationary for long times, whereas the single-particle density matrix displays large fluctuations around its mean value. Using the numerical time-dependent density-matrix renormalization group ($t$-DMRG) method we demonstrate, on the other hand, that sizable density-density interactions between the particles introduce relaxation which is by orders of magnitudes faster than the decoherence processes.

id: 1110.5247
title: Quantum unsharpness and symplectic rigidity
authors: Leonid Polterovich
comments: 26 pages, more preliminaries added, changes in the exposition
journal: 
subjects: Symplectic Geometry (math.SG); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5247
abstract: We discuss a link between "hard" symplectic topology and an unsharpness principle for generalized quantum observables (positive operator valued measures). The link is provided by the Berezin-Toeplitz quantization.

id: 1110.5314
title: Experimental realization of strong effective magnetic fields in an optical lattice
authors: Monika Aidelsburger, Marcos Atala, Sylvain Nascimb¨¨ne, Stefan Trotzky, Yu-Ao Chen, Immanuel Bloch
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 255301 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5314
abstract: We use Raman-assisted tunneling in an optical superlattice to generate large tunable effective magnetic fields for ultracold atoms. When hopping in the lattice, the accumulated phase shift by an atom is equivalent to the Aharonov-Bohm phase of a charged particle exposed to a staggered magnetic field of large magnitude, on the order of one flux quantum per plaquette. We study the ground state of this system and observe that the frustration induced by the magnetic field can lead to a degenerate ground state for non-interacting particles. We provide a measurement of the local phase acquired from Raman-induced tunneling, demonstrating time-reversal symmetry breaking of the underlying Hamiltonian. Furthermore, the quantum cyclotron orbit of single atoms in the lattice exposed to the magnetic field is directly revealed.

id: 1110.5320
title: Topological Superfluid in P-band Optical Lattice
authors: Ya-Jie Wu, Jing He, Chun-Li Zang, Su-Peng Kou
comments: 4.2 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5320
abstract: In this paper by studying p-band fermionic system with nearest neighbor attractive interaction we find translation symmetry protected Z2 topological superfluid (TSF) that is characterized by a special fermion parity pattern at high symmetry points in momentum space k=(0,0), (0,pi), (pi,0), (pi,pi). Such Z2 TSF supports the robust Majorana edge modes and a new type of low energy excitation - (supersymmetric) Z2 link-excitation. In the end we address a possible realization of such interacting p-band fermions with Z2 TSF.

id: 1110.5330
title: d-Wave Superfluidity in Optical Lattices of Ultracold Polar Molecules
authors: Kevin A. Kuns, Ana Maria Rey, Alexey V. Gorshkov
comments: 22 pages, 12 figures; v2: revised discussions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 063639 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5330
abstract: Recent work on ultracold polar molecules, governed by a generalization of the t-J Hamiltonian, suggests that molecules may be better suited than atoms for studying d-wave superfluidity due to stronger interactions and larger tunability of the system. We compute the phase diagram for polar molecules in a checkerboard lattice consisting of weakly coupled square plaquettes. In the simplest experimentally realizable case where there is only tunneling and an XX-type spin-spin interaction, we identify the parameter regime where d-wave superfluidity occurs. We also find that the inclusion of a density-density interaction destroys the superfluid phase and that the inclusion of a spin-density or an Ising-type spin-spin interaction can enhance the superfluid phase. We also propose schemes for experimentally realizing the perturbative calculations exhibiting enhanced d-wave superfluidity.

id: 1110.5350
title: A Quantum-like Approach to the Stock Market
authors: Diederik Aerts, Bart D'Hooghe, Sandro Sozzo
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: In M. D'Ariano, S.-M. Fei, E. Haven, B. Hiesmayr, G. Jaeger, A. Khrennikov, J.-A. Larsson (Eds.), Foundations of Probability and Physics - 6, AIP Conference Proceedings, 1424, pp. 495-506, 2012
subjects: General Finance (q-fin.GN); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5350
abstract: Modern approaches to stock pricing in quantitative finance are typically founded on the 'Black-Scholes model' and the underlying 'random walk hypothesis'. Empirical data indicate that this hypothesis works well in stable situations but, in abrupt transitions such as during an economical crisis, the random walk model fails and alternative descriptions are needed. For this reason, several proposals have been recently forwarded which are based on the formalism of quantum mechanics. In this paper we apply the 'SCoP formalism', elaborated to provide an operational foundation of quantum mechanics, to the stock market. We argue that a stock market is an intrinsically contextual system where agents' decisions globally influence the market system and stocks prices, determining a nonclassical behavior. More specifically, we maintain that a given stock does not generally have a definite value, e.g., a price, but its value is actualized as a consequence of the contextual interactions in the trading process. This contextual influence is responsible of the non-Kolmogorovian quantum-like behavior of the market at a statistical level. Then, we propose a 'sphere model' within our 'hidden measurement formalism' that describes a buying/selling process of a stock and shows that it is intuitively reasonable to assume that the stock has not a definite price until it is traded. This result is relevant in our opinion since it provides a theoretical support to the use of quantum models in finance.

id: 1110.5351
title: Dynamically configurable and optimizable Zeeman slower using permanent magnets and servomotors
authors: G. Reinaudi, C. B. Osborn, K. Bega, T. Zelevinsky
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures; accepted to JOSA B
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5351
abstract: We report on the implementation of a dynamically configurable, servomotor- controlled, permanent magnet Zeeman slower for quantum optics experiments with ultracold atoms and molecules. This atom slower allows for switching between magnetic field profiles that are designed for different atomic species. Additionally, through feedback on the atom trapping rate, we demonstrate that computer-controlled genetic optimization algorithms applied to the magnet positions can be used in situ to obtain field profiles that maximize the trapping rate for any given experimental conditions. The device is lightweight, remotely controlled, and consumes no power in steady state; it is a step toward automated control of quantum optics experiments.

id: 1110.5570
title: Background-free detection of trapped ions
authors: N. M. Linke, D. T. C. Allcock, D. J. Szwer, C. J. Ballance, T. P. Harty, H. A. Janacek, D. N. Stacey, A. M. Steane, D. M. Lucas
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5570
abstract: We demonstrate a Doppler cooling and detection scheme for ions with low-lying D levels which almost entirely suppresses scattered laser light background, while retaining a high fluorescence signal and efficient cooling. We cool a single ion with a laser on the 2S1/2 to 2P1/2 transition as usual, but repump via the 2P3/2 level. By filtering out light on the cooling transition and detecting only the fluorescence from the 2P_3/2 to 2S1/2 decays, we suppress the scattered laser light background count rate to 1 per second while maintaining a signal of 29000 per second with moderate saturation of the cooling transition. This scheme will be particularly useful for experiments where ions are trapped in close proximity to surfaces, such as the trap electrodes in microfabricated ion traps, which leads to high background scatter from the cooling beam.

id: 1110.5631
title: Effective relational dynamics
authors: Philipp A. Hoehn
comments: 4 pages, based on a talk given at Loops '11 in Madrid, to appear in Journal of Physics: Conference Series (JPCS)
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5631
abstract: We provide a synopsis of an effective approach to the problem of time in the semiclassical regime. The essential features of this new approach to evaluating relational quantum dynamics in constrained systems are illustrated by means of a simple toy model.

id: 1110.5633
title: Scattering lengths of calcium and barium isotopes
authors: U. Dammalapati, L. Willmann, S. Knoop
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 054703 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5633
abstract: We have calculated the s-wave scattering length of all the even isotopes of calcium (Ca) and barium (Ba), in order to investigate the prospect of Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC). For Ca we have used an accurate molecular potential based on detailed spectroscopic data. Our calculations show that Ca does not provide other isotopes alternative to the recently Bose condensed 40Ca that suffers strong losses because of a very large scattering length. For Ba we show by using a model potential that the even isotopes cover a broad range of scattering lengths, opening the possibility of BEC for at least one of the isotopes.

id: 1110.5713
title: Entanglement Entropy of Quantum Wire Junctions
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, Mihail Mintchev, Ettore Vicari
comments: LaTex, 1+23 pages, 5 figures, typos corrected, analytic derivation of the integer Renyi entaglement entropies added in section 3, references added, final version to appear in J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 105206
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5713
abstract: We consider a fermion gas on a star graph modeling a quantum wire junction and derive the entanglement entropy of one edge with respect to the rest of the junction. The gas is free in the bulk of the graph, the interaction being localized in its vertex and described by a non-trivial scattering matrix. We discuss all point-like interactions, which lead to unitary time evolution of the system. We show that for a finite number of particles N, the Renyi entanglement entropies of one edge grow as ln N with a calculable prefactor, which depends not only on the central charge, but also on the total transmission probability from the considered edge to the rest of the graph. This result is extended to the case with an harmonic potential in the bulk.

id: 1110.5742
title: Losses in Monolayer Graphene Nanoresonators due to Joule Dissipation Caused by Synthetic Electric Fields and the ways of Joule Losses Minimizations
authors: Natalie E. Firsova, Yuri A. Firsov
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5742
abstract: We consider losses in monolayer graphene nanoresonator connected with Joule dissipation (heating) caused by valley currents stipulated by synthetic electric fields . These synthetic electric fields arise in graphene membrane due to periodic in time gauge fields generated there by external periodic electromotive force. This mechanism accounts for essential part (about 40 percents) of losses in graphene nanoresonator and is specific just for graphene. The ways of the minimization of these Joule dissipation (increase of the quality-factor of the electromechanical system) are discussed. It is explained why one can increase quality-factor by correctly chosen combination of strains (by strain engineering). Besides it is shown that quality-factor can be increased by switching on a magnetic field perpendicular to graphene membrane.

id: 1110.5854
title: Efimov three-body states on top of a Fermi sea
authors: Nicolai Gayle Nygaard, Nikolaj Thomas Zinner
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures, 2 appendices, revised and updated version, in press
journal: New J. Phys. 16 (2014) 023026
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5854
abstract: The stabilization of Cooper pairs of bound electrons in the background of a Fermi sea is the origin of superconductivity and the paradigmatic example of the striking influence of many-body physics on few-body properties. In the quantum-mechanical three-body problem the famous Efimov effect yields unexpected scaling relations among a tower of universal states. These seemingly unrelated problems can now be studied in the same setup thanks to the success of ultracold atomic gas experiments. In light of the tremendous effect of a background Fermi sea on two-body properties, a natural question is whether a background can modify or even destroy the Efimov effect. Here we demonstrate how the generic problem of three interacting particles changes when one particle is embedded in a background Fermi sea, and show that Efimov scaling persists. It is found in a scaling that relates the three-body physics to the background density of fermionic particles.

id: 1110.5923
title: Non-exponential decay in quantum field theory and in quantum mechanics: the case of two (or more) decay channels
authors: Francesco Giacosa
comments: 32 pages, 10 figures. To appear in "Foundations of Physics"
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5923
abstract: We study the deviations from the exponential decay law, both in quantum field theory (QFT) and quantum mechanics (QM), for an unstable particle which can decay in (at least) two decay channels. After a review of general properties of non-exponential decay in QFT and QM, we evaluate in both cases the decay probability that the unstable particle decays in a given channel in the time interval between $t$ and $t+dt.$ An important quantity is the ratio of the probability of decay into the first and the second channel: this ratio is constant in the Breit-Wigner limit (in which the decay law is exponential) and equals the quantity $\Gamma_{1}/\Gamma_{2}$, where $\Gamma_{1}$ and $\Gamma_{2}$ are the respective tree-level decay widths. However, in the full treatment (both for QFT and QM) it is an oscillating function around the mean value $\Gamma_{1}/\Gamma_{2}$ and the deviations from this mean value can be sizable. Technically, we study the decay properties in QFT in the context of a superrenormalizable Lagrangian with scalar particles and in QM in the context of Lee Hamiltonians, which deliver formally analogous expressions to the QFT case.

id: 1110.6048
title: Quantum effects in spontaneous emission by a relativistic, undulating electron beam
authors: G. R. M. Robb, R. Bonifacio
comments: This is an author-created, un-copyedited version of an article accepted for publication in EPL. IOP Publishing Ltd is not responsible for any errors or omissions in this version of the manuscript or any version derived from it. The definitive publisher-authenticated version is available online at doi:10.1209/0295-5075/94/34002
journal: EPL vol.94 34002 (2011)
subjects: Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6048
abstract: Current models of the effect of spontaneous emission on the electron beam dynamics neglect the discreteness of electron recoil associated with photon emission. We present a novel, one-dimensional model of the effect of spontaneous emission on the electron beam dynamics in an undulator both in the classical regime where discrete electron recoil is negligible, and the quantum regime where it is significant. It is shown that in the classical regime, continuous decrease of the average electron energy and diffusive growth of the electron energy spread occurs, in agreement with previous classical models. In the quantum regime, it is shown that the evolution of the electron momentum distribution occurs as discrete momentum groups according to a Poisson distribution. The narrow momentum features of the quantum regime may be useful for generation of coherent radiation, which relies on electron beams having sufficiently narrow momentum/energy distributions.

id: 1110.6115
title: Photon propagation in a discrete fiber network: An interplay of coherence and losses
authors: Alois Regensburger, Christoph Bersch, Benjamin Hinrichs, Georgy Onishchukov, Andreas Schreiber, Christine Silberhorn, Ulf Peschel
comments: To appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 233902 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6115
abstract: We study light propagation in a photonic system that shows stepwise evolution in a discretized environment. It resembles a discrete-time version of photonic waveguide arrays or quantum walks. By introducing controlled photon losses to our experimental setup, we observe unexpected effects like sub-exponential energy decay and formation of complex fractal patterns. This demonstrates that the interplay of linear losses, discreteness and energy gradients leads to genuinely new coherent phenomena in classical and quantum optical experiments. Moreover, the influence of decoherence is investigated.

id: 1110.6129
title: Quantum Entanglement Phase Transition in Werner State
authors: Yuri Campbell, Jos¨¦ Roberto Castilho Piqueira
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6129
abstract: An extension to computational mechanics complexity measure is proposed in order to tackle quantum states complexity quantification. The method is applicable to any $n-$partite state of qudits through some simple modifications. A Werner state was considered to test this approach. The results show that it undergoes a phase transition between entangled and separable versions of itself. Also, results suggest interplay between quantum state complexity robustness rise and entanglement. Finally, only via symbolic dynamics statistical analysis, the proposed method was able to distinguish separable and entangled dynamical structural differences.

id: 1110.6237
title: Quantum Game Theory
authors: Steven E. Landsburg
comments: 
journal: Wiley Encyclopedia of Operations Research and Management Science, 2011
subjects: Optimization and Control (math.OC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6237
abstract: Quantum game theory is the study of strategic behavior by agents with access to quantum technology. Broadly speaking, this technology can be employed in either of two ways: As part of a randomization device or as part of a communications protocol. We survey some of the main ideas from both branches of the subject.

id: 1110.6276
title: Entanglement entropies in free fermion gases for arbitrary dimension
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, Mihail Mintchev, Ettore Vicari
comments: 6 pages, 9 figs
journal: Europhys. Lett. 97 (2012) 20009
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6276
abstract: We study the entanglement entropy of connected bipartitions in free fermion gases of N particles in arbitrary dimension d. We show that the von Neumann and Renyi entanglement entropies grow asymptotically as N^(1-1/d) ln N, with a prefactor that is analytically computed using the Widom conjecture both for periodic and open boundary conditions. The logarithmic correction to the power-law behavior is related to the area-law violation in lattice free fermions. These asymptotic large-N behaviors are checked against exact numerical calculations for N-particle systems.

id: 1110.6311
title: Macroscopic quantum tunneling in quartic and sextic potentials: application to a phase qubit
authors: Nicolas Didier, Frank W. J. Hekking
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 104522 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6311
abstract: Macroscopic quantum tunneling of the phase is a fundamental phenomenon in the quantum dynamics of superconducting nanocircuits. The tunneling rate can be controlled in such circuits, where the potential landscape for the phase can be tuned with different external bias parameters. Precise theoretical knowledge of the macroscopic quantum tunneling rate is required in order to simulate and understand the experiments. We present a derivation, based on the instanton technique, of an analytical expression of the escape rate in general quartic and symmetric sextic potentials comprising two escape paths. These new potentials were recently realized when creating a noise-insensitive phase qubit in the camel-back potential of a dc SQUID.

id: 1110.6433
title: Quantum statistical mechanics in infinitely extended systems ($C^*$ algebraic approach)
authors: Shuichi Tasaki, Shigeru Ajisaka, Felipe Barra
comments: 64pages
journal: Bussei Kenkyu, 97, No. 3 (2011), 483
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6433
abstract: The derivation of macroscopic irreversible dynamics of nonequilibrium systems from microscopic equations was recently revisited from the point of view of infinitely extended quantum systems. Here we have briefly reviewed the $C^*$ algebra and its application to equilibrium systems as well as introduced some recent results on NESS. In addition, we have demonstrated the derivation of Landauer formula rigorously for quadratic systems but using a more physical presentation.

id: 1110.6475
title: Para-Krawtchouk polynomials on a bi-lattice and a quantum spin chain with perfect state transfer
authors: Luc Vinet, Alexei Zhedanov
comments: 11 pages
journal: J.Phys. A, v. 45 (2012) 265304
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6475
abstract: Analogs of Krawtchouk polynomials defined on a bi-lattice are introduced. They are shown to provide a (novel) spin chain with perfect transfer. Their characterization is given as well as their connection to the quadratic Hahn algebra

id: 1110.6477
title: Dual -1 Hahn polynomials and perfect state transfer
authors: Luc Vinet, Alexei Zhedanov
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6477
abstract: We find all the $XX$ spin chains with perfect state transfer (PST) that are connected with the dual -1 Hahn polynomials $R_n(x; \alpha,\beta,N)$. For $N$ odd we recover a model that had already been identified while for $N$ even, we obtain a new system exhibiting PST.

id: 1110.6554
title: How Quantum Theory Helps us Explain
authors: Richard Healey
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6554
abstract: I offer an account of how the quantum theory we have helps us explain so much. The account depends on a pragmatist interpretation of the theory: This takes a quantum state to serve solely as a source of sound advice to physically situated agents on the content and appropriate degree of belief about matters concerning which they are currently inevitably ignorant. The general account of how to use quantum states and probabilities to explain otherwise puzzling regularities is then illustrated by showing how we can explain single particle interference phenomena, the stability of matter, and interference of Bose-Einstein condensates. Finally I note some open problems and relate this account to alternative approaches to explanation that emphasize the importance of causation, of unification, and of structure.

id: 1110.6566
title: Quantum Schwarzschild space-time
authors: Pawe? Duch, Ryszard Pawe? Kostecki
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure. Submitted to Commun. Math. Phys
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6566
abstract: Using new approach to construction of space-times emerging from quantum information theory, we identify the space of quantum states that generates the Schwarzschild space-time. No quantisation procedure is used. The emergent space-time is obtained by the Poincar\'{e}-Wick rotation and Fronsdal embedding of certain submanifold of the riemanian manifold of six-dimensional strictly positive matrices with the Bogolyubov-Kubo-Mori metric.

id: 1110.6607
title: Symmetry, Self-Duality and the Jordan Structure of Quantum Mechanics
authors: Alexander Wilce
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6607
abstract: I explore several related routes to deriving the Jordan-algebraic structure of finite-dimensional quantum theory from more transparent operational or physical principles, mainly involving ideas about the symmetries of, and the correlations between, probabilistic models. The key tool is the Koecher-Vinberg Theorem, which identifies formally real Jordan algebras with finite-dimensional order-unit spaces having homogeneous, self-dual cones.

id: 1110.6712
title: On a Differential Geometric Viewpoint of Jaynes' Maxent Method and its Quantum Extension
authors: S. A. Ali, Carlo Cafaro, Adom Giffin, Cosmo Lupo, Stefano Mancini
comments: 6 pages and 0 figures. Accepted contribution to MaxEnt 2011, the 31st International Workshop on Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods in Science and Engineering; 10-15 July, Waterloo (CANADA)
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1443, 120 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6712
abstract: We present a differential geometric viewpoint of the quantum MaxEnt estimate of a density operator when only incomplete knowledge encoded in the expectation values of a set of quantum observables is available. Finally, the additional possibility of considering some prior bias towards a certain density operator (the prior) is taken into account and the unsolved issues with its quantum relative entropic inference criterion are pointed out.

id: 1110.6713
title: On Grover's Search Algorithm from a Quantum Information Geometry Viewpoint
authors: Carlo Cafaro, Stefano Mancini
comments: 18 pages and 0 figures. To appear in Physica A
journal: Physica A391, 1610 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6713
abstract: We present an information geometric characterization of Grover's quantum search algorithm. First, we quantify the notion of quantum distinguishability between parametric density operators by means of the Wigner-Yanase quantum information metric. We then show that the quantum searching problem can be recast in an information geometric framework where Grover's dynamics is characterized by a geodesic on the manifold of the parametric density operators of pure quantum states constructed from the continuous approximation of the parametric quantum output state in Grover's algorithm. We also discuss possible deviations from Grover's algorithm within this quantum information geometric setting.

id: 1110.6714
title: Softening the Complexity of Entropic Motion on Curved Statistical Manifolds
authors: Carlo Cafaro, Adom Giffin, Cosmo Lupo, Stefano Mancini
comments: 17 pages and 0 figures. To appear in Open Systems & Information Dynamics
journal: Open Systems & Information Dynamics, Volume 19, Issue 1, 1250001 (24 pages) (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6714
abstract: We study the information geometry and the entropic dynamics of a 3D Gaussian statistical model. We then compare our analysis to that of a 2D Gaussian statistical model obtained from the higher-dimensional model via introduction of an additional information constraint that resembles the quantum mechanical canonical minimum uncertainty relation. We show that the chaoticity (temporal complexity) of the 2D Gaussian statistical model, quantified by means of the Information Geometric Entropy (IGE) and the Jacobi vector field intensity, is softened with respect to the chaoticity of the 3D Gaussian statistical model.

id: 1110.6747
title: Tamm floating electron in nanodiamond
authors: Ivan A. Denisov, Peter I. Belobrov
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures, conference Nano and Giga Challenges, Moscow - Zelenograd, Russia, September 12-16, 2011. this http URL
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6747
abstract: Nanodiamond exhibits unpaired electrons in magnetization, EPR, NMR and Auger relaxation. Wave functions and eigenenergies of a bound electron in a nanodiamond crystal have been calculated. It has been proved by using quantum mechanical analysis that unpaired electrons are self-condition of a nanodiamond as a limited crystal according to Tamm theory of surface states. The surface electron floating over a nanodiamond gives paramagnetic response and stabilizes the nanoparticle at small range of size. Possibly the spin of the floating electron can be used for floating point calculation in future quantum computers on the base of nanodiamond qubits.

id: 1110.6752
title: Exactly solvable pairing models inspired by high-T_c superconductivity
authors: Lian-Ao Wu
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6752
abstract: The BCS theory models electron correlations with pure zero-momentum pairs. I consider a family of pairing Hamiltonians, where the electron correlations are modelled with pure arbitrary-momentum pairs. I present exact solutions to this family. The BCS pairing, the \eta pairing and the d -wave pairing in T_c superconductivity are the family members. These models, expect for the BCS model, are legitimate only on an xy plane defined by the electron spin S_z, compatible with the two dimensionality of high temperature superconductivity. Surprisingly, all parings are on equal footing in the xy plane, suggesting a unification of the s-wave and d-wave theoretical mechanisms in high T_c superconductivity. I also give the extension that includes all members of this family.

id: 1110.6777
title: Light scattering under nanofocusing: Towards coherent nanoscopies
authors: Ahmad Mohammadi, Mario Agio
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Opt. Commun. 285, 3383 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6777
abstract: We investigate light scattering under nanofocusing in the context of coherent spectroscopy. We discuss the different mechanisms that may enhance the signal in extinction and how these depend on nanofocusing as well as on the probed system. We find that nanofocusing may improve the detection sensitivity by orders of magnitude under realistic conditions, enabling scanning implementations of coherent spectroscopy at the nanoscale.

id: 1110.6902
title: Multiscale Simulation of Quantum Nanosystems: Plasmonics of Silver Particles
authors: D. Balamurugan, Peter. J. Ortoleva
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6902
abstract: Quantum nanosystems involve the coupled dynamics of fermions or bosons across multiple scales in space and time. Examples include quantum dots, superconducting or magnetic nanoparticles, molecular wires, and graphene nanoribbons. The number (10^3 to 10^9) of electrons in assemblies of interest here presents a challenge for traditional quantum computations. However, results from deductive multiscale analysis yield coarse-grained wave equation that capture the longer-scale quantum dynamics of these systems; a companion short-scale equation is also developed that allows for the construction of effective masses and interactions involved in the coarse-grained wave equation. The theory suggest an efficient algorithm for simulating quantum nanosystem which is implemented here. A variational Monte Carlo method is used to simulate the co-evolution of long- and short-scale processes. The approach does not require experimental data for calibration. It is validated via experimental data and TDDFT predictions on the nanoparticle size dependence of the plasmon spectrum.

id: 1110.6120
title: Edge states and topological phases in one-dimensional optical superlattices
authors: Li-Jun Lang, Xiaoming Cai, Shu Chen
comments: 4.3 pages, 5 figures, version accepted by Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phy.Rev.Lett. 108, 220401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.6120
abstract: We show that one-dimensional quasi-periodic optical lattice systems can exhibit edge states and topological phases which are generally believed to appear in two-dimensional systems. When the Fermi energy lies in gaps, the Fermi system on the optical superlattice is a topological insulator characterized by a nonzero topological invariant. The topological nature can be revealed by observing the density profile of a trapped fermion system, which displays plateaus with their positions uniquely determined by the ration of wavelengths of the bichromatic optical lattice. The butterfly-like spectrum of the superlattice system can be also determined from the finite-temperature density profiles of the trapped fermion system. This finding opens an alternative avenue to study the topological phases and Hofstadter-like spectrum in one-dimensional optical lattices.

id: 1110.5855
title: A Transfer Matrix Method for Resonances in Randall-Sundrum Models II: The Deformed Case
authors: R. R. Landim, G. Alencar, M. O. Tahim, R.N. Costa Filho
comments: 29 pages, 19 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.5855
abstract: Here we consider resonances of the Gauge, Gravity and Spinor fields in Randall-Sundrum-like scenarios. We consider membranes that are generated by a class of topological defects that are deformed domain walls obtained from other previously known ones. They are obtained by a deformation procedure generate different potentials to the associated Schr\"odinger-like equation. The resonance spectra are calculated numerically using the method of Transfer Matrix developed by the authors and presented in JHEP 1108 (2011) 071. The new deformed defects change the resonances spectra of all fields considered and the associated phenomenology as well.

id: 1110.2397
title: The ground state energy per site of the quantum and classical Edwards-Anderson spin-glass model in the thermodynamic limit
authors: Walter F. Wreszinski
comments: 9 pages, to appear in J. Stat. Phys.. There are various conceptual clarifications with respect to previous version, additional references, corrections of typos
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2397
abstract: We derive rigorous lower bounds for the average ground-state energy per site $e^{(d)}$ of the quantum and classical Edwards-Anderson spin-glass model in dimensions $d = 2$ and $d = 3$ in the thermodynamic limit. For the classical model they imply that $e^{(2)} \ge -3/2$ and $e^{(3)} \ge -2.204...$.

id: 1110.3958
title: Rationally-extended radial oscillators and Laguerre exceptional orthogonal polynomials in kth-order SUSYQM
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 15 pages, no figure; published version
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A 26 (2011) 5337-5347
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3958
abstract: A previous study of exactly solvable rationally-extended radial oscillator potentials and corresponding Laguerre exceptional orthogonal polynomials carried out in second-order supersymmetric quantum mechanics is extended to $k$th-order one. The polynomial appearing in the potential denominator and its degree are determined. The first-order differential relations allowing one to obtain the associated exceptional orthogonal polynomials from those arising in a ($k-1$)th-order analysis are established. Some nontrivial identities connecting products of Laguerre polynomials are derived from shape invariance.

id: 1110.2679
title: Hubbard-I approach to the Mott transition
authors: Przemyslaw R. Grzybowski, Ravindra W. Chhajlany
comments: This is the version submitted to Physica Status Solidi B. The final published version, taking into account Referee comments, is available exclusively from the publisher's website
journal: Phys. Stat. Sol. B, Volume 249, Issue 11, 2231 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.2679
abstract: We expose the relevance of double occupancy conservation symmetry in application of the Hubbard-I approach to strongly correlated electron systems. We propose the utility of a composite method, viz. the Hubbard-I method in conjunction with strong coupling perturbation expansion, for studying systems violating the afore--mentioned symmetry. We support this novel approach by presenting a first successful Hubbard-I type calculation for the description of the metal-insulator Mott transition in a strongly correlated electron system with conserved double occupancies, which is a constrained Hubbard Hamiltonian equivalent to the Hubbard bond charge Hamiltonian with $X=t$. In particular, we obtain the phase diagram of this system for arbitrary fillings, including details of the Mott transition at half-filling. We also compare the Hubbard-I band--splitting Mott transition description with results obtained using the standard Gutzwiller Approximation (GA), and show that the two approximate approaches lead to qualitatively different results. In contrast to the GA applied to the system studied here, the Hubbard-I approach compares favourably with known exact results for the $d=1$ dimensional chain.

id: 1110.1183
title: Time-reversal symmetry breaking superconducting ground state in the doped Mott insulator on the honeycomb lattice
authors: Zheng-Cheng Gu, Hong-Chen Jiang, D. N. Sheng, Hong Yao, Leon Balents, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 7 pages, 9 figures (published version)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 155112 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1183
abstract: The emergence of superconductivity in doped Mott insulators has been debated for decades. In this paper, we report the theoretical discovery of a time-reversal symmetry breaking superconducting ground state in the doped Mott insulator (described by the well known t-J model) on honeycomb lattice, based on a recently developed variational method: the Grassmann tensor product state approach. As a benchmark, we use exact diagonalization and density-matrix renormalization methods to check our results on small clusters. We find systematic consistency for the ground-state energy as well as other physical quantities, such as the staggered magnetization. At low doping, the superconductivity coexists with antiferromagnetic ordering.

