id: 1111.0035
title: Fast transitionless expansions of cold atoms in optical Gaussian beam traps
authors: E. Torrontegui, Xi Chen, M. Modugno, A. Ruschhaupt, D. Gu¨¦ry-Odelin, J. G. Muga
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 85, 033605 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0035
abstract: We study fast expansions of cold atoms in a three-dimensional Gaussian-beam optical trap. Three different methods to avoid final motional excitation are compared: inverse engineering using Lewis-Riesenfeld invariants, which provides the best overall performance, a bang-bang approach, and a fast adiabatic approach. We analyze the excitation effect of anharmonic terms, radial-longitudinal coupling, and radial-frequency mismatch. In the inverse engineering approach these perturbations can be suppressed or mitigated by increasing the laser beam waist.

id: 1111.0109
title: Unconditional security proof of a deterministic quantum key distribution with a two-way quantum channel
authors: Hua Lu, Chi-Hang Fred Fung, Xiongfeng Ma, Qing-yu Cai
comments: Publication version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042344 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0109
abstract: In a deterministic quantum key distribution (DQKD) protocol with a two-way quantum channel, Bob sends a qubit to Alice who then encodes a key bit onto the qubit and sends it back to Bob. After measuring the returned qubit, Bob can obtain Alice's key bit immediately, without basis reconciliation. Since an eavesdropper may attack the qubits traveling on either the Bob-Alice channel or the Alice-Bob channel, the security analysis of DQKD with a two-way quantum channel is complicated and its unconditional security has been controversial. This paper presents a security proof of a single-photon four-state DQKD against general attacks.

id: 1111.0120
title: Darboux Integrals for Schr?dinger Planar Vector Fields via Darboux Transformations
authors: Primitivo B. Acosta-Hum¨¢nez, Chara Pantazi
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 8 (2012), 043, 26 pages
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0120
abstract: In this paper we study the Darboux transformations of planar vector fields of Schr\"odinger type. Using the isogaloisian property of Darboux transformation we prove the "invariance" of the objects of the "Darboux theory of integrability". In particular, we also show how the shape invariance property of the potential is important in order to preserve the structure of the transformed vector field. Finally, as illustration of these results, some examples of planar vector fields coming from supersymmetric quantum mechanics are studied.

id: 1111.0154
title: The vacuum induced Berry phase beyond rotating-wave approximation
authors: Tao Liu, Mang Feng, K. L. Wang
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84 (2011) 062109
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0154
abstract: With reference to the vacuum induced Berry phase (VIBP) obtained in the interaction of a spin-1/2 particle with quantized irradiation field under rotating-wave approximation (RWA), we present completely different treatment for the VIBP by a fully quantum mechanical treatment beyond the RWA, which gives a new definition of the VIBP and indicates the validity of RWA to be relevant not only to the energy conservation and comparison of characteristic parameters, but also to more subtle physics, such as the geometric property of the state evolution. Our result is of conceptual importance and also of significant relevance to quantum information processing.

id: 1111.0184
title: Steady-State Entanglement for Distant Atoms by Dissipation in Coupled Cavities
authors: Li-Tuo Shen, Xin-Yu Chen, Zhen-Biao Yang, Huai-Zhi Wu, Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: v2, 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 064302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0184
abstract: We propose a scheme for the generation of entangled states for two atoms trapped in separate cavities coupled to each other. The scheme is based on the competition between the unitary dynamics induced by the classical fields and the collective decays induced by the dissipation of two delocalized field modes. Under certain conditions, the symmetric or asymmetric entangled state is produced in the steady state. The analytical result shows that the distributed steady entanglement can be achieved with high fidelity independent of the initial state, and is robust against parameter fluctuations. We also find out that the linear scaling of $F$ has a quadratic improvement compared to distributed entangled state preparation protocols based on unitary dynamics.

id: 1111.0203
title: Backaction of a driven nonlinear resonator on a superconducting qubit
authors: Maxime Boissonneault, A. C. Doherty, F. R. Ong, P. Bertet, D. Vion, D. Esteve, A. Blais
comments: 17 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022305 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0203
abstract: We study the backaction of a driven nonlinear resonator on a multi-level superconducting qubit. Using unitary transformations on the multi-level Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian and quantum optics master equation, we derive an analytical model that goes beyond linear response theory. Within the limits of validity of the model, we obtain quantitative agreement with experimental and numerical data, both in the bifurcation and in the parametric amplification regimes of the nonlinear resonator. We show in particular that the measurement-induced dephasing rate of the qubit can be rather small at high drive power. This is in contrast to measurement with a linear resonator where this rate increases with the drive power. Finally, we show that, for typical parameters of circuit quantum electrodynamics, correctly describing measurement-induced dephasing requires a model going beyond linear response theory, such as the one presented here.

id: 1111.0211
title: Schwinger term of neutron Hamiltonian measurable by polarization change in a spin-echo spectrometer
authors: Victor de Haan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0211
abstract: The Schwinger term of the neutron Hamiltonian is due to the effect of an electric field on the moving neutron. Although this effect is extremely small, it can be measured by the novel spin-echo interferometers.

id: 1111.0243
title: Quantum energy decays and decoherence in discrete baths
authors: M. D. Galiceanu, M. W. Beims, W. Strunz
comments: 18 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0243
abstract: The quantum average energy decay and the purity decay are studied for a system particle as a function of the number of constituents of a discrete bath model. The system particle is subjected to two distinct physical situations: the harmonic oscillator (HO) and the Morse potential. The environment (bath) is composed by a {\it finite} number N of uncoupled HOs, characterizing the structured bath, which in the limit $N\to\infty$ is assumed to have an ohmic, sub-ohmic or super-ohmic spectral density. For very low values of N the mean energy and purity remain constant in time but starts to decay for intermediate values (10<N<20), where two distinct time regimes are observed: two exponential decays for relatively short times and a power-law decay for larger times. In this interval of N decoherence occurs for short times and a non-Markovian dynamics is expected for larger times. When $N$ increases, energy and coherence decay very fast and a Markovian dynamics is expected to occur. Wave packet dynamics is used to determine the evolution of the particle inside the system potentials.

id: 1111.0475
title: On exact quantum query complexity
authors: Ashley Montanaro, Richard Jozsa, Graeme Mitchison
comments: 28 pages; v2: some corrections and additional numerical results; essentially published version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0475
abstract: We present several families of total boolean functions which have exact quantum query complexity which is a constant multiple (between 1/2 and 2/3) of their classical query complexity, and show that optimal quantum algorithms for these functions cannot be obtained by simply computing parities of pairs of bits. We also characterise the model of nonadaptive exact quantum query complexity in terms of coding theory and completely characterise the query complexity of symmetric boolean functions in this context. These results were originally inspired by numerically solving the semidefinite programs characterising quantum query complexity for small problem sizes. We include numerical results giving the optimal success probabilities achievable by quantum algorithms computing all boolean functions on up to 4 bits, and all symmetric boolean functions on up to 6 bits.

id: 1111.0478
title: Classifying, quantifying, and witnessing qudit-qumode hybrid entanglement
authors: Karsten Kreis, Peter van Loock
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures, final published version in Physical Review A
journal: Journal Ref.: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032307 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0478
abstract: Recently, several hybrid approaches to quantum information emerged which utilize both continuous- and discrete-variable methods and resources at the same time. In this work, we investigate the bipartite hybrid entanglement between a finite-dimensional, discrete-variable quantum system and an infinite-dimensional, continuous-variable quantum system. A classification scheme is presented leading to a distinction between pure hybrid entangled states, mixed hybrid entangled states (those effectively supported by an overall finite-dimensional Hilbert space), and so-called truly hybrid entangled states (those which cannot be described in an overall finite-dimensional Hilbert space). Examples for states of each regime are given and entanglement witnessing as well as quantification are discussed. In particular, using the channel map of a thermal photon noise channel, we find that true hybrid entanglement naturally occurs in physically important settings. Finally, extensions from bipartite to multipartite hybrid entanglement are considered.

id: 1111.0484
title: N-site-lattice analogues of $V(x)=i x^3$
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 28 pp, 17 figures, submitted (and presented also during the conference "Tercentenary of the Laplace-Runge-Lenz vector", Durban, November 23-27, 2011, this http URL)
journal: Annals of Physics 327 (2012) 893 - 913
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0484
abstract: Two discrete N-level alternatives to the popular imaginary cubic oscillator are proposed and studied. In a certain domain ${\cal D}$ of parameters $a$ and $z$ of the model, the spectrum of energies is shown real (i.e., potentially, observable) and the unitarity of the evolution is shown mediated by the construction of a (non-unique) physical, ad hoc Hilbert space endowed with a nontrivial, Hamiltonian-dependent inner-product metric $\Theta$. Beyond ${\cal D}$ the complex-energy curves are shown to form a "Fibonacci-numbered" geometric pattern and/or a "topologically complete" set of spectral loci. The dynamics-determining construction of the set of the eligible metrics is shown tractable by a combination of the computer-assisted algebra with the perturbation and extrapolation techniques. Confirming the expectation that for the local potentials the effect of the metric cannot be short-ranged.

id: 1111.0501
title: Circuit quantum electrodynamics with a nonlinear resonator
authors: P. Bertet, F. R. Ong, M. Boissonneault, A. Bolduc, F. Mallet, A. C. Doherty, A. Blais, D. Vion, D. Esteve
comments: 33 pages, 14 figures. To be published as a book chapter in "Fluctuating Nonlinear Oscillators" by Oxford University Press, edited by Mark Dykman
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0501
abstract: One of the most studied model systems in quantum optics is a two-level atom strongly coupled to a single mode of the electromagnetic field stored in a cavity, a research field named cavity quantum electrodynamics or CQED. CQED has recently received renewed attention due to its implementation with superconducting artificial atoms and coplanar resonators in the so-called circuit quantum electrodynamics (cQED) architecture. In cQED, the couplings can be much stronger than in CQED due to the design flexibility of superconducting circuits and to the enhanced field confinement in one-dimensional cavities. This enabled the realization of fundamental quantum physics and quantum information processing experiments with a degree of control comparable to that obtained in CQED. The purpose of this chapter is to investigate the situation where the resonator to which the atom is coupled is made nonlinear with a Kerr-type nonlinearity, causing its energy levels to be nonequidistant. The system is then described by a nonlinear Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian. This considerably enriches the physics since a pumped nonlinear resonator displays bistability, parametric amplification, and squeezing. The interplay of strong coupling and these nonlinear effects constitutes a novel model system for quantum optics that can be implemented experimentally with superconducting circuits. This chapter is organized as follows. In a first section we present the system consisting of a superconducting Kerr nonlinear resonator strongly coupled to a transmon qubit. In the second section, we describe the response of the sole nonlinear resonator to an external drive. In the third section, we show how the resonator bistability can be used to perform a high-fidelity readout of the transmon qubit. In the last section, we investigate the quantum backaction exerted by the intracavity field on the qubit.

id: 1111.0529
title: Coherent control of atomic spin currents in a double well
authors: H. T. Ng, Shih-I Chu
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures, minor revision
journal: Physical Review A 85, 023636 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0529
abstract: We propose an experimental feasible method for controlling the atomic currents of a two-component Bose-Einstein condensate in a double well by applying an external field to the atoms in one of the potential wells. We study the ground-state properties of the system and show that the directions of spin currents and net-particle tunneling can be manipulated by adiabatically varying the coupling strength between the atoms and the field. This system can be used for studying spin and tunneling phenomena across a wide range of interaction parameters. In addition, spin-squeezed states can be generated. It is useful for quantum information processing and quantum metrology.

id: 1111.0588
title: Gated Mode Superconducting Nanowire Single Photon Detectors
authors: Mohsen K. Akhlaghi, A. Hamed Majedi
comments: 
journal: Opt. Express 20, 1608-1616 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0588
abstract: Single Photon Detectors (SPD) are fundamental to quantum optics and quantum information. Superconducting Nanowire SPDs (SNSPD) [1] provide high performance in terms of quantum efficiency (QE), dark count rate (DCR) and timing jitter [2], but have limited maximum count rate (MCR) when operated as a free-running mode (FM) detector [3, 4]. However, high count rates are needed for many applications like quantum computing [5] and communication [6], and laser ranging [7]. Here we report the first operation of SNSPDs in a gated mode (GM) that exploits a single photon triggered latching phenomenon to detect photons. We demonstrate operation of a large active area single element GM-SNSPD at 625MHz, one order of magnitude faster than its FM counterpart. Contrary to FM-SNSPDs, the MCR in GM can be pushed to GHz range without a compromise on the active area or QE, while reducing the DCR.

id: 1111.0626
title: Quantum Diffusion-Limited Aggregation
authors: David B. Johnson, Gonzalo Ord¨®?ez
comments: 7 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0626
abstract: Though classical random walks have been studied for many years, research concerning their quantum analogues, quantum random walks, has only come about recently. Numerous simulations of both types of walks have been run and analyzed, and are generally well-understood. Research pertaining to one of the more important properties of classical random walks, namely, their ability to build fractal structures in diffusion-limited aggregation, has been particularly noteworthy. However, only now has research begun in this area in regards to quantum random motion. The study of random walks and the structures they build has various applications in materials science. Since all processes are quantum in nature, it is important to consider the quantum variant of diffusion-limited aggregation. Recognizing that Schr\"odinger equation and a classical random walk are both diffusion equations, it is possible to connect and compare them. Using similar parameters for both equations, we ran various simulations aggregating particles. Our results show that particles moving according to Schr\"odinger equation can create fractal structures, much like the classical random walk. Furthermore, the fractal dimensions of these quantum diffusion-limited aggregates vary between 1.43 and 2, depending on the size of the initial wave packet.

id: 1111.0676
title: Conditional detection of pure quantum states of light after storage in a waveguide
authors: Erhan Saglamyurek, Neil Sinclair, Jeongwan Jin, Joshua A. Slater, Daniel Oblak, F¨¦lix Bussi¨¨res, Mathew George, Raimund Ricken, Wolfgang Sohler, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 083602 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0676
abstract: Conditional detection is an important tool to extract weak signals from a noisy background and is closely linked to heralding, which is an essential component of protocols for long distance quantum communication and distributed quantum information processing in quantum networks. Here we demonstrate the conditional detection of time-bin qubits after storage in and retrieval from a photon-echo based waveguide quantum memory. Each qubit is encoded into one member of a photon-pair produced via spontaneous parametric down conversion, and the conditioning is achieved by the detection of the other member of the pair. Performing projection measurements with the stored and retrieved photons onto different bases we obtain an average storage fidelity of 0.885 \pm 0.020, which exceeds the relevant classical bounds and shows the suitability of our integrated light-matter interface for future applications of quantum information processing.

id: 1111.0734
title: Homodyne detection for atmosphere channels
authors: A. A. Semenov, F. T?ppel, D. Yu. Vasylyev, H. V. Gomonay, W. Vogel
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013826 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0734
abstract: We give a systematic theoretical description of homodyne detection in the case where both the signal and the local oscillator pass through the turbulent atmosphere. Imperfect knowledge of the local-oscillator amplitude is effectively included in a noisy density operator, leading to postprocessing noise. Alternatively, we propose a technique with monitored transmission coefficient of the atmosphere, which is free of postprocessing noise.

id: 1111.0739
title: Arbitrarily loss-tolerant Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering allowing a demonstration over 1 km of optical fiber with no detection loophole
authors: A. J. Bennet, D. A. Evans, D. J. Saunders, C. Branciard, E. G. Cavalcanti, H. M. Wiseman, G. J. Pryde
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review X. This is the accepted version
journal: Physical Review X 2, 031003 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0739
abstract: Demonstrating nonclassical effects over longer and longer distances is essential for both quantum technology and fundamental science. The main challenge is loss of photons during propagation, because considering only those cases where photons are detected opens a "detection loophole" in security whenever parties or devices are untrusted. Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) steering is equivalent to an entanglement-verification task in which one party (device) is untrusted. We derive arbitrarily loss-tolerant tests, enabling us to perform a detection-loophole-free demonstration of EPR-steering with parties separated by a coiled 1 km optical fiber, with a total loss of 8.9 dB (87%).

id: 1111.0748
title: Pulse control of sudden transition for two qubits in XY spin baths and quantum phase transition
authors: Da-Wei Luo, Hai-Qing Lin, Jing-Bo Xu, Dao-Xin Yao
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062112 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0748
abstract: We study the dynamics of two initially correlated qubits coupled to their own separate spin baths modeled by a XY spin chain and find the explicit expression of the quantum discord for the system. A sudden transition is found to exist between classical and quantum decoherence by choosing certain initial states. We show that the sudden transition happens near the critical point, which provides a new way to characterize the quantum phase transition. Furthermore, we propose a scheme to prolong the transition time of the quantum discord by applying the bang-bang pulses.

id: 1111.0760
title: Loophole-free Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen experiment via quantum steering
authors: Bernhard Wittmann, Sven Ramelow, Fabian Steinlechner, Nathan K. Langford, Nicolas Brunner, Howard Wiseman, Rupert Ursin, Anton Zeilinger
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 053030 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0760
abstract: Tests of the predictions of quantum mechanics for entangled systems have provided increasing evidence against local realistic theories. However, there still remains the crucial challenge of simultaneously closing all major loopholes - the locality, freedom-of-choice, and detection loopholes - in a single experiment. An important sub-class of local realistic theories can be tested with the concept of "steering". The term steering was introduced by Schr\"odinger in 1935 for the fact that entanglement would seem to allow an experimenter to remotely steer the state of a distant system as in the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) argument. Einstein called this "spooky action at a distance". EPR-Steering has recently been rigorously formulated as a quantum information task opening it up to new experimental tests. Here, we present the first loophole-free demonstration of EPR-steering by violating three-setting quadratic steering inequality, tested with polarization entangled photons shared between two distant laboratories. Our experiment demonstrates this effect while simultaneously closing all loopholes: both the locality loophole and a specific form of the freedom-of-choice loophole are closed by having a large separation of the parties and using fast quantum random number generators, and the fair-sampling loophole is closed by having high overall detection efficiency. Thereby, we exclude - for the first time loophole-free - an important class of local realistic theories considered by EPR. As well as its foundational importance, loop-hole-free steering also allows the distribution of quantum entanglement secure from an untrusted party.

id: 1111.0786
title: Quantum optics in the phase space - A tutorial on Gaussian states
authors: Stefano Olivares
comments: Tutorial. 23 pages, 1 figure. Updated version accepted for publication in EPJ - ST devoted to the memory of Federico Casagrande
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics 203, 3-24 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0786
abstract: In this tutorial, we introduce the basic concepts and mathematical tools needed for phase-space description of a very common class of states, whose phase properties are described by Gaussian Wigner functions: the Gaussian states. In particular, we address their manipulation, evolution and characterization in view of their application to quantum information.

id: 1111.0788
title: Universality of the Heisenberg limit for estimates of random phase shifts
authors: Michael J. W. Hall, Dominic W. Berry, Marcin Zwierz, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 041802(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0788
abstract: The Heisenberg limit traditionally provides a lower bound on the phase uncertainty scaling as 1/<N>, where <N> is the mean number of photons in the probe. However, this limit has a number of loopholes which potentially might be exploited, to achieve measurements with even greater accuracy. Here we close these loopholes by proving a completely rigorous form of the Heisenberg limit for the average error over all phase shifts. Our result gives the first completely general, constraint-free and non-asymptotic statement of the Heisenberg limit. It holds for all phase estimation schemes, including multiple passes, nonlinear phase shifts, multimode probes, and arbitrary measurements.

id: 1111.0806
title: Asymptotic Discord and Entanglement of Non-Resonant Harmonic Oscillators in an Equilibrium Environment
authors: Luis A. Correa, Antonio A. Valido, Daniel Alonso
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures. References updated. Some changes made. Submitted
journal: Phys.Rev.A 86, 012110 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0806
abstract: In this work, we calculate the exact asymptotic quantum correlations between two interacting non-resonant harmonic oscillators in a common Ohmic bath. We derive \emph{analytical formulas} for the covariances, fully describing any Gaussian stationary state of the system, and use them to study discord and entanglement in the strong and weak dissipation regimes. We discuss the rich structure of the discord of the stationary separable states arising in the strong dissipation regime. Also under strong dissipation, when the modes are not mechanically coupled, these may entangle only through their interaction with the \emph{common} environment. Interestingly enough, this stationary entanglement is only present within a \emph{finite band of frequencies} and increases with the dissipation rate. In addition, robust entanglement between \emph{detuned} oscillators is observed at low temperature.

id: 1111.0822
title: Optimal measurement bases for Bell-tests based on the CH-inequality
authors: G. Lima, E. B. Inostroza, R. O. Vianna, J.-?. Larsson, C. Saavedra
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 85, 012105 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0822
abstract: The Hardy test of nonlocality can be seen as a particular case of the Bell tests based on the Clauser-Horne (CH) inequality. Here we stress this connection when we analyze the relation between the CH-inequality violation, its threshold detection efficiency, and the measurement settings adopted in the test. It is well known that the threshold efficiencies decrease when one considers partially entangled states and that the use of these states, unfortunately, generates a reduction in the CH violation. Nevertheless, these quantities are both dependent on the measurement settings considered, and in this paper we show that there are measurement bases which allow for an optimal situation in this trade-off relation. These bases are given as a generalization of the Hardy measurement bases, and they will be relevant for future Bell tests relying on pairs of entangled qubits.

id: 1111.0829
title: Conclusive quantum steering with superconducting transition edge sensors
authors: Devin H. Smith, Geoff Gillett, Marcelo de Almeida, Cyril Branciard, Alessandro Fedrizzi, Till J. Weinhold, Adriana Lita, Brice Calkins, Thomas Gerrits, Howard M. Wiseman, Sae Woo Nam, Andrew G. White
comments: Preprint of 7 pages, 3 figures; the definitive version is published in Nature Communications, see below. Also, see related experimental work by A. J. Bennet et al., arXiv:1111.0739 and B. Wittmann et al., arXiv:1111.0760
journal: Nature Communications 3, 625 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0829
abstract: Quantum steering allows two parties to verify shared entanglement even if one measurement device is untrusted. A conclusive demonstration of steering through the violation of a steering inequality is of considerable fundamental interest and opens up applications in quantum communication. To date all experimental tests with single photon states have relied on post-selection, allowing untrusted devices to cheat by hiding unfavourable events in losses. Here we close this "detection loophole" by combining a highly efficient source of entangled photon pairs with superconducting transition edge sensors. We achieve an unprecedented ~62% conditional detection efficiency of entangled photons and violate a steering inequality with the minimal number of measurement settings by 48 standard deviations. Our results provide a clear path to practical applications of steering and to a photonic loophole-free Bell test.

id: 1111.0831
title: Efficient Decoding of Topological Color Codes
authors: Pradeep Sarvepalli, Robert Raussendorf
comments: 7 pages, LaTeX
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022317 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0831
abstract: Color codes are a class of topological quantum codes with a high error threshold and large set of transversal encoded gates, and are thus suitable for fault tolerant quantum computation in two-dimensional architectures. Recently, computationally efficient decoders for the color codes were proposed. We describe an alternate efficient iterative decoder for topological color codes, and apply it to the color code on hexagonal lattice embedded on a torus. In numerical simulations, we find an error threshold of 7.8% for independent dephasing and spin flip errors.

id: 1111.0853
title: Continuous-variable quantum compressed sensing
authors: Matthias Ohliger, Vincent Nesme, David Gross, Yi-Kai Liu, Jens Eisert
comments: 32 pages, 4 figures, new results concerning applications added, presentation improved
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0853
abstract: We significantly extend recently developed methods to faithfully reconstruct unknown quantum states that are approximately low-rank, using only a few measurement settings. Our new method is general enough to allow for measurements from a continuous family, and is also applicable to continuous-variable states. As a technical result, this work generalizes quantum compressed sensing to the situation where the measured observables are taken from a so-called tight frame (rather than an orthonormal basis) --- hence covering most realistic measurement scenarios. As an application, we discuss the reconstruction of quantum states of light from homodyne detection and other types of measurements, and we present simulations that show the advantage of the proposed compressed sensing technique over present methods. Finally, we introduce a method to construct a certificate which guarantees the success of the reconstruction with no assumption on the state, and we show how slightly more measurements give rise to "universal" state reconstruction that is highly robust to noise.

id: 1111.0866
title: Generation of discrete superpositions of coherent states in the anharmonic oscillator model
authors: A. Miranowicz, R. Tanas, S. Kielich
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures. This article was published in 'Quantum Optics' -- an IOP journal, which does not exist any more and thus it is not indexed in databases such as the Web of Science. Nevertheless, the topic seems to be of interest, so we post our paper here
journal: Quantum Opt. 2, 253-265 (1990)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0866
abstract: The problem of generating discrete superpositions of coherent states in the process of light propagation through a nonlinear Kerr medium, which is modelled by the anharmonic oscillator, is discussed. It is shown that under an appropriate choice of the length (time) of the medium the superpositions with both even and odd numbers of coherent states can appear. Analytical formulae for such superpositions with a few components are given explicitly. General rules governing the process of generating discrete superpositions of coherent states are also given. The maximum number of well distinguished states that can be obtained for a given number of initial photons is estimated. The quasiprobability distribution $Q(\alpha,\alpha^*,t)$ representing the superposition states is illustrated graphically, showing regular structures when the component states are well separated.

id: 1111.0889
title: Generalized Bargmann functions, their growth and von Neumann lattices
authors: A. Vourdas, K. A. Penson, G. H. E. Duchamp, A. I. Solomon
comments: 9 pages, changes with respect to previous version: typos removed, improved presentation
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. vol. 45, 244031 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0889
abstract: Generalized Bargmann representations which are based on generalized coherent states are considered. The growth of the corresponding analytic functions in the complex plane is studied. Results about the overcompleteness or undercompleteness of discrete sets of these generalized coherent states are given. Several examples are discussed in detail.

id: 1111.0917
title: Dynamics of correlations due to a phase noisy laser
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Rosario Lo Franco, Erika Andersson, James D. Cresser, Giuseppe Compagno
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, accepted for publication in Phys. Scripta, special issue for CEWQO 2011 proceedings
journal: Physica Scripta T 147, 014004 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0917
abstract: We analyze the dynamics of various kinds of correlations present between two initially entangled independent qubits, each one subject to a local phase noisy laser. We give explicit expressions of the relevant quantifiers of correlations for the general case of single-qubit unital evolution, which includes the case of a phase noisy laser. Although the light field is treated as classical, we find that this model can describe revivals of quantum correlations. Two different dynamical regimes of decay of correlations occur, a Markovian one (exponential decay) and a non-Markovian one (oscillatory decay with revivals) depending on the values of system parameters. In particular, in the non-Markovian regime, quantum correlations quantified by quantum discord show an oscillatory decay faster than that of classical correlations. Moreover, there are time regions where nonzero discord is present while entanglement is zero.

id: 1111.0919
title: Topologically protected measurement-based quantum computation on the thermal state of a nearest-neighbor two-body Hamiltonian with spin-3/2 particles
authors: Keisuke Fujii, Tomoyuki Morimae
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; v2 published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 010304(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0919
abstract: Recently, Li {\it et al.} [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 107}, 060501 (2011)] have demonstrated that topologically protected measurement-based quantum computation can be implemented on the thermal state of a nearest-neighbor two-body Hamiltonian with spin-2 and spin-3/2 particles provided that the temperature is smaller than a critical value, namely, threshold temperature. Here we show that the thermal state of a nearest-neighbor two-body Hamiltonian, which consists of only spin-3/2 particles, allows us to perform topologically protected measurement-based quantum computation. The threshold temperature is calculated and turns out to be comparable to that with the spin-2 and spin-3/2 system. Furthermore, we generally show that a cluster state of high connectivity can be efficiently generated from the thermal state of the spin-3/2 system without severe thermal noise accumulation.

id: 1111.0930
title: Robust dynamical decoupling with concatenated continuous driving
authors: J.-M. Cai, B. Naydenov, R. Pfeiffer, L. P. McGuinness, K. D. Jahnke, F. Jelezko, M. B. Plenio, A. Retzker
comments: 11 pages, 6 figure. Published version including new results
journal: New J. Phys. 14 113023 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0930
abstract: The loss of coherence is one of the main obstacles for the implementation of quantum information processing. The efficiency of dynamical decoupling schemes, which have been introduced to address this problem, is limited itself by the fluctuations in the driving fields which will themselves introduce noise. We address this challenge by introducing the concept of concatenated continuous dynamical decoupling, which can overcome not only external magnetic noise but also noise due to fluctuations in driving fields. We show theoretically that this approach can achieve relaxation limited coherence times, and demonstrate experimentally that already the most basic implementation of this concept yields an order of magnitude improvement of the decoherence time for the electron spin of nitrogen vacancy centers in diamond. The proposed scheme can be applied to a wide variety of other physical systems including, trapped atoms and ions, quantum dots, and may be combined with other quantum technologies challenges such as quantum sensing and quantum information processing.

id: 1111.0935
title: Adaptive Hamiltonian Estimation Using Bayesian Experimental Design
authors: Christopher Ferrie, Christopher E. Granade, D. G. Cory
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures. To appear in Bayesian Inference And Maximum Entropy Methods In Science And Engineering: Proceedings of the 31th International Workshop on Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods in Science and Engineering
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1443, pp. 165-173, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0935
abstract: Using Bayesian experimental design techniques, we have shown that for a single two-level quantum mechanical system under strong (projective) measurement, the dynamical parameters of a model Hamiltonian can be estimated with exponentially improved accuracy over offline estimation strategies. To achieve this, we derive an adaptive protocol which finds the optimal experiments based on previous observations. We show that the risk associated with this algorithm is close to the global optimum, given a uniform prior. Additionally, we show that sampling at the Nyquist rate is not optimal.

id: 1111.0944
title: Equivalent Hamiltonians for State to State Transfer in the Case of Partial Quantum Control
authors: Ian N. Hincks, David G. Cory, Chandrasekhar Ramanathan
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0944
abstract: Given a fixed initial state, a desired Hamiltonian, and an amount of time, we provide a complete characterization of the set of Hamiltonians which perform the same action as the desired Hamiltonian on the state of interest. An example is provided where the desired Hamiltonian lies outside of the control Lie algebra, but implementable Hamiltonians exist within the characterization.

id: 1111.0945
title: Entanglement dynamics of a qubit-qutrit system in non-inertial frames
authors: M. Ramzan
comments: 10 pages, 3 eps figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1101.3986
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0945
abstract: The effect of decoherence on a qubit-qutrit system under the influence of global and multilocal decoherence in non-inertial frames is investigated. It is shown that the entanglement sudden death (ESD) can be avoided in non-inertial frames in the presence of dephasing and bit-trit phase flip channels for entire range of decoherence. However, ESD behaviour is seen for higher level of decoherence in case of phase flip and bit-trit flip channels. Irrespective of the entanglement degradation caused by the Unruh effect, no ESD occurs for the dephasing environment. Furthermore, flipping channels have approximately similar effect on the entanglement of the hybrid system.

id: 1111.0947
title: Effect of flipping noise on the entanglement dynamics of a 3x3 system
authors: M. Ramzan
comments: 11 pages, 4 eps figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0947
abstract: Entanglement dynamics of a qutrit-qutrit system under the influence of global, local and multilocal decoherence introduced by phase flip, trit flip and trit phase flip channels is investigated. The negativity and realignment criterion are used to quantify the entanglement of the system. It is shown that the entanglement sudden death and distibility sudden death can be avoided in the presence of phase flip, trit flip and trit-phase flip environments. It is shown that certain free entangled distillable qutrit states become bound entangled or separable i.e. convert into non-distillable states under different flipping noises. It is also seen that local operations do not have any effect on the entanglement dynamics of the system. Further more, no ESD and DSD is seen for the case of trit flip channel.

id: 1111.0976
title: How to implement decoy-state quantum key distribution for a satellite uplink with 50 dB channel loss
authors: Evan Meyer-Scott, Zhizhong Yan, Allison MacDonald, Jean-Philippe Bourgoin, Hannes H¨¹bel, Thomas Jennewein
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, updated to published version
journal: Physical Review A 84, 062326 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0976
abstract: Quantum key distribution (QKD) takes advantage of fundamental properties of quantum physics to allow two distant parties to share a secret key; however, QKD is hampered by a distance limitation of a few hundred kilometers on earth. The most immediate solution for global coverage is to use a satellite, which can receive separate QKD transmissions from two or more ground stations and act as a trusted node to link these ground stations. In this article, we report a system capable of performing QKD in the high loss regime expected in an uplink to a satellite using weak coherent pulses and decoy states. Such a scenario profits from the simplicity of its receiver payload, but has so far considered to be infeasible due to very high transmission losses (40 - 50 dB). The high loss is overcome by implementing an innovative photon source and advanced timing analysis. Our system handles up to 57 dB photon loss in the infinite key limit, confirming the viability of the satellite uplink scenario. We emphasize that while this system was designed with a satellite uplink in mind, it could just as easily overcome high losses on any free space QKD link.

id: 1111.1035
title: Role of particle-number statistics in interference of independent Bose fields
authors: Toru Kawakubo, Katsuji Yamamoto
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; REVTeX 4.1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1035
abstract: We elucidate generally the interference of independent Bose fields in view of the conditional probability for the particle number measurements, and clarify its relation to the source number statistics. Despite lack of intrinsic phases, the interference phase can be inferred from the particle number registered at one detector by using the classical mean fields. If the conditional number distributions for the other detectors, given the outcome of the first detector, exhibit sufficiently narrow peaks around the values specified by the estimated phases, the mean field description is valid in a single run of interference. The widths in the conditional distribution are determined by the number statistics of the sources, among which notable scaling behavior is found depending on the detector configurations with the boundary at the Poissonian. The mean field description is found to be applicable to Poissonian and sub-Poissonian sources, whereas for super-Poissonian sources it is likely invalidated with the rather broad conditional distribution.

id: 1111.1062
title: Hamiltonian tomography of dissipative systems under limited access: A biomimetic case study
authors: Koji Maruyama, Daniel Burgarth, Akihito Ishizaki, K. Birgitta Whaley, Takeji Takui
comments: 6 pages
journal: Quantum Info. and Comp. Vol. 12, pp. 736-774 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1062
abstract: The identification of parameters in the Hamiltonian that describes complex many-body quantum systems is generally a very hard task. Recent attention has focused on such problems of Hamiltonian tomography for networks constructed with two-level systems. For open quantum systems, the fact that injected signals are likely to decay before they accumulate sufficient information for parameter estimation poses additional challenges. In this paper, we consider use of the gateway approach to Hamiltonian tomography \cite{Burgarth2009,Burgarth2009a} to complex quantum systems with a limited set of state preparation and measurement probes. We classify graph properties of networks for which the Hamiltonian may be estimated under equivalent conditions on state preparation and measurement. We then examine the extent to which the gateway approach may be applied to estimation of Hamiltonian parameters for network graphs with non-trivial topologies mimicking biomolecular systems.

id: 1111.1085
title: A quantum detector for photon entanglement
authors: J. Huwer, J. Ghosh, N. Piro, M. Schug, F. Dubin, J. Eschner
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 025033
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1085
abstract: We use a single trapped 40Ca+ ion as a resonant, polarization-sensitive absorber to detect and characterize the entanglement of tunable narrowband photon pairs from a spontaneous parametric down-conversion source. Single-photon absorption is marked by a quantum jump in the ion and heralded by coincident detection of the partner photon. For three polarization basis settings of absorption and detection of the herald, we find maximum coincidences always for orthogonal polarizations. The polarization entanglement is further evidenced by tomographic reconstruction of the biphoton quantum state.

id: 1111.1088
title: Discriminating between the von Neumann and L¨¹ders reduction rule
authors: G. C. Hegerfeldt, R. Sala Mayato
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032116 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1088
abstract: Given an ensemble of systems in an unknown state, as well as an observable $\hat A$ and a physical apparatus which performs a measurement of $\hat A$ on the ensemble, whose detailed working is unknown ('black box'), how can one test whether the L\"uders or von Neumann reduction rule applies?

id: 1111.1101
title: Nonclassical correlations in continuous-variable non-Gaussian Werner states
authors: Richard Tatham, Ladislav Mi?ta Jr., Gerardo Adesso, Natalia Korolkova
comments: References added, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 85, 022326 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1101
abstract: We study nonclassical correlations beyond entanglement in a family of two-mode non-Gaussian states which represent the continuous-variable counterpart of two-qubit Werner states. We evaluate quantum discord and other quantumness measures obtaining exact analytical results in special instances, and upper and lower bounds in the general case. Non-Gaussian measurements such as photon counting are in general necessary to solve the optimization in the definition of quantum discord, whereas Gaussian measurements are strictly suboptimal for the considered states. The gap between Gaussian and optimal non-Gaussian conditional entropy is found to be proportional to a measure of non-Gaussianity in the regime of low squeezing, for a subclass of continuous-variable Werner states. We further study an example of a non-Gaussian state which is positive under partial transposition, and whose nonclassical correlations stay finite and small even for infinite squeezing. Our results pave the way to a systematic exploration of the interplay between nonclassicality and non-Gaussianity in continuous-variable systems, in order to gain a deeper understanding of -and to draw a bigger advantage from- these two important resources for quantum technology.

id: 1111.1105
title: Continuous Monitoring of Dynamical Systems and Master Equations
authors: L. F. Lopes Oliveira, R. Rossi Jr, A. R. Bosco de Magalhaes, J. G. Peixoto de Faria, M. C. Nemes
comments: 
journal: Physics Letters. A, v. 376, p. 1786, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1105
abstract: We illustrate the equivalence between the non-unitary evolution of an open quantum system governed by a Markovian master equation and a process of continuous measurements involving this system. We investigate a system of two coupled modes, only one of them interacting with external degrees of freedom, represented, in the first case, by a finite number of harmonic oscillators, and, in the second, by a sequence of atoms where each one interacts with a single mode during a limited time. Two distinct regimes appear, one of them corresponding to a Zeno-like behavior in the limit of large dissipation.

id: 1111.1107
title: Beyond pure state entanglement for atomic ensembles
authors: Julia Stasi¨½ska, Simone Paganelli, Anna Sanpera
comments: 23 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 033034 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1107
abstract: We analyze multipartite entanglement between atomic ensembles within quantum matter-light interfaces. In our proposal, a polarized light beam crosses sequentially several polarized atomic ensembles impinging on each of them at a given angle \alpha_i. These angles are crucial parameters for shaping the entanglement since they are directly connected to the appropriate combinations of the collective atomic spins that are squeezed. We exploit such scheme to go beyond the pure state paradigm proposing realistic experimental settings to address multipartite mixed state entanglement in continuous variables.

id: 1111.1108
title: Dynamics and evaporation of defects in Mott-insulating clusters of boson pairs
authors: Dominik Muth, David Petrosyan, Michael Fleischhauer
comments: 12 pages, 10 figures, minor updates
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013615 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1108
abstract: Repulsively bound pairs of particles in a lattice governed by the Bose-Hubbard model can form stable incompressible clusters of dimers corresponding to finite-size n=2 Mott insulators. Here we study the dynamics of hole defects in such clusters corresponding to unpaired particles which can resonantly tunnel out of the cluster into the lattice vacuum. Due to bosonic statistics, the unpaired particles have different effective mass inside and outside the cluster, and "evaporation" of hole defects from the cluster boundaries is possible only when their quasi-momenta are within a certain transmission range. We show that quasi-thermalization of hole defects occurs in the presence of catalyzing particle defects which thereby purify the Mott insulating clusters. We study the dynamics of one-dimensional system using analytical techniques and numerically exact t-DMRG simulations. We derive an effective strong-interaction model that enables simulations of the system dynamics for much longer times. We also discuss a more general case of two bosonic species which reduces to the fermionic Hubbard model in the strong interaction limit.

id: 1111.1143
title: The coherent interaction between matter and radiation - A tutorial on the Jaynes-Cummings model
authors: Matteo Bina
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures. Tutorial. Submitted to a special issue of EPJ - ST devoted to the memory of Federico Casagrande
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics 203, 163-183 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1143
abstract: The Jaynes-Cummings (JC) model is a milestone in the theory of coherent interaction between a two-level system and a single bosonic field mode. This tutorial aims to give a complete description of the model, analyzing the Hamiltonian of the system, its eigenvalues and eigestates, in order to characterize the dynamics of system and subsystems. The Rabi oscillations, together with the collapse and revival effects, are distinguishing features of the JC model and are important for applications in Quantum Information theory. The framework of cavity quantum electrodynamics (cQED) is chosen and two fundamental experiments on the coherent interaction between Rydberg atoms and a single cavity field mode are described.

id: 1111.1208
title: Experimental estimation of the dimension of classical and quantum systems
authors: Martin Hendrych, Rodrigo Gallego, Michal Mi?uda, Nicolas Brunner, Antonio Ac¨ªn, Juan P. Torres
comments: See also similar, independent and jointly submitted work of J. Ahrens et al., quant-ph/1111.1277
journal: Nat. Phys. 8, 588 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1208
abstract: An overwhelming majority of experiments in classical and quantum physics make a priori assumptions about the dimension of the system under consideration. However, would it be possible to assess the dimension of a completely unknown system only from the results of measurements performed on it, without any extra assumption? The concept of a dimension witness answers this question, as it allows one to bound the dimension of an unknown classical or quantum system in a device-independent manner, that is, only from the statistics of measurements performed on it. Here, we report on the experimental demonstration of dimension witnesses in a prepare and measure scenario. We use pairs of photons entangled in both polarization and orbital angular momentum to generate ensembles of classical and quantum states of dimensions up to 4. We then use a dimension witness to certify their dimensionality as well as their quantum nature. Our results open new avenues for the device-independent estimation of unknown quantum systems and for applications in quantum information science.

id: 1111.1269
title: Exploring constrained quantum control landscapes
authors: Katharine W. Moore, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 10 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 137(13) 134113 (2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1269
abstract: The broad success of optimally controlling quantum systems with external fields has been attributed to the favorable topology of the underlying control landscape, where the landscape is the physical observable as a function of the controls. The control landscape can be shown to contain no suboptimal trapping extrema upon satisfaction of reasonable physical assumptions, but this topological analysis does not hold when significant constraints are placed on the control resources. This work employs simulations to explore the topology and features of the control landscape for pure-state population transfer with a constrained class of control fields. The fields are parameterized in terms of a set of uniformly spaced spectral frequencies, with the associated phases acting as the controls. Optimization results reveal that the minimum number of phase controls necessary to assure a high yield in the target state has a special dependence on the number of accessible energy levels in the quantum system, revealed from an analysis of the first- and second-order variation of the yield with respect to the controls. When an insufficient number of controls and/or a weak control fluence are employed, trapping extrema and saddle points are observed on the landscape. When the control resources are sufficiently flexible, solutions producing the globally maximal yield are found to form connected `level sets' of continuously variable control fields that preserve the yield. These optimal yield level sets are found to shrink to isolated points on the top of the landscape as the control field fluence is decreased, and further reduction of the fluence turns these points into suboptimal trapping extrema on the landscape. Although constrained control fields can come in many forms beyond the cases explored here, the behavior found in this paper is illustrative of the impacts that constraints can introduce.

id: 1111.1277
title: Experimental Device-independent Tests of Classical and Quantum Dimensions
authors: Johan Ahrens, Piotr Badziag, Adan Cabello, Mohamed Bourennane
comments: See also similar, independent and jointly submitted work of M. Hendrych et al., quant-ph/1111.1208"
journal: Nature Physics 8, (2012) 592
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1277
abstract: A fundamental resource in any communication and computation task is the amount of information that can be transmitted and processed. Information encoded in a classical system is limited by the dimension d_c of the system, i.e., the number of distinguishable states. A system with d_c=2^n classical states can carry n bits of classical information. Information encoded in a quantum system is limited by the dimension d_q of the Hilbert space of the system, i.e., the number of perfectly distinguishable quantum states. A system with d_q=2^n perfectly distinguishable quantum states can carry n qubits of quantum information. Physical systems of higher dimensions may enable more efficient and powerful information processing protocols. The dimension is fundamental in quantum cryptography and random number generation, where the security of many schemes crucially relies on the system's dimension. From a fundamental perspective, the dimension can be used to quantify the non-classicality of correlations, since classical simulation of correlations produced by a quantum system of dimension d_q may require a classical system of dimension d_c >> d_q. For all these reasons, a fundamental problem in information theory is to assess the (classical or quantum) dimension of a physical system in a "device-independent" scenario, i.e., without referring to the system's specifications, which may be under control of a dishonest supplier, eavesdropper or saboteur. In this contribution we report experiments realizing this goal for systems emitted by a black box. Our results indicate that dimension witnesses utilized in the experiments may become a powerful tool for testing systems provided by unreliable sources.

id: 1111.1319
title: Quantum computing with incoherent resources and quantum jumps
authors: Marcelo F. Santos, Marcelo Terra Cunha, Rafael Chaves, Andre R. R. Carvalho
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 170501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1319
abstract: Spontaneous emission and the inelastic scattering of photons are two natural processes usually associated with decoherence and the reduction in the capacity to process quantum information. Here we show that when suitably detected, these photons are sufficient to build all the fundamental blocks needed to perform quantum computation in the emitting qubits while protecting them from deleterious dissipative effects. We exemplify by showing how to teleport an unknown quantum state and how to efficiently prepare graph states for the implementation of measurement-based quantum computation.

id: 1111.1346
title: Fidelity of fermionic atom-number states subjected to tunneling decay
authors: M. Pons, D. Sokolovski, A. del Campo
comments: 7 figures, 8 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022107 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1346
abstract: Atom-number states are a valuable resource for ultracold chemistry, atom interferometry and quantum information processing. Recent experiments have achieved their deterministic preparation in trapped few-fermion systems. We analyze the tunneling decay of these states, both in terms of the survival probability, and the non-escape probability, which can be extracted from measurements of the full counting statistics. At short times, the survival probability exhibits deviations from the exponential law. The decay is governed by the multi-particle Zeno time which exhibits a signature of quantum statistics and contact interactions. The subsequent exponential regime governs most of the dynamics, and we provide accurate analytical expressions for the associated decay rates. Both dynamical regimes are illustrated in a realistic model. Finally, a global picture of multi-particle quantum decay is presented.

id: 1111.1348
title: Quantum Algorithm for Computing the Period Lattice of an Infrastructure
authors: Felix Fontein, Pawel Wocjan
comments: 52 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1348
abstract: We present a quantum algorithm for computing the period lattice of infrastructures of fixed dimension. The algorithm applies to infrastructures that satisfy certain conditions. The latter are always fulfilled for infrastructures obtained from global fields, i.e., algebraic number fields and function fields with finite constant fields. The first of our main contributions is an exponentially better method for sampling approximations of vectors of the dual lattice of the period lattice than the methods outlined in the works of Hallgren and Schmidt and Vollmer. This new method improves the success probability by a factor of at least 2^{n^2-1} where n is the dimension. The second main contribution is a rigorous and complete proof that the running time of the algorithm is polynomial in the logarithm of the determinant of the period lattice and exponential in n. The third contribution is the determination of an explicit lower bound on the success probability of our algorithm which greatly improves on the bounds given in the above works. The exponential scaling seems inevitable because the best currently known methods for carrying out fundamental arithmetic operations in infrastructures obtained from algebraic number fields take exponential time. In contrast, the problem of computing the period lattice of infrastructures arising from function fields can be solved without the exponential dependence on the dimension n since this problem reduces efficiently to the abelian hidden subgroup problem. This is also true for other important computational problems in algebraic geometry. The running time of the best classical algorithms for infrastructures arising from global fields increases subexponentially with the determinant of the period lattice.

id: 1111.1364
title: Quantal effects and MaxEnt
authors: Federico Holik, Angel Plastino
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1364
abstract: Convex operational models (COMs) are considered as great extrapolations to larger settings of any statistical theory. In this article we generalize the maximum entropy principle (MaxEnt) of Jaynes' to any COM. After expressing Max-Ent in a geometrical and latttice theoretical setting, we are able to cast it for any COM. This scope-ampli?cation opens the door to a new systematization of the principle and sheds light into its geometrical structure.

id: 1111.1381
title: Estimation of Coupling Constants of a Three-Spin Chain: Case Study of Hamiltonian Tomography with NMR
authors: Elham Hosseini Lapasar, Koji Maruyama, Daniel Burgarth, Takeji Takui, Yasushi Kondo, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 7 pages, 18 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 013043
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1381
abstract: It has been shown that inter-spin interaction strengths in a spins-1/2 chain can be evaluated by accessing one of the edge spins only. We demonstrate this experimentally for the simplest case, a three-spin chain, with nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) technique. The three spins in the chain interact through nearest-neighbor Ising interactions under site-dependent transverse fields. The employed molecule is an alanine containing three $^{13}$C nuclei, each of which has spin-1/2.

id: 1111.1417
title: The Role of Correlated Noise in Quantum Computing
authors: Daan Staudt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1417
abstract: This paper aims to give an overview of the current state of fault-tolerant quantum computing, by surveying a number of results in the field. We show that thresholds can be obtained for a simple noise model as first proved in [AB97, Kit97, KLZ98], by presenting a proof for statistically independent noise, following the presentation of Aliferis, Gottesman and Preskill [AGP06]. We also present a result by Terhal and Burkard [TB05] and later improved upon by Aliferis, Gottesman and Preskill [AGP06] that shows a threshold can still be obtained for local non-Markovian noise, where we allow the noise to be weakly correlated in space and time. We then turn to negative results, presenting work by Ben-Aroya and Ta-Shma [BT11] who showed conditional errors cannot be perfectly corrected. We end our survey by briefly mentioning some more speculative objections, as put forth by Kalai [Kal08, Kal09, Kal11].

id: 1111.1425
title: Matter Density and Relativistic Models of Wave Function Collapse
authors: Daniel Bedingham, Detlef Duerr, GianCarlo Ghirardi, Sheldon Goldstein, Roderich Tumulka, Nino Zanghi
comments: 6 pages LaTeX, 2 figures; v4: minor improvements
journal: Journal of Statistical Physics 154: 623-631 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1425
abstract: Mathematical models for the stochastic evolution of wave functions that combine the unitary evolution according to the Schroedinger equation and the collapse postulate of quantum theory are well understood for non-relativistic quantum mechanics. Recently, there has been progress in making these models relativistic. But even with a fully relativistic law for the wave function evolution, a problem with relativity remains: Different Lorentz frames may yield conflicting values for the matter density at a space-time point. We propose here a relativistic law for the matter density function. According to our proposal, the matter density function at a space-time point x is obtained from the wave function psi on the past light cone of x by setting the i-th particle position in |psi|^2 equal to x, integrating over the other particle positions, and averaging over i. We show that the predictions that follow from this proposal agree with all known experimental facts.

id: 1111.1462
title: Uselessness for an Oracle Model with Internal Randomness
authors: Aram W. Harrow, David J. Rosenbaum
comments: 18 pages. v2. shortened, presentation improved, same results
journal: Q. Inf. Comput. vol. 14, no. 7&8, pp. 608-624 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1462
abstract: We consider a generalization of the standard oracle model in which the oracle acts on the target with a permutation selected according to internal random coins. We describe several problems that are impossible to solve classically but can be solved by a quantum algorithm using a single query; we show that such infinity-vs-one separations between classical and quantum query complexities can be constructed from much weaker separations. We also give conditions to determine when oracle problems---either in the standard model, or in any of the generalizations we consider---cannot be solved with success probability better than random guessing would achieve. In the oracle model with internal randomness where the goal is to gain any nonzero advantage over guessing, we prove (roughly speaking) that $k$ quantum queries are equivalent in power to $2k$ classical queries, thus extending results of Meyer and Pommersheim.

id: 1111.1475
title: Zero forcing, linear and quantum controllability for systems evolving on networks
authors: Daniel Burgarth, Domenico D'Alessandro, Leslie Hogben, Simone Severini, Michael Young
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control 58, 2349 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1475
abstract: We study the dynamics of systems on networks from a linear algebraic perspective. The control theoretic concept of controllability describes the set of states that can be reached for these systems. Under appropriate conditions, there is a connection between the quantum (Lie theoretic) property of controllability and the linear systems (Kalman) controllability condition. We investigate how the graph theoretic concept of a zero forcing set impacts the controllability property. In particular, we prove that if a set of vertices is a zero forcing set, the associated dynamical system is controllable. The results open up the possibility of further exploiting the analogy between networks, linear control systems theory, and quantum systems Lie algebraic theory. This study is motivated by several quantum systems currently under study, including continuous quantum walks modeling transport phenomena. Additionally, it proposes zero forcing as a new notion in the analysis of complex networks.

id: 1111.1477
title: A classical master equation for excitonic transport under the influence of an environment
authors: A. Eisfeld, J. S. Briggs
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 046118 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1477
abstract: In a previous paper [Phys.Rev.E 83, 051911] we have shown that the results of a quantum-mechanical calculation of electronic energy transfer (EET) over aggregates of coupled monomers can be described also by a model of interacting classical electric dipoles in a weak-coupling approximation, which we referred to as the realistic coupling approximation (RCA). The method was illustrated by EET on a simple linear chain of molecules and also by energy transfer on the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) complex relevant for photosynthesis. The study was limited to electronic degrees of freedom since this is the origin of coherent EET in the quantum case. Nevertheless, more realistic models of EET require the inclusion of the de-cohering effects of coupling to an environment, when the molecular aggregate becomes an open quantum system. Here we consider the quantum description of EET on a linear chain and on the FMO complex, incorporating environment coupling and construct the classical version of the same systems in the density matrix formalism. The close agreement of the exact quantum and exact classical results in the RCA is demonstrated and justified analytically. This lends further support to the conclusion that the coherence properties of EET in the FMO complex is evident at the classical level and should not be ascribed as solely due to quantum effects.

id: 1111.1511
title: Flexible quantum private queries based on quantum key distribution
authors: Fei Gao, Bin Liu, Qiao-Yan Wen, Hui Chen
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol.20, No.16, pp.17411-17420, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1511
abstract: We present a flexible quantum-key-distribution-based protocol for quantum private queries. Similar to M. Jakobi et al's protocol [Phys. Rev. A 83, 022301 (2011)], it is loss tolerant, practical and robust against quantum memory attack. Furthermore, our protocol is more flexible and controllable. We show that, by adjusting the value of $\theta$, the average number of the key bits Alice obtains can be located on any fixed value the users wanted for any database size. And the parameter $k$ is generally smaller (even $k=1$ can be achieved) when $\theta<\pi/4$, which implies lower complexity of both quantum and classical communications. Furthermore, the users can choose a smaller $\theta$ to get better database security, or a larger $\theta$ to obtain a lower probability with which Bob can correctly guess the address of Alice's query.

id: 1111.1531
title: Information gap for classical and quantum communication in a Schwarzschild spacetime
authors: Dominic Hosler, Carsten van de Bruck, Pieter Kok
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 85, 042312 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1531
abstract: Communication between a free-falling observer and an observer hovering above the Schwarzschild horizon of a black hole suffers from Unruh-Hawking noise, which degrades communication channels. Ignoring time dilation, which affects all channels equally, we show that for bosonic communication using single and dual rail encoding the classical channel capacity reaches a finite value and the quantum coherent information tends to zero. We conclude that classical correlations still exist at infinite acceleration, whereas the quantum coherence is fully removed.

id: 1111.1579
title: High-fidelity quantum driving
authors: Mark G. Bason, Matthieu Viteau, Nicola Malossi, Paul Huillery, Ennio Arimondo, Donatella Ciampini, Rosario Fazio, Vittorio Giovannetti, Riccardo Mannella, Oliver Morsch
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Phys. 8, 147-152 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1579
abstract: The ability to accurately control a quantum system is a fundamental requirement in many areas of modern science such as quantum information processing and the coherent manipulation of molecular systems. It is usually necessary to realize these quantum manipulations in the shortest possible time in order to minimize decoherence, and with a large stability against fluctuations of the control parameters. While optimizing a protocol for speed leads to a natural lower bound in the form of the quantum speed limit rooted in the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, stability against parameter variations typically requires adiabatic following of the system. The ultimate goal in quantum control is to prepare a desired state with 100% fidelity. Here we experimentally implement optimal control schemes that achieve nearly perfect fidelity for a two-level quantum system realized with Bose-Einstein condensates in optical lattices. By suitably tailoring the time-dependence of the system's parameters, we transform an initial quantum state into a desired final state through a short-cut protocol reaching the maximum speed compatible with the laws of quantum mechanics. In the opposite limit we implement the recently proposed transitionless superadiabatic protocols, in which the system perfectly follows the instantaneous adiabatic ground state. We demonstrate that superadiabatic protocols are extremely robust against parameter variations, making them useful for practical applications.

id: 1111.1593
title: BF-theory in graphene: a route toward topological quantum computing?
authors: Annalisa Marzuoli, Giandomenico Palumbo
comments: Slightly expanded version: added comments in introduction and concluding remarks; results unchanged. Europhysics Letters, in press 2012
journal: Europhysics Letters 99, 10002 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1593
abstract: Besides the plenty of applications of graphene allotropes in condensed matter and nanotechnology, we argue that graphene sheets might be engineered to support room-temperature topological quantum processing of information. The argument is based on the possibility of modeling the monolayer graphene effective action by means of a 3d Topological Quantum Field Theory of BF-type able to sustain non-Abelian anyon dynamics. This feature is the basic requirement of recently proposed theoretical frameworks for fault-tolerant and decoherence protected quantum computation.

id: 1111.1616
title: Spatial properties of entangled photon pairs generated in nonlinear layered structures
authors: Jan Perina Jr
comments: 13 pages, 17 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053840 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1616
abstract: A spatial quantum model of spontaneous parametric down-conversion in nonlinear layered structures is developed expanding the interacting vectorial fields into monochromatic plane waves. A two-photon spectral amplitude depending on the signal- and idler-field frequencies and propagation directions is used to derive transverse profiles of the emitted fields as well as their spatial correlations. Intensity spatial profiles and their spatial correlations are mainly determined by the positions of transmission peaks formed in these structures with photonic bands. A method for geometry optimization of the structures with respect to efficiency of the nonlinear process is suggested. Several structures composed of GaN/AlN layers are analyzed as typical examples. They allow the generation of photon pairs correlated in several emission directions. Photon-pair generation rates increasing better than the second power of the number of layers can be reached. Also structures efficiently generated photon pairs showing anti-bunching and anti-coalescence can be obtained. Three reasons for splitting the correlated area in photonic-band-gap structures are revealed: zig-zag movement of photons inside the structure, spatial symmetry and polarization-dependent properties. Also spectral splitting can be observed in these structures.

id: 1111.1617
title: Double symmetry breaking and 2D quantum phase diagram in spin-boson systems
authors: Pierre Nataf, Alexandre Baksic, Cristiano Ciuti
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 86 (2012) 013832
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1617
abstract: The quantum ground state properties of two independent chains of spins (two-levels systems) interacting with the same bosonic field are theoretically investigated. Each chain is coupled to a different quadrature of the field, leading to two independent symmetry breakings for increasing values of the two spin-boson interaction constants $\Omega_C$ and $\Omega_I$. A phase diagram is provided in the plane ($\Omega_C$,$\Omega_I$) with 4 different phases that can be characterized by the complex bosonic coherence of the ground states and can be manipulated via non-abelian Berry effects. In particular, when $\Omega_C$ and $\Omega_I$ are both larger than two critical values, the fundamental subspace has a four-fold degeneracy. Possible implementations in superconducting or atomic systems are discussed.

id: 1111.1622
title: Reversal of Photon-Scattering Errors in Atomic Qubits
authors: Nitzan Akerman, Shlomi Kotler, Yinnon Glickman, Roee Ozeri
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1622
abstract: Spontaneous photon scattering by an atomic qubit is a notable example of environment-induced error and is a fundamental limit to the fidelity of quantum operations. In the scattering process the qubit loses its distinctive and coherent character owing to its entanglement with the photon. Using a single trapped ion we show that by utilizing the information carried by the photon we are able to coherently reverse this process and correct for the scattering error. We further used quantum process tomography to characterize the photon-scattering error and its correction scheme and demonstrate a correction fidelity greater than 85% whenever a photon was measured.

id: 1111.1661
title: Solution of the momentum-space Schr?dinger equation for bound states of the N-dimensional Coulomb problem (revisited)
authors: Rados?aw Szmytkowski
comments: LaTeX2e, 13 pages; some improvements made; references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1661
abstract: The Schr\"odinger-Coulomb Sturmian problem in $\mathbb{R}^{N}$, $N\geqslant2$, is considered in the momentum representation. An integral formula for the Gegenbauer polynomials, found recently by Cohl [arXiv:1105.2735], is used to separate out angular variables and reduce an integral Sturmian eigenvalue equation in $\mathbb{R}^{N}$ to a Fredholm one on $\mathbb{R}_{+}$. A kernel of the latter equation contains the Legendre function of the second kind. A symmetric Poisson-type series expansion of that function into products of the Gegenbauer polynomials, established by Ossicini [Boll. Un. Mat. Ital. 7 (1952) 315], is then used to determine the Schr\"odinger-Coulomb Sturmian eigenvalues and associated momentum-space eigenfunctions. Finally, a relationship existing between solutions to the Sturmian problem and solutions to a (physically more interesting) energy eigenvalue problem is exploited to find the Schr\"odinger-Coulomb bound-state energy levels in $\mathbb{R}^{N}$, together with explicit representations of the associated normalized momentum-space Schr\"odinger-Coulomb Hamiltonian eigenfunctions.

id: 1111.1705
title: A crossed vortex bottle beam trap for single-atom qubits
authors: G. Li, S. Zhang, L. Isenhower, K. Maller, M. Saffman
comments: 5 figures, minor edits to text and figures, to appear opt. lett
journal: Opt. Lett. 37, 851 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1705
abstract: We demonstrate trapping and quantum state control of single Cesium atoms in a 532 nm wavelength bottle beam trap. The three dimensional trap is formed by crossing two unit charge vortex beams. Single atoms are loaded with 50% probability directly from a magneto-optical trap. We achieve a trapping lifetime of up to 6 s, and demonstrate fast Rabi oscillations with a coherence time of $T_2\sim 43 \pm 9\rm ms$.

id: 1111.1708
title: High Fidelity Quantum Gates in the Presence of Dispersion
authors: Botan Khani, Seth T. Merkel, Felix Motzoi, Jay M. Gambetta, Frank K. Wilhelm
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022306 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1708
abstract: We numerically demonstrate the control of motional degrees of freedom of an ensemble of neutral atoms in an optical lattice with a shallow trapping potential. Taking into account the range of quasimomenta across different Brillouin zones results in an ensemble whose members effectively have inhomogeneous control fields as well as spectrally distinct control Hamiltonians. We present an ensemble-averaged optimal control technique that yields high fidelity control pulses, irrespective of quasimomentum, with average fidelities above 98%. The resulting controls show a broadband spectrum with gate times in the order of several free oscillations to optimize gates with up to 13.2% dispersion in the energies from the band structure. This can be seen as a model system for the prospects of robust quantum control. This result explores the limits of discretizing a continuous ensemble for control theory.

id: 1111.1709
title: Constructive role of dissipation for driven coupled bosonic modes
authors: Chaitanya Joshi, Mats Jonson, Patrik Ohberg, Erika Andersson
comments: 4.5 pages. Published version (with minor modifications)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 062304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1709
abstract: We theoretically investigate a system of two coupled bosonic modes subject to both dissipation and external driving. We show that in the steady state the degree of entanglement between the coupled bosonic modes can be enhanced by dissipation. The non-monotonic dependence of entanglement on the decay rates is observed when the bosonic modes are asymmetrically coupled to their local baths. This counterintuitive result opens a new way to better understand the interplay between noise and coherence in continuous variable systems driven away from equilibrium.

id: 1111.1746
title: The necessity of entanglement and the equivalency of Bell's theorem with the second law of thermodynamics
authors: Ian T. Durham
comments: Greatly simplified the derivation of the entropic inequality in the third section and added acknowledgements. Note that this is not the version that appears in the FPP-6 proceedings. When possible, please cite this version. 5 pages, 1 table, 1 figure
journal: Foundations of Probability and Physics - 6, AIP Conference Proceedings 1424, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1746
abstract: We demonstrate that both Wigner's form of Bell's inequalities as well as a form of the second law of thermodynamics, as manifest in Carath\'{e}odory's principle, can be derived from the same simple experimental and statistical mechanical assumptions combined with the trivial behavior of integers. This suggests that Bell's theorem is merely a well-disguised statement of the second law. It also suggests that entanglement is necessary for quantum theory to be in full accord with the second law and thus builds on the results of Wiesniak, Vedral, and Brukner \cite{Marcin-Wiesniak:2008fv} who showed it was necessary for consistency with the third law.

id: 1111.1774
title: Layer by layer generation of cluster states
authors: Katherine L. Brown, Clare Horsman, Viv Kendon, William J. Munro
comments: 16 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1774
abstract: Cluster states can be used to perform measurement-based quantum computation. The cluster state is a useful resource, because once it has been generated only local operations and measurements are needed to perform universal quantum computation. In this paper, we explore techniques for quickly and deterministically building a cluster state. In particular we consider generating cluster states on a qubus quantum computer, a computational architecture which uses a continuous variable ancilla to generate interactions between qubits. We explore several techniques for building the cluster, with the number of operations required depending on whether we allow the ability to destroy previously created controlled-phase links between qubits. In the case where we can not destroy these links, we show how to create an n x m cluster using just 3nm -2n -3m/2 + 3 operations. This gives more than a factor of 2 saving over a naive method. Further savings can be obtained if we include the ability to destroy links, in which case we only need (8nm-4n-4m-8)/3 operations. Unfortunately the latter scheme is more complicated so choosing the correct order to interact the qubits is considerably more difficult. A half way scheme, that keeps a modular generation but saves additional operations over never destroying links requires only 3nm-2n-2m+4 operations. The first scheme and the last scheme are the most practical for building a cluster state because they split up the generation into the repetition of simple sections.

id: 1111.1781
title: No-broadcasting of non-signalling boxes via operations which transform local boxes into local ones
authors: P. Joshi, A. Grudka, K. Horodecki, M. Horodecki, P. Horodecki, R. Horodecki
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures: Acknowledgements updated
journal: QIC (2013) vol.13 No. 7 & 8, 567-582
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1781
abstract: We deal with families of probability distributions satisfying non-signalling condition, called non-signalling boxes and consider class of operations that transform local boxes into local ones (the one that admit LHV model). We prove that any operation from this class can not broadcast a nonlocal box in 2x2 case. We consider a function called anti-Robustness which can not decrease under these operations. The proof reduces to showing that anti-Robustness would decrease after broadcasting.

id: 1111.1853
title: Guaranteed violation of a Bell inequality without aligned reference frames or calibrated devices
authors: Peter Shadbolt, Tamas Vertesi, Yeong-Cherng Liang, Cyril Branciard, Nicolas Brunner, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 7 pages, 7 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 2, 470 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1853
abstract: Bell tests---the experimental demonstration of a Bell inequality violation---are central to understanding the foundations of quantum mechanics, underpin quantum technologies, and are a powerful diagnostic tool for technological developments in these areas. To date, Bell tests have relied on careful calibration of the measurement devices and alignment of a shared reference frame between the two parties---both technically demanding tasks in general. Surprisingly, we show that neither of these operations are necessary, violating Bell inequalities with near certainty with (i) unaligned, but calibrated, measurement devices, and (ii) uncalibrated and unaligned devices. We demonstrate generic quantum nonlocality with randomly chosen local measurements on a singlet state of two photons implemented with reconfigurable integrated optical waveguide circuits based on voltage-controlled phase shifters. The observed results demonstrate the robustness of our schemes to imperfections and statistical noise. This new approach is likely to have important applications in both fundamental science and in quantum technologies, including device independent quantum key distribution.

id: 1111.1864
title: Observers can always generate nonlocal correlations without aligning measurements by covering all their bases
authors: Joel J. Wallman, Stephen D. Bartlett
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures. v2: updated reference. v3: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 024101 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1864
abstract: Quantum theory allows for correlations between the outcomes of distant measurements that are inconsistent with any locally causal theory, as demonstrated by the violation of a Bell inequality. Typical demonstrations of these correlations require careful alignment between the measurements, which requires distant parties to share a reference frame. Here, we prove, following a numerical observation by Shadbolt et al., that if two parties share a Bell state and each party randomly chooses three orthogonal measurements, then the parties will always violate a Bell inequality. Furthermore, we prove that this probability is highly robust against local depolarizing noise, in that small levels of noise only decrease the probability of violating a Bell inequality by a small amount. We also show that generalizing to N parties increases the robustness against noise. These results improve on previous ones that only allowed a high probability of violating a Bell inequality for large numbers of parties.

id: 1111.1869
title: Steady-state entanglement and normal-mode splitting in an atom-assisted optomechanical system with intensity-dependent coupling
authors: Sh. Barzanjeh, M. H. Naderi, M. Soltanolkotabi
comments: 
journal: Phy. Rev. A 84. 063850 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1869
abstract: In this paper, we study theoretically the bipartite and tripartite continuous variable entanglement as well as the normal-mode splitting in a single-atom cavity optomechanical system with intensity-dependent coupling. The system under consideration is formed by a Fabry-Perot cavity with a thin vibrating end mirror and a two-level atom in the Gaussian standing-wave of the cavity mode. We first derive the general form of Hamiltonian describing the tripartite intensity-dependent atom-field-mirror coupling due to the presence of cavity mode structure. We then restrict our treatment to the first vibrational sideband of the mechanical resonator and derive a novel form of tripartite atom-field-mirror Hamiltonian. We show that when the optical cavity is intensely driven one can generate bipartite entanglement between any pair of the tripartite system, and that, due to entanglement sharing, the atom-mirror entanglement is efficiently generated at the expense of optical-mechanical and optical-atom entanglement. We also find that in such a system, when the Lamb-Dicke parameter is large enough one can simultaneously observe the normal mode splitting into three modes.

id: 1111.1885
title: Control and manipulation of entanglement between two coupled qubits by fast pulses
authors: Ferdi Altintas, Resul Eryigit
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1885
abstract: We have investigated the analytical and numerical dynamics of entanglement for two qubits that interact with each other via Heisenberg XXX-type interaction and subject to local time-specific external kick and Gaussian pulse-type magnetic fields in x-y plane. The qubits have been assumed to be initially prepared in different pure separable and maximally entangled states and the effect of the strength and the direction of external fast pulses on concurrence has been investigated. The carefully designed kick or pulse sequences are found to enable one to obtain constant long-lasting entanglement with desired magnitude. Moreover, the time ordering effects are found to be important in the creation and manipulation of entanglement by external fields.

id: 1111.1907
title: Quantum probabilities and violation of CHSH-inequality from classical random signals and threshold type properly calibrated detectors
authors: Andrei Khrennikov
comments: Finally, the quantum measurement problem is solved, but by going beyond the standard quantum formalism, via theory of classical random fields interacting with threshold type detectors. In fact, this is surprising that the fundamental role of detectors in production of quantum statistics was practically neglected in works on quantum foundations
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1907
abstract: We present a purely wave model (based on classical random field) which reproduces quantum probabilities (given by the fundamental law of quantum mechanics, Born's rule) including probabilities for joint detection of a pair of quantum observables (e.g., spin or polarization projections). The crucial point of our approach is that the presence of detector's threshold and calibration procedure have to be treated not as simply experimental technicalities, but as the basic counteparts of the theoretical model. The presence of the background field (vacuum fluctuations) is also the key-element of our prequantum model. It is of the classical signal type and the methods of classical signal theory (including statistical radiophysics) are used for its development. We stress that our prequantum model is not objective, i.e., the values of observables (clicks of detectors) cannot be assigned in advance, i.e., before measurement. Hence, the dilemma, nonobjectivity or nonlocality, is resolved in favor of nonobjectivity (our model is local of the classical field type). In particular, we reproduce the probabilities for the EPR-experiment for photon polarization and, hence, violate CHSH inequality for classical random signals (measured by the threshold type and properly calibrated detectors acting in the presence of the background field).

id: 1111.1934
title: Density Functional Theory for Fractional Particle Number: Derivative Discontinuity of the Energy at the Maximum Number of Bound Electrons
authors: Daniel L. Whitenack, Yu Zhang, Adam Wasserman
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1934
abstract: The derivative discontinuity in the exact exchange-correlation potential of ensemble Density Functional Theory (DFT) is investigated at the specific integer number that corresponds to the maximum number of bound electrons, $J_{max}$. A recently developed complex-scaled analog of DFT is extended to fractional particle numbers and used to study ensembles of both bound and metastable states. It is found that the exact exchange-correlation potential experiences discontinuous jumps at integer particle numbers including $J_{max}$. For integers below $J_{max}$ the jump is purely real because of the real shift in the chemical potential. At $J_{max}$, the jump has a non-zero imaginary component reflecting the finite lifetime of the $(J_{max}+1)$ state.

id: 1111.1962
title: Quantum solution to a three player Kolkata restaurant problem using entangled qutrits
authors: Puya Sharif, Hoshang Heydari
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure. Revised and expanded
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1962
abstract: Three player quantum Kolkata restaurant problem is modeled using three entangled qutrits. This first use of three level quantum states in this context is a step towards a $N$-choice generalization of the $N$-player quantum minority game. It is shown that a better than classical payoff is achieved by a Nash equilibrium solution where the space of available strategies is spanned by subsets of SU(3) and the players share a tripartite entangled initial state.

id: 1111.1971
title: Measurement of the temperature of atomic ensembles via which-way information
authors: R. de J. Le¨®n-Montiel, Juan P. Torres
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 033801 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1971
abstract: We unveil the relationship existing between the temperature of an atomic ensemble of three-level atoms in a \Lambda-configuration, and the width of the emission cone of Stokes photons that are spontaneously emitted when atoms are excited by an optical beam. This relationship, which is based on the amount of which-way information available about where the Stokes photon originated during the interaction, allow us to put forward a scheme to determine the temperature of atomic clouds by measuring the width of the emission cone. Unlike the commonly used time-of-flight measurements, with this technique, the atomic cloud is not destroyed during each measurement.

id: 1111.1978
title: Rank Restriction for the Variational Calculation of Two-electron Reduced Density Matrices of Many-electron Atoms and Molecules
authors: Kasra Naftchi-Ardebili, Nathania W. Hau, David A. Mazziotti
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052506 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1978
abstract: Variational minimization of the ground-state energy as a function of the two-electron reduced density matrix (2-RDM), constrained by necessary $N$-representability conditions, provides a polynomial-scaling approach to studying strongly correlated molecules without computing the many-electron wavefunction. Here we introduce a new route to enhancing necessary conditions for $N$-representability through rank restriction of the 2-RDM. Rather than adding computationally more expensive $N$-representability conditions, we directly enhance the accuracy of two-particle (2-positivity) conditions through rank restriction, which removes degrees of freedom in the 2-RDM that are not sufficiently constrained. We select the rank of the particle-hole 2-RDM by deriving the ranks associated with model wavefunctions including both mean-field and antisymmetrized geminal power (AGP) wave functions. Because the 2-positivity conditions are exact for quantum systems with AGP ground states, the rank of the particle-hole 2-RDM from the AGP ansatz provides a minimum for its value in variational 2-RDM calculations of general quantum systems. To implement the rank-restricted conditions, we extend a first-order algorithm for large-scale semidefinite programming. The rank-restricted conditions significantly improve the accuracy of the energies; for example, the percentages of correlation energies recovered for HF, CO, and N$_{2}$ improve from 115.2%, 121.7%, and 121.5% without rank restriction to 97.8%, 101.1%, and 100.0% with rank restriction. Similar results are found at both equilibrium and non-equilibrium geometries. While more accurate, the rank-restricted $N$-representability conditions are less expensive computationally than the full-rank conditions.

id: 1111.1979
title: Probing Planck-scale physics with quantum optics
authors: Igor Pikovski, Michael R. Vanner, Markus Aspelmeyer, Myungshik Kim, Caslav Brukner
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables
journal: Nature Physics 8, 393-397 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1979
abstract: One of the main challenges in physics today is to merge quantum theory and the theory of general relativity into a unified framework. Various approaches towards developing such a theory of quantum gravity are pursued, but the lack of experimental evidence of quantum gravitational effects thus far is a major hindrance. Yet, the quantization of space-time itself can have experimental implications: the existence of a minimal length scale is widely expected to result in a modification of the Heisenberg uncertainty relation. Here we introduce a scheme that allows an experimental test of this conjecture by probing directly the canonical commutation relation of the center of mass mode of a massive mechanical oscillator with a mass close to the Planck mass. Our protocol utilizes quantum optical control and readout of the mechanical system to probe possible deviations from the quantum commutation relation even at the Planck scale. We show that the scheme is within reach of current technology. It thus opens a feasible route for tabletop experiments to test possible quantum gravitational phenomena.

id: 1111.1986
title: Majorization theory approach to the Gaussian channel minimum entropy conjecture
authors: Raul Garcia-Patron, Carlos Navarrete-Benlloch, Seth Lloyd, Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 110505 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1986
abstract: A longstanding open problem in quantum information theory is to find the classical capacity of an optical communication link, modeled as a Gaussian bosonic channel. It has been conjectured that this capacity is achieved by a random coding of coherent states using an isotropic Gaussian distribution in phase space. We show that proving a Gaussian minimum entropy conjecture for a quantum-limited amplifier is actually sufficient to confirm this capacity conjecture, and we provide a strong argument towards this proof by exploiting a connection between quantum entanglement and majorization theory.

id: 1111.1997
title: Device-independent entanglement-based Bennett 1992 protocol
authors: Marco Lucamarini, Giuseppe Vallone, Ilaria Gianani, Giovanni Di Giuseppe, Paolo Mataloni
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. 3nd version: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032325 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1997
abstract: In this paper we set forth a novel connection between the Bennett 1992 protocol and a Bell inequality. This allows us to extend the usual prepare-and-measure protocol to its entanglement-based formulation. We exploit a recent result in the frame of device-independent quantum key distribution to provide a simple, model-independent, security proof for the new protocol. The minimum efficiency required for a practical implementation of the scheme is the lowest reported to date.

id: 1111.2004
title: The Loschmidt Echo as a robust decoherence quantifier for many-body systems
authors: Pablo R. Zangara, Axel D. Dente, Patricia R. Levstein, Horacio M. Pastawski
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012322 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2004
abstract: We employ the Loschmidt Echo, i.e. the signal recovered after the reversal of an evolution, to identify and quantify the processes contributing to decoherence. This procedure, which has been extensively used in single particle physics, is here employed in a spin ladder. The isolated chains have 1/2 spins with XY interaction and their excitations would sustain a one-body like propagation. One of them constitutes the controlled system S whose reversible dynamics is degraded by the weak coupling with the uncontrolled second chain, i.e. the environment E. The perturbative SE coupling is swept through arbitrary combinations of XY and Ising like interactions, that contain the standard Heisenberg and dipolar ones. Different time regimes are identified for the Loschmidt Echo dynamics in this perturbative configuration. In particular, the exponential decay scales as a Fermi golden rule, where the contributions of the different SE terms are individually evaluated and analyzed. Comparisons with previous analytical and numerical evaluations of decoherence based on the attenuation of specific interferences, show that the Loschmidt Echo is an advantageous decoherence quantifier at any time, regardless of the S internal dynamics.

id: 1111.2012
title: Exposed positive maps: a sufficient condition
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Gniewomir Sarbicki
comments: 10 pages; improved version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 115304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2012
abstract: Exposed positive maps in matrix algebras define a dense subset of extremal maps. We provide a sufficient condition for a positive map to be exposed. This is an analog of a spanning property which guaranties that a positive map is optimal. We analyze a class of decomposable maps for which this condition is also necessary.

id: 1111.2026
title: Quantum to Classical Randomness Extractors
authors: Mario Berta, Omar Fawzi, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 6+31 pages, 2 tables, 1 figure, v2: improved converse parameters, typos corrected, new discussion, v3: new references
journal: IEEE Trans. Info. Theo. 60, 1168 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2026
abstract: The goal of randomness extraction is to distill (almost) perfect randomness from a weak source of randomness. When the source yields a classical string X, many extractor constructions are known. Yet, when considering a physical randomness source, X is itself ultimately the result of a measurement on an underlying quantum system. When characterizing the power of a source to supply randomness it is hence a natural question to ask, how much classical randomness we can extract from a quantum system. To tackle this question we here take on the study of quantum-to-classical randomness extractors (QC-extractors). We provide constructions of QC-extractors based on measurements in a full set of mutually unbiased bases (MUBs), and certain single qubit measurements. As the first application, we show that any QC-extractor gives rise to entropic uncertainty relations with respect to quantum side information. Such relations were previously only known for two measurements. As the second application, we resolve the central open question in the noisy-storage model [Wehner et al., PRL 100, 220502 (2008)] by linking security to the quantum capacity of the adversary's storage device.

id: 1111.2063
title: Concurrence in Disordered Systems
authors: Jenny Hide
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 115302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2063
abstract: Quantum systems exist at finite temperatures and are likely to be disordered to some level. Since applications of quantum information often rely on entanglement, we require methods which allow entanglement measures to be calculated in the presence of disorder at non-zero temperatures. We demonstrate how the disorder averaged concurrence can be calculated using thermal many-body perturbation theory. Our technique can also be applied to other entanglement measures. To illustrate, we find the disorder averaged concurrence of an XX spin chain. We find that concurrence can be increased by disorder in some parameter regimes.

id: 1111.2073
title: Polarization-Entangled Light Pulses of 10^5 Photons
authors: Timur Sh. Iskhakov, Ivan N. Agafonov, Maria V. Chekhova, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2073
abstract: We experimentally demonstrate polarization entanglement for squeezed vacuum pulses containing more than 10^5 photons. We also study photon-number entanglement by calculating the Schmidt number and measuring its operational counterpart. Theoretically, our pulses are the more entangled the brighter they are. This promises important applications in quantum technologies, especially photonic quantum gates and quantum memories.

id: 1111.2119
title: Adiabatic State Conversion and Pulse Transmission in Optomechanical Systems
authors: Lin Tian
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. Supplementary Materials at this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 153604 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2119
abstract: Optomechanical systems with strong coupling can be a powerful medium for quantum state engineering. Here, we show that quantum state conversion between cavity modes with different wavelengths can be realized with high fidelity by adiabatically varying the effective optomechanical couplings. The fidelity for the conversion of gaussian states is derived by solving the Langevin equation in the adiabatic limit. We also show that photon pulses can be transmitted between input-output channels with different wavelengths via the effective optomechanical couplings and the output pulse shape can also be manipulated.

id: 1111.2123
title: A Cutoff Phenomenon for Quantum Markov Chains
authors: Michael J. Kastoryano, David Reeb, Michael M. Wolf
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 075307
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2123
abstract: We derive upper and lower bounds on the convergence behavior of certain classes of one-parameter quantum dynamical semigroups. The classes we consider consist of tensor product channels and of channels with commuting Liouvillians. We introduce the notion of Cutoff Phenomenon in the setting of quantum information theory, and show how it exemplifies the fact that the convergence of (quantum) stochastic processes is not solely governed by the spectral gap of the transition map. We apply the new methods to show that graph states can be prepared efficiently, albeit not in constant time, by dissipation, and give the exact scaling behavior of the time to stationarity.

id: 1111.2126
title: Persistent dynamic entanglement from classical motion: How bio-molecular machines can generate non-trivial quantum states
authors: Gian Giacomo Guerreschi, Jianming Cai, Sandu Popescu, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 053043 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2126
abstract: Very recently [Phys. Rev. E 82, 021921 (2010)] a simple mechanism was presented by which a molecule subjected to forced oscillations, out of thermal equilibrium, can maintain quantum entanglement between two of its quantum degrees of freedom. Crucially, entanglement can be maintained even in the presence of very intense noise, so intense that no entanglement is possible when the forced oscillations cease. This mechanism may allow for the presence of non-trivial quantum entanglement in biological systems. Here we significantly enlarge the study of this model. In particular, we show that the persistent generation of dynamic entanglement is not restricted to the bosonic heat bath model, but it can also be observed in other decoherence models, e.g. the spin gas model, and in non-Markovian scenarios. We also show how conformational changes can be used by an elementary machine to generate entanglement even in unfavorable conditions. In biological systems, similar mechanisms could be exploited by more complex molecular machines or motors.

id: 1111.2187
title: Decoherence and its Role in the Modern Measurement Problem
authors: David Wallace
comments: 10 pages; invited submission to special issue of Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. Lond. (A. Hagar ed.)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2187
abstract: Decoherence is widely felt to have something to do with the quantum measurement problem, but getting clear on just what is made difficult by the fact that the "measurement problem", as traditionally presented in foundational and philosophical discussions, has become somewhat disconnected from the conceptual problems posed by real physics. This, in turn, is because quantum mechanics as discussed in textbooks and in foundational discussions has become somewhat removed from scientific practice, especially where the analysis of measurement is concerned. This paper has two goals: firstly (sections 1-2), to present an account of how quantum measurements are actually dealt with in modern physics (hint: it doesn't involve a collapse of the wavefunction) and to state the measurement problem from the perspective of that account; and secondly (sections 3-4), to clarify what role decoherence plays in modern measurement theory and what effect it has on the various strategies that have been proposed to solve the measurement problem.

id: 1111.2216
title: Removing correlations in signals transmitted over a quantum memory channel
authors: Cosmo Lupo, Laleh Memarzadeh, Stefano Mancini
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, comments welcome
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012320 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2216
abstract: We consider a model of bosonic memory channel, which induces correlations among the transmitted signals. The application of suitable unitary transformations at encoding and decoding stages allows the complete removal of correlations, mapping the memory channel into a memoryless one. However, such transformations, being global over an arbitrary large number of bosonic modes, are not realistically implementable. We then introduce a family of efficiently realizable transformations which can be used to partially remove correlations among errors, and we quantify the reduction of the gap with memoryless channels.

id: 1111.2238
title: Spin chains for robust state transfer: Modified boundary couplings vs. completely engineered chains
authors: Analia Zwick, Gonzalo A. Alvarez, Joachim Stolze, Omar Osenda
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012318 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2238
abstract: Quantum state transfer in the presence of noise is one of the main challenges in building quantum computers. We compare the quantum state transfer properties for two classes of qubit chains under the influence of static randomness. In fully engineered chains all nearest-neighbor couplings are tuned in such a way that a single-qubit state can be transferred perfectly between the ends of the chain, while in boundary-controlled chains only the two couplings between the transmitting and receiving qubits and the remainder of the chain can be optimized. We study how the noise in the couplings affects the state transfer fidelity depending on the noise model and strength as well as the chain type and length. We show that the desired level of fidelity and transfer time are important factors in designing a chain. In particular we demonstrate that transfer efficiency comparable or better than that of the most robust engineered systems can also be reached in boundary-controlled chains without the demanding engineering of a large number of couplings.

id: 1111.2253
title: From Maximal Entropy Random Walk to quantum thermodynamics
authors: Jarek Duda
comments: 60 pages, 19 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2253
abstract: Surprisingly the looking natural random walk leading to Brownian motion occurs to be often biased in a very subtle way: usually refers to only approximate fulfillment of thermodynamical principles like maximizing uncertainty. Recently, a new philosophy of stochastic modeling was introduced, which by being mathematically similar to euclidean path integrals, finally fulfills these principles exactly. Their local behavior is usually similar, but may lead to completely different global properties. In contrast to Brownian motion leading to nearly uniform stationary density, this recent approach turns out in agreement with having strong localization properties thermodynamical predictions of quantum mechanics, like thermalizing to dynamical equilibrium state having probability density as the quantum ground state: squares of coordinates of the lowest energy eigenvector of the Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian for single particle in discrete case, or of the standard Schrodinger operator while including potential and making infinitesimal limit. It also provides a natural intuition of the amplitudes' squares relating to probabilities. The present paper gathers, formalizes and extends these results. There are also introduced and discussed some new generalizations, like considering multiple particles with thermodynamical analogue of Pauli exclusion principle or time dependent cases, which allowed to introduce thermodynamical analogues of momentum operator, Ehrenfest equation and Heisenberg uncertainty principle.

id: 1111.2276
title: Linear dynamics of quantum-classical hybrids
authors: Hans-Thomas Elze
comments: Replaced by final revtex version; references updated, section V.E. added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052109 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2276
abstract: A formulation of quantum-classical hybrid dynamics is presented, which concerns the direct coupling of classical and quantum mechanical degrees of freedom. It is of interest for applications in quantum mechanical approximation schemes and may be relevant for the foundations of quantum mechanics, in particular, when it comes to experiments exploring the quantum-classical border. The present linear theory differs from the nonlinear ensemble theory of Hall and Reginatto, but shares with it to fullfill all consistency requirements discussed in the literature, while earlier attempts failed in this respect. Our work is based on the representation of quantum mechanics in the framework of classical analytical mechanics by A. Heslot, showing that notions of states in phase space, observables, Poisson brackets, and related canonical transformations can be naturally extended to quantum mechanics. This is suitably generalized for quantum-classical hybrids here.

id: 1111.2297
title: Experimental generation of complex noisy photonic entanglement
authors: K. Dobek, M. Karpinski, R. Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, K. Banaszek, P. Horodecki
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: Laser Phys. 23, 025204 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2297
abstract: We present an experimental scheme based on spontaneous parametric down-conversion to produce multiple photon pairs in maximally entangled polarization states using an arrangement of two type-I nonlinear crystals. By introducing correlated polarization noise in the paths of the generated photons we prepare mixed entangled states whose properties illustrate fundamental results obtained recently in quantum information theory, in particular those concerning bound entanglement and privacy.

id: 1111.2308
title: Useless Qubits in "Relativistic Quantum Information"
authors: Fay Dowker
comments: 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2308
abstract: I draw attention to previous work that shows that the observables corresponding to relativistic quantum field modes commonly employed in papers on "relativistic quantum information" cannot be measured by ideal measurements.

id: 1111.2311
title: Squeezed-state quantum key distribution upon imperfect reconciliation
authors: Vladyslav C. Usenko, Radim Filip
comments: 14 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 13, 113007 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2311
abstract: We address the security of continuous-variable quantum key distribution with squeezed states upon realistic conditions of noisy and lossy environment and limited reconciliation efficiency. Considering the generalized preparation scheme and clearly distinguishing between classical and quantum resources, we investigate the effect of finite squeezing on the tolerance of the protocol to untrusted channel noise. For a long-distance strongly attenuating channel and the consequent low reconciliation efficiency, we show that feasible limited squeezing is surprisingly sufficient to provide the security of Gaussian quantum key distribution in the presence of untrusted noise. We explain the effect by behaviour of the Holevo quantity, which describes the information leakage, and is effectively minimized by the squeezed states.

id: 1111.2348
title: On Relativistic Quantum Information Properties of Entangled Wave Vectors of Massive Fermions
authors: C. Cafaro, S. Capozziello, S. Mancini
comments: 21 pages, 8 figures
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 51, 2313 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2348
abstract: We study special relativistic effects on the entanglement between either spins or momenta of composite quantum systems of two spin-1/2 massive particles, either indistinguishable or distinguishable, in inertial reference frames in relative motion. For the case of indistinguishable particles, we consider a balanced scenario where the momenta of the pair are well-defined but not maximally entangled in the rest frame while the spins of the pair are described by a one-parameter ($\eta$) family of entangled bipartite states. For the case of distinguishable particles, we consider an unbalanced scenario where the momenta of the pair are well-defined and maximally entangled in the rest frame while the spins of the pair are described by a one-parameter ($\xi$) family of non-maximally entangled bipartite states. In both cases, we show that neither the spin-spin ($ss$) nor the momentum-momentum ($mm$) entanglements quantified by means of Wootters' concurrence are Lorentz invariant quantities: the total amount of entanglement regarded as the sum of these entanglements is not the same in different inertial moving frames. In particular, for any value of the entangling parameters, both $ss$ and $mm$-entanglements are attenuated by Lorentz transformations and their parametric rates of change with respect to the entanglements observed in a rest frame have the same monotonic behavior. However, for indistinguishable (distinguishable) particles, the change in entanglement for the momenta is (is not) the same as the change in entanglement for spins. As a consequence, in both cases, no entanglement compensation between spin and momentum degrees of freedom occurs.

id: 1111.2358
title: Atom-mediated effective interactions between modes of a bimodal cavity
authors: F. O. Prado, F. S. Luiz, J. M. Villas-B?as, A. M. Alcalde, E. I. Duzzioni, L. Sanz
comments: To be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053839 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2358
abstract: We show a procedure for engineering effective interactions between two modes in a bimodal cavity. Our system consists of one or more two-level atoms, excited by a classical field, interacting with both modes. The two effective Hamiltonians have a similar form of a beam-splitter and quadratic beam-splitter interactions, respectively. We also demonstrate that the nonlinear Hamiltonian can be used to prepare an entangled coherent state, also known as multidimensional entangled coherent state, which has been pointed out as an important entanglement resource. We show that the nonlinear interaction parameter can be enhanced considering N independent atoms trapped inside a high-finesse optical cavity.

id: 1111.2415
title: Opto- and electro-mechanical entanglement improved by modulation
authors: A. Mari, J. Eisert
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 075014 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2415
abstract: One of the main milestones in the study of opto- and electro-mechanical systems is to certify entanglement between a mechanical resonator and an optical or microwave mode of a cavity field. In this work, we show how a suitable time-periodic modulation can help to achieve large degrees of entanglement, building upon the framework introduced in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 213603 (2009)]. It is demonstrated that with suitable driving, the maximum degree of entanglement can be significantly enhanced, in a way exhibiting a non-trivial dependence on the specifics of the modulation. Such time-dependent driving might help experimentally achieving entangled mechanical systems also in situations when quantum correlations are otherwise suppressed by thermal noise.

id: 1111.2423
title: Quantum correlations dynamics under different non-markovian environmental models
authors: Ying-Jie Zhang, Wei Han, Chuan-Jia Shan, Yun-Jie Xia
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B, 29, 2060, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2423
abstract: We investigate the roles of different environmental models on quantum correlation dynamics of two-qubit composite system interacting with two independent environments. The most common environmental models (the single-Lorentzian model, the squared-Lorentzian model, the two-Lorentzian model and band-gap model) are analyzed. First, we note that for the weak coupling regime, the monotonous decay speed of the quantum correlation is mainly determined by the spectral density functions of these different environments. Then, by considering the strong coupling regime we find that, contrary to what is stated in the weak coupling regime, the dynamics of quantum correlation depends on the non-Markovianity of the environmental models, and is independent of the environmental spectrum density functions.

id: 1111.2426
title: Error tolerance of the BosonSampling model for linear optics quantum computing
authors: Peter P. Rohde, Timothy C. Ralph
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022332 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2426
abstract: Linear optics quantum computing (LOQC) is a promising approach to implementing scalable quantum computation (QC). However, this approach has very demanding physical resource requirements. Recently, Aaronson & Arkhipov showed that a simplified model, which avoids the requirement for fast feed-forward and post-selection, while likely not capable of solving BQP-complete problems efficiently, can solve an interesting sampling problem, believed to be classically hard. Loss and mode-mismatch are the dominant sources of error in such systems. We provide evidence that even lossy systems, or systems with mode-mismatch, are likely to be classically hard to simulate. This is of practical interest to experimentalists wishing to demonstrate such systems, since it suggests that even with errors in their implementation, they are likely implementing an algorithm which is classically hard to simulate. Our results also equivalently apply to the multi-walker quantum walk model.

id: 1111.2534
title: Large detuning limit for the multipartite systems interacting with electromagnetic fields
authors: Hong-Yi Li, Chun-Wang Wu, Ping-Xing Chen, Cheng-Zu Li
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2534
abstract: We study the dynamics of the multipartite systems nonresonantly interacting with electromagnetic fields and show that, since the coupling strength $g$ is collectively enhanced by the square root of the number of microparticles involved, the more rigorous large detuning condition for neglecting the rapidly oscillating terms for the effective Hamiltonian should be $\Delta\gg\sqrt{N}g$, instead of $\Delta\gg g$ usually used in the literature even in the case of multipartite systems, with $\Delta$ the detuning and and $N$ the number of microparticles. This result is significant since merely the satisfaction of the original condition will result in the invalidity of the effective Hamiltonian and the errors of the parameters associated with the detuning in the multipartite case.

id: 1111.2563
title: Guildenstern and Rosencrantz in Quantumland -- A Reply to Adrian Kent
authors: Vincent Duhamel, Paul Raymond-Robichaud
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2563
abstract: This paper is an answer to the first part of Adrian Kent's One World versus Many : the Inadequacy of Everettian Accounts of Evolution, Probability, and Scientific Confirmation [arXiv:0905.0624]. We take issue with Kent's arguments against many-world interpretations of quantum mechanics. We argue that his reasons for preferring single-world interpretations are logically flawed and that his proposed singleworld alternative to probability theory suffers from conceptual problems. We use a few thought-experiments which show that the problems he raises for probabilities in multiverses also apply in a single universe.

id: 1111.2571
title: Entanglement of distant optomechanical systems
authors: Chaitanya Joshi, Jonas Larson, Mats Jonson, Erika Andersson, Patrik Ohberg
comments: 12 pages (published with minor modifications)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 033805 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2571
abstract: We theoretically investigate the possibility to generate non-classical states of optical and mechanical modes of optical cavities, distant from each other. A setup comprised of two identical cavities, each with one fixed and one movable mirror and coupled by an optical fiber, is studied in detail. We show that with such a setup there is potential to generate entanglement between the distant cavities, involving both optical and mechanical modes. The scheme is robust with respect to dissipation, and nonlocal correlations are found to exist in the steady state at finite temperatures.

id: 1111.2593
title: Local quantum mechanics and superquantum correlations imply superluminal signaling
authors: S. Aravinda, R. Srikanth
comments: Interpretational comments added; 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2593
abstract: It has been shown that local quantum measurements and no-signaling imply quantum correlations (Barnum et al. Phys. Rev. Lett., 104, 140401 (2010)). This entails that superquantum correlations will be superluminaly signaling if we admit the validity of local quantum mechanics. We present a specific, simple instance of this situation. Our result also has the interpretation that replacing the local (trivial) dynamics in a generalized non-signaling theory (GNST) by one that admits local unitaries, results in a probability distribution that may be positive and normalization-preserving but violates no-signaling, and is thus inconsistent within the formalism.

id: 1111.2645
title: Assisted state discrimination without entanglement
authors: Bo Li, Shao-Ming Fei, Zhi-Xi Wang, Heng Fan
comments: 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022328 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2645
abstract: It is shown that the dissonance, a quantum correlation which is equal to quantum discord for separable state, is required for assisted optimal state discrimination. We find that only one side discord is required in the optimal process of assisted state discrimination, while another side discord and entanglement is not necessary. We confirm that the quantum discord, which is asymmetric depending on local measurements, is a resource for assisted state discrimination. With the absence of entanglement, we give the necessary and sufficient condition for vanishing one side discord in assisted state discrimination for a class of $d$ nonorthogonal states. As a byproduct, we find that the positive-partial-transposition (PPT) condition is the necessary and sufficient condition for the separability of a class of $2\times d$ states.

id: 1111.2646
title: Robustness of quantum correlations against decoherence
authors: Ming-Liang Hu, Heng Fan
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Annals of Physics, 2012, 327(3): 851-860
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2646
abstract: We study dynamics of nonclassical correlations by exactly solving a model consisting of two atomic qubits with spontaneous emission. We find that the nonclassical correlations defined by different measures give different qualitative characterizations of those correlations. The relative behaviors of those correlation measures are presented explicitly for various quantum states in the two-qubit atomic system. In particular, we find that the robustness of quantum correlations can be greatly enhanced by performing appropriate local unitary operations on the initial state of the system.

id: 1111.2648
title: Relativistic quantum information and time machines
authors: Timothy C. Ralph, Tony G. Downes
comments: to appear in Contemporary Physics
journal: Contemporary Physics, 53, 1 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2648
abstract: Relativistic quantum information combines the informational approach to understanding and using quantum mechanics systems - quantum information - with the relativistic view of the universe. In this introductory review we examine key results to emerge from this new field of research in physics and discuss future directions. A particularly active area recently has been the question of what happens when quantum systems interact with general relativistic closed timelike curves - effectively time machines. We discuss two different approaches that have been suggested for modelling such situations. It is argued that the approach based on matching the density operator of the quantum state between the future and past most consistently avoids the paradoxes usually associated with time travel.

id: 1111.2662
title: Scalable one-way quantum computer using on-chip resonator qubits
authors: Chun-Wang Wu, Ming Gao, Hong-Yi Li, Zhi-Jiao Deng, Hong-Yi Dai, Ping-Xing Chen, Cheng-Zu Li
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2662
abstract: We propose a scalable and robust architecture for one-way quantum computation using coupled networks of superconducting transmission line resonators. In our protocol, quantum information is encoded into the long-lived photon states of the resonators, which have a much longer coherence time than the usual superconducting qubits. Each resonator contains a charge qubit used for the state initialization and local projective measurement of the photonic qubit. Any pair of neighboring photonic qubits are coupled via a mediator charge qubit, and large photonic cluster states can be created by applying Stark-shifted Rabi pulses to these mediator qubits. The distinct advantage of our architecture is that it combines both the excellent scalability of the solid-state systems and the long coherence time of the photonic qubits. Furthermore, this architecture is very robust against the parameter variations.

id: 1111.2686
title: Perfect state transfer in XX chains induced by boundary magnetic fields
authors: Thorben Linneweber, Joachim Stolze, G?tz S. Uhrig
comments: Revised version, accepted for publication in Int. J. Quant. Inf
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 10, 1250029 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2686
abstract: A recent numerical study of short chains found near-perfect quantum state transfer between the boundary sites of a spin-1/2 XX chain if a sufficiently strong magnetic field acts on these sites. We show that the phenomenon is based on a pair of states strongly localized at the boundaries of the system and provide a simple quantitative analytical explanation.

id: 1111.2694
title: Entanglement in (1/2,1) mixed-spin XY model with long-range interactions
authors: S. D. Han, T. Tufekci, T. P. Spiller, E. Aydiner
comments: 9 pages, 11 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2694
abstract: In this study, considering the long-range interaction with an inverse-square and its trigonometric and hyperbolic variants in SCM model we investigate entanglement in (1/2,1) mixed-spin XY model. We also discuss the temperature and magnetic field dependence of the thermal entanglement in this system for different types of interaction. The numerical results show that, in the presence of the long-range interactions, thermal entanglement between spins has a rich behavior dependent upon the interaction strength, temperature and magnetic field. Indeed we find that for less than a critical distance there are entanglement plateaus dependent upon the distance between the spins, whereas above the critical distance the entanglement can exhibit sudden death.

id: 1111.2696
title: Experimental undecidability of macroscopic quantumness
authors: Pawel Kurzynski, Akihito Soeda, Ravishankar Ramanathan, Andrzej Grudka, Jayne Thompson, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures. This is a new version of the paper with significant changes in the title, its content and conclusions
journal: Physics Letters A, Volume 377, Issue 40, Pages 2856-2859 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2696
abstract: Quantum mechanics marks a radical departure from the classical understanding of Nature, fostering an inherent randomness which forbids a deterministic description; yet the most fundamental departure arises from something different. As shown by Bell [1] and Kochen-Specker [2], quantum mechanics portrays a picture of the world in which reality loses its objectivity and is in fact created by observation. Quantum mechanics predicts phenomena which cannot be explained by any theory with objective realism, although our everyday experience supports the hypothesis that macroscopic objects, despite being made of quantum particles, exist independently of the act of observation; in this paper we identify this behavior as classical. Here we show that this seemingly obvious classical behavior of the macroscopic world cannot be experimentally tested and belongs to the realm of ontology similar to the dispute on the interpretations of quantum mechanics [3,4]. For small systems such as a single photon [5] or a pair [6], it has been experimentally proven that a classical description cannot be sustained. Recently, there have also been experiments that claim to have demonstrated quantum behavior of relatively large objects such as interference of fullerenes [7], the violation of Leggett-Garg inequality in Josephson junction [8], and interference between two condensed clouds of atoms [9], which suggest that there is no limit to the size of the system on which the quantum-versus-classical question can be tested. These behaviors, however, are not sufficient to refute classical description in the sense of objective reality. Our findings show that once we reach the regime where an Avogadro number of particles is present, the quantum-versus-classical question cannot be answered experimentally.

id: 1111.2747
title: Phase-random states: ensembles of states with fixed amplitudes and uniformly distributed phases in a fixed basis
authors: Yoshifumi Nakata, Peter S. Turner, Mio Murao
comments: Revised, 12 pages, 4 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2747
abstract: Motivated by studies of typical properties of quantum states in statistical mechanics, we introduce phase-random states, an ensemble of pure states with fixed amplitudes and uniformly distributed phases in a fixed basis. We first show that canonical states typically appear in subsystems of phase-random states. We then investigate the simulatability of phase-random states, which is directly related to that of time evolution in closed systems, by studying their entanglement properties. We find that starting from a separable state, time evolutions under Hamiltonians composed of only separable eigenstates generate extremely high entanglement and are difficult to simulate with matrix product states. We also show that random quantum circuits consisting of only two-qubit diagonal unitaries can generate an ensemble with the same average entanglement as phase-random states.

id: 1111.2798
title: Finite-key analysis of the six-state protocol with photon-number-resolution detectors
authors: Silvestre Abruzzo, Markus Mertz, Hermann Kampermann, Dagmar Bru?
comments: 
journal: Proc. SPIE 8189, 818917 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2798
abstract: The six-state protocol is a discrete-variable protocol for quantum key distribution, that permits to tolerate a noisier channel than the BB84 protocol. In this work we provide a lower bound on the maximum achievable key rate of a practical implementation of the entanglement-based version of the six-state protocol. Regarding the experimental set-up we consider that the source is untrusted and the photon-number statistics is measured using photon-number-resolving detectors. We provide the formula for the key rate for a finite initial number of resources. As an illustration of the considered formalism, we calculate the key rate for the setting where the source produces entangled photon pairs via parametric down-conversion and the losses in the channel depend on the distance. As a result we find that the finite-key corrections for the considered scenario are not negligible and they should be considered in any practical analysis.

id: 1111.2847
title: Task-dependent control of open quantum systems
authors: Jens Clausen, Guy Bensky, Gershon Kurizki
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, presented at DPG Spring Meeting, Dresden, 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2847
abstract: We develop a general optimization strategy for performing a chosen unitary or non-unitary task on an open quantum system. The goal is to design a controlled time-dependent system Hamiltonian by variationally minimizing or maximizing a chosen function of the system state, which quantifies the task success (score), such as fidelity, purity, or entanglement. If the time-dependence of the system Hamiltonian is fast enough to be comparable or shorter than the response-time of the bath, then the resulting non-Markovian dynamics is shown to optimize the chosen task score to second order in the coupling to the bath. This strategy can protect a desired unitary system evolution from bath-induced decoherence, but ca also take advantage of the system-bath coupling so as to realize a desired non-unitary effect on the system.

id: 1111.2855
title: Entropic time endowed in quantum correlations
authors: Akimasa Miyake
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures, 1 bit of missing information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2855
abstract: A possible mechanism of time is formulated by developing an idea of time replaced by quantum correlations, with the aid of modern quantum information theory. We invent a microscopic model, where correlations of a closed system are steadily read out as internal, quantum clocks that define time via their relative phases. The model could realize emergent time evolutions which exhibit unitarity of quantum theory, while its underlying process is driven entropically. The key quantity turns out to be the amount of accessible information about the clocks recording past events. By postulating the so-called data-processing inequality (or strong subadditivity of entropy) as a fundamental, physical limitation about how information decays, we propose that conditional entropy about this past information should be constrained to be a positive constant. The proposal implies a holographic property of this conditional entropy in an analogous manner with the area law of entanglement entropy.

id: 1111.2956
title: Mass spectrum from stochastic Levy-Schroedinger relativistic equations: possible qualitative predictions in QCD
authors: Nicola Cufaro Petroni, Modesto Pusterla
comments: 8 pages, no figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1008.4255
journal: Modern Physics Letters A, 27 (2012) 1250034
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2956
abstract: Starting from the relation between the kinetic energy of a free Levy-Schroedinger particle and the logarithmic characteristic of the underlying stochastic process, we show that it is possible to get a precise relation between renormalizable field theories and a specific Levy process. This subsequently leads to a particular cut-off in the perturbative diagrams and can produce a phenomenological mass spectrum that allows an interpretation of quarks and leptons distributed in the three families of the standard model.

id: 1111.2970
title: An improved 1D area law for frustration-free systems
authors: Itai Arad, Zeph Landau, Umesh Vazirani
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures. Some small style corrections and updated refs
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 195145 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2970
abstract: We present a new proof for the 1D area law for frustration-free systems with a constant gap, which exponentially improves the entropy bound in Hastings' 1D area law, and which is tight to within a polynomial factor. For particles of dimension $d$, spectral gap $\epsilon>0$ and interaction strength of at most $J$, our entropy bound is $S_{1D}\le \orderof{1}X^3\log^8 X$ where $X\EqDef(J\log d)/\epsilon$. Our proof is completely combinatorial, combining the detectability lemma with basic tools from approximation theory. Incorporating locality into the proof when applied to the 2D case gives an entanglement bound that is at the cusp of being non-trivial in the sense that any further improvement would yield a sub-volume law.

id: 1111.3080
title: Dependence of a quantum mechanical system on its own initial state and the initial state of the environment it interacts with
authors: Adrian Hutter, Stephanie Wehner
comments: 9+4 pages, revtex. v2: minor changes in notation; v4: greatly rewritten, new title, new applications of main results, to appear in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012121 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3080
abstract: We present a unifying framework to the understanding of when and how quantum mechanical systems become independent of their initial conditions and adapt macroscopic properties (like temperature) of the environment.By viewing this problem from an quantum information theory perspective, we are able to simplify it in a very natural and easy way. We first show that for any interaction between the system and the environment, and almost all initial states of the system, the question of how long the system retains memory of its initial conditions can be answered by studying the temporal evolution of just one special initial state. This special state thereby depends only on our knowledge of macroscopic parameters of the system. We provide a simple entropic inequality for this state that can be used to determine whether mosts states of the system have, or have not become independent of their initial conditions after time $t$. We discuss applications of our entropic criterion to thermalization times in systems with an effective light-cone and to quantum memories suffering depolarizing noise. We make a similar statement for almost all initial states of the environment, and finally provide a sufficient condition for which a system never thermalizes, but remains close to its initial state for all times.

id: 1111.3081
title: Specification of photonic circuits using Quantum Hardware Description Language
authors: Nikolas Tezak, Armand Niederberger, Dmitri S. Pavlichin, Gopal Sarma, Hideo Mabuchi
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures, 1 table, 6 code listings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3081
abstract: Following the simple observation that the interconnection of a set of quantum optical input-output devices can be specified using structural mode VHSIC Hardware Description Language (VHDL), we demonstrate a computer-aided schematic capture workflow for modeling and simulating multi-component photonic circuits. We describe an algorithm for parsing circuit descriptions to derive quantum equations of motion, illustrate our approach using simple examples based on linear and cavity-nonlinear optical components, and demonstrate a computational approach to hierarchical model reduction.

id: 1111.3133
title: Quantum Computing on Multi-atomic Ensembles in Quantum Electrodynamics Cavity
authors: Farid Ablayev, Sergey N. Andrianov, Alexander Vasiliev, Sergey A. Moiseev
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3133
abstract: We propose an effective realization of a complete set of elementary quantum gates in the solid-state quantum computer based on the multi-atomic coherent (MAC-) ensembles in the QED cavity. Here, we use the two-ensemble qubit encoding and swapping-based operations that together provide implementation of any encoded single-qubit operation by three elementary gates and the encoded controlled-NOT operation is performed in a single step. This approach simplifies a physical realization of universal quantum computing and adds the immunity to a number of errors. We also demonstrate that the proposed architecture of quantum computer satisfies DiVincenzo criteria.

id: 1111.3151
title: Information Causality is a Special Point in the Dual of the Gray-Wyner Region
authors: Salman Beigi, Amin Gohari
comments: 2 pages, Includes the main setting of the problem, a brief description of our solution and why it fails. Some of the results are moved to arXiv:1207.3911. See the first version on arXiv for details
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3151
abstract: Information Causality contributes to the program of deriving fundamentals of quantum theory from information theoretic principles. It puts restrictions on the amount of information learned by a party (Bob) from the other party (Alice) in a one-way communication scenario: Bob receives an index b, and after a one-way communication from Alice, tries to recover the b-th bit of Alice's input. In this manuscript we note that Information Causality is indeed a point in the dual of the Gray-Wyner region in the case where Alice's input bits are chosen independently at random. The main motivation of this work was to study this connection in the case of correlated input bits. Our approach to forge this connection was to propose a new postulate called Accessibility of Mutual Information (AMI) on the underling physical theory. This approach, explained in the first version of this paper, fails since AMI is not satisfied by the quantum theory.

id: 1111.3198
title: Detecting Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Steering for Continuous Variable Wavefunctions
authors: Hong-Yi Su, Jing-Ling Chen, Chunfeng Wu, Dong-Ling Deng, C. H. Oh
comments: Four pages, two figures, some references are added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3198
abstract: By use of Reid's criterion and entropic criterion, we investigate the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) steering for some entangled continuous variable wavefunctions. We find that not all of the entangled states violate Reid's EPR inequality and the entropic inequality, this in turn suggests that both criteria are not necessary and sufficient conditions to detect the EPR steering.

id: 1111.3237
title: Increasing efficiency of a linear-optical quantum gate using an electronic feed forward
authors: Martina Mikova, Helena Fikerova, Ivo Straka, Michal Micuda, Miroslav Jezek, Miloslav Dusek
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3237
abstract: We have successfully used a fast electronic feed forward to increase the success probability of a linear optical implementation of a programmable phase gate from 25% to its theoretical limit of 50%. The feed forward applies a conditional unitary operation which changes the incorrect output states of the data qubit to the correct ones. The gate itself rotates an arbitrary quantum state of the data qubit around the z-axis of the Bloch sphere with the angle of rotation being fully determined by the state of the program qubit. The gate implementation is based on fiber optics components. Qubits are encoded into spatial modes of single photons. The signal from the feed-forward detector is led directly to a phase modulator using only a passive voltage divider. We have verified the increase of the success probability and characterized the gate operation by means of quantum process tomography. We have demonstrated that the use of the feed forward does not affect either the process fidelity or the output-state fidelities.

id: 1111.3259
title: Quantised orbital angular momentum transfer and magnetic dichroism in the interaction of electron vortices with matter
authors: Sophia Lloyd, Mohamed Babiker, Jun Yuan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3259
abstract: Following the very recent experimental realisation of electron vortices, we consider their interaction with matter, in particular the transfer of orbital angular momentum in the context of electron energy loss spectroscopy, and the recently observed dichroism in thin film magnetised iron samples. We show here that orbital angular momentum exchange does indeed occur between electron vortices and the internal electronic-type motion, as well as center of mass motion of atoms in the electric dipole approximation. This contrasts with the case of optical vortices where such transfer only occurs in transitions involving multipoles higher than the dipole. The physical basis of the observed dichroism is explained.

id: 1111.3289
title: Rigorous Performance Bounds for Quadratic and Nested Dynamical Decoupling
authors: Yuhou Xia, Gotz S. Uhrig, Daniel A. Lidar
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures. v2: minor edits. This version to be published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062332 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3289
abstract: We present rigorous performance bounds for the quadratic dynamical decoupling (QDD) pulse sequence which protects a qubit from general decoherence, and for its nested generalization to an arbitrary number of qubits. Our bounds apply under the assumption of instantaneous pulses and of bounded perturbing environment and qubit-environment Hamiltonians such as those realized by baths of nuclear spins in quantum dots. We prove that if the total sequence time is fixed then the trace-norm distance between the unperturbed and protected system states can be made arbitrarily small by increasing the number of applied pulses.

id: 1111.3291
title: Cavity approach to variational quantum mechanics
authors: A. Ramezanpour
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures; one appendix and two figures added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 125131 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3291
abstract: A local and distributive algorithm is proposed to find an optimal trial wave-function minimizing the Hamiltonian expectation in a quantum system. To this end, the quantum state of the system is connected to the Gibbs state of a classical system with the set of couplings playing the role of variational parameters. The average energy is written within the replica-symmetric approximation and the optimal parameters are obtained by a heuristic message passing algorithm based on the Bethe approximation. The performance of this approximate algorithm depends on the structure and quality of the trial wave-functions; starting from a classical system of isolated elements, i.e. mean-field approximation, and improving on that by considering the higher order many-body interactions. The method is applied to some disordered quantum Ising models in transverse fields and the results are compared with the exact ones for small systems.

id: 1111.3301
title: On Searching for Small Kochen-Specker Vector Systems (extended version)
authors: Felix Arends, Joel Ouaknine, Charles W. Wampler
comments: 16 pages. Extended version of "On Searching for Small Kochen-Specker Vector Systems" published in WG 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3301
abstract: Kochen-Specker (KS) vector systems are sets of vectors in R^3 with the property that it is impossible to assign 0s and 1s to the vectors in such a way that no two orthogonal vectors are assigned 0 and no three mutually orthogonal vectors are assigned 1. The existence of such sets forms the basis of the Kochen-Specker and Free Will theorems. Currently, the smallest known KS vector system contains 31 vectors. In this paper, we establish a lower bound of 18 on the size of any KS vector system. This requires us to consider a mix of graph-theoretic and topological embedding problems, which we investigate both from theoretical and practical angles. We propose several algorithms to tackle these problems and report on extensive experiments. At the time of writing, a large gap remains between the best lower and upper bounds for the minimum size of KS vector systems.

id: 1111.3328
title: On the reality of the quantum state
authors: Matthew F. Pusey, Jonathan Barrett, Terry Rudolph
comments: 5+3 pages, 3+2 figures. v3: Minor improvements, now closely approximates journal version
journal: Nature Phys. 8, 475 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3328
abstract: Quantum states are the key mathematical objects in quantum theory. It is therefore surprising that physicists have been unable to agree on what a quantum state truly represents. One possibility is that a pure quantum state corresponds directly to reality. However, there is a long history of suggestions that a quantum state (even a pure state) represents only knowledge or information about some aspect of reality. Here we show that any model in which a quantum state represents mere information about an underlying physical state of the system, and in which systems that are prepared independently have independent physical states, must make predictions which contradict those of quantum theory.

id: 1111.3348
title: A classical analog for the electron spin state
authors: K. B. Wharton, R. A. Linck, C.H. Salazar-Lazaro
comments: 16 pages, Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3348
abstract: Despite conventional wisdom that spin-1/2 systems have no classical analog, we introduce a set of classical coupled oscillators with solutions that exactly map onto the dynamics of an unmeasured electron spin state in an arbitrary, time-varying, magnetic field. While not addressing the quantum measurement problem (discrete outcomes and their associated probabilities), this new classical analog yields a classical, physical interpretation of Zeeman splitting, geometric phase, the electron's doubled gyromagnetic ratio, and other quantum phenomena. This Lagrangian-based model can be used to clarify the division between classical and quantum systems, and might also serve as a guidepost for certain approaches to quantum foundations.

id: 1111.3413
title: Phase encoding schemes for measurement device independent quantum key distribution and basis-dependent flaw
authors: Kiyoshi Tamaki, Hoi-Kwong Lo, Chi-Hang Fred Fung, Bing Qi
comments: We include the erratum of this paper in Appendix C. The correction does not affect the validity of the main conclusions reported in the paper
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042307 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3413
abstract: In this paper, we study the unconditional security of the so-called measurement device independent quantum key distribution (MDIQKD) with the basis-dependent flaw in the context of phase encoding schemes. We propose two schemes for the phase encoding, the first one employs a phase locking technique with the use of non-phase-randomized coherent pulses, and the second one uses conversion of standard BB84 phase encoding pulses into polarization modes. We prove the unconditional security of these schemes and we also simulate the key generation rate based on simple device models that accommodate imperfections. Our simulation results show the feasibility of these schemes with current technologies and highlight the importance of the state preparation with good fidelity between the density matrices in the two bases. Since the basis-dependent flaw is a problem not only for MDIQKD but also for standard QKD, our work highlights the importance of an accurate signal source in practical QKD systems. Note: We include the erratum of this paper in Appendix C. The correction does not affect the validity of the main conclusions reported in the paper, which is the importance of the state preparation in MDIQKD and the fact that our schemes can generate the key with the practical channel mode that we have assumed.

id: 1111.3448
title: Invisibility in PT-symmetric complex crystals
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 18 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44, 485302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3448
abstract: Bragg scattering in sinusoidal PT-symmetric complex crystals of finite thickness is theoretically investigated by the derivation of exact analytical expressions for reflection and transmission coefficients in terms of modified Bessel functions of first kind. The analytical results indicate that unidirectional invisibility, recently predicted for such crystals by coupled-mode theory [Z. Lin et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 213901 (2011)], breaks down for crystals containing a large number of unit cells. In particular, for a given modulation depth in a shallow sinusoidal potential, three regimes are encountered as the crystal thickness is increased. At short lengths the crystal is reflectionless and invisible when probed from one side (unidirectional invisibility), whereas at intermediate lengths the crystal remains reflectionless but not invisible; for longer crystals both unidirectional reflectionless and invisibility properties are broken.

id: 1111.3457
title: Jaynes Cummings Photonic Superlattices
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Opt. Lett. 32, 3407 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3457
abstract: A classical realization of the Jaynes-Cummings (JC) model, describing the interaction of a two-level atom with a quantized cavity mode, is proposed based on light transport in engineered waveguide superlattices. The optical setting enables to visualize in Fock space dynamical regimes not yet accessible in quantum systems, providing new physical insights into the deep strong coupling regime of the JC model. In particular, bouncing of photon number wave packets in Hilbert space and revivals of populations are explained as generalized Bloch oscillations in an inhomogeneous tight-binding lattice.

id: 1111.3487
title: Optical realization of two-boson tunneling dynamics
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 83, 043835 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3487
abstract: An optical realization of the tunneling dynamics of two interacting bosons in a double-well potential, based on light transport in a four-core microstructured fiber, is proposed. The optical setting enables to visualize in a purely classical system the entire crossover from Rabi oscillations to correlated pair tunneling and to tunneling of a fragmented pair in the fermionization limit.

id: 1111.3490
title: Relativistic quantum chemistry on quantum computers
authors: Libor Veis, Jakub Vi?¨¾¨¢k, Timo Fleig, Stefan Knecht, Trond Saue, Lucas Visscher, Ji?¨ª Pittner
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 030304(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3490
abstract: Last years witnessed a remarkable interest in application of quantum computing for solving problems in quantum chemistry more efficiently than classical computers allow. Very recently, even first proof-of-principle experimental realizations have been reported. However, so far only the non-relativistic regime (i.e. Schroedinger equation) has been explored, while it is well known that relativistic effects can be very important in chemistry. In this letter we present the first quantum algorithm for relativistic computations of molecular energies. We show how to efficiently solve the eigenproblem of the Dirac-Coulomb Hamiltonian on a quantum computer and demonstrate the functionality of the proposed procedure by numerical simulations of computations of the spin-orbit splitting in the SbH molecule. Finally, we propose quantum circuits with 3 qubits and 9 or 10 CNOTs, which implement a proof-of-principle relativistic quantum chemical calculation for this molecule and might be suitable for an experimental realization.

id: 1111.3492
title: Many-body coherent destruction of tunneling in photonic lattices
authors: Stefano Longhi
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. arXiv admin note: some text overlap with arXiv:1101.4762
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 83, 034102 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3492
abstract: An optical realization of the phenomenon of many-body coherent destruction of tunneling, recently predicted for interacting many-boson systems by Gong, Molina and Haenggi [Phys. Rev. Lett. 103, 133002 (2009)], is proposed for light transport in engineered waveguide arrays. The optical system enables a direct visualization in Fock space of the many-body tunneling control process

id: 1111.3509
title: Informationally complete joint measurements on finite quantum systems
authors: Claudio Carmeli, Teiko Heinosaari, Alessandro Toigo
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012109 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3509
abstract: We show that there are informationally complete joint measurements of two conjugated observables on a finite quantum system, meaning that they enable to identify all quantum states from their measurement outcome statistics. We further demonstrate that it is possible to implement a joint observable as a sequential measurement. If we require minimal noise in the joint measurement, then the joint observable is unique. If the dimension d is odd, then this observable is informationally complete. But if d is even, then the joint observable is not informationally complete and one has to allow more noise in order to obtain informational completeness.

id: 1111.3521
title: Experimental Schmidt Decomposition and Entanglement Detection
authors: Wieslaw Laskowski, Daniel Richart, Christian Schwemmer, Tomasz Paterek, Harald Weinfurter
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures, journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 240501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3521
abstract: We introduce an experimental procedure for the detection of quantum entanglement of an unknown quantum state with as few measurements as possible. The method requires neither a priori knowledge of the state nor a shared reference frame between the observers. The scheme starts with local measurements, possibly supplemented with suitable filtering, that can be regarded as calibration. Consecutive correlation measurements enable detection of the entanglement of the state. We utilize the fact that the calibration stage essentially establishes the Schmidt decomposition for pure states. Alternatively we develop a decision tree which reveals entanglement within few steps. These methods are illustrated and verified experimentally for various two-qubit entangled states.

id: 1111.3537
title: Entanglement-assisted local operations and classical communications conversion in the quantum critical systems
authors: Jian Cui, Jun-Peng Cao, Heng Fan
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, 5 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022338 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3537
abstract: Conversions between the ground states in quantum critical systems via entanglement-assisted local operations and classical communications (eLOCC) are studied. We propose a new method to reveal the different convertibility by local operations when a quantum phase transition occurs. We have studied the ground state local convertibility in the one dimensional transverse field Ising model, XY model and XXZ model. It is found that the eLOCC convertibility sudden changes at the phase transition points. In transverse field Ising model the eLOCC convertibility between the first excited state and the ground state are also distinct for different phases. The relation between the order of quantum phase transitions and the local convertibility is discussed.

id: 1111.3561
title: A contextual extension of Spekkens' toy model
authors: Jan-?ke Larsson
comments: 10 pages
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1424, 211 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3561
abstract: Quantum systems show contextuality. More precisely, it is impossible to reproduce the quantum-mechanical predictions using a non-contextual realist model, i.e., a model where the outcome of one measurement is independent of the choice of compatible measurements performed in the measurement context. There has been several attempts to quantify the amount of contextuality for specific quantum systems, for example, in the number of rays needed in a KS proof, or the number of terms in certain inequalities, or in the violation, noise sensitivity, and other measures. This paper is about another approach: to use a simple contextual model that reproduces the quantum-mechanical contextual behaviour, but not necessarily all quantum predictions. The amount of contextuality can then be quantified in terms of additional resources needed as compared with a similar model without contextuality. In this case the contextual model needs to keep track of the context used, so the appropriate measure would be memory. Another way to view this is as a memory requirement to be able to reproduce quantum contextuality in a realist model. The model we will use can be viewed as an extension of Spekkens' toy model [Phys. Rev. A 75, 032110 (2007)], and the relation is studied in some detail. To reproduce the quantum predictions for the Peres-Mermin square, the memory requirement is more than one bit in addition to the memory used for the individual outcomes in the corresponding noncontextual model.

id: 1111.3568
title: Ziv-Zakai Error Bounds for Quantum Parameter Estimation
authors: Mankei Tsang
comments: v1: preliminary result, 3 pages; v2: major update, 4 pages + supplementary calculations, v3: another major update, added proof of "Heisenberg" limit, v4: accepted by PRL
journal: Physical Review Letters 108, 230401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3568
abstract: I propose quantum versions of the Ziv-Zakai bounds as alternatives to the widely used quantum Cram\'er-Rao bounds for quantum parameter estimation. From a simple form of the proposed bounds, I derive both a "Heisenberg" error limit that scales with the average energy and a limit similar to the quantum Cram\'er-Rao bound that scales with the energy variance. These results are further illustrated by applying the bound to a few examples of optical phase estimation, which show that a quantum Ziv-Zakai bound can be much higher and thus tighter than a quantum Cram\'er-Rao bound for states with highly non-Gaussian photon-number statistics in certain regimes and also stay close to the latter where the latter is expected to be tight.

id: 1111.3594
title: Thermodynamic anomaly of the free damped quantum particle: the bath perspective
authors: Gert-Ludwig Ingold
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, final version after one round of refereeing
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 85, 30 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3594
abstract: A possible definition of the specific heat of open quantum systems is based on the reduced partition function of the system. For a free damped quantum particle, it has been found that under certain conditions, this specific heat can become negative at low temperatures. In contrast to the conventional approaches focusing on the system degree of freedom, here we concentrate on the changes induced in the environment when the system is coupled to it. Our analysis is carried out for an Ohmic environment consisting of harmonic oscillators and allows to identify the mechanism by which the specific heat becomes negative. Furthermore, the formal condition for the occurrence of a negative specific heat is given a physical interpretation in terms of the total mass of bath oscillators and the system mass.

id: 1111.3620
title: The Cohomology of Non-Locality and Contextuality
authors: Samson Abramsky, Shane Mansfield, Rui Soares Barbosa
comments: In Proceedings QPL 2011, arXiv:1210.0298
journal: EPTCS 95, 2012, pp. 1-14
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Category Theory (math.CT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3620
abstract: In a previous paper with Adam Brandenburger, we used sheaf theory to analyze the structure of non-locality and contextuality. Moreover, on the basis of this formulation, we showed that the phenomena of non-locality and contextuality can be characterized precisely in terms of obstructions to the existence of global sections. Our aim in the present work is to build on these results, and to use the powerful tools of sheaf cohomology to study the structure of non-locality and contextuality. We use the Cech cohomology on an abelian presheaf derived from the support of a probabilistic model, viewed as a compatible family of distributions, in order to define a cohomological obstruction for the family as a certain cohomology class. This class vanishes if the family has a global section. Thus the non-vanishing of the obstruction provides a sufficient (but not necessary) condition for the model to be contextual. We show that for a number of salient examples, including PR boxes, GHZ states, the Peres-Mermin magic square, and the 18-vector configuration due to Cabello et al. giving a proof of the Kochen-Specker theorem in four dimensions, the obstruction does not vanish, thus yielding cohomological witnesses for contextuality.

id: 1111.3632
title: All Mutually Unbiased Product Bases in Dimension Six
authors: Daniel McNulty, Stefan Weigert
comments: 32 pages, 3 figures, identical to published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 135307
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3632
abstract: All mutually unbiased bases in dimension six consisting of product states only are constructed. Several continuous families of pairs and two triples of mutually unbiased product bases are found to exist but no quadruple. The exhaustive classification leads to a proof that a complete set of seven mutually unbiased bases, if it exists, cannot contain a triple of mutually unbiased product bases.

id: 1111.3633
title: Quantum Algorithms for Quantum Field Theories
authors: Stephen P. Jordan, Keith S. M. Lee, John Preskill
comments: v2: appendix added (15 pages + 25-page appendix)
journal: Science 336, 1130-1133 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3633
abstract: Quantum field theory reconciles quantum mechanics and special relativity, and plays a central role in many areas of physics. We develop a quantum algorithm to compute relativistic scattering probabilities in a massive quantum field theory with quartic self-interactions (phi-fourth theory) in spacetime of four and fewer dimensions. Its run time is polynomial in the number of particles, their energy, and the desired precision, and applies at both weak and strong coupling. In the strong-coupling and high-precision regimes, our quantum algorithm achieves exponential speedup over the fastest known classical algorithm.

id: 1111.3643
title: Interplay between computable measures of entanglement and other quantum correlations
authors: Davide Girolami, Gerardo Adesso
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A A 84, 052110 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3643
abstract: Composite quantum systems can be in generic states characterized not only by entanglement, but also by more general quantum correlations. The interplay between these two signatures of nonclassicality is still not completely understood. In this work we investigate this issue focusing on computable and observable measures of such correlations: entanglement is quantified by the negativity N, while general quantum correlations are measured by the (normalized) geometric quantum discord D_G. For two-qubit systems, we find that the geometric discord reduces to the squared negativity on pure states, while the relationship $D_G \geq N^2$ holds for arbitrary mixed states. The latter result is rigorously extended to pure, Werner and isotropic states of two-qudit systems for arbitrary d, and numerical evidence of its validity for arbitrary states of a qubit and a qutrit is provided as well. Our results establish an interesting hierarchy, that we conjecture to be universal, between two relevant and experimentally friendly nonclassicality indicators. This ties in with the intuition that general quantum correlations should at least contain and in general exceed entanglement on mixed states of composite quantum systems.

id: 1111.3645
title: Classical codes for quantum broadcast channels
authors: Ivan Savov, Mark M. Wilde
comments: v3: 20 pages, rewritten to complete the proof of the quantum Marton region using ideas from arXiv:1410.3248
journal: Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2012), pages 721-725, Cambridge, MA, USA
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3645
abstract: We present two approaches for transmitting classical information over quantum broadcast channels. The first technique is a quantum generalization of the superposition coding scheme for the classical broadcast channel. We use a quantum simultaneous nonunique decoder and obtain a proof of the rate region stated in [Yard et al., IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 57 (10), 2011]. Our second result is a quantum generalization of the Marton coding scheme. The error analysis for the quantum Marton region makes use of ideas in our earlier work and an idea recently presented by Radhakrishnan et al. in arXiv:1410.3248. Both results exploit recent advances in quantum simultaneous decoding developed in the context of quantum interference channels.

id: 1111.3687
title: Spin Coherence During Optical Excitation of a Single NV Center in Diamond
authors: G. D. Fuchs, A. L. Falk, V. V. Dobrovitski, D. D. Awschalom
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3687
abstract: We examine the quantum spin state of a single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond at room temperature as it makes a transition from the orbital ground-state (GS) to the orbital excited-state (ES) during non-resonant optical excitation. While the fluorescence read-out of NV-center spins relies on conservation of the longitudinal spin projection during optical excitation, the question of quantum phase preservation has not been examined. Using Ramsey measurements and quantum process tomography, we establish limits on NV center spin decoherence induced during optical excitation. Treating the optical excitation and ES spin precession as a quantum process, we measure a process fidelity of F=0.87\pm0.03, which includes ES spin dephasing during measurement. Extrapolation to the moment of optical excitation yields F\approx0.95. This result demonstrates that ES spin interactions may be used as a resource for quantum control because the quantum spin state can survive incoherent orbital transitions.

id: 1111.3709
title: Characteristics of Correlated Photon Pairs Generated in Ultra-compact Silicon Slow-light Photonic Crystal Waveguides
authors: Chunle Xiong, Christelle Monat, Matthew J. Collins, Alex S. Clark, Christian Grillet, Graham D. Marshall, M. J. Steel, Juntao Li, Liam O'Faolain, Thomas F. Krauss, Benjamin J. Eggleton
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Selected Topics in Quantum Electronics, IEEE Journal of. Volume: 18 , Issue: 6 Page(s): 1676-1683 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3709
abstract: We report the characterization of correlated photon pairs generated in dispersion-engineered silicon slow-light photonic crystal waveguides pumped by picosecond pulses. We found that taking advantage of the 15 nm flat-band slow-light window (vg ~ c/30) the bandwidth for correlated photon-pair generation in 96 and 196 \mum long waveguides was at least 11.2 nm; while a 396 \mum long waveguide reduced the bandwidth to 8 nm (only half of the slow-light bandwidth due to the increased impact of phase matching in a longer waveguide). The key metrics for a photon-pair source: coincidence to accidental ratio (CAR) and pair brightness were measured to be a maximum 33 at a pair generation rate of 0.004 pair per pulse in a 196 \mum long waveguide. Within the measurement errors the maximum CAR achieved in 96, 196 and 396 \mum long waveguides is constant. The noise analysis shows that detector dark counts, leaked pump light, linear and nonlinear losses, multiple pair generation and detector jitter are the limiting factors to the CAR performance of the sources.

id: 1111.3722
title: Non-Markovianity: initial correlations and nonlinear optical measurements
authors: Arend G. Dijkstra, Yoshitaka Tanimura
comments: accepted for publication in Philisophical Transactions of the Royal Society A
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 370, 3658 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3722
abstract: By extending the response function approach developed in nonlinear optics, we analytically derive an expression for the non-Markovianity [Laine, et al, Phys. Rev. A 81, 062115 (2010)] in the time evolution of a system in contact with a quantum mechanical bath, and find a close connection with the directly observable nonlinear optical response. The result indicates that memory in the bath induced fluctuations rather than in the dissipation causes non-Markovianity. Initial correlations between states of the system and the bath are shown to be essential for a correct understanding of the non-Markovianity.

id: 1111.3726
title: Quantum Factorization of 143 on a Dipolar-Coupling NMR system
authors: Nanyang Xu, Jing Zhu, Dawei Lu, Xianyi Zhou, Xinhua Peng, Jiangfeng Du
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3726
abstract: Quantum algorithms could be much faster than classical ones in solving the factoring problem. Adiabatic quantum computation for this is an alternative approach other than Shor's algorithm. Here we report an improved adiabatic factoring algorithm and its experimental realization to factor the number 143 on a liquid crystal NMR quantum processor with dipole-dipole couplings. We believe this to be the largest number factored in quantum-computation realizations, which shows the practical importance of adiabatic quantum algorithms.

id: 1111.3743
title: Experimental fully contextual correlations
authors: Elias Amselem, Lars Eirik Danielsen, Antonio J. Lopez-Tarrida, Jose R. Portillo, Mohamed Bourennane, Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108 (2012) 200405
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3743
abstract: Quantum correlations are contextual yet, in general, nothing prevents the existence of even more contextual correlations. We identify and test a noncontextuality inequality in which the quantum violation cannot be improved by any hypothetical postquantum theory, and use it to experimentally obtain correlations in which the fraction of noncontextual correlations is less than 0.06. Our correlations are experimentally generated from the results of sequential compatible tests on a four-state quantum system encoded in the polarization and path of a single photon.

id: 1111.3748
title: Feynman Diagrams for Dispersion Interactions Out of Equilibrium -- Two-Body Potentials for Atoms with Initial Excitation
authors: Harald R. Haakh, J¨¹rgen Schiefele, Carsten Henkel
comments: Proceedings of Quantum Field Theory under External Conditions (QFExt) 2011
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics Conference Series, 14, 347-356 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3748
abstract: Diagrammatic techniques are well-known in the calculation of dispersion interactions between atoms or molecules. The multipolar coupling scheme combined with Feynman ordered diagrams significantly reduces the number of graphs compared to elementary stationary perturbation theory. We review calculations of van der Waals-Casimir-Polder forces, focusing on two atoms or molecules one of which is excited. In this case, calculations of the corresponding force are notorious for mathematical issues connected to the spontaneous decay of the excitation. Treating such unstable states in a full non-equilibrium theory provides a physical interpretation of apparent contradictions in previous results and underlines the importance of decay processes for the intermolecular potential. This may have important implications on reactions in biological systems, where excited states may be relatively long-lived and the resonant intermolecular force may result in directed Brownian motion.

id: 1111.3797
title: Prony's method and the connected-moments expansion
authors: Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3797
abstract: We show that Prony's method provides the full solution to the nonlinear equations of the connected--moments expansion (CMX). Knowledge of all the parameters in the CMX ansatz is useful for the analysis of the convergence properties of the approach. Prony's method is also suitable for the calculation of the correlation function for simple quantum--mechanical models.

id: 1111.3799
title: Deterministic teleportation using single-photon entanglement as a resource
authors: Gunnar Bj?rk, Amine Laghaout, Ulrik L. Andersen
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3799
abstract: We outline a proof that teleportation with a single particle is in principle just as reliable as with two particles. We thereby hope to dispel the skepticism surrounding single-photon entanglement as a valid resource in quantum information. A deterministic Bell state analyzer is proposed which uses only classical resources, namely coherent states, a Kerr non-linearity, and a two-level atom.

id: 1111.3802
title: Creation on demand of higher orbital states in a vibrating optical lattice
authors: Tomasz Sowinski
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 108, 165301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3802
abstract: It is shown that the extended Hubbard Hamiltonian describing atoms confined in an optical lattice always contains commonly neglected terms which can significantly change the dynamical properties of the system. Particularly for bosonic systems, they can be exploited for creating orbital states on demand via the parametric resonance phenomenon. This indicates an additional application for optical lattices, namely the study and emulation of interactions between particles and lattice vibrations.

id: 1111.3834
title: Fundamental limitations for quantum and nano thermodynamics
authors: Micha? Horodecki, Jonathan Oppenheim
comments: Final, published version
journal: Nature Communications 4, 2059 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3834
abstract: The relationship between thermodynamics and statistical physics is valid in the thermodynamic limit - when the number of particles becomes very large. Here, we study thermodynamics in the opposite regime - at both the nano scale, and when quantum effects become important. Applying results from quantum information theory we construct a theory of thermodynamics in these limits. We derive general criteria for thermodynamical state transformations, and as special cases, find two free energies: one that quantifies the deterministically extractable work from a small system in contact with a heat bath, and the other that quantifies the reverse process. We find that there are fundamental limitations on work extraction from nonequilibrium states, owing to finite size effects and quantum coherences. This implies that thermodynamical transitions are generically irreversible at this scale. As one application of these methods, we analyse the efficiency of small heat engines and find that they are irreversible during the adiabatic stages of the cycle.

id: 1111.3837
title: Necessary and sufficient condition for saturating the upper bound of quantum discord
authors: Zhengjun Xi, Xiao-Ming Lu, Xiaoguang Wang, Yongming Li
comments: 5 pages, 1figures, version accepted Phys.Rev.A, 85, 032109 (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3837
abstract: We revisit the upper bound of quantum discord given by the von Neumann entropy of the measured subsystem. Using the Koashi-Winter relation, we obtain a trade-off between the amount of classical correlation and quantum discord in the tripartite pure states. The difference between the quantum discord and its upper bound is interpreted as a measure on the classical correlative capacity. Further, we give the explicit characterization of the quantum states saturating the upper bound of quantum discord, through the equality condition for the Araki-Lieb inequality. We also demonstrate that the saturating of the upper bound of quantum discord precludes any further correlation between the measured subsystem and the environment.

id: 1111.3842
title: Experimental demonstration of photonic quantum ratchet
authors: Chi Zhang, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3842
abstract: We created a potential for light with a phase mirror and then experimentally realized a photonic quantum ratchet in an all-optical system, in which ratchet effects can be observed with the naked eye up to more than 22 steps, and quantum resonance can be demonstrated. Our method also provides a new means to simulate quantum particles with classical light, and it can be applied to investigate many other quantum phenomena.

id: 1111.3849
title: The Limited Role of Mutually Unbiased Product Bases in Dimension Six
authors: Daniel McNulty, Stefan Weigert
comments: 8 pages, identical to published version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 102001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3849
abstract: We show that a complete set of seven mutually unbiased bases in dimension six, if it exists, cannot contain more than one product basis.

id: 1111.3864
title: Self consistent, absolute calibration technique for photon number resolving detectors
authors: A. Avella, G. Brida, I. P. Degiovanni, M. Genovese, M. Gramegna, L. Lolli, E. Monticone, C. Portesi, M. Rajteri, M. L. Rastello, E. Taralli, P. Traina, M. White
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 19, Issue 23, pp. 23249-23257 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3864
abstract: Well characterized photon number resolving detectors are a requirement for many applications ranging from quantum information and quantum metrology to the foundations of quantum mechanics. This prompts the necessity for reliable calibration techniques at the single photon level. In this paper we propose an innovative absolute calibration technique for photon number resolving detectors, using a pulsed heralded photon source based on parametric down conversion. The technique, being absolute, does not require reference standards and is independent upon the performances of the heralding detector. The method provides the results of quantum efficiency for the heralded detector as a function of detected photon numbers. Furthermore, we prove its validity by performing the calibration of a Transition Edge Sensor based detector, a real photon number resolving detector that has recently demonstrated its effectiveness in various quantum information protocols.

id: 1111.3882
title: The Resource Theory of Quantum States Out of Thermal Equilibrium
authors: Fernando G. S. L. Brand?o, Micha? Horodecki, Jonathan Oppenheim, Joseph M. Renes, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 4.5 pages main text, 12 pages appendix; v3: improvements to presentation of the main result
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 250404 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3882
abstract: The ideas of thermodynamics have proved fruitful in the setting of quantum information theory, in particular the notion that when the allowed transformations of a system are restricted, certain states of the system become useful resources with which one can prepare previously inaccessible states. The theory of entanglement is perhaps the best-known and most well-understood resource theory in this sense. Here we return to the basic questions of thermodynamics using the formalism of resource theories developed in quantum information theory and show that the free energy of thermodynamics emerges naturally from the resource theory of energy-preserving transformations. Specifically, the free energy quantifies the amount of useful work which can be extracted from asymptotically-many copies of a quantum system when using only reversible energy-preserving transformations and a thermal bath at fixed temperature. The free energy also quantifies the rate at which resource states can be reversibly interconverted asymptotically, provided that a sublinear amount of coherent superposition over energy levels is available, a situation analogous to the sublinear amount of classical communication required for entanglement dilution.

id: 1111.3908
title: Quantum Non-Demolition Detection of Polar Molecule Complexes: Dimers, Trimers, Tetramers
authors: Igor B. Mekhov
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Laser Phys. 23, 015501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3908
abstract: The optical nondestructive method for in situ detection of the bound states of ultracold polar molecules is developed. It promises a minimally destructive measurement scheme up to a physically exciting quantum non-demolition (QND) level. The detection of molecular complexes beyond simple pairs of quantum particles (dimers, known, e.g., from the BEC-BCS theory) is suggested, including three-body (trimers) and four-body (tertramers) complexes trapped by one-dimensional tubes. The intensity of scattered light is sensitive to the molecule number fluctuations beyond the mean-density approximation. Such fluctuations are very different for various complexes, which leads to radically different light scattering. This type of research extends "quantum optics of quantum gases" to the field of ultracold molecules. Merging the quantum optical and ultracold gas problems will advance the experimental efforts towards the study of the light-matter interaction at its ultimate quantum level, where the quantizations of both light and matter are equally important.

id: 1111.3913
title: Three-player quantum Kolkata restaurant problem under decoherence
authors: M. Ramzan
comments: 11 pages, 4 .eps figures
journal: Quantum Information Processing, Volume 12, Issue 1, pp 577-586 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3913
abstract: Effect of quantum decoherence in a three-player quantum Kolkata restaurant problem is investigated using tripartite entangled qutrit states. Amplitude damping, depolarizing, phase damping, trit-phase flip and phase flip channels are considered to analyze the behaviour of players payoffs. It is seen that Alice's payoff is heavily influenced by the amplitude damping channel as compared to the depolarizing and flipping channels. However, for higher level of decoherence, Alice's payoff is strongly affected by depolarizing noise. Whereas the behaviour of phase damping channel is symmetrical around 50 % decoherence. It is also seen that for maximum decoherence (p=1), the influence of amplitude damping channel dominates over depolarizing and flipping channels. Whereas, phase damping channel has no effect on the Alice's payoff. Therefore, the problem becomes noiseless one at maximum decoherence in case of phase damping channel. Furthermore, the Nash equilibrium of the problem does not change under decoherence.

id: 1111.3930
title: On the Use of Shor States for the [7,1,3] Quantum Error Correcting Code
authors: Yaakov S. Weinstein, Sidney D. Buchbinder
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, added section on non-zero syndrome measurement
journal: PRA 86, 052336 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3930
abstract: We explore the effect of Shor state construction methods on logical state encoding and quantum error correction for the [[7,1,3]] Calderbank-Shor-Steane quantum error correction code in a nonequiprobable error environment. We determine the optimum number of verification steps to be used in Shor state construction and whether Shor states without verification are usable for practical quantum computation. These results are compared to the same processes of encoding and error correction where Shor states are not used. We demonstrate that the construction of logical zero states with no first order error terms may not require the complete edifice of quantum fault tolerance. With respect to error correction, we show for a particular initial state that error correction using a single qubit for syndrome measurement yields a similar output state accuracy to error correction using Shor states as syndrome qubits. In addition, we demonstrate that error correction with Shor states has an inherent sensitivity to bit-flip errors. Finally, we suggest that in this type of error correction scenario one should always repeat a syndrome measurement until attaining an all zero readout (twice in row).

id: 1111.3955
title: Nonclassicality of pure two-qutrit entangled states
authors: Jacek Gruca, Wieslaw Laskowski, Marek Zukowski
comments: 6 pages, journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022118 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3955
abstract: We report an exhaustive numerical analysis of violations of local realism by two qutrits in all possible pure entangled states. In Bell type experiments we allow any pairs of local unitary U(3) transformations to define the measurement bases. Surprisingly, Schmidt rank-2 states, resembling pairs of maximally entangled qubits, lead to the most noise-robust violations of local realism. The phenomenon seems to be even more pronounced for four and five dimensional systems, for which we tested a few interesting examples.

id: 1111.3962
title: Quantum effective force in an expanding infinite square-well potential and Bohmian perspective
authors: S. V. Mousavi
comments: 7 figures, Accepted by Physica Scripta
journal: Phys. Scr. 86 (2012) 035004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3962
abstract: The Schr\"{o}dinger equation is solved for the case of a particle confined to a small region of a box with infinite walls. If walls of the well are moved, then, due to an effective quantum nonlocal interaction with the boundary, even though the particle is nowhere near the walls, it will be affected. It is shown that this force apart from a minus sign is equal to the expectation value of the gradient of the quantum potential for vanishing at the walls boundary condition. Variation of this force with time is studied. A selection of Bohmian trajectories of the confined particle is also computed.

id: 1111.3965
title: Quantum measurement occurrence is undecidable
authors: J. Eisert, M. P. Mueller, C. Gogolin
comments: 4+ pages, 1 figure, added a proof that the QMOP is still undecidable for exponentially small but nonzero probability
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 260501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3965
abstract: In this work, we show that very natural, apparently simple problems in quantum measurement theory can be undecidable even if their classical analogues are decidable. Undecidability hence appears as a genuine quantum property here. Formally, an undecidable problem is a decision problem for which one cannot construct a single algorithm that will always provide a correct answer in finite time. The problem we consider is to determine whether sequentially used identical Stern-Gerlach-type measurement devices, giving rise to a tree of possible outcomes, have outcomes that never occur. Finally, we point out implications for measurement-based quantum computing and studies of quantum many-body models and suggest that a plethora of problems may indeed be undecidable.

id: 1111.3974
title: Magnetic Sensitivity and Entanglement Dynamics of the Chemical Compass
authors: I. K. Kominis
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Chem. Phys. Lett. 542, 143 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3974
abstract: We present the quantum limits to the magnetic sensitivity of a new kind of magnetometer based on biochemical reactions. Radical-ion-pair reactions, the biochemical system underlying the chemical compass, are shown to offer a new and unique physical realization of a magnetic field sensor competitive to modern atomic or condensed matter magnetometers. We elaborate on the quantum coherence and entanglement dynamics of this sensor, showing that they provide the physical basis for testing our understanding of the fundamental quantum dynamics of radical-ion-pair reactions.

id: 1111.3995
title: Nonlinear photon transport in a semiconductor waveguide-cavity system containing a single quantum dot: Anharmonic cavity-QED regime
authors: S. Hughes, C. Roy
comments: To appear in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 035315 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3995
abstract: We present a semiconductor master equation technique to study the input/output characteristics of coherent photon transport in a semiconductor waveguide-cavity system containing a single quantum dot. We use this approach to investigate the effects of photon propagation and anharmonic cavity-QED for various dot-cavity interaction strengths, including weakly-coupled, intermediately-coupled, and strongly-coupled regimes. We demonstrate that for mean photon numbers much less than 0.1, the commonly adopted weak excitation (single quantum) approximation breaks down, even in the weak coupling regime. As a measure of the anharmonic multiphoton-correlations, we compute the Fano factor and the correlation error associated with making a semiclassical approximation. We also explore the role of electron--acoustic-phonon scattering and find that phonon-mediated scattering plays a qualitatively important role on the light propagation characteristics. As an application of the theory, we simulate a conditional phase gate at a phonon bath temperature of $20 $K in the strong coupling regime.

id: 1111.4006
title: Quantifying the non-Gaussianity of the state of spatially correlated down-converted photons
authors: E. S. G¨®mez, W. A. T. Nogueira, C. H. Monken, G. Lima
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express Vol. 20, Issue 4, pp. 3753-3772 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4006
abstract: The state of the spatially correlated down-converted photons is usually treated as a two-mode Gaussian entangled state. While intuitively this seems to be reasonable, it is known that new structures in the spatial distributions of these photons can be observed when the phase-matching conditions are properly taken into account. Here, we study how the variances of the near- and far-field conditional probabilities are affected by the phase-matching functions, and we analyze the role of the EPR-criterion regarding the non-Gaussianity and entanglement detection of the spatial two-photon state of spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC). Then we introduce a statistical measure, based on the negentropy of the joint distributions at the near- and far-field planes, which allows for the quantification of the non-Gaussianity of this state. This measure of non-Gaussianity requires only the measurement of the autocorrelation covariance sub-matrices, and will be relevant for new applications of the spatial correlation of SPDC in CV quantum information processing.

id: 1111.4016
title: Quantum Bayesian approach to circuit QED measurement
authors: Alexander N. Korotkov
comments: 11 pages; Contribution to Proceedings of Les Houches summer school "Quantum Machines" (2011)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4016
abstract: We present a simple formalism describing evolution of a qubit in the process of its measurement in a circuit QED setup. When a phase-sensitive amplifier is used, the evolution depends on only one output quadrature, and the formalism is the same as for a broadband setup. When a phase-preserving amplifier is used, the qubit evolution depends on two output quadratures. In both cases a perfect monitoring of the qubit state and therefore a perfect quantum feedback is possible.

id: 1111.4017
title: Optical codeword demodulation with error rates below standard quantum limit using a conditional nulling receiver
authors: Jian Chen, Jonathan L. Habif, Zachary Dutton, Richard Lazarus, Saikat Guha
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nature Photonics, 6, 374--379, (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4017
abstract: The quantum states of two laser pulses---coherent states---are never mutually orthogonal, making perfect discrimination impossible. Even so, coherent states can achieve the ultimate quantum limit for capacity of a classical channel, the Holevo capacity. Attaining this requires the receiver to make joint-detection measurements on long codeword blocks, optical implementations of which remain unknown. We report the first experimental demonstration of a joint-detection receiver, demodulating quaternary pulse-position-modulation (PPM) codewords at a word error rate of up to 40% (2.2 dB) below that attained with direct-detection, the largest error-rate improvement over the standard quantum limit reported to date. This is accomplished with a conditional nulling receiver, which uses optimized-amplitude coherent pulse nulling, single photon detection and quantum feedforward. We further show how this translates into coding complexity improvements for practical PPM systems, such as in deep-space communication. We anticipate our experiment to motivate future work towards building Holevo-capacity-achieving joint-detection receivers.

id: 1111.4022
title: Surface code quantum computing by lattice surgery
authors: Clare Horsman, Austin G. Fowler, Simon Devitt, Rodney Van Meter
comments: Published version. 29 pages, 18 figures
journal: 2012 New J. Phys. 14 123011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4022
abstract: In recent years, surface codes have become a leading method for quantum error correction in theoretical large scale computational and communications architecture designs. Their comparatively high fault-tolerant thresholds and their natural 2-dimensional nearest neighbour (2DNN) structure make them an obvious choice for large scale designs in experimentally realistic systems. While fundamentally based on the toric code of Kitaev, there are many variants, two of which are the planar- and defect- based codes. Planar codes require fewer qubits to implement (for the same strength of error correction), but are restricted to encoding a single qubit of information. Interactions between encoded qubits are achieved via transversal operations, thus destroying the inherent 2DNN nature of the code. In this paper we introduce a new technique enabling the coupling of two planar codes without transversal operations, maintaining the 2DNN of the encoded computer. Our lattice surgery technique comprises splitting and merging planar code surfaces, and enables us to perform universal quantum computation (including magic state injection) while removing the need for braided logic in a strictly 2DNN design, and hence reduces the overall qubit resources for logic operations. Those resources are further reduced by the use of a rotated lattice for the planar encoding. We show how lattice surgery allows us to distribute encoded GHZ states in a more direct (and overhead friendly) manner, and how a demonstration of an encoded CNOT between two distance 3 logical states is possible with 53 physical qubits, half of that required in any other known construction in 2D.

id: 1111.4038
title: Nondestructive identification of the Bell diagonal state
authors: Jia-sen Jin, Chang-shui Yu, He-shan Song
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 032109 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4038
abstract: We propose a scheme for identifying an unknown Bell diagonal state. In our scheme the measurements are performed on the probe qubits instead of the Bell diagonal state. The distinguished advantage is that the quantum state of the evolved Bell diagonal state ensemble plus probe states will still collapse on the original Bell diagonal state ensemble after the measurement on probe states, i.e. our identification is quantum-state nondestructive. It is also shown finally how to realize our scheme in the framework of cavity electrodynamics.

id: 1111.4054
title: Scattering states of a particle, with position-dependent mass, in a double heterojunction
authors: Anjana Sinha
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. Lett., vol. 96 (2011) 20008
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4054
abstract: In this work we obtain the exact analytical scattering solutions of a particle (electron or hole) in a semiconductor double heterojunction - potential well / barrier - where the effective mass of the particle varies with position inside the heterojunctions. It is observed that the spatial dependence of mass within the well / barrier introduces a nonlinear component in the plane wave solutions of the continuum states. Additionally, the transmission coefficient is found to increase with increasing energy, finally approaching unity, whereas the reflection coefficient follows the reverse trend and goes to zero.

id: 1111.4059
title: Approximating open quantum system dynamics in a controlled and efficient way: A microscopic approach to decoherence
authors: Giulia Gualdi, Christiane P. Koch
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022122 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4059
abstract: We demonstrate that the dynamics of an open quantum system can be calculated efficiently and with predefined error, provided a basis exists in which the system-environment interactions are local and hence obey the Lieb-Robinson bound. We show that this assumption can generally be made. Defining a dynamical renormalization group transformation, we obtain an effective Hamiltonian for the full system plus environment that comprises only those environmental degrees of freedom that are within the effective light cone of the system. The reduced system dynamics can therefore be simulated with a computational effort that scales at most polynomially in the interaction time and the size of the effective light cone. Our results hold for generic environments consisting of either discrete or continuous degrees of freedom.

id: 1111.4060
title: Entanglement and the three-dimensionality of the Bloch ball
authors: Lluis Masanes, Markus P. Mueller, David Perez-Garcia, Remigiusz Augusiak
comments: 30 pages + appendix, 2 figures
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 55-122203 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4060
abstract: We consider a very natural generalization of quantum theory by letting the dimension of the Bloch ball be not necessarily three. We analyze bipartite state spaces where each of the components has a d-dimensional Euclidean ball as state space. In addition to this we impose two very natural assumptions: the continuity and reversibility of dynamics, and the possibility of characterizing bipartite states by local measurements. We classify all these bipartite state spaces and prove that, except for the quantum two-qubit state space, none of them contains entangled states. Equivalently, in any of these non-quantum theories interacting dynamics is impossible. This result reveals that "existence of entanglement" is the requirement with minimal logical content which singles out quantum theory from our family of theories.

id: 1111.4077
title: Ultrafast and efficient coherence creation in ¦«-like atomic systems driven by nonlinearly chirped few-cycle pulses
authors: Amarendra K. Sarma, Parvendra Kumar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4077
abstract: We report an ultrafast and efficient way to create the maximum coherence between the two lower states in a -like atomic systems, driven by two nonlinearly chirped few-cycle pulses. The phenomenon of coherent population trapping and electromagnetically induced population transfer are investigated by solving the appropriate density matrix equations without invoking the rotating wave approximation. The robustness of the scheme for maximum coherence against the variation of the laser parameters are tested numerically. We also demonstrate that the proposed scheme could be used to obtain complete population transfer to an initially empty ground state.

id: 1111.4081
title: Sensitivity to the initial state of interacting ultracold bosons in disordered lattices
authors: Beno?t Vermersch, Jean-Claude Garreau
comments: 10 pages, 12 figures, revtex4, submited to PRE
journal: Physical Review E 85, 4 (2012) 046213
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4081
abstract: We study the dynamics of a nonlinear one-dimensional disordered system obtained by coupling the Anderson model with the Gross-Pitaevskii equation. An analytical model provides us with a single quantity globally characterizing the localization of the system. This quantity obeys a scaling law with respect to the width of the initial state, which can be used to characterize the dynamics independently of the initial state.

id: 1111.4095
title: Limits on the deterministic creation of pure single-photon states using parametric down-conversion
authors: Andreas Christ, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 023829 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4095
abstract: Parametric down-conversion (PDC) is one of the most widely used methods to create pure single-photon states for quantum information applications. However little attention has been paid to higher-order photon components in the PDC process, yet these ultimately limit the prospects of generating single-photons of high quality. In this paper we investigate the impacts of higher-order photon components and multiple frequency modes on the heralding rates and single-photon fidelities. This enables us to determine the limits of PDC sources for single-photon generation. Our results show that a perfectly single-mode PDC source in conjunction with a photon-number resolving detector is ultimately capable of creating single-photon Fock states with unit fidelity and a maximal state creation probability of 25%. Hence an array of 17 switched sources is required to build a deterministic (>99% emission probability) pure single-photon source.

id: 1111.4103
title: Quantum correlations by four-wave mixing in an atomic vapor in a non-amplifying regime: a quantum beam splitter for photons
authors: Quentin Glorieux, Luca Guidoni, Samuel Guibal, Jean-Pierre Likforman, Thomas Coudreau
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures; this http URL
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053826 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4103
abstract: We study the generation of intensity quantum correlations using four-wave mixing in a rubidium vapor. The absence of cavity in these experiments allows to deal with several spatial modes simultaneously. In the standard, amplifying, configuration, we measure relative intensity squeezing up to 9.2 dB below the standard quantum limit. We also theoretically identify and experimentally demonstrate an original regime where, despite no overall amplification, quantum correlations are generated. In this regime a four-wave mixing set-up can therefore play the role of a photonic beam splitter with non--classical properties, i.e. a device that splits a coherent state input into two quantum correlated beams.

id: 1111.4119
title: Multipartite Leggett-type Inequalities
authors: Dong-Ling Deng, Chunfeng Wu, Jing-Ling Chen, C. H. Oh
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4119
abstract: We use two different approaches to derive multipartite Leggett-type inequalities, which are generalizations of the two-qubit Leggett-type inequality obtained in [Nature Phys. \textbf{4}, 681 (2008)]. The first approach is based on the assumption that the probability distributions should be non-negative. The second approach is based on a very simple algebraic equation and is, to some extent, easier than the first approach. Although these inequalities might not be the optimal ones in the sense that their quantum violations may not be the strongest, our results make the first step of generalizing Leggett-type inequality to multi-qubit systems and provide the possibility to experimentally test non-local realism in such systems. Moreover, the two approaches here may shed new light on the challenging problem of obtaining stronger multipartite Leggett-type inequalities.

id: 1111.4147
title: Experimental realisation of Shor's quantum factoring algorithm using qubit recycling
authors: Enrique Martin-Lopez, Anthony Laing, Thomas Lawson, Roberto Alvarez, Xiao-Qi Zhou, Jeremy L. O'Brien
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nature Photonics 6, 773-776 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4147
abstract: Quantum computational algorithms exploit quantum mechanics to solve problems exponentially faster than the best classical algorithms. Shor's quantum algorithm for fast number factoring is a key example and the prime motivator in the international effort to realise a quantum computer. However, due to the substantial resource requirement, to date, there have been only four small-scale demonstrations. Here we address this resource demand and demonstrate a scalable version of Shor's algorithm in which the n qubit control register is replaced by a single qubit that is recycled n times: the total number of qubits is one third of that required in the standard protocol. Encoding the work register in higher-dimensional states, we implement a two-photon compiled algorithm to factor N=21. The algorithmic output is distinguishable from noise, in contrast to previous demonstrations. These results point to larger-scale implementations of Shor's algorithm by harnessing scalable resource reductions applicable to all physical architectures.

id: 1111.4205
title: The geometry of von-Neumann's pre-measurement and weak values
authors: A. C. Lobo, C. A. Ribeiro
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4205
abstract: We have carried out a review of a paper from Tamate et al, conducting a deeper study of the geometric concepts they introduced in their paper, clarifying some of their results and calculations and advancing a step futher in their geometrization program for an understanding of the structure of von-Neumann's pre-measurement and weak values.

id: 1111.4210
title: Quasi-locality and efficient simulation of Markovian quantum dynamics
authors: Thomas Barthel, Martin Kliesch
comments: 5 pages + 2 pages appendix, 2 figures; minor improvements; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 230504 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4210
abstract: We consider open many-body systems governed by a time-dependent quantum master equation with short-range interactions. With a generalized Lieb-Robinson bound, we show that the evolution in this very generic framework is quasi-local, i.e., the evolution of observables can be approximated by implementing the dynamics only in a vicinity of the observables' support. The precision increases exponentially with the diameter of the considered subsystem. Hence, the time-evolution can be simulated on classical computers with a cost that is independent of the system size. Providing error bounds for Trotter decompositions, we conclude that the simulation on a quantum computer is additionally efficient in time. For experiments and simulations, our result can be used to rigorously bound finite-size effects.

id: 1111.4261
title: Quantum memory with a single two-level atom in a half cavity
authors: Yimin Wang, Ji?¨ª Min¨¢?, Gabriel H¨¦tet, Valerio Scarani
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013823 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4261
abstract: We propose a setup for quantum memory based on a single two-level atom in a half cavity with a moving mirror. We show that various temporal shapes of incident photon can be efficiently stored and readout by shaping the time-dependent decay rate $\gamma(t)$ between the atom and the light. This is achieved uniquely by an appropriate motion of the mirror without the need for additional control laser or atomic level. We present an analytical expression for the efficiency of the process and study its dependence on the ratio between the incident light field bandwidth and the atomic decay rate. We discuss possible implementations and experimental issues, particularly for a single atom or ion in a half cavity quantum optical setup as well as a superconducting qubit in the context of circuit QED.

id: 1111.4264
title: On Quantum Integrable Systems
authors: Viatcheslav Danilov, Sergei Nagaitsev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Accelerator Physics (physics.acc-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4264
abstract: Many quantum integrable systems are obtained using an accelerator physics technique known as Ermakov (or normalized variables) transformation. This technique was used to create classical nonlinear integrable lattices for accelerators and nonlinear integrable plasma traps. Now, all classical results are carried over to a nonrelativistic quantum case.

id: 1111.4273
title: Retraction of "Near-Deterministic Discrimination of All Bell States with Linear Optics," Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 080403 (2011) and Erratum Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 219901 (2011)
authors: Mladen Pavicic
comments: The original paper (v. 1 and 2) was retracted from Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 080403 (2011) and its Erratum Phys. Rev. Lett. 107. 219901 (2011)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4273
abstract: The original versions (1 and 2) of this paper paper contain a fatal error. All my attempts to patch the error have failed. As a service to the community I explain the error in some detail.

id: 1111.4274
title: Disentanglement dynamics of interacting two qubits and two qutrits in an XY spin-chain environment with the Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya interaction
authors: Ming-Liang Hu
comments: 16 pages, 10 figures
journal: Physics Letters A, 2010, 374(34): 3520--3528
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4274
abstract: We investigate disentanglement dynamics of two coupled qubits and qutrits which interact uniformly to a general XY spin-chain environment with the Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya (DM) interaction. We obtained exact expression of the time evolution operator and analyzed the dynamical process of the decoherence factors. Through explicitly calculating the concurrence and the negativity, we examined disentanglement behaviors of two coupled central spins evolve from different initial pure states, which are found to be nontrivially different from those of the uncorrelated ones, in particular, the enhanced decay of the entanglement induced by quantum criticality of the surrounding environment may be broken by introducing self-Hamiltonian of the central spin system. Moreover, the DM interaction may have different influences on decay of the entanglement depending on the strength of the system-environment coupling, the anisotropy of the environmental spin chain and the intensity of the transverse magnetic field, as well as the explicit form of the initial states of the central spin system.

id: 1111.4283
title: Robustness of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger and W states for teleportation in external environments
authors: Ming-Liang Hu
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physics Letters A, 2011, 375(5): 922--926
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4283
abstract: By solving analytically a master equation in the Lindblad form, we study quantum teleportation of the one-qubit state under the influence of different surrounding environments, and compared the robustness between Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) and W states in terms of their teleportation capacity. The results revealed that when subject to zero temperature environment, the GHZ state is always more robust than the W state, while the reverse situation occurs when the channel is subject to infinite temperature or dephasing environment.

id: 1111.4284
title: Environment-induced decay of teleportation fidelity of the one-qubit state
authors: Ming-Liang Hu
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physics Letters A, 2011, 375(21): 2140-2143
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4284
abstract: The one-qubit teleportation protocol is reexamined when it is executed in the presence of various decohering environments. The results revealed that this quantum protocol is more robust under the influence of dephaisng environment than those under the influence of dissipative or noisy environment. The environment may deprive the quantum advantage of teleportation over purely classical communication in a finite or infinite lifetime, which is dependent on the type of environment. Also we found that except entanglement, the purity of the entangled state resource is also crucial in determine the quality of the teleported state.

id: 1111.4341
title: Bell Function Values Approach to Topological Quantum Phase Transitions
authors: Dong-Ling Deng, Chunfeng Wu, Jing-Ling Chen, Shi-Jian Gu, Sixia Yu, C. H. Oh
comments: 4pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4341
abstract: We investigate the relation between Bell function values (BFV) of the reduced density matrix and the topological quantum phase transitions in the Kitaev-Castelnovo-Chamon model. % [Phys. Rev. B \textbf{77}, %054433 (2008)]. We find that the first order derivative of BFV exhibits singular behavior at the critical point and we propose that it can serve as a good and convenient marker for the transition point. More interestingly, the value of the critical point can be analytically obtained in this approach. Since the BFV serves as a measure of nonlocality when it is greater than the classical bound of the correlation functions, our work has established a link between quantum nonlocality and phase transitions.

id: 1111.4379
title: Classification of Arbitrary Multipartite Entangled States under Local Unitary Equivalence
authors: Jun-Li Li, Cong-Feng Qiao
comments: 22 pages; published in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, 075301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4379
abstract: We propose a practical method for finding the canonical forms of arbitrary dimensional multipartite entangled states, either pure or mixed. By extending the technique developed in one of our recent works, the canonical forms for the mixed $N$-partite entangled states are constructed where they have inherited local unitary symmetries from their corresponding $N+1$ pure state counterparts. A systematic scheme to express the local symmetries of the canonical form is also presented, which provides a feasible way of verifying the local unitary equivalence for two multipartite entangled states.

id: 1111.4410
title: Theoretical Falsification of Leggett Conjecture for Two Qubits or One Ququat
authors: Marcin Wie?niak
comments: 4 pages. Old draft notes relevant to arxiv:1111.4119
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4410
abstract: Recently, some attention has been paid to falsifying the Leggett model, in which global probabilities characterizing a quantum state are represented by a combination of factorisable distributions. This idea was even verified in experiments, and generalized for larger subsystems, but thus far not in terms of the size of a subsystem. In this communication we show an inequality to reject the Leggett description for a subsystem of two qubits. We also point out some other interpretations of the derived expression.

id: 1111.4411
title: Quantum key distribution with delayed privacy amplification and its application to security proof of a two-way deterministic protocol
authors: Chi-Hang Fred Fung, Xiongfeng Ma, H. F. Chau, Qing-yu Cai
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032308 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4411
abstract: Privacy amplification (PA) is an essential post-processing step in quantum key distribution (QKD) for removing any information an eavesdropper may have on the final secret key. In this paper, we consider delaying PA of the final key after its use in one-time pad encryption and prove its security. We prove that the security and the key generation rate are not affected by delaying PA. Delaying PA has two applications: it serves as a tool for significantly simplifying the security proof of QKD with a two-way quantum channel, and also it is useful in QKD networks with trusted relays. To illustrate the power of the delayed PA idea, we use it to prove the security of a qubit-based two-way deterministic QKD protocol which uses four states and four encoding operations.

id: 1111.4427
title: Geometry of the generalized Bloch sphere for qutrit
authors: Sandeep K. Goyal, B. Neethi Simon, Rajeev Singh, Sudhavathani Simon
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4427
abstract: The geometry of the generalized Bloch sphere $\Omega_3$, the state space of a qutrit is studied. Closed form expressions for $\Omega_3$, its boundary $\partial \Omega_3$, and the set of extremals $\Omega_3^{\rm ext}$ are obtained by use of an elementary observation. These expressions and analytic methods are used to classify the 28 two-sections and the 56 three-sections of $\Omega_3$ into unitary equivalence classes, completing the works of earlier authors. It is shown, in particular, that there are families of two-sections and of three-sections which are equivalent geometrically but not unitarily, a feature that does not appear to have been appreciated earlier. A family of three-sections of obese-tetrahedral shape whose symmetry corresponds to the 24-element tetrahedral point group $T_d$ is examined in detail. This symmetry is traced to the reduction of the adjoint representation of SU(3), the symmetry underlying $\Omega_3$, into direct sum of the two-dimensional and the two (inequivalent) three-dimensional irreducible representations of $T_d$.

id: 1111.4433
title: Quantum Walks on Necklaces and Mixing
authors: Maria Kieferova, Daniel Nagaj
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, typos corrected, acknowledgements updated
journal: International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol.10, Issue 2, 1250025 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4433
abstract: We analyze continuous-time quantum walks on necklace graphs - cyclical graphs consisting of many copies of a smaller graph (pearl). Using a Bloch-type ansatz for the eigenfunctions, we block-diagonalize the Hamiltonian, reducing the effective size of the problem to the size of a single pearl. We then present a general approach for showing that the mixing time scales (with growing size of the necklace) similarly to that of a simple walk on a cycle. Finally, we present results for mixing on several necklace graphs.

id: 1111.4481
title: Nonlocal memory effects in the dynamics of open quantum systems
authors: Elsi-Mari Laine, Heinz-Peter Breuer, Jyrki Piilo, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: V2: Added a more general physical model, corresponding changes in the figures and text. Final version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 210402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4481
abstract: We explore the possibility to generate nonlocal dynamical maps of an open quantum system through local system-environment interactions. Employing a generic decoherence process induced by a local interaction Hamiltonian, we show that initial correlations in a composite environment can lead to a nonlocal open system dynamics which exhibits strong memory effects although the local dynamics is Markovian. In a model of two entangled photons interacting with two dephasing environments we find a direct connection between the degree of memory effects and the amount of correlations in the initial environmental state. The results demonstrate that, contrary to conventional wisdom, enlarging an open system can change the dynamics from Markovian to non-Markovian.

id: 1111.4501
title: Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Philip Chan, Itzel Lucio-Mart¨ªnez, Xiaofan Mo, Wolfgang Tittel
comments: 20 pages, 12 figures
journal: Chapter published in ''Femtosecond-Scale Optics'', ISBN 978-953-307-769-7, edited by Anatoli V. Andreev and released online, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4501
abstract: This chapter describes the application of lasers, specifically diode lasers, in the area of quantum key distribution (QKD). First, we motivate the distribution of cryptographic keys based on quantum physical properties of light, give a brief introduction to QKD assuming the reader has no or very little knowledge about cryptography, and briefly present the state-of-the-art of QKD. In the second half of the chapter we describe, as an example of a real-world QKD system, the system deployed between the University of Calgary and SAIT Polytechnic. We conclude the chapter with a brief discussion of quantum networks and future steps.

id: 1111.4510
title: Thwarting the Photon Number Splitting Attack with Entanglement Enhanced BB84 Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Carl F. Sabottke, Chris D. Richardson, Petr M. Anisimov, Ulvi Yurtsever, Antia Lamas-Linares, Jonathan P. Dowling
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 043003 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4510
abstract: We develop an improvement to the weak laser pulse BB84 scheme for quantum key distribution, which utilizes entanglement to improve the security of the scheme and enhance its resilience to the photon-number-splitting attack. This protocol relies on the non-commutation of photon phase and number to detect an eavesdropper performing quantum non-demolition measurement on number. The potential advantages and disadvantages of this scheme are compared to the coherent decoy state protocol.

id: 1111.4557
title: Entanglement Concentration with Quantum Non Demolition Hamiltonians
authors: Richard Tatham, Natalia Korolkova
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4557
abstract: We devise and examine two procrustean entanglement concentration schemes using Quantum Non- Demolition (QND) interaction Hamiltonians in the continuous variable regime, applicable for light, for atomic ensembles or in a hybrid setting. We thus expand the standard entanglement distillation toolbox to the use of a much more general, versatile and experimentally feasible interaction class. The first protocol uses Gaussian ancillary modes and a non-Gaussian post-measurement, the second a non-Gaussian ancillary mode and a Gaussian post-measurement. We explicitly calculate the density matrix elements of the non-Gaussian mixed states resulting from these protocols using an elegant Wigner-function based method in a numerically efficient manner. We then quantify the entanglement increase calculating the Logarithmic Negativity of the output state and discuss and compare the performance of the protocols.

id: 1111.4607
title: Inversion-free, noiseless Raman echoes
authors: Byoung S. Ham
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4607
abstract: Using double optical Raman rephasing, an inversion-free resonant Raman echo is studied in an inhomogeneously broadened spin ensemble of a solid medium, where the Raman optical field-excited spin coherence has a frozen propagation vector. Unlike photon echoes whose quantum memory application is strictly limited due to \pi rephasing pulse-induced population inversion causing quantum noises, the optical Raman field-excited spin echo is inherently silent owing to the frozen propagation vector. Thus, the doubly rephased Raman echo can be directly applied for quantum interface in a population inversion-free environment.

id: 1111.4618
title: Quantum No-Cloning Theorem Certified by Bell's Theorem
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Hong-Yi Su, Chunfeng Wu, Xiang-Jun Ye, Dong-Ling Deng, C. H. Oh
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4618
abstract: We investigate the connection between quantum no-cloning theorem and Bell's theorem. Designing some Bell's inequalities, we show that quantum no-cloning theorem can always be certified by Bell's theorem, and this fact in turn reflects that our physical world is essentially nonlocal.

id: 1111.4628
title: Finite Geometry and the Radon Transform
authors: Michael Revzen
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4628
abstract: Finite Geometry is used to underpin operators acting in finite, d, dimensional Hilbert space. Quasi distribution and Radon transform underpinned with finite dual affine plane geometry (DAPG) are defined in analogy with the continuous ($d \rightarrow \infty$) Hilbert space case. An essntial role in these definitions play the projectors of states of mutual unbiased bases (MUB) and their Wigner function-like mapping onto the generalized phase space that lines and points of DAPG constitutes.

id: 1111.4630
title: No Drama Quantum Theory? A Review
authors: A. Akhmeteli
comments: 11 pages, no figures. A review of recent work. Presented as a poster at the conference "Emergent Quantum Mechanics", Vienna, November 2011
journal: Eur. Phys. J. C (2013) 73:2371 (open access)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4630
abstract: Schr\"{o}dinger (Nature, v.169, 538 (1952)) noted that the complex matter field in the Klein-Gordon equation can be made real by a gauge transform, although charged fields are believed to require complex functions. Surprisingly, the result can be extended to the Dirac equation: three complex components of the Dirac spinor function can be algebraically eliminated, and the remaining component can be made real by a gauge transform. Therefore, the Dirac equation is generally equivalent to one fourth-order partial differential equation for one real function (A. Akhmeteli, J. Math. Phys. v.52, 082303 (2011)). These results both belong in textbooks and can be used for development of new efficient methods of quantum chemistry. The matter field can be algebraically eliminated both in scalar electrodynamics and in spinor electrodynamics in a certain gauge. The resulting equations describe independent dynamics of the electromagnetic field, which permits mathematical simplification and can be useful for interpretation of quantum theory. For example, in the Bohm interpretation, the electromagnetic field can replace the wave function as the guiding field. It is also shown that for these equations, generalized Carleman embedding generates systems of linear equations in the Hilbert space, which look like second-quantized theories and are equivalent to the original nonlinear systems on the set of solutions of the latter. Thus, the relevant local realistic models can be embedded into quantum field theories. These models are equivalent to scalar electrodynamics and spinor electrodynamics, so they correctly describe a large body of experimental data. Although they may need some modifications for better agreement with experiments, they may be of great interest as "no drama quantum theories", as simple (in principle) as classical electrodynamics. Possible issues with the Bell theorem are discussed.

id: 1111.4647
title: Anomalous molecular dynamics in the vicinity of conical intersections
authors: Jonas Larson, Elham Nour Ghassemi, Asa Larson
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Euro. Phys. Lett. 101, 43001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4647
abstract: Conical intersections between molecular electronic potential surfaces greatly affect various properties of the molecule. Molecular gauge theory is capable of explaining many of these often unexpected phenomena deriving from the physics of the conical intersection. Here we give an example of anomalous dynamics in the paradigm of the Exe Jahn-Teller model, which does not allow a simple explenation in terms of standard molecular gauge theory. By introducing a dual gauge theory, we unwind this surprising behavior by identifying it with an intrinsic spin Hall effect. Thus, this work link knowledge of condensed matter theories with molecular vibrations. Furthermore, via ab initio calculations the findings are as well demonstrated to appear in realistic systems such as the Li3 molecule.

id: 1111.4671
title: A counterfactual Rydberg gate for photons
authors: Juan Carlos Garcia-Escartin, Pedro Chamorro-Posada
comments: 4 Figures. 6 pages of text
journal: Physical Review A 85, 032309 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4671
abstract: Quantum computation with photons requires efficient two photon gates. We put forward a two photon entangling gate which uses an intermediate atomic system. The system includes a single Rydberg atom which can switch on and off photon absorption in an ensemble using the dipole blockade. The gate is based in a counterfactual protocol. The mere possibility of an absorption that can only occur with a vanishing probability steers the photons to the desired final state.

id: 1111.4713
title: Universal violation of pentagon inequalities in four-state systems
authors: Mordecai Waegell, P. K. Aravind
comments: 8 pages, 5 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4713
abstract: The 60 real vectors derived from the vertices of a 600-cell are shown to yield a number of pentagon inequalities that are satisfied by realistic noncontextual theories but violated by quantum mechanics. The replicas of these inequalities cover Hilbert space so densely that every real four-dimensional vector violates at least one of them. It is pointed out that this set of 60 vectors contains numerous "N-gons" (generalizations of pentagons) that may be of interest in connection with demonstrations of contextuality.

id: 1111.4775
title: Threshold resonance and controlled filtering in quantum star graphs
authors: Ond?ej Turek, Taksu Cheon
comments: ReVTeX format, 4 pages, 6 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 98 (2012) 50005(5pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4775
abstract: We design two simple quantum devices applicable as an adjustable quantum spectral filter and as a flux controller. Their function is based upon the threshold resonance in a F\"ul\"op-Tsutsui type star graph with an external potential added on one of the lines. Adjustment of the potential strength directly controls the quantum flow from the input to the output line. This is the first example to date in which the quantum flow control is achieved by addition of an external field not on the channel itself, but on other lines connected to the channel at a vertex.

id: 1111.4792
title: Toward Spin Squeezing with Trapped Ions
authors: Hermann Uys, Michael J. Biercuk, Joe Britton, John J. Bollinger
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures, Contribution to Quantum Africa 2010 conference proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4792
abstract: Building robust instruments capable of making interferometric measurements with precision beyond the standard quantum limit remains an important goal in many metrology laboratories. We describe here the basic concepts underlying spin squeezing experiments that allow one to surpass this limit. In priniciple it is possible to reach the so-called Heisenberg limit, which constitutes an improvement in precision by a factor $\sqrt{N}$, where $N$ is the number of particles on which the measurement is carried out. In particular, we focus on recent progress toward implementing spin squeezing with a cloud of beryllium ions in a Penning ion trap, via the geometric phase gate used more commonly for performing two-qubit entangling operations in quantum computing experiments.

id: 1111.4797
title: Revealing Bell's Nonlocality for Unstable Systems in High Energy Physics
authors: Beatrix C. Hiesmayr, Antonio Di Domenico, Catalina Curceanu, Andreas Gabriel, Marcus Huber, Jan-Ake Larsson, Pawel Moskal
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: The European Physical Journal C (EPJ C), Vol. 72, 1856 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4797
abstract: Entanglement and its consequences - in particular the violation of Bell inequalities, which defies our concepts of realism and locality - have been proven to play key roles in Nature by many experiments for various quantum systems. Entanglement can also be found in systems not consisting of ordinary matter and light, i.e. in massive meson--antimeson systems. Bell inequalities have been discussed for these systems, but up to date no direct experimental test to conclusively exclude local realism was found. This mainly stems from the fact that one only has access to a restricted class of observables and that these systems are also decaying. In this Letter we put forward a Bell inequality for unstable systems which can be tested at accelerator facilities with current technology. Herewith, the long awaited proof that such systems at different energy scales can reveal the sophisticated "dynamical" nonlocal feature of Nature in a direct experiment gets feasible. Moreover, the role of entanglement and CP violation, an asymmetry between matter and antimatter, is explored, a special feature offered only by these meson-antimeson systems.

id: 1111.4801
title: Maintaining Quantum Coherence in the Presence of Noise through State Monitoring
authors: T. Konrad, H. Uys
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4801
abstract: Unsharp POVM measurements allow the estimation and tracking of quantum wavefunctions in real-time with minimal disruption of the dynamics. Here we demonstrate that high fidelity state monitoring, and hence quantum control, is possible even in the presence of classical dephasing and amplitude noise, by simulating such measurements on a two-level system undergoing Rabi oscillations. Finite estimation fidelity is found to persist indefinitely long after the decoherence times set by the noise fields in the absence of measurement.

id: 1111.4834
title: The quantum cryptographic switch
authors: Srinatha Narayanaswamy, Omkar Srikrishna, R. Srikanth, Subhashish Banerjee, Anirban Pathak
comments: 7 pages, 4 Figures
journal: Quantum Inf Process vol. 13 (2014) p. 59
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4834
abstract: We illustrate using a quantum system the principle of a cryptographic switch, in which a third party (Charlie) can control to a continuously varying degree the amount of information the receiver (Bob) receives, after the sender (Alice) has sent her information. Suppose Charlie transmits a Bell state to Alice and Bob. Alice uses dense coding to transmit two bits to Bob. Only if the 2-bit information corresponding to choice of Bell state is made available by Charlie to Bob can the latter recover Alice's information. By varying the information he gives, Charlie can continuously vary the information recovered by Bob. The performance of the protocol subjected to the squeezed generalized amplitude damping channel is considered. We also present a number of practical situations where a cryptographic switch would be of use.

id: 1111.4858
title: Casimir Friction Force for Moving Harmonic Oscillators
authors: Johan S. H?ye, Iver Brevik
comments: 14 pages latex, one eps figure. Contribution to the QFEXT11 Proceedings
journal: Journal of Modern Physics A 27, 1260011 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4858
abstract: Casimir friction is analyzed for a pair of dielectric particles in relative motion. We first adopt a microscopic model for harmonically oscillating particles at finite temperature T moving non-relativistically with constant velocity. We use a statistical-mechanical description where time-dependent correlations are involved. This description is physical and direct, and, in spite of its simplicity, is able to elucidate the essentials of the problem. This treatment elaborates upon, and extends, an earlier theory of ours back in 1992. The energy change Delta E turns out to be finite in general, corresponding to a finite friction force. In the limit of zero temperature the formalism yields, however, Delta E ->0, this being due to our assumption about constant velocity, meaning slowly varying coupling. For couplings varying more rapidly, there will also be a finite friction force at T=0. As second part of our work, we consider the friction problem using time-dependent perturbation theory. The dissipation, basically a second order effect, is obtainable with the use of first order theory, the reason being the absence of cross terms due to uncorrelated phases of eigenstates. The third part of the present paper is to demonstrate explicitly the equivalence of our results with those recently obtained by Barton (2010); this being not a trivial task since the formal results are seemingly quite different from each other.

id: 1111.4879
title: Quantum Information Approach to Bose-Einstein Condensate in a Tilted Double-Well System
authors: Zhao Liu, Hongli Guo, Shu Chen, Heng Fan
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, slightly different from the published version
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 (2012) 055301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4879
abstract: We study the ground state properties of bosons in a tilted double-well system. We use fidelity susceptibility to identify the possible ground state transitions under different tilt values. For a very small tilt (for example $10^{-10}$), two transitions are found. For a moderate tilt (for example $10^{-3}$), only one transition is found. For a large tilt (for example $10^{-1}$), no transition is found. We explain this by analyzing the spectrum of the ground state. The quantum discord and total correlation of the ground state under different tilts are also calculated to indicate those transitions. In the transition region, both quantities have peaks decaying exponentially with particle number $N$. This means for a finite-size system the transition region cannot be explained by the mean-field theory, but in the large-$N$ limit it can be.

id: 1111.4903
title: Condition for tripartite entanglement
authors: A. I. Solomon, C.-L. Ho
comments: 8 pages, to appear in the Proceedings of "Quantum Theory and Symmetries 7", Prague, Aug 7-13, 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4903
abstract: We propose a scheme for classifying the entanglement of a tripartite pure qubit state. This classification scheme consists of an ordered list of seven elements. These elements are the Cayley hyper-determinant, and its six associated $2 \times 2$ subdeterminants. In particular we show that this classification provides a necessary and sufficient condition for separability.

id: 1111.4908
title: Action-angle coherent states for quantum systems with cylindric phase space
authors: I. Aremua, J. P. Gazeau, M. N. Hounkonnou
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4908
abstract: Quantum versions of cylindric phase space, like for the motion of a particle on the circle, are obtained through different families of coherent states. The latter are built from various probability distributions of the action variable. The method is illustrated with Gaussian distributions and uniform distributions on intervals, and resulting quantizations are explored.

id: 1111.4935
title: Information Entropy of Two Cooper Pair Boxes Interacting with an Environment
authors: Heba Kadry Abdel-Hafez, Nordin Zakaria
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4935
abstract: Adopting the framework of two-coupled superconducting charges model, we discussed the information entropy of two qubits initially prepared in a mixed state and allowed to interact with their environment. The impact of the different parameters of the system is explicitly investigated. Present calculations show that strong mutual entropy is obtained for a long interaction time when the two qubits are initially in a mixed state with the environment switched off. We have identified a class of two-qubit states that have a rich dynamics when the deviation between the characteristic energies of the quabits becomes minimum. It was found that the total correlation decreases abruptly to zero in a finite time due to the influence of the strong environment.

id: 1111.4966
title: Multipartite Entanglement Generation Assisted by Inhomogeneous Coupling
authors: C. E. L¨®pez, F. Lastra, G. Romero, E. Solano, J. C. Retamal
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Submitted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032319 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4966
abstract: We show that controllable inhomogeneous coupling between two-level systems and a common data bus provides a fast mechanism to produce multipartite entanglement. Our proposal combines resonant interactions and engineering of coupling strengths---between the qubits and the single mode---leading to well defined entangled states. Furthermore, we show that, if the two-level systems interact dispersively with the quantized mode, engineering of coupling strengths allows the controlled access of the symmetric Hilbert space of qubits.

id: 1111.4982
title: The quantum Goldilocks effect: on the convergence of timescales in quantum transport
authors: Seth Lloyd, Masoud Mohseni, Alireza Shabani, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 15 pages, plain TeX, paper delivered at Royal Society Conference on Quantum Biology, June 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4982
abstract: Excitonic transport in photosynthesis exhibits a wide range of time scales. Absorption and initial relaxation takes place over tens of femtoseconds. Excitonic lifetimes are on the order of a nanosecond. Hopping rates, energy differences between chromophores, reorganization energies, and decoherence rates correspond to time scales on the order of picoseconds. The functional nature of the divergence of time scales is easily understood: strong coupling to the electromagnetic field over a broad band of frequencies yields rapid absorption, while long excitonic lifetimes increase the amount of energy that makes its way to the reaction center to be converted to chemical energy. The convergence of the remaining time scales to the centerpoint of the overall temporal range is harder to understand. In this paper we argue that the convergence of timescales in photosynthesis can be understood as an example of the `quantum Goldilocks effect': natural selection tends to drive quantum systems to the degree of quantum coherence that is `just right' for attaining maximum efficiency. We provide a general theory of optimal and robust, efficient transport in quantum systems, and show that it is governed by a single parameter.

id: 1111.5032
title: Single-qubit unitary gates by graph scattering
authors: Benjamin A. Blumer, Michael S. Underwood, David L. Feder
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5032
abstract: We consider the effects of plane-wave states scattering off finite graphs, as an approach to implementing single-qubit unitary operations within the continuous-time quantum walk framework of universal quantum computation. Four semi-infinite tails are attached at arbitrary points of a given graph, representing the input and output registers of a single qubit. For a range of momentum eigenstates, we enumerate all of the graphs with up to $n=9$ vertices for which the scattering implements a single-qubit gate. As $n$ increases, the number of new unitary operations increases exponentially, and for $n>6$ the majority correspond to rotations about axes distributed roughly uniformly across the Bloch sphere. Rotations by both rational and irrational multiples of $\pi$ are found.

id: 1111.5057
title: Reconstruction of Gaussian quantum mechanics from Liouville mechanics with an epistemic restriction
authors: Stephen D. Bartlett, Terry Rudolph, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: 27 pages, 3 figures; v2 published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012103 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5057
abstract: How would the world appear to us if its ontology was that of classical mechanics but every agent faced a restriction on how much they could come to know about the classical state? We show that in most respects, it would appear to us as quantum. The statistical theory of classical mechanics, which specifies how probability distributions over phase space evolve under Hamiltonian evolution and under measurements, is typically called Liouville mechanics, so the theory we explore here is Liouville mechanics with an epistemic restriction. The particular epistemic restriction we posit as our foundational postulate specifies two constraints. The first constraint is a classical analogue of Heisenberg's uncertainty principle -- the second-order moments of position and momentum defined by the phase-space distribution that characterizes an agent's knowledge are required to satisfy the same constraints as are satisfied by the moments of position and momentum observables for a quantum state. The second constraint is that the distribution should have maximal entropy for the given moments. Starting from this postulate, we derive the allowed preparations, measurements and transformations and demonstrate that they are isomorphic to those allowed in Gaussian quantum mechanics and generate the same experimental statistics. We argue that this reconstruction of Gaussian quantum mechanics constitutes additional evidence in favour of a research program wherein quantum states are interpreted as states of incomplete knowledge, and that the phenomena that do not arise in Gaussian quantum mechanics provide the best clues for how one might reconstruct the full quantum theory.

id: 1111.5074
title: Multi-Particle Quantum Szilard Engine with Optimal Cycles Assisted by a Maxwell's Demon
authors: C. Y. Cai, H. Dong, C. P. Sun
comments: 14 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 031114 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5074
abstract: We present a complete-quantum description of multi-particle Szilard engine which consists of a working substance and a Maxwell's demon. The demon is modeled as a multi-level quantum system with specific quantum control and the working substance consists of identical particles obeying Bose-Einstein or Fermi-Dirac statistics. In this description, a reversible scheme to erase the demon's memory by a lower temperature heat bath is used. We demonstrate that (1) the quantum control of the demon can be optimized for single-particle Szilard engine so that the efficiency of the demon-assisted thermodynamic cycle could reach the Carnot cycle's efficiency; (2) the low-temperature behavior of the working substance is very sensitive to the quantum statistics of the particles and the insertion position of the partition.

id: 1111.5084
title: Measurement-Based Quantum Computing with Valence-Bond-Solids
authors: Leong Chuan Kwek, Zhaohui Wei, Bei Zeng
comments: 38 pages, 22 figures. A review paper that will appear in INT J MOD PHYS B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5084
abstract: Measurement-based quantum computing (MBQC) is a model of quantum computing that proceeds by sequential measurements of individual spins in an entangled resource state. However, it remains a challenge to produce efficiently such resource states. Would it be possible to generate these states by simply cooling a quantum many-body system to its ground state? Cluster states, the canonical resource states for MBQC, do not occur naturally as unique ground states of physical systems. This inherent hurdle has led to a significant effort to identify alternative resource states that appear as ground states in spin lattices. Recently, some interesting candidates have been identified with various valence-bond-solid (VBS) states. In this review, we provide a pedagogical introduction to recent progress regarding MBQC with VBS states as possible resource states. This study has led to an interesting interdisciplinary research area at the interface of quantum information science and condensed matter physics.

id: 1111.5086
title: Single Spin Logic Implementation of VLSI Adders
authors: Soumitra Shukla, Bahniman Ghosh
comments: 9 pages, 18 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5086
abstract: Some important VLSI adder circuits are implemented using quantum dots (qd) and Spin Polarized Scanning Tunneling Microscopy (SPSTM) in Single Spin Logic (SSL) paradigm. A simple comparison between these adder circuits shows that the mirror adder implementation in SSL does not carry any advantage over CMOS adder in terms of complexity and number of qds, opposite to the trend observed in their charge-based counterparts. On the contrary, the transmission gate adder, Static and Dynamic Manchester carry gate adders in SSL reduce the complexity and number of qds, in harmony with the trend shown in transistor adders.

id: 1111.5096
title: Coherence vortices in one spatial dimension
authors: Tapio P. Simula, David M. Paganin
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052104 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5096
abstract: Coherence vortices are screw-type topological defects in the phase of Glauber's two-point degree of quantum coherence, associated with pairs of spatial points at which an ensemble-averaged stochastic quantum field is uncorrelated. Coherence vortices may be present in systems whose dimensionality is too low to support spatial vortices. We exhibit lattices of such quantum-coherence phase defects for a one-dimensional model quantum system. We discuss the physical meaning of coherence vortices and propose how they may be realized experimentally.

id: 1111.5112
title: Coherent control of mesoscopic superpositions in a diatomic molecule
authors: Suranjana Ghosh
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Int. J. Quantum Information 10, 1250014 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5112
abstract: A phase controlled wave packet, recently used in experiment of wave packet interferometry of adiatomic molecule, is investigated to obtain mesoscopic superposition structures, useful in quantum metrology. This analysis provides a new way of obtaining sub-Planck scale structures at smaller time scale of revival dynamics. We study a number of situations for delineating the smallest interference structures and their control by tailoring the relative phase between two subsidiary wave packets. We also find the most appropriate state, so far, for high precision parameter estimation in a system of diatomic molecule.

id: 1111.5114
title: Coherence simplices
authors: Tapio P. Simula, David M. Paganin
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, to appear in New Journal of Physics
journal: New J. Phys. 14 113015 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5114
abstract: Coherence simplices are generic topological correlation-function defects supported by a hierarchy of coherence functions. We classify coherence simplices based on their topology and discuss their structure and dynamics, together with their relevance to several physical systems.

id: 1111.5117
title: Entanglement, number fluctuations and optimized interferometric phase measurement
authors: Q. Y. He, T. G. Vaughan, P. D. Drummond, M. D. Reid
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 14 (9), 093012 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5117
abstract: We derive a phase-entanglement criterion for two bosonic modes which is immune to number fluc- tuations, using the generalized Moore-Penrose inverse to normalize the phase-quadrature operator. We also obtain a phase-squeezing criterion that is immune to number fluctuations using similar techniques. These are utilized to obtain an operational definition of relative phase-measurement sensitivity, via analysis of phase measurement in interferometry. We show that these measures are proportional to enhanced phase-measurement sensitivity. The phase-entanglement criterion is a hallmark for a new type of quantum squeezing, namely planar quantum squeezing. This has the property that it squeezes two orthogonal spin directions simultaneously, which is possible owing to the fact that the SU(2) group that describes spin symmetry has a three-dimensional parameter space, of higher dimension than the group for photonic quadratures. The practical advantage of planar quantum squeezing is that, unlike conventional spin-squeezing, it allows noise reduction over all phase-angles simultaneously. The application of this type of squeezing is to quantum measure- ment of an unknown phase. We show that a completely unknown phase requires two orthogonal measurements, and that with planar quantum squeezing it is possible to reduce the measurement uncertainty independently of the unknown phase value. This is a different type of squeezing to the usual spin-squeezing interferometric criterion, which is only applicable when the measured phase is already known to a good approximation, or can be measured iteratively. As an example, we calcu- late the phase-entanglement of the ground state of a two-well, coupled Bose-Einstein condensate, similar to recent experiments. This system demonstrates planar squeezing in both the attractive and repulsive interaction regimes.

id: 1111.5121
title: A logical analysis of Stapp's non-locality theorem
authors: Giusepp Nistic¨°
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5121
abstract: According to an argument proposed by Stapp, Quantum Mechanics violates the Locality Principle if the two hypotheses of {\sl Free Choices} and {\sl No backward-in-time influence} are assumed to hold, without the need of introducing hidden variables or criteria of reality. We develop an approach that endows the new hypotheses with a logico-mathematical formulation which allow us to perform an analysis of Stapp's argument, based on ordinary, not counterfactual, logic. According to our results, the analyzed argument is not able to conclude that Quantum Mechanics violates the Locality Principle.

id: 1111.5163
title: Non-monogamy of quantum discord and upper bounds for quantum correlation
authors: Xi-Jun Ren, Heng Fan
comments: Title changed, abstract and introduction revised, references added
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. Vol. 13 No. 5&6, (pp0469-0478) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5163
abstract: We consider a monogamy inequality of quantum discord in a pure tripartite state and show that it is equivalent to an inequality between quantum mutual information and entanglement of formation of two parties. Since this inequality does not hold for arbitrary bipartite states, quantum discord can generally be both monogamous and polygamous. We also carry out numerical calculations for some special states. The upper bounds of quantum discord and classical correlation are also discussed and we give physical analysis on the invalidness of a previous conjectured upper bound of quantum correlation. Our results provide new insights for further understanding of distributions of quantum correlations.

id: 1111.5185
title: Quantum repeaters based on heralded qubit amplifiers
authors: Ji?¨ª Min¨¢?, Hugues de Riedmatten, Nicolas Sangouard
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032313 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5185
abstract: We present a quantum repeater scheme based on the recently proposed qubit amplifier [N. Gisin, S. Pironio and N. Sangouard, Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 070501 (2010)]. It relies on a on-demand entangled-photon pair source which uses on-demand single-photon sources, linear optical elements and atomic ensembles. Interestingly, the imperfections affecting the states created from this source, caused e.g. by detectors with non-unit efficiencies, are systematically purified from an entanglement swapping operation based on a two-photon detection. This allows the distribution of entanglement over very long distances with a high fidelity, i.e. without vacuum components and multiphoton errors. Therefore, the resulting quantum repeater architecture does not necessitate final postselections and thus achieves high entanglement distribution rates. This also provides unique opportunities for device-independent quantum key distribution over long distances with linear optics and atomic ensembles.

id: 1111.5195
title: Quantum adiabatic theorem in light of the Marzlin-Sanders inconsistency
authors: Juan Ortigoso
comments: Published version. It contains some changes with respect to previous versions
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032121 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5195
abstract: A consensus that questions the perfunctory use of the quantum adiabatic theorem has emerged since Marzlin and Sanders [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 93}, 160408 (2004)] showed the existence of an inconsistency in the applicability of the theorem. Further analysis proved that the inconsistency may arise from the existence of resonant terms in the Hamiltonian, but recent work indicates that the debate about the full extent of the problem remains open. Here, we first show that key premises required in the standard demonstration of the theorem do not hold for a dual Hamiltonian involved in the Marzlin-Sanders inconsistency. Also, we show that two simple conditions can identify systems for which the adiabatic approximation fails, in spite of satisfying traditional quantitative conditions that were believed to guarantee its validity. Finally, we prove that the inconsistency only arises for Hamiltonians that contain resonant terms whose amplitudes go asymptotically to zero.

id: 1111.5203
title: Sub-Poissonian atom number fluctuations using light-assisted collisions
authors: Y. R. P. Sortais, A. Fuhrmanek, R. Bourgain, A. Browaeys
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 035403 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5203
abstract: We investigate experimentally the number statistics of a mesoscopic ensemble of cold atoms in a microscopic dipole trap loaded from a magneto-optical trap, and find that the atom number fluctuations are reduced with respect to a Poisson distribution due to light-assisted two-body collisions. For numbers of atoms N>2, we measure a reduction factor (Fano factor) of 0.72+/-0.07, which differs from 1 by more than 4 standard deviations. We analyze this fact by a general stochastic model describing the competition between the loading of the trap from a reservoir of cold atoms and multi-atom losses, which leads to a master equation. Applied to our experimental regime, this model indicates an asymptotic value of 3/4 for the Fano factor at large N and in steady state. We thus show that we have reached the ultimate level of reduction in number fluctuations in our system.

id: 1111.5208
title: Thermally generated long-lived quantum correlations for two atoms trapped in fiber-coupled cavities
authors: Vitalie Eremeev, V¨ªctor Montenegro, Miguel Orszag
comments: v2: 6 pages, 6 figures (based on the reviewed version)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032315 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5208
abstract: A theoretical model for driving a two qubit system to a stable long-lived entanglement is discussed. The entire system is represented by two atoms, initially in ground states and disentangled, each one coupled to a separate cavity with the cavities connected by a fiber. The cavities and fiber exchange energy with their individual thermal environments. Under these conditions, we apply the theory of microscopic master equation developed for the dynamics of the open quantum system. Deriving the density operator of the two-qubit system we found that stable long-lived quantum correlations are generated in the presence of thermal excitation of the environments. To the best of our knowledge, there is no a similar effect observed in a quantum open system described by a generalized microscopic master equation in the approximation of the cavity quantum electrodynamics (CQED).

id: 1111.5215
title: About a possible path towards the reverse engineering of quantum mechanics
authors: Alberto Ottolenghi
comments: 20 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5215
abstract: An out of the box intellectual path exploring the foundations of quantum mechanics is discussed in some detail, in order to clarify why a possibly different way to look at the relevant fundamental questions can be identified and can support further research. Two key concepts arise. (1) Einstein critics to quantum mechanics could be taken seriously, but ironically, in order to really do so, one would have to take seriously also some of Lorentz critics to special relativity - both in a possibly more modern way; such interconnection possibly having been a blocking factor to openly discuss some of the cross implications of alternative views about quantum mechanics to date. (2) The probabilistic interpretation is a by-product of (a) quantum evolution equations, (b) conservation laws for the combination of measuring system and measured object and (c) persistency of calibration of the measuring system - as such there is no intellectual conflict whatsoever between hidden variables theories and probabilistic interpretation, provided we consider multicomponent hidden variable models and we allow for the existence of an underlying network. The implications of such concepts, in particular for the development of a microscopic quantisation program, are heuristically discussed or preliminarily explored.

id: 1111.5245
title: The Optical Excitation of Zigzag Carbon Nanotubes with Photons Guided in Nanofibers
authors: S. Broadfoot, U. Dorner, D. Jaksch
comments: 14 pages, 14 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5245
abstract: We consider the excitation of electrons in semiconducting carbon nanotubes by photons from the evanescent field created by a subwavelength-diameter optical fiber. The strongly changing evanescent field of such nanofibers requires dropping the dipole approximation. We show that this leads to novel effects, especially a high dependence of the photon absorption on the relative orientation and geometry of the nanotube-nanofiber setup in the optical and near infrared domain. In particular, we calculate photon absorption probabilities for a straight nanotube and nanofiber depending on their relative angle. Nanotubes orthogonal to the fiber are found to perform much better than parallel nanotubes when they are short. As the nanotube gets longer the absorption of parallel nanotubes is found to exceed the orthogonal nanotubes and approach 100% for extremely long nanotubes. In addition, we show that if the nanotube is wrapped around the fiber in an appropriate way the absorption is enhanced. We find that optical and near infrared photons could be converted to excitations with efficiencies that may exceed 90%. This may provide opportunities for future photodetectors and we discuss possible setups.

id: 1111.5247
title: The Complexity of the Separable Hamiltonian Problem
authors: Andr¨¦ Chailloux, Or Sattath
comments: 
journal: Proc. of IEEE 27th Annual Conference on Computational Complexity (CCC), 2012. pp 32 - 41
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5247
abstract: In this paper, we study variants of the canonical Local-Hamiltonian problem where, in addition, the witness is promised to be separable. We define two variants of the Local-Hamiltonian problem. The input for the Separable-Local-Hamiltonian problem is the same as the Local-Hamiltonian problem, i.e. a local Hamiltonian and two energies a and b, but the question is somewhat different: the answer is YES if there is a separable quantum state with energy at most a, and the answer is NO if all separable quantum states have energy at least b. The Separable-Sparse-Hamiltonian problem is defined similarly, but the Hamiltonian is not necessarily local, but rather sparse. We show that the Separable-Sparse-Hamiltonian problem is QMA(2)-Complete, while Separable-Local-Hamiltonian is in QMA. This should be compared to the Local-Hamiltonian problem, and the Sparse-Hamiltonian problem which are both QMA-Complete. To the best of our knowledge, Separable-SPARSE-Hamiltonian is the first non-trivial problem shown to be QMA(2)-Complete.

id: 1111.5255
title: Constructing all entanglement witnesses from density matrices
authors: Bang-Hai Wang, Dong-Yang Long
comments: 5 pages. Added the computing $c_{\rho_q}^{\text{max}}$ in detail
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 014303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5255
abstract: We demonstrate a general procedure to construct entanglement witnesses for any entangled state. This procedure is based on the trace inequality and a general form of entanglement witnesses, which is in the form $W=\rho-c_{\rho} I$, where $\rho$ is a density matrix, $c_{\rho}$ is a non-negative number related to $\rho$, and $I$ is the identity matrix. The general form of entanglement witnesses is deduced from Choi-Jamio{\l}kowski isomorphism, that can be reinterpreted as that all quantum states can be obtained by a maximally quantum entangled state pass through certain completely positive maps. Furthermore, we provide the necessary and sufficient condition of the entanglement witness $W=\rho-c_{\rho}I$ in operation, as well as in theory.

id: 1111.5262
title: Mappings of open quantum systems onto chain representations and Markovian embeddings
authors: M. P. Woods, R. Groux, A. W. Chin, S. F. Huelga, M. B. Plenio
comments: 44 pages, 1 figure. V2, small changes
journal: J. Math. Phys. 55, 032101 (2014); http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.4866769
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5262
abstract: We derive a sequence of measures whose corresponding Jacobi matrices have special properties and a general mapping of an open quantum system onto 1D semi infinite chains with only nearest neighbour interactions. Then we proceed to use the sequence of measures and the properties of the Jacobi matrices to derive an expression for the spectral density describing the open quantum system when an increasing number of degrees of freedom in the environment have been embedded into the system. Finally, we derive convergence theorems for these residual spectral densities.

id: 1111.5306
title: Achieving perfect completeness in classical-witness quantum Merlin-Arthur proof systems
authors: Stephen P. Jordan, Hirotada Kobayashi, Daniel Nagaj, Harumichi Nishimura
comments: 10 pages. Added two more authors and a new proof technique, which requires only a fixed finite gate set
journal: Quantum Information and Computation Vol. 12 No. 5/6 pg. 461-471 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5306
abstract: This paper proves that classical-witness quantum Merlin-Arthur proof systems can achieve perfect completeness. That is, QCMA = QCMA1. This holds under any gate set with which the Hadamard and arbitrary classical reversible transformations can be exactly implemented, e.g., {Hadamard, Toffoli, NOT}. The proof is quantumly nonrelativizing, and uses a simple but novel quantum technique that additively adjusts the success probability, which may be of independent interest.

id: 1111.5330
title: Integrated diamond networks for quantum nanophotonics
authors: Birgit J.M. Hausmann, Brendan Shields, Qimin Quan, Patrick Maletinsky, Murray McCutcheon, Jennifer T. Choy, Tom M. Babinec, Alexander Kubanek, Amir Yacoby, Mikhail D. Lukin, Marko Loncar
comments: This paper has been withdrawn to change the outline of the paper
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5330
abstract: Diamond is a unique material with exceptional physical and chemical properties that offers potential for the realization of high-performance devices with novel functionalities. For example diamond's high refractive index, transparency over wide wavelength range, and large Raman gain are of interest for the implementation of novel photonic devices. Recently, atom-like impurities in diamond emerged as an exceptional system for quantum information processing, quantum sensing and quantum networks. For these and other applications, it is essential to develop an integrated nanophotonic platform based on diamond. Here, we report on the realization of such an integrated diamond photonic platform, diamond on insulator (DOI), consisting of a thin single crystal diamond film on top of an insulating silicon dioxide/silicon substrate. Using this approach, we demonstrate diamond ring resonators that operate in a wide wavelength range, including the visible (630nm) and near-infrared (1,550nm). Finally, we demonstrate an integrated, on-chip quantum nanophotonic network, consisting of ring resonators coupled to low loss waveguides with grating couplers, that enables the generation and efficient routing of single photons at room temperature.

id: 1111.5333
title: The Adiabatic Theorem for Quantum Systems with Spectral Degeneracy
authors: Gustavo Rigolin, Gerardo Ortiz
comments: 4 pages, no figures, RevTex4-1; v2: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062111 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5333
abstract: By stating the adiabatic theorem of quantum mechanics in a clear and rigorous way, we establish a necessary condition and a sufficient condition for its validity, where the latter is obtained employing our recently developed adiabatic perturbation theory. Also, we simplify further the sufficient condition into a useful and simple practical test at the expenses of its mathematical rigor. We present results for the most general case of quantum systems, i.e., those with degenerate energy spectra. These conditions are of upmost importance to assess the validity of practical implementations of non-Abelian braiding and adiabatic quantum computation. To illustrate the degenerate adiabatic approximation, and the necessary and sufficient conditions for its validity, we analyze in depth an exactly solvable time-dependent degenerate problem.

id: 1111.5364
title: Quantum Locality?
authors: Henry P. Stapp
comments: This version adds a response to Griffiths' reply to my original. It notes that Griffiths confirms the validity of my argument if one uses the framework that I use. Griffiths' objection that other frameworks exist is not germaine, because I use the unique one that satisfies the explicitly stated conditions that the choices be macroscopic choices of experiments and outcomes in a specified order
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5364
abstract: Robert Griffiths has recently addressed, within the framework of a 'consistent quantum theory' that he has developed, the issue of whether, as is often claimed, quantum mechanics entails a need for faster-than-light transfers of information over long distances. He argues that the putative proofs of this property that involve hidden variables include in their premises some essentially classical-physics-type assumptions that are fundamentally incompatible with the precepts of quantum physics. One cannot logically prove properties of a system by establishing, instead, properties of a system modified by adding properties alien to the original system. Hence Griffiths' rejection of hidden-variable-based proofs is logically warranted. Griffiths mentions the existence of a certain alternative proof that does not involve hidden variables, and that uses only macroscopically described observable properties. He notes that he had examined in his book proofs of this general kind, and concluded that they provide no evidence for nonlocal influences. But he did not examine the particular proof that he cites. An examination of that particular proof by the method specified by his 'consistent quantum theory' shows that the cited proof is valid within that restrictive version of quantum theory. An added section responds to Griffiths' reply, which cites general possibilities of ambiguities that make what is to be proved ill-defined, and hence render the pertinent 'consistent framework' ill defined. But the vagaries that he cites do not upset the proof in question, which, both by its physical formulation and by explicit identification, specify the framework to be used. Griffiths confirms the validity of the proof insofar as that framework is used. The section also shows, in response to Griffiths' challenge, why a putative proof of locality that he has described is flawed.

id: 1111.5380
title: Quantum discord induced by white noises
authors: Jia-sen Jin, Chang-shui Yu, Pei Pei, He-shan Song
comments: 6 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B Vol. 27 Issue 9, pp.1799-1803 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5380
abstract: We discuss the creation of quantum discord between two two-level atoms trapped in an optical cavity in a noisy environment. It is shown that nonzero steady-state quantum discord between atoms can be obtained when the white-noise field is separately imposed on atoms or cavity mode, while the steady-state quantum discord reaches zero if both cavity mode and atoms are driven simultaneously by white-noise fields. In particular, we demonstrate that white-noise field in different cases can play a variously constructive role in the generation of quantum discord.

id: 1111.5399
title: Coherent coupling of a superconducting flux-qubit to an electron spin ensemble in diamond
authors: Xiaobo Zhu, Shiro Saito, Alexander Kemp, Kosuke Kakuyanagi, Shin-ichi Karimoto, Hayato Nakano, William J. Munro, Yasuhiro Tokura, Mark S. Everitt, Kae Nemoto, Makoto Kasu, Norikazu Mizuochi, Kouichi Semba
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, already published in the 13th October 2011 issue of Nature journal
journal: Nature 478, 221-224 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5399
abstract: Electron-spin nitrogen-vacancy color centers in diamond are a natural candidate to act as a quantum memory for superconducting qubits because of their large collective coupling and long coherence times. We report here the first demonstration of strong coupling and coherent exchange of a single quantum of energy between a flux-qubit and an ensemble of nitrogen-vacancy color centers.

id: 1111.5425
title: Are problems in Quantum Information Theory (un)decidable?
authors: Michael M. Wolf, Toby S. Cubitt, David Perez-Garcia
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5425
abstract: This note is intended to foster a discussion about the extent to which typical problems arising in quantum information theory are algorithmically decidable (in principle rather than in practice). Various problems in the context of entanglement theory and quantum channels turn out to be decidable via quantifier elimination as long as they admit a compact formulation without quantification over integers. For many asymptotically defined properties which have to hold for all or for one integer N, however, effective procedures seem to be difficult if not impossible to find. We review some of the main tools for (dis)proving decidability and apply them to problems in quantum information theory. We find that questions like "can we overcome fidelity 1/2 w.r.t. a two-qubit singlet state?" easily become undecidable. A closer look at such questions might rule out some of the "single-letter" formulas sought in quantum information theory.

id: 1111.5433
title: Decoherence suppression of open quantum systems through a strong coupling to non-Markovian reservoirs
authors: Chan U. Lei, Wei-Min Zhang
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A84, 052116 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5433
abstract: In this paper, we provide a mechanism of decoherence suppression for open quantum systems in general, and that for "Schrodinger cat-like" state in particular, through the strong couplings to non-Markovian reservoirs. Different from the usual strategies of suppressing decoherence by decoupling the system from the environment in the literatures, here the decoherence suppression employs the strong back-reaction from non-Markovian reservoirs. The mechanism relies on the existence of the singularities (bound states) of the nonequilibrium retarded Green function which completely determines the dissipation and decoherence dynamics of open systems. As an application, we examine the decoherence dynamics of a photonic crystal nanocavity that is coupled to a waveguide. The strong non-Markovian suppression of decoherence for the optical cat state is attained.

id: 1111.5445
title: Experimental Implementation of a Codeword Stabilized Quantum Code
authors: Jingfu Zhang, Markus Grassl, Bei Zeng, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 85, 062312 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5445
abstract: A five-qubit codeword stabilized quantum code is implemented in a seven-qubit system using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). Our experiment implements a good nonadditive quantum code which encodes a larger Hilbert space than any stabilizer code with the same length and capable of correcting the same kind of errors. The experimentally measured quantum coherence is shown to be robust against artificially introduced errors, benchmarking the success in implementing the quantum error correction code. Given the typical decoherence time of the system, our experiment illustrates the ability of coherent control to implement complex quantum circuits for demonstrating interesting results in spin qubits for quantum computing.

id: 1111.5494
title: Signatures of single site addressability in resonance fluorescence spectra
authors: Peter Degenfeld-Schonburg, Elena del Valle, Michael J. Hartmann
comments: 9 Pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013842 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5494
abstract: Pioneering methods in recent optical lattice experiments allow to focus laser beams down to a spot size that is comparable to the lattice constant. Inspired by this achievement, we examine the resonance fluorescence spectra of two-level atoms positioned in adjacent lattice sites and compare the case where the laser hits only one atom (single site addressing) with cases where several atoms are illuminated. In contrast to the case where the laser hits several atoms, the spectrum for single site addressing is no longer symmetric around the laser frequency. The shape of the spectrum of fluorescent light can therefore serve as a test for single site addressing. The effects we find can be attributed to a dipole-dipole interaction between the atoms due to mutual exchange of photons.

id: 1111.5512
title: Central-moment description of polarization for quantum states of light
authors: G. Bj?rk, J. S?derholm, Y.-S. Kim, Y.-S. Ra, H.-T. Lim, C. Kothe, Y.-H. Kim, L. L. S¨¢nchez-Soto, A. B. Klimov
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures, 4 tables, In version 2, Figs. 2 and 4 are replaced, Sec. IV extended, Sec. VIII revised, a few references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5512
abstract: We present a moment expansion method for the systematic characterization of the polarization properties of quantum states of light. Specifically, we link the method to the measurements of the Stokes operator in different directions on the Poincar\'{e} sphere, and provide a method of polarization tomography without resorting to full state tomography. We apply these ideas to the experimental first- and second-order polarization characterization of some two-photon quantum states. In addition, we show that there are classes of states whose polarization characteristics are dominated not by their first-order moments (i.e., the Stokes vector) but by higher-order polarization moments.

id: 1111.5523
title: Using technical noise to increase the signal-to-noise ratio, via imaginary weak values
authors: Yaron Kedem
comments: Close to published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 85, 060102 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5523
abstract: The advantages of weak measurements, and especially measurements of imaginary weak values, for precision enhancement, are discussed. A situation is considered in which the initial state of the measurement device varies randomly on each run, and is shown to be in fact beneficial when imaginary weak values are used. The result is supported by numerical calculation and also provides an explanation for the reduction of technical noise in some recent experimental results. A connection to quantum metrology formalism is made.

id: 1111.5531
title: Entanglement of remote quantum systems by environmental modes
authors: Friedemann Queisser, Thomas Zell, Rochus Klesse
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5531
abstract: We investigate the generation of quantum mechanical entanglement of two remote oscillators that are locally coupled to a common bosonic bath. Starting with a Lagrangian formulation of a suitable model, we derive two coupled Quantum Langevin Equations that exactly describe the time evolution of the two local oscillators in presence of the coupling to the bosonic bath. Numerically obtained solutions of the Langevin Equations allow us to study the entanglement generation between the oscillators in terms of the time evolution of the logarithmic negativity. Our results confirm and extend our previously obtained findings, namely that significant entanglement between oscillators embedded in a free bosonic bath can only be achieved if the system are within a microscopic distance. We also consider the case where the bosonic spectral density is substantially modified by imposing boundary conditions on the bath modes. For boundary conditions corresponding to a wave-guide like geometry of the bath we find significantly enlarged entanglement generation. This phenomenon is additionally illustrated within an approximative model that allows for an analytical treatment.

id: 1111.5603
title: Topological Qubits with Majorana Fermions in Trapped Ions
authors: A. Mezzacapo, J. Casanova, L. Lamata, E. Solano
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 033005 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5603
abstract: We propose a method of encoding a topologically-protected qubit using Majorana fermions in a trapped-ion chain. This qubit is protected against major sources of decoherence, while local operations and measurements can be realized. Furthermore, we show that an efficient quantum interface and memory for arbitrary multiqubit photonic states can be built, encoding them into a set of entangled Majorana-fermion qubits inside cavities.

id: 1111.5627
title: Continuous Measurement Quantum State Tomography of Atomic Ensembles
authors: Carlos A. Riofr¨ªo
comments: Ph.D. Dissertation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5627
abstract: Quantum state tomography is a fundamental tool in quantum information processing. It allows us to estimate the state of a quantum system by measuring different observables on many identically prepared copies of the system. This is, in general, a very time-consuming task that requires a large number of measurements. There are, however, systems in which the data acquisition can be done more efficiently. In fact, an ensemble of quantum systems can be prepared and manipulated by external fields while being continuously and collectively probed, producing enough information to estimate its state. This provides a basis for continuous measurement quantum tomography. In this protocol, an ensemble of identically prepared systems is collectively probed and controlled in a time-dependent manner to create an informationally complete continuous measurement record. The measurement history is then inverted to determine the state at the initial time. We use two different estimation methods: maximum likelihood and compressed sensing. The general formalism is applied to the case of reconstruction of the quantum state encoded in the magnetic sub-levels of a large-spin alkali atom, ${}^{133}$Cs. We apply this protocol to the case of reconstruction of states in the full 16-dimensional electronic-ground subspace ($F=3 \oplus F=4$), controlled by microwaves and radio-frequency magnetic fields. We present an experimental demonstration of continuous measurement quantum tomography in an ensemble of cold cesium atoms with full control of its 16-dimensional Hilbert space. We show the exquisite level of control achieved in the lab and the excellent agreement between the theory discussed in this dissertation and the experimental results. This allows us to achieve fidelities >95% for low complexity quantum states, and >92% for arbitrary random states, which is a formidable accomplishment for a space of this size.

id: 1111.5672
title: Optomechanical superpositions via nested interferometry
authors: Brian Pepper, Roohollah Ghobadi, Evan Jeffrey, Christoph Simon, Dirk Bouwmeester
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 023601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5672
abstract: We present a scheme for achieving macroscopic quantum superpositions in optomechanical systems by using single photon postselection and detecting them with nested interferometers. This method relieves many of the challenges associated with previous optical schemes for measuring macroscopic superpositions, and only requires the devices to be in the weak coupling regime. It requires only small improvements on currently achievable device parameters, and allows observation of decoherence on a timescale unconstrained by the system's optical decay time. Prospects for observing novel decoherence mechanisms are discussed.

id: 1111.5676
title: Fast generation of multiparticle entangled state for flux qubits in a circle array of transmission line resonators with tunable coupling
authors: Z. H. Peng, Yu-xi Liu, Y. Nakamura, J. S. Tsai
comments: 10 pages 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 024537(2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5676
abstract: We study a one-step approach to the fast generation of Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states in a circuit QED system with superconducting flux qubits. The GHZ state can be generated in about 10 ns, which is much shorter than the coherence time of flux qubits and comparable with the time of single-qubit operation. In our proposal, a time-dependent microwave field is applied to a superconducting transmission line resonator (TLR) and displaces the resonator in a controlled manner, thus inducing indirect qubit-qubit coupling without residual entanglement between the qubits and the resonator. The design of a tunably coupled TLR circle array provides us with the potential for extending this one-step scheme to the case of many qubits coupled via several TLRs.

id: 1111.5683
title: A versatile source of polarisation entangled photons for quantum network applications
authors: F. Kaiser, A. Issautier, L. A. Ngah, O. Alibart, A. Martin, S. Tanzilli
comments: 5 figures
journal: Laser Phys. Lett. 10, 045202 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5683
abstract: We report a versatile and practical approach for generating high-quality polarization entanglement in a fully guided-wave fashion. Our setup relies on a high-brilliance type-0 waveguide generator producing paired photon at a telecom wavelength associated with an advanced energy-time to polarisation transcriber. The latter is capable of creating any pure polarization entangled state, and allows manipulating single photon bandwidths that can be chosen at will over five orders of magnitude, ranging from tens of MHz to several THz. We achieve excellent entanglement fidelities for particular spectral bandwidths, i.e. 25 MHz, 540 MHz and 100 GHz, proving the relevance of our approach. Our scheme stands as an ideal candidate for a wide range of network applications, ranging from dense division multiplexing quantum key distribution to heralded optical quantum memories and repeaters.

id: 1111.5746
title: Revisiting factorability and indeterminism
authors: David Rodriguez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5746
abstract: Perhaps it is not completely superfluous to remind that Clauser-Horne factorability, introduced in [1], is only necessary when \lambda, the hidden variable (HV), is sufficiently deterministic: for {M_i} a set of possible measurements (isolated or not by space-like intervals) on a given system, the most general sufficient condition for factorability on \lambda\ is obtained by finding a set of expressions M_i=M_i(\lambda,\xi_i), with {\xi_i} a set of HV's, all independent from one another and from \lambda. Otherwise, factorability can be recovered on \gamma = \lambda\ \oplus\ \mu, with \mu\ another additional HV, so that a description M_i=M_i(\gamma,\xi_i) is again found: conceptually, this is always possible; experimentally, it may not: \mu\ may be unaccessible or even its existence unknown (and so, too, from the point of view of a phenomenological theory). Results here may help clarify our recent post in [6].

id: 1111.5774
title: Dynamics of mixed classical-quantum systems, geometric quantization and coherent states
authors: H.R. Jauslin, D. Sugny
comments: 
journal: in "Mathematical Horizons for Quantum Physics'', H. Araki, B.-G. Englert, L.-C. Kwek, J. Suzuki (Eds.); IMS-NUS Lecture Notes Series, Vol 20, World Scientific, Singapore, 2010
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5774
abstract: We describe quantum and classical Hamiltonian dynamics in a common Hilbert space framework, that allows the treatment of mixed quantum-classical systems. The analysis of some examples illustrates the possibility of entanglement between classical and quantum systems. We give a summary of the main tools of Berezin-Toeplitz and geometric quantization, that provide a relation between the classical and the quantum models, based essentially on the selection of a subspace of the classical Hilbert space. Coherent states provide a systematic tool for the inverse process, called dequantization, that associates a classical Hamiltonian system to a given quantum dynamics through the choice of a complete set of coherent states.

id: 1111.5817
title: Gapless Hamiltonians for the toric code using the PEPS formalism
authors: Carlos Fern¨¢ndez-Gonz¨¢lez, Norbert Schuch, Michael M. Wolf, J. Ignacio Cirac, David P¨¦rez-Garc¨ªa
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 260401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5817
abstract: We study Hamiltonians which have Kitaev's toric code as a ground state, and show how to construct a Hamiltonian which shares the ground space of the toric code, but which has gapless excitations with a continuous spectrum in the thermodynamic limit. Our construction is based on the framework of Projected Entangled Pair States (PEPS), and can be applied to a large class of two-dimensional systems to obtain gapless "uncle Hamiltonians".

id: 1111.5874
title: Calibration robust entanglement detection beyond Bell inequalities
authors: Tobias Moroder, Oleg Gittsovich
comments: 10 pages + appendix, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5874
abstract: In its vast majority entanglement verification is examined either in the complete characterized or totally device independent scenario. The assumptions imposed by these extreme cases are often either too weak or strong for real experiments. Here we investigate this detection task for the intermediate regime where partial knowledge of the measured observables is known, considering cases like orthogonal, sharp or only dimension bounded measurements. We show that for all these assumptions it is not necessary to violate a corresponding Bell inequality in order to detect entanglement. We derive strong detection criteria that can be directly evaluated for experimental data and which are robust against large classes of calibration errors. The conditions are even capable of detecting bound entanglement under the sole assumption of dimension bounded measurements.

id: 1111.5878
title: Signatures of Discrete Breathers in Coherent State Quantum
authors: Kirill Igumenshchev, Misha Ovchinnikov, Panagiotis Maniadis, Oleg Prezhdo
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5878
abstract: Discrete breathers (DBs) -- a spatial time-periodic localization of energy -- are predicted in a large variety of non-linear systems. Motivated by the conceptual bridging of the DBs phenomena in classical and quantum mechanical representation, we study their signatures in the dynamics of a quantum equivalent of a classical mechanical point in a phase space -- a coherent state. We show that in contrast to a point in a phase space that can exhibit either delocalized or localized motion, a coherent state can show signatures of a quantum equivalent of both localized and delocalized behavior. In classical mechanics, the separation between the energy regions of localized and delocalized motion is a point. In quantum mechanics, this point becomes a transient region, in which both tunneling and non-tunneling modes are present. Furthermore, the transient region contains modes that cannot be characterized as either, because the transition from non-tunneling to tunneling modes is smooth. With a further analysis we document four intriguing observations: 1. Considered as a function of coupling, the eigenstates go through avoided crossings between tunneling and non-tunneling modes. 2. The dominance of tunneling modes in high non-linearity region is compromised by an appearance of new types of modes -- high order tunneling modes. These modes are similar to the tunneling modes but have attributes of non-tunneling modes. ...

id: 1111.5910
title: How weak values emerge in joint measurements on cloned quantum systems
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 4 pages, major changes to title and introduction, improved explanation of weak measurement statistics
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 020408 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5910
abstract: A statistical analysis of optimal universal cloning shows that it is possible to identify an ideal (but non-positive) copying process that faithfully maps all properties of the original Hilbert space onto two separate quantum systems. The joint probabilities for non-commuting measurements on separate clones then correspond to the real parts of the complex joint probabilities observed in weak measurements on a single system, where the measurements on the two clones replace the corresponding sequence of weak measurement and post-selection. The imaginary parts of weak measurement statics can be obtained by replacing the cloning process with a partial swap operation. A controlled-swap operation combines both processes, making the complete weak measurement statistics accessible as a well-defined contribution to the joint probabilities of fully resolved projective measurements on the two output systems.

id: 1111.5923
title: Mermin's Pentagram as an Ovoid of PG(3,2)
authors: Metod Saniga, Peter Levay
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: EPL / Europhysics Letters 97 (2012) 50006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5923
abstract: Mermin's pentagram, a specific set of ten three-qubit observables arranged in quadruples of pairwise commuting ones into five edges of a pentagram and used to provide a very simple proof of the Kochen-Specker theorem, is shown to be isomorphic to an ovoid (elliptic quadric) of the three-dimensional projective space of order two, PG(3,2). This demonstration employs properties of the real three-qubit Pauli group embodied in the geometry of the symplectic polar space W(5,2) and rests on the facts that: 1) the four observables/operators on any of the five edges of the pentagram can be viewed as points of an affine plane of order two, 2) all the ten observables lie on a hyperbolic quadric of the five-dimensional projective space of order two, PG(5,2), and 3) that the points of this quadric are in a well-known bijective correspondence with the lines of PG(3,2).

id: 1111.5935
title: Experimental implementation of unambiguous quantum reading
authors: Michele Dall'Arno, Alessandro Bisio, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Martina Mikova, Miroslav Jezek, Miloslav Dusek
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables, added references, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012308 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5935
abstract: We provide the optimal strategy for unambiguous quantum reading of optical memories, namely when perfect retrieving of information is achieved probabilistically, for the case where noise and loss are negligible. We describe the experimental quantum optical implementations, and provide experimental results for the single photon case.

id: 1111.5937
title: The Aharonov-Bohm effect in scattering of short-wavelength particles
authors: Yu. A. Sitenko, N. D. Vlasii
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure; journal version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 135305
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5937
abstract: Quantum-mechanical scattering of nonrelativistic charged particles by a magnetic vortex of nonzero transverse size is considered. We show that the flux of the vortex serves as a gate for the strictly forward propagation of particles with short, as compared to the transverse size of the vortex, wavelengths; this effect is the same for a penetrable vortex as for an impenetrable one. A possibility for the experimental detection of the scattering Aharonov-Bohm effect is discussed.

id: 1111.5945
title: Constraints on measurement-based quantum computation in effective cluster states
authors: D. Klagges, K.P. Schmidt
comments: 4 pages + 10 pages supplementary materials
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5945
abstract: The aim of this work is to study the physical properties of a one-way quantum computer in an effective low-energy cluster state. We calculate the optimal working conditions as a function of the temperature and of the system parameters. The central result of our work is that any effective cluster state implemented in a perturbative framework is fragile against special kinds of external perturbations. Qualitative aspects of our work are important for any implementation of effective low-energy models containing strong multi-site interactions.

id: 1111.5964
title: Teleporting the one-qubit state via two-level atoms with spontaneous emission
authors: Ming-Liang Hu
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics, 2011, 44(9): 095502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5964
abstract: We study quantum teleportation via two two-level atoms coupled collectively to a multimode vacuum field and prepared initially in different atomic states. We concentrated on influence of the spontaneous emission, collective damping and dipole-dipole interaction of the atoms on fidelity dynamics of quantum teleportation and obtained the region of spatial distance between the two atoms over which the state can be teleported nonclassically. Moreover, we showed through concrete examples that entanglement of the channel state is the prerequisite but not the only essential quantity for predicting the teleportation fidelity.

id: 1111.5967
title: Teleportation of the one-qubit state in decoherence environments
authors: Ming-Liang Hu
comments: 17 pages, 10 figures
journal: Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics, 2011, 44(2): 025502
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5967
abstract: We study standard quantum teleportation of one-qubit state for the situation in which the channel is subject to decoherence, and where the evolution of the channel state is ruled by a master equation in the Lindblad form. A detailed calculation reveals that the quality of teleportation is determined by both the entanglement and the purity of the channel state, and only the optimal matching of them ensures the highest fidelity of standard quantum teleportation. Also our results demonstrated that the decoherence induces distortion of the Bloch sphere for the output state with different rates in different directions, which implies that different input states will be teleported with different fidelities.

id: 1111.5999
title: Quantum interface between an electrical circuit and a single atom
authors: D. Kielpinski, D. Kafri, M.J. Woolley, G.J. Milburn, J.M. Taylor
comments: Supplemental material available on request
journal: PRL 108, 130504 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5999
abstract: We show how to bridge the divide between atomic systems and electronic devices by engineering a coupling between the motion of a single ion and the quantized electric field of a resonant circuit. Our method can be used to couple the internal state of an ion to the quantized circuit with the same speed as the internal-state coupling between two ions. All the well-known quantum information protocols linking ion internal and motional states can be converted to protocols between circuit photons and ion internal states. Our results enable quantum interfaces between solid state qubits, atomic qubits, and light, and lay the groundwork for a direct quantum connection between electrical and atomic metrology standards.

id: 1111.6000
title: Short periodic orbit approach to resonances and the fractal Weyl law
authors: J. M. Pedrosa, D. Wisniacki, G. G. Carlo, M. Novaes
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6000
abstract: We investigate the properties of the semiclassical short periodic orbit approach for the study of open quantum maps that was recently introduced in [M. Novaes, J.M. Pedrosa, D. Wisniacki, G.G. Carlo, and J.P. Keating, Phys. Rev. E 80, 035202(R) 2009]. We provide conclusive numerical evidence, for the paradigmatic systems of the open baker and cat maps, that by using this approach the dimensionality of the eigenvalue problem is reduced according to the fractal Weyl law. The method also reproduces the projectors $|\psi^R_n><\psi_n^L|$, which involves the right and left states associated with a given eigenvalue and is supported on the classical phase space repeller.

id: 1111.6047
title: Generation of mesoscopic entangled states in a cavity coupled to an atomic ensemble
authors: Gor Nikoghosyan, Michael J. Hartmann, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 123603 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6047
abstract: We propose a novel scheme for the efficient production of "NOON states" based on the resonant interaction of a pair of quantized cavity modes with an ensemble of atoms. We show that in the strong-coupling regime the adiabatic evolution of the system tends to a limiting state that describes mesoscopic entanglement between photons and atoms which can easily be converted to a purely photonic or atomic NOON state. We also demonstrate the remarkable property that the efficiency of this scheme increases exponentially with the cavity cooperativity factor, which gives efficient access to high number NOON states. The experimental feasibility of the scheme is discussed and its efficiency is demonstrated numerically.

id: 1111.6052
title: Security and Composability of Randomness Expansion from Bell Inequalities
authors: Serge Fehr, Ran Gelles, Christian Schaffner
comments: 12 pages, v3: significant changes: security is proven against adversaries holding only classical side information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6052
abstract: The nonlocal behavior of quantum mechanics can be used to generate guaranteed fresh randomness from an untrusted device that consists of two nonsignalling components; since the generation process requires some initial fresh randomness to act as a catalyst, one also speaks of randomness expansion. Colbeck and Kent proposed the first method for generating randomness from untrusted devices, however, without providing a rigorous analysis. This was addressed subsequently by Pironio et al. [Nature 464 (2010)], who aimed at deriving a lower bound on the min-entropy of the data extracted from an untrusted device, based only on the observed non-local behavior of the device. Although that article succeeded in developing important tools towards the acquired goal, it failed in putting the tools together in a rigorous and correct way, and the given formal claim on the guaranteed amount of min-entropy needs to be revisited. In this paper we show how to combine the tools provided by Pironio et al., as to obtain a meaningful and correct lower bound on the min-entropy of the data produced by an untrusted device, based on the observed non-local behavior of the device. Our main result confirms the essence of the improperly formulated claims of Pironio et al., and puts them on solid ground. We also address the question of composability and show that different untrusted devices can be composed in an alternating manner under the assumption that they are not entangled. This enables for superpolynomial randomness expansion based on two untrusted yet unentangled devices.

id: 1111.6054
title: Certifiable Quantum Dice - Or, testable exponential randomness expansion
authors: Umesh V. Vazirani, Thomas Vidick
comments: 21 pages, 1 figure. Comments welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6054
abstract: We introduce a protocol through which a pair of quantum mechanical devices may be used to generate n bits of true randomness from a seed of O(log n) uniform bits. The bits generated are certifiably random based only on a simple statistical test that can be performed by the user, and on the assumption that the devices obey the no-signaling principle. No other assumptions are placed on the devices' inner workings. A modified protocol uses a seed of O(log^3 n) uniformly random bits to generate $n$ bits of true randomness even conditioned on the state of a quantum adversary who may have had prior access to the devices, and may be entangled with them.

id: 1111.6056
title: Security of practical private randomness generation
authors: Stefano Pironio, Serge Massar
comments: 18 pages. v3: important changes: the present version focuses on security against classical side-information and a discussion about the significance of these results has been added. v4: minor changes. v5: small typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012336 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6056
abstract: Measurements on entangled quantum systems necessarily yield outcomes that are intrinsically unpredictable if they violate a Bell inequality. This property can be used to generate certified randomness in a device-independent way, i.e., without making detailed assumptions about the internal working of the quantum devices used to generate the random numbers. Furthermore these numbers are also private, i.e., they appear random not only to the user, but also to any adversary that might possess a perfect description of the devices. Since this process requires a small initial random seed, one usually speaks of device-independent randomness expansion. The purpose of this paper is twofold. First, we point out that in most real, practical situations, where the concept of device-independence is used as a protection against unintentional flaws or failures of the quantum apparatuses, it is sufficient to show that the generated string is random with respect to an adversary that holds only classical-side information, i.e., proving randomness against quantum-side information is not necessary. Furthermore, the initial random seed does not need to be private with respect to the adversary, provided that it is generated in a way that is independent from the measured systems. The devices, though, will generate cryptographically-secure randomness that cannot be predicted by the adversary and thus one can, given access to free public randomness, talk about private randomness generation. The theoretical tools to quantify the generated randomness according to these criteria were already introduced in [S. Pironio et al, Nature 464, 1021 (2010)], but the final results were improperly formulated. The second aim of this paper is to correct this inaccurate formulation and therefore lay out a precise theoretical framework for practical device-independent randomness expansion.

id: 1111.6070
title: Convergence of fermionic field entanglement at infinite acceleration in relativistic quantum information
authors: M. Montero, E. Martin-Martinez
comments: 3 pages, 2 Figures. Revtex 4.1
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 024301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6070
abstract: We provide a simple argument showing that, in the limit of infinite acceleration, the entanglement in a fermionic field bipartite system must be independent of the choice of Unruh modes. This implies that most tensor product structures used previously to compute field entanglement in relativistic quantum information cannot give rise to physical results.

id: 1111.6079
title: Reveal non-Markovianity of open quantum systems via local operations
authors: Huan Yang, Haixing Miao, Yanbei Chen
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6079
abstract: Non-Markovianity, as an important feature of general open quantum systems, is usually difficult to quantify with limited knowledge of how the plant that we are interested in interacts with its environment-the bath. It often happens that the reduced dynamics of the plant attached to a non-Markovian bath becomes indistinguishable from the one with a Markovian bath, if we left the entire system freely evolve. Here we show that non-Markovianity can be revealed via applying local unitary operations on the plant-they will influence the plant evolution at later times due to memory of the bath. This not only provides a new criterion for non-Markovianity, but also sheds light on protecting and recovering quantum coherence in non-Markovian systems, which will be useful for quantum-information processing.

id: 1111.6083
title: Towards an experimentally feasible controlled-phase gate on two blockaded Rydberg atoms
authors: Matthias M. M¨¹ller, Michael Murphy, Simone Montangero, Tommaso Calarco, Philippe Grangier, Antoine Browaeys
comments: 10 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 89, 032334 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6083
abstract: We investigate the implementation of a controlled-Z gate on a pair of Rydberg atoms in spatially separated dipole traps where the joint excitation of both atoms into the Rydberg level is strongly suppressed (the Rydberg blockade). We follow the adiabatic gate scheme of Jaksch et al. [1], where the pair of atoms are coherently excited using lasers, and apply it to the experimental setup outlined in Ga\"etan et al. [2]. We apply optimisation to the experimental parameters to improve gate fidelity, and consider the impact of several experimental constraints on the gate success.

id: 1111.6170
title: Experimental Activation of Bound Entanglement
authors: Fumihiro Kaneda, Ryosuke Shimizu, Satoshi Ishizaka, Yasuyoshi Mitsumori, Hideo Kosaka, Keiichi Edamatsu
comments: 6pages, 6figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6170
abstract: Entanglement is one of the essential resources in quantum information and communication technology (QICT). The entanglement thus far explored and applied to QICT has been pure and distillable entanglement. Yet there is another type of entanglement, called 'bound entanglement', which is not distillable by local operations and classical communication (LOCC). We demonstrate the experimental 'activation' of the bound entanglement held in the four-qubit Smolin state, unleashing its immanent entanglement in distillable form, with the help of auxiliary two-qubit entanglement and LOCC. We anticipate that it opens the way to a new class of QICT applications that utilize more general classes of entanglement than ever, including bound entanglement.

id: 1111.6304
title: Generalisations of the recent Pusey-Barrett-Rudolph theorem for statistical models of quantum phenomena
authors: Michael J. W. Hall
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6304
abstract: Pusey, Barrett and Rudolph (PBR) have recently given a completely novel argument that restricts the class of possible models for quantum phenomena (arXiv:1111.3328). In these notes the assumptions used by PBR are considerably weakened, to further restrict the class of possible models. The `factorisability' assumption used by PBR is replaced by a far weaker `compatibility' assumption for uncorrelated quantum subsystems which, moreover, does not require the assignation of separate underlying properties to each subsystem (i.e, reductionism). Further, it is shown that an assumption of measurement independence may be dropped to obtain a related result having the same experimental significance (at the expense of a weaker conceptual significance). The latter is a remarkable feature of the PBR approach, given that Bell inequalities, steering inequalities and Kochen-Specker theorems all require an assumption of this type.

id: 1111.6311
title: A Practical Quantum Bit Commitment Protocol
authors: S. Arash Sheikholeslam, T. Aaron Gulliver
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6311
abstract: In this paper, we introduce a new quantum bit commitment protocol which is practically secure against entanglement attacks. A general cheating strategy is discussed and shown to be practically ineffective against the proposed approach.

id: 1111.6326
title: Loss-enabled sub-Poissonian light generation in a bimodal nanocavity
authors: Arka Majumdar, Michal Bajcsy, Armand Rundquist, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6326
abstract: We propose an implementation of a source of strongly sub-Poissonian light in a system consisting of a quantum dot coupled to both modes of a lossy bimodal optical cavity. When one mode of the cavity is resonantly driven with coherent light, the system will act as an efficient photon number filter, and the transmitted light will have a strongly sub-Poissonian character. In addition to numerical simulations demonstrating this effect, we present a physical explanation of the underlying mechanism. In particular, we show that the effect results from an interference between the coherent light transmitted through the resonant cavity and the super-Poissonian light generated by photon-induced tunneling. Peculiarly, this effect vanishes in the absence of the cavity loss.

id: 1111.6356
title: Electromagnetic vacuum energy for two parallel slabs in terms of surface, wave guide and photonic modes
authors: M. Bordag
comments: some references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6356
abstract: The formulation of the Lifshitz formula in terms of real frequencies is reconsidered for half spaces described by the plasma model. It is shown that besides the surface modes (for the TM polarization), and the photonic modes, also waveguide modes must be considered.

id: 1111.6390
title: Homodyne detection of matter-wave fields
authors: Stefan Rist, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6390
abstract: A scheme is proposed, that allows one for performing homodyne detection of the matter-wave field of ultracold bosonic atoms. It is based on a pump-probe lasers setup, that both illuminates a Bose-Einstein condensate, acting as reference system, and a second ultracold gas, composed by the same atoms but in a quantum phase to determine. Photon scattering outcouples atoms from both systems, which then propagate freely. Under appropriate conditions, when the same photon can either be scattered by the Bose-Einstein condensate or by the other quantum gas, both flux of outcoupled atoms and scattered photons exhibit oscillations, whose amplitude is proportional to the condensate fraction of the quantum gas. This setup allows one, for instance, to perform thermometry of a condensate or to monitor the Mott-insulator/superfluid phase transition in optical lattices, and can be extended in order to measure the first-order correlation function of a quantum gas. The dynamics here discussed make use of the entanglement between atoms and photons, which is established by the scattering process, in order to access detailed information on the quantum state of matter.

id: 1111.6424
title: Photonic realization of the quantum Rabi model
authors: Andrea Crespi, Stefano Longhi, Roberto Osellame
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 163601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6424
abstract: We realize a photonic analog simulator of the quantum Rabi model, based on light transport in femtosecond-laser-written waveguide superlattices, which provides an experimentally accessible testbed to explore the physics of light-matter interaction in the deep strong coupling regime. Our optical setting enables to visualize dynamical regimes not yet accessible in cavity or circuit quantum electrodynamics, such as bouncing of photon number wave packets in parity chains of Hilbert space.

id: 1111.6446
title: Geometrical Underpinning of Finite Dimensional Hilbert space
authors: M. Revzen
comments: 10
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6446
abstract: Finite geometry is employed to underpin operators in finite, d, dimensional Hilbert space. The central role of mutual unbiased bases (MUB) states projectors is exhibited. Interrelation among operators in Hilbert space, revealed through their (finite) dual affine plane geometry (DAPG) underpinning is studied. Transcription to (finite) affine plane geometry (APG) is given and utilized for their interpretation.

id: 1111.6449
title: Cartesian and polar Schmidt bases for down-converted photons
authors: Filippo M. Miatto, Thomas Brougham, Alison M. Yao
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 66 7 (2012) 183
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6449
abstract: We derive an analytical form of the Schmidt modes of spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC) biphotons in both Cartesian and polar coordinates. We show that these correspond to Hermite-Gauss (HG) or Laguerre-Gauss (LG) modes only for a specific value of their width, and we show how such value depends on the experimental parameters. The Schmidt modes that we explicitly derive allow one to set up an optimised projection basis that maximises the mutual information gained from a joint measurement. The possibility of doing so with LG modes makes it possible to take advantage of the properties of orbital angular momentum eigenmodes. We derive a general entropic entanglement measure using the R\'enyi entropy as a function of the Schmidt number, K, and then retrieve the von Neumann entropy, S. Using the relation between S and K we show that, for highly entangled states, a non-ideal measurement basis does not degrade the number of shared bits by a large extent. More specifically, given a non-ideal measurement which corresponds to the loss of a fraction of the total number of modes, we can quantify the experimental parameters needed to generate an entangled SPDC state with a sufficiently high dimensionality to retain any given fraction of shared bits.

id: 1111.6461
title: Electronic coherence dynamics in trans-polyacetylene oligomers
authors: Ignacio Franco, Paul Brumer
comments: Accepted for J. Chem. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6461
abstract: Electronic decoherence processes in trans-polyacetylene oligomers are considered by explicitly computing the time dependent molecular polarization from the coupled dynamics of electronic and vibrational degrees of freedom in a mean-field mixed quantum-classical approximation. The oligomers are described by the SSH Hamiltonian and the effect of decoherence is incorporated by propagating an ensemble of quantum-classical trajectories with initial conditions obtained by sampling the Wigner distribution of the nuclear degrees of freedom. The decoherence for superpositions between the ground and excited and between pairs of excited states is considered for chains of different length, and the dynamics is discussed in terms of the nuclear overlap function that appears in the off-diagonal elements of the electronic reduced density matrix. For long oligomers the loss of coherence occurs in tens of femtoseconds. This timescale is determined by the initial decay of the nuclear overlap and by the decay of population into other electronic states, and is relatively insensitive to the type and class of superposition considered. By contrast, for smaller oligomers the decoherence timescale depends strongly on the initially selected superposition, with superpositions that can decay as fast as 50 fs and as slow as 250 fs. The long-lived superpositions are such that little population is transferred to other electronic states and for which the vibronic dynamics is relatively harmonic.

id: 1111.6501
title: Solutions of the Dirac equation with spin and pseudospin symmetry for trigonometric Scarf potential in D-dimensions
authors: B. J. Falaye, K. J. Oyewumi
comments: 17 Pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6501
abstract: Solutions of the Dirac equation with spin and pseudospin symmetry for the scalar and vector trigonometric scarf potential in $D$-dimensions within the framework of an approximation scheme to the centrifugal barrier are obtained. The energy spectral and the two-component spinor eigenfunctions are obtained. The bound state energy levels for various values of dimension $D$, $n$, $\kappa$ and the potential range parameter $\alpha$ are also presented.

id: 1111.6536
title: Weak Values: Approach through the Clifford and Moyal Algebras
authors: B. J. Hiley
comments: 16 pages
journal: J. Phys.: Conference Series, 361 (2012) 012014
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6536
abstract: In this paper we calculate various transition probability amplitudes, TPAs, known as `weak values' for the Schrodinger and Pauli particles. It is shown that these values are related to the Bohm momentum, the Bohm energy and the quantum potential in each case. The results for the Schrodinger particle are obtained in three ways, the standard approach, the Clifford algebra approach of Hiley and Callaghan, and the Moyal approach. To obtain the results for the Pauli particle, we combine the Clifford and Moyal algebras into one structure. The consequences of these results are discussed.

id: 1111.6584
title: Apparent Retrocausation as a Consequence of Orthodox Quantum Mechanics Refined to Accommodate the Principle of Sufficient Reason
authors: Henry P. Stapp
comments: 15 Pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1105.2053
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6584
abstract: The principle of sufficient reason asserts that anything that happens does so for a reason: no definite state of affairs can come into being unless there is a sufficient reason why that particular thing should happen. This principle is usually attributed to Leibniz, although the first recorded Western philosopher to use it was Anaximander of Miletus. The demand that nature be rational, in the sense that it be compatible with the principle of sufficient reason, conflicts with a basic feature of contemporary orthodox physical theory, namely the notion that nature's response to the probing action of an observer is determined by pure chance, and hence on the basis of absolutely no reason at all. This appeal to pure chance can be deemed to have no rational fundamental place in reason-based Western science. It is argued here, on the basis of the other basic principles of quantum physics, that in a world that conforms to the principle of sufficient reason, the usual quantum statistical rules will naturally emerge at the pragmatic level, in cases where the reason behind Nature's choice of response is unknown, but that the usual statistics can become biased in an empirically manifest and apparently retrocausal way when the reason for the choice is empirically identifiable. It is shown here that if the statistical laws of quantum mechanics were to be biased in a certain plausible way then the basically forward-in-time unfolding of empirical reality described by orthodox quantum mechanics would generate the appearance of backward-time-causation of the kind that have been reported in the scientific literature.

id: 1111.6597
title: Is a system's wave function in one-to-one correspondence with its elements of reality?
authors: Roger Colbeck, Renato Renner
comments: 4 pages plus 2 of appendix
journal: Physical Review Letters 108, 150402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6597
abstract: Although quantum mechanics is one of our most successful physical theories, there has been a long-standing debate about the interpretation of the wave function---the central object of the theory. Two prominent views are that (i) it corresponds to an element of reality, i.e. an objective attribute that exists before measurement, and (ii) it is a subjective state of knowledge about some underlying reality. A recent result [Pusey et al. arXiv:1111.3328] has placed the subjective interpretation into doubt, showing that it would contradict certain physically plausible assumptions, in particular that multiple systems can be prepared such that their elements of reality are uncorrelated. Here we show, based only on the assumption that measurement settings can be chosen freely, that a system's wave function is in one-to-one correspondence with its elements of reality. This also eliminates the possibility that it can be interpreted subjectively.

id: 1111.6669
title: Quantum hologram of macroscopically entangled light via the mechanism of diffuse light storage
authors: L. V. Gerasimov, I. M. Sokolov, D. V. Kupriyanov, M. D. Havey
comments: Submitted to Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics. Special Issue on Quantum Memories
journal: J. Phys. B 45, 124012 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6669
abstract: In the present paper we consider a quantum memory scheme for light diffusely propagating through a spatially disordered atomic gas. The diffuse trapping of the signal light pulse can be naturally integrated with the mechanism of stimulated Raman conversion into a long-lived spin coherence. Then the quantum state of the light can be mapped onto the disordered atomic spin subsystem and can be stored in it for a relatively long time. The proposed memory scheme can be applicable for storage of the macroscopic analog of the $\Psi^{(-)}$ Bell state and the prepared entangled atomic state performs its quantum hologram, which suggests the possibility of further quantum information processing.

id: 1111.6670
title: Preserving Entanglement of Flying Qubits in Optical Fibers by Dynamical Decoupling
authors: Bin Yan, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6670
abstract: We theoretically investigate the influence of dynamical decoupling sequence in preserving entanglement of polarized photons in polarization-maintaining birefringent fibers(PMF) under a classic Gauss 1/f noise. We study the dynamic evolution of entanglement along the control sequence embedded fibers. Decoherence due to dispersion of polarization mode in PMF can be dramatically depressed, even for a wild optical width. Entanglement degree can be effectively preserved while the control pulse is implemented.

id: 1111.6673
title: Optically controlled phase gate for two spin qubits in coupled quantum dots
authors: Li-Bo Chen, L. J. Sham, Edo Waks
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 115319 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6673
abstract: We present a feasible scheme for performing an optically controlled phase gate between two conduction electron spin qubits in adjacent self assembled quantum dots. Interaction between the dots is mediated by the tunneling of the valence hole state which is activated only by applying a laser pulse of the right polarization and frequency. Combining the hole tunneling with the Pauli blocking effect, we obtain conditional dynamics for the two quantum dots, which is the essence of our gating operations. Our results are of explicit relevance to the recent generation of vertically stacked self-assembled InAs quantum dots, and show that by a design which avoids unintended dynamics the gate could be implemented in theory in the 10 ps range and with a fidelity over 90%. Our proposal therefore offers an accessible path to the demonstration of ultrafast quantum logic in quantum dots.

id: 1111.6686
title: Average quantum dynamics of closed systems over stochastic Hamiltonians
authors: Li Yu, Daniel F. V. James
comments: 17 pages, 1 figure, submitted to Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6686
abstract: We develop a master equation formalism to describe the evolution of the average density matrix of a closed quantum system driven by a stochastic Hamiltonian. The average over random processes generally results in decoherence effects in closed system dynamics, in addition to the usual unitary evolution. We then show that, for an important class of problems in which the Hamiltonian is proportional to a Gaussian random process, the 2nd-order master equation yields exact dynamics. The general formalism is applied to study the examples of a two-level system, two atoms in a stochastic magnetic field and the heating of a trapped ion.

id: 1111.6840
title: Quantum measurements in continuous time, non Markovian evolutions and feedback
authors: Alberto Barchielli, Matteo Gregoratti
comments: Latex, 19 pages, 3 figures; added references and "Conclusions"; expanded explanations. To appear in Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A (2012) vol. 370, no. 1979, 5364-5385
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6840
abstract: In this article we reconsider a version of quantum trajectory theory based on the stochastic Schr\"odinger equation with stochastic coefficients, which was mathematically introduced in the '90s, and we develop it in order to describe the non Markovian evolution of a quantum system continuously measured and controlled thanks to a measurement based feedback. Indeed, realistic descriptions of a feedback loop have to include delay and thus need a non Markovian theory. The theory allows to put together non Markovian evolutions and measurements in continuous time in agreement with the modern axiomatic formulation of quantum mechanics. To illustrate the possibilities of such a theory, we apply it to a two-level atom stimulated by a laser. We introduce closed loop control too, via the stimulating laser, with the aim to enhance the "squeezing" of the emitted light, or other typical quantum properties. Note that here we change the point of view with respect to the usual applications of control theory. In our model the "system" is the two-level atom, but we do not want to control its state, to bring the atom to a final target state. Our aim is to control the "Mandel $Q$-parameter" and the spectrum of the emitted light; in particular the spectrum is not a property at a single time, but involves a long interval of times (a Fourier transform of the autocorrelation function of the observed output is needed).

id: 1111.6950
title: Tensor networks and graphical calculus for open quantum systems
authors: Christopher J. Wood, Jacob D. Biamonte, David G. Cory
comments: 40 pages, a lot of figures. V3: Published version. Most diagrams moved to inline equations and several typos fixed. V2: Added section on example applications
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp. 15, 0579-0811 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6950
abstract: We describe a graphical calculus for completely positive maps and in doing so review the theory of open quantum systems and other fundamental primitives of quantum information theory using the language of tensor networks. In particular we demonstrate the construction of tensor networks to pictographically represent the Liouville-superoperator, Choi-matrix, process-matrix, Kraus, and system-environment representations for the evolution of quantum states, review how these representations interrelate, and illustrate how graphical manipulations of the tensor networks may be used to concisely transform between them. To further demonstrate the utility of the presented graphical calculus we include several examples where we provide arguably simpler graphical proofs of several useful quantities in quantum information theory including the composition and contraction of multipartite channels, a condition for whether an arbitrary bipartite state may be used for ancilla assisted process tomography, and the derivation of expressions for the average gate fidelity and entanglement fidelity of a channel in terms of each of the different representations of the channel.

id: 1111.6969
title: Magnetic sensitivity beyond the projection noise limit by spin squeezing
authors: R. J. Sewell, M. Koschorreck, M. Napolitano, B. Dubost, N. Behbood, M. W. Mitchell
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 253605 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6969
abstract: We report the generation of spin squeezing and entanglement in a magnetically-sensitive atomic ensemble, and entanglement-enhanced field measurements with this system. A maximal Raman coherence is prepared in an ensemble of 8.5x10^5 laser-cooled Rb-87 atoms in the f=1 hyperfine ground state, and the collective spin is squeezed by synthesized optical quantum non-demolition measurement. This prepares a state with large spin alignment and noise below the projection-noise level in a mixed alignment-orientation variable. 3.2dB of noise reduction is observed and 2.0dB of squeezing by the Wineland criterion, implying both entanglement and metrological advantage. Enhanced sensitivity is demonstrated in field measurements using alignment-to-orientation conversion.

id: 1111.7018
title: Antibunched Emission of Photon-Pairs via Quantum Zeno Blockade
authors: Yu-Ping Huang, Prem Kumar
comments: to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7018
abstract: We propose a new methodology, namely "quantum Zeno blockade," for managing light scattering at a few-photon level in general nonlinear-optical media, such as crystals, fibers, silicon microrings, and atomic vapors. Using this tool, antibunched emission of photon pairs can be achieved, leading to potent quantum-optics applications such as deterministic entanglement generation without the need for heralding. In a practical implementation using an on-chip toroidal microcavity immersed in rubidium vapor, we estimate that high-fidelity entangled photons can be produced on-demand at MHz rates or higher, corresponding to an improvement of $\gtrsim10^7$ times from the state-of-the-art.

id: 1111.7065
title: Enhancing the spreading of quantum walks on star graphs by additional bonds
authors: Anastasiia Anishchenko, Alexander Blumen, Oliver Muelken
comments: 8 pages, 6 figure
journal: Quantum Information Processing 11, 1273 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7065
abstract: We study the dynamics of continuous-time quantum walks (CTQW) on networks with highly degenerate eigenvalue spectra of the corresponding connectivity matrices. In particular, we consider the two cases of a star graph and of a complete graph, both having one highly degenerate eigenvalue, while displaying different topologies. While the CTQW spreading over the network - in terms of the average probability to return or to stay at an initially excited node - is in both cases very slow, also when compared to the corresponding classical continuous-time random walk (CTRW), we show how the spreading is enhanced by randomly adding bonds to the star graph or removing bonds from the complete graph. Then, the spreading of the excitations may become very fast, even outperforming the corresponding CTRW. Our numerical results suggest that the maximal spreading is reached halfway between the star graph and the complete graph. We further show how this disorder-enhanced spreading is related to the networks' eigenvalues.

id: 1111.7067
title: Uhlmann fidelity between two-mode Gaussian states
authors: Paulina Marian, Tudor A. Marian
comments: Published version. Comments are welcome
journal: Physical Review A 86, 022340 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7067
abstract: We analyze the Uhlmann fidelity of a pair of $n$-mode Gaussian states of the quantum radiation field. This quantity is shown to be the product of an exponential function depending on the relative average displacement and a factor fully determined by the symplectic spectrum of the covariance matrix of a specific Gaussian state. However, it is difficult to handle our general formula unless the Gaussian states commute or at least one of them is pure. On the contrary, in the simplest cases $n=1$ and $n=2$, it leads to explicit analytic formulae. Our main result is a calculable expression of the fidelity of two arbitrary two-mode Gaussian states. This can be applied to build reliable measures of quantum correlations between modes in various branches of quantum physics.

id: 1111.7116
title: Wavepacket approach to particle diffraction by thin targets: Quantum trajectories and arrival times
authors: C. Efthymiopoulos, N. Delis, G. Contopoulos
comments: In press Annals Of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7116
abstract: We develop a wavepacket approach to the diffraction of charged particles by a thin material target and we use the de Broglie-Bohm quantum trajectories to study various phenomena in this context. We find the form of the separator, i.e.the limit between the domains of prevalence of the ingoing and outgoing quantum flow. The structure of the quantum-mechanical currents in the neighborhood of the separator implies the formation of an array of \emph{quantum vortices} (nodal point - X point complexes). We show how the deformation of the separatior near Bragg angles explains the emergence of a diffraction pattern by the de Broglie - Bohm trajectories. We calculate the arrival time distributions for particles scattered at different angles. The predictions of the de Broglie - Bohm theory for $\Delta T$ turn to be different from estimates of the same quantity using other theories on time observables like the sum-over-histories or the Kijowski approach. We propose an experimental setup aiming to test such predictions. Finally, we explore the semiclassical limit of short wavelength and short quantum coherence lengths, and demonstrate how, in this case, results with the de Broglie - Bohm trajectories are similar to the classical results of Rutherford scattering.

id: 1111.7129
title: Coherent States for the Non-Linear Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Subir Ghosh
comments: 
journal: 22 June 2012, in Journal of Mathematical Physics (Vol.53, Issue 6)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7129
abstract: Wave packets for the Quantum Non-Linear Oscillator are considered in the Generalized Coherent State framerwork. To first order in the non-linearity parameter the Coherent State behaves very similarly to its classical counterpart. The position expectation value oscillates in a simple harmonic manner. The energy-momentum uncertainty relation is time independent as in a harmonic oscillator. Various features, (such as the Squeezed State nature), of the Coherent State have been discussed.

id: 1111.7145
title: Physical interpretation of the Wigner rotations and its implications for relativistic quantum information
authors: Pablo L. Saldanha, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures. Several changes were made on the text. One extra example was included
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 023041 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7145
abstract: We present a new treatment for the spin of a massive relativistic particle in the context of quantum information based on a physical interpretation of the Wigner rotations, obtaining different results in relation to the previous works. We are lead to the conclusions that it is not possible to define a reduced density matrix for the particle spin and that the Pauli-Lubanski (or similar) spin operators are not suitable to describe measurements where spin couples to an electromagnetic field in the measuring apparatus. These conclusions contradict the assumptions made by most of the previous papers on the subject. We also propose an experimental test of our formulation.

id: 1111.7151
title: Classical and quantum free motions in the tomographic probability representation
authors: Vladimir I. Man'ko, Franco Ventriglia
comments: Contibution to the conference "Folding and Unfolding: Interactions from Geometry". Workshop in honour of Giuseppe Marmo 65--th birtday. Ischia, Naples 8--12 June 2011. To appear in International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7151
abstract: Based on a geometric picture, the example of free particle motion for both classical and quantum domains is considered in the tomographic probability representation. Wave functions and density operators as well as optical and symplectic tomograms are obtained as solutions of kinetic classical and quantum equations for the state tomograms. The difference of tomograms of free particle for classical and quantum states is discussed.

id: 1111.7152
title: Local phase damping of single qubits sets an upper bound on the phase damping rate of entangled states
authors: Stephan D¨¹rr
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 85, 012110 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7152
abstract: I derive an inequality in which the phase damping rates of single qubits set an upper bound for the phase damping rate of entangled states of many qubits. The derivation is based on two assumptions: first, that the phase damping can be described by a dissipator in Lindblad form and, second, that the phase damping preserves the population of qubit states in a given basis.

id: 1111.7161
title: Adaptively measuring the temporal shape of ultrashort single photons for higher-dimensional quantum information processing
authors: Constantina Polycarpou, Katiuscia N. Cassemiro, Giovanni Venturi, Alessandro Zavatta, Marco Bellini
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7161
abstract: A photon is the single excitation of a particular spatiotemporal mode of the electromagnetic field. A precise knowledge of the mode structure is therefore essential for its processing and detection, as well as for applying generic quantum light states to novel technologies. Here we demonstrate an adaptive scheme for reconstructing the arbitrary amplitude and phase spectro-temporal profile of an ultrashort single-photon pulse. The method combines techniques from the fields of ultrafast coherent control and quantum optics to map the mode of a fragile quantum state onto that of an intense coherent field. In addition, we show that the possibility of generating and detecting quantum states in multiple spectro-temporal modes may serve as a basis for encoding qubits (and qudits) into single, broadband, ultrashort, photons. Providing access to a much larger Hilbert space, this scheme may boost the capacity of current quantum information protocols.

id: 1111.7173
title: Topological order in 1D Cluster state protected by symmetry
authors: Wonmin Son, Luigi Amico, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 1 figure, To be published in Quantum Information Processing
journal: Quantum Information Processing Volume 11, Issue 6 , pp 1961-1968 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7173
abstract: We demonstrate how to construct the Z2*Z2 global symmetry which protects the ground state degeneracy of cluster states for open boundary conditions. Such a degeneracy ultimately arises because the set of stabilizers do not span a complete set of integrals of motion of the cluster state Hamiltonian for open boundary conditions. By applying control phase transformations, our construction makes the stabilizers into the Pauli operators spanning the qubit Hilbert space from which the degeneracy comes.

id: 1111.7206
title: Extending the validity range of quantum optical master equations
authors: Adam Stokes, Andreas Kurcz, Tim P. Spiller, Almut Beige
comments: substantially revised version, 15 pages, 6 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053805 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7206
abstract: This paper derives master equations for an atomic two-level system for a large set of unitarily equivalent Hamiltonians without employing the rotating wave and certain Markovian approximations. Each Hamiltonian refers to physically different components as representing the "atom" and as representing the "field" and hence results in a different master equation, when assuming a photon-absorbing environment. It is shown that the master equations associated with the minimal coupling and the multipolar Hamiltonians predict enormous stationary state narrowband photon emission rates, even in the absence of external driving, for current experiments with single quantum dots and colour centers in diamond. These seem to confirm that the rotating wave Hamiltonian identifies the components of the atom-field system most accurately.

id: 1111.7283
title: Proposal for Inverting the Quantum Cloning of Photons
authors: Sadegh Raeisi, Wolfgang Tittel, Christoph Simon
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 120404 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7283
abstract: We propose an experiment where a photon is first cloned by stimulated parametric down-conversion, making many (imperfect) copies, and then the cloning transformation is inverted, regenerating the original photon while destroying the copies. Focusing on the case where the initial photon is entangled with another photon, we study the conditions under which entanglement can be proven in the final state. The proposed experiment would provide a clear demonstration that quantum information is preserved in quantum cloning. It would furthermore allow a definitive experimental proof for micro-macro entanglement in the intermediate multiphoton state, which is still an outstanding challenge. Finally, it might provide a quantum detection technique for small differences in transmission (e.g., in biological samples), whose sensitivity scales better with the number of photons used than a classical transmission measurement.

id: 1111.0069
title: Organization of the Bacterial Light-Harvesting Apparatus Rationalized by Exciton Transport Optimization
authors: Elad Harel
comments: 28 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0069
abstract: Photosynthesis, the process by which energy from sunlight drives cellular metabolism, relies on a unique organization of light-harvesting and reaction center complexes. Recently, the organization of light-harvesting LH2 complexes and dimeric reaction center-light harvesting I-PufX (RC-LH1-PufX) core complexes in membranes of purple non-sulfur bacteria was revealed by atomic force microscopy (AFM)1. Here, we report that the structure of LH2 and its organization within the membrane can be largely rationalized by a simple physical model that relies primarily on exciton transfer optimization. The process through which the light-harvesting complexes transfer excitation energy has been recognized to incorporate both coherent and incoherent processes mediated by the surrounding protein environment. Using the Haken-Strobl model, we show that the organization of the complexes in the membrane can be almost entirely explained by simple electrostatic considerations and that quantum effects act primarily to enforce robustness with respect to spatial disorder between complexes. The implications of such an arrangement are discussed in the context of biomimetic photosynthetic analogs capable of transferring energy efficiently across tens to hundreds of nanometers

id: 1111.0105
title: Correlation energy of a homogeneous dipolar Fermi gas
authors: Bo Liu, Lan Yin
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053603 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0105
abstract: We study the normal state of a 3-$d$ homogeneous dipolar Fermi gas beyond the Hartree-Fock approximation. The correlation energy is found of the same order as the Fock energy, unusually strong for a Fermi-liquid system. As a result, the critical density of mechanical collapse is smaller than that estimated in the Hartree-Fock approximation. With the correlation energy included, a new energy functional is proposed for the trapped system, and its property is explored.

id: 1111.0179
title: Identification of Strongly Correlated Spin Liquid in Herbertsmithite
authors: V. R. Shaginyan, A. Z. Msezane, K. G. Popov, G. S. Japaridze, V. A. Stephanovich
comments: 6 pages, 8 figures, presentation of the references is corrected
journal: Europhysics Letters 97, 56001 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0179
abstract: Exotic quantum spin liquid (QSL) is formed with such hypothetic particles as fermionic spinons carrying spin 1/2 and no charge. Here we calculate its thermodynamic and relaxation properties. Our calculations unveil the fundamental properties of QSL, forming strongly correlated Fermi system located at a fermion condensation quantum phase transition. These are in a good agreement with experimental data and allow us to detect the behavior of QSL as that observed in heavy fermion metals. We predict that the thermal resistivity of QSL under the application of magnetic fields at fixed temperature demonstrates a very specific behavior. The key features of our findings are the presence of spin-charge separation and QSL formed with itinerant heavy spinons in herbertsmithite.

id: 1111.0199
title: Fermionic Casimir densities in a conical space with a circular boundary and magnetic flux
authors: E. R. Bezerra de Mello, F. Moraes, A. A. Saharian
comments: 28 pages, 5 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1101.4130, discussion and references added
journal: Phys. Rev. D 85 (2012) 045016
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0199
abstract: The vacuum expectation value (VEV) of the energy-momentum tensor for a massive fermionic field is investigated in a (2+1)-dimensional conical spacetime in the presence of a circular boundary and an infinitely thin magnetic flux located at the cone apex. The MIT bag boundary condition is assumed on the circle. At the cone apex we consider a special case of boundary conditions for irregular modes, when the MIT bag boundary condition is imposed at a finite radius, which is then taken to zero. The presence of the magnetic flux leads to the Aharonov-Bohm-like effect on the VEV of the energy-momentum tensor. For both exterior and interior regions, the VEV is decomposed into boundary-free and boundary-induced parts. Both these parts are even periodic functions of the magnetic flux with the period equal to the flux quantum. The boundary-free part in the radial stress is equal to the energy density. Near the circle, the boundary-induced part in the VEV dominates and for a massless field the vacuum energy density is negative inside the circle and positive in the exterior region. Various special cases are considered.

id: 1111.0214
title: Quantum vacuum radiation in optical glass
authors: Stefano Liberati, Angus Prain, Matt Visser
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 85(2012) 084014
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0214
abstract: A recent experimental claim of the detection of analogue Hawking radiation in an optical system [PRL 105 (2010) 203901] has led to some controversy [PRL 107 (2011) 149401, 149402]. While this experiment strongly suggests some form of particle creation from the quantum vacuum (and hence it is per se very interesting), it is also true that it seems difficult to completely explain all features of the observations by adopting the perspective of a Hawking-like mechanism for the radiation. For instance, the observed photons are emitted parallel to the optical horizon, and the relevant optical horizon is itself defined in an unusual manner by combining group and phase velocities. This raises the question: Is this really Hawking radiation, or some other form of quantum vacuum radiation? Naive estimates of the amount of quantum vacuum radiation generated due to the rapidly changing refractive index --- sometimes called the dynamical Casimir effect --- are not encouraging. However we feel that naive estimates could be misleading depending on the quantitative magnitude of two specific physical effects: "pulse steepening" and "pulse cresting". Plausible bounds on the maximum size of these two effects results in estimates much closer to the experimental observations, and we argue that the dynamical Casimir effect is now worth additional investigation.

id: 1111.0407
title: Renormalization and small-world model of fractal quantum repeater networks
authors: Zong-Wen Wei, Bing-Hong Wang, Xiao-Pu Han
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures. Accepted by Scientific Reports
journal: 
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0407
abstract: Quantum networks provide access to exchange of quantum information. The primary task of quantum networks is to distribute entanglement between remote nodes. Although quantum repeater protocol enables long distance entanglement distribution, it has been restricted to one-dimensional linear network. Here we develop a general framework that allows application of quantum repeater protocol to arbitrary quantum repeater networks with fractal structure. Entanglement distribution across such networks is mapped to renormalization. Furthermore, we demonstrate that logarithmical times of recursive such renormalization transformations can trigger fractal to small-world transition, where a scalable quantum small-world network is achieved. Our result provides new insight into quantum repeater theory towards realistic construction of large-scale quantum networks.

id: 1111.0420
title: Quantum Monte Carlo study of the transverse-field quantum Ising model on infinite-dimensional structures
authors: Seung Ki Baek, Jaegon Um, Su Do Yi, Beom Jun Kim
comments: 13 pages, 18 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B, 84, 174419 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0420
abstract: In a number of classical statistical-physical models, there exists a characteristic dimensionality called the upper critical dimension above which one observes the mean-field critical behavior. Instead of constructing high-dimensional lattices, however, one can also consider infinite-dimensional structures, and the question is whether this mean-field character extends to quantum-mechanical cases as well. We therefore investigate the transverse-field quantum Ising model on the globally coupled network and the Watts-Strogatz small-world network by means of quantum Monte Carlo simulations and the finite-size scaling analysis. We confirm that both the structures exhibit critical behavior consistent with the mean-field description. In particular, we show that the existing cumulant method has a difficulty in estimating the correct dynamic critical exponent and suggest that an order parameter based on the quantum-mechanical expectation value can be a practically useful numerical observable to determine critical behavior when there is no well-defined dimensionality.

id: 1111.0457
title: The emergent nature of time and the complex numbers in quantum cosmology
authors: G. W. Gibbons
comments: Extended version of a lecture , with additional introductory material and many references, given at the conference Origins of Time's Arrow held at the World Trade Centre, October 15-16, 2007 to appear in Fundamental Theories of Physics, {\bf 164} The Arrows of Time: A debate in Cosmology eds L.Mersini-Houghton and R. Vass, pp 107-146 Springer 2012
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0457
abstract: The nature of time in quantum mechanics is closely related to the use of a complex, rather than say real, Hilbert space. This becomes particularly clear when considering quantum field theory in time dependent backgrounds, such as in cosmology, when the notion of positive frequency ceases to be well defined. In spacetimes lacking time orientation, i.e without the possibility of defining an arrow of time, one is forced to abandon complex quantum mechanics. One also has to face this problem in quantum cosmology. I use this to argue that this suggests that, at a fundamental level, quantum mechanics may be really real with not one, but a multitude of complex structures. I relate these ideas to other suggestions that in quantum gravity time evolution may not be unitary, possibly implemented by a super-scattering matrix, and the status of CPT.

id: 1111.0509
title: Increased superconducting transition temperature of a niobium thin-film proximity-coupled to gold nanoparticles using linking organic molecules
authors: Eran Katzir, Shira Yochelis, Felix Zeides, Nadav Katz, Yoav Kalcheim, Oded Millo, Gregory Leitus, Yuri Myasodeyov, Boris Ya. Shapiro, Ron Naaman, Yossi Paltiel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0509
abstract: The superconducting critical temperature, TC, of thin Nb films is significantly modified when gold nanoparticles (NPs) are chemically linked to the Nb film, with a consistent enhancement when using 3 nm long disilane linker molecules. The TC increases by up to 10% for certain linker length and NPs size. No change is observed when the nanoparticles are physisorbed with non-linking molecules. Electron tunneling spectra acquired on the linked NPs below TC typically exhibit zero-bias peaks. We attribute these results to a pairing mechanism coupling electrons in the Nb and the NPs, mediated by the organic linkers.

id: 1111.0600
title: Extended supersymmetry of the self-isospectral crystalline and soliton chains
authors: Adrian Arancibia, Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 22 pages, 4 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 85, 045018 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0600
abstract: We study supersymmetric structure of the self-isospectral crystalline chains formed by N copies of the mutually displaced one-gap Lame systems. It is generated by the N(N-1) integrals of motion which are the first order matrix differential operators, by the same number of the nontrivial second order integrals, and by the N third order Lax integrals. We show that the structure admits distinct alternatives for a grading operator, and in dependence on its choice one of the third order matrix integrals plays either the role of the bosonic central charge or the role of the fermionic supercharge to be a square root of the spectral polynomial. Yet another peculiarity is that the set of all the second order integrals of motion generates a nonlinear sub-superalgebra. We also investigate the associated self-isospectral soliton chains, and discuss possible physical applications of the unusual extended supersymmetry.

id: 1111.0656
title: Algebraic spectral gaps
authors: Amaury Mouchet
comments: Submitted to ESAIM PROCEEDINGS
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0656
abstract: For the one-dimensional Schr\"odinger equation, some real intervals with no eigenvalues (the spectral gaps) may be obtained rather systematically with a method proposed by H. Giacomini and A. Mouchet in 2007. The present article provides some alternative formulation of this method, suggests some possible generalizations and extensively discusses the higher-dimensional case.

id: 1111.0675
title: Proposal for a Datta-Das transistor in the quantum Hall regime
authors: Luca Chirolli, D. Venturelli, F. Taddei, Rosario Fazio, V. Giovannetti
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review B 85, 155317 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0675
abstract: We propose a resonant spin-field-effect transistor for chiral spin-resolved edge states in the integer quantum Hall effect with Rashba spin-orbit interaction. It employs a periodic array of voltage-controlled top gates that locally modulate the Rashba spin-orbit interaction. Strong resonant spin-field effect is achieved when the array periodicity matches the inverse of the wave-vector difference of the two chiral states involved. Well-known techniques of separately contacting the edge states make it possible to selectively populate and read out the edge states, allowing full spin readout. The resonant nature of the spin-field effect and the adiabatic character of the edge states guarantee a high degree of robustness with respect to disorder. Our device represents the quantum Hall version of the all-electrical Datta-Das spin-field effect transistor.

id: 1111.0757
title: Angular momentum decomposition of the three-dimensional Wigner harmonic oscillator
authors: Gilles Regniers, Joris Van der Jeugt
comments: 
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52 (2011), 113503 (21 pp)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0757
abstract: In the Wigner framework, one abandons the assumption that the usual canonical commutation relations are necessarily valid. Instead, the compatibility of Hamilton's equations and the Heisenberg equations are the starting point, and no further assumptions are made about how the position and momentum operators commute. Wigner quantization leads to new classes of solutions, and representations of Lie superalgebras are needed to describe them. For the n-dimensional Wigner harmonic oscillator, solutions are known in terms of the Lie superalgebras osp(1|2n) and gl(1|n). For n=3N, the question arises as to how the angular momentum decomposition of representations of these Lie superalgebras is computed. We construct generating functions for the angular momentum decomposition of specific series of representations of osp(1|6N) and gl(1|3N), with N=1 and N=2. This problem can be completely solved for N=1. However, for N=2 only some classes of representations allow executable computations

id: 1111.0776
title: Light-cone-like spreading of correlations in a quantum many-body system
authors: Marc Cheneau, Peter Barmettler, Dario Poletti, Manuel Endres, Peter Schau?, Takeshi Fukuhara, Christian Gross, Immanuel Bloch, Corinna Kollath, Stefan Kuhr
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables
journal: Nature 481, 484--487 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0776
abstract: How fast can correlations spread in a quantum many-body system? Based on the seminal work by Lieb and Robinson, it has recently been shown that several interacting many-body systems exhibit an effective light cone that bounds the propagation speed of correlations. The existence of such a "speed of light" has profound implications for condensed matter physics and quantum information, but has never been observed experimentally. Here we report on the time-resolved detection of propagating correlations in an interacting quantum many-body system. By quenching a one-dimensional quantum gas in an optical lattice, we reveal how quasiparticle pairs transport correlations with a finite velocity across the system, resulting in an effective light cone for the quantum dynamics. Our results open important perspectives for understanding relaxation of closed quantum systems far from equilibrium as well as for engineering efficient quantum channels necessary for fast quantum computations.

id: 1111.0781
title: Effect of a fermion on quantum phase transitions in bosonic systems
authors: F. Iachello, A. Leviatan, D. Petrellis
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Lett. B 705 (2011) 379-382
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0781
abstract: The effect of a fermion with angular momentum j on quantum phase transitions of a (s,d) bosonic system is investigated. It is shown that the presence of a fermion strongly modifies the critical value at which the transition occurs, and its nature, even for small and moderate values of the coupling constant. The analogy with a bosonic system in an external field is mentioned. Experimental evidence for precursors of quantum phase transitions in bosonic systems plus a fermion (odd-even nuclei) is presented.

id: 1111.0798
title: Fractional quantum Hall states of few bosonic atoms in geometric gauge fields
authors: B. Juli¨¢-D¨ªaz, T. Gra?, N. Barber¨¢n, M. Lewenstein
comments: 28 pages, 16 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 055003 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0798
abstract: We employ the exact diagonalization method to analyze the possibility of generating strongly correlated states in two-dimensional clouds of ultracold bosonic atoms which are subjected to a geometric gauge field created by coupling two internal atomic states to a laser beam. Tuning the gauge field strength, the system undergoes stepwise transitions between different ground states, which we describe by analytical trial wave functions, amongst them the Pfaffian, the Laughlin, and a Laughlin quasiparticle many-body state. The adiabatic following of the center of mass movement by the lowest energy dressed internal state, is lost by the mixing of the second internal state. This mixture can be controlled by the intensity of the laser field. The non-adiabaticity is inherent to the considered setup, and is shown to play the role of circular asymmetry. We study its influence on the properties of the ground state of the system. Its main effect is to reduce the overlap of the numerical solutions with the analytical trial expressions by occupying states with higher angular momentum. Thus, we propose generalized wave functions arising from the Laughlin and Pfaffian wave function by including components, where extra Jastrow factors appear, while preserving important features of these states. We analyze quasihole excitations over the Laughlin and generalized Laughlin states, and show that they possess effective fractional charge and obey anyonic statistics. Finally, we study the energy gap over the Laughlin state as the number of particles is increased keeping the chemical potential fixed. The gap is found to decrease as the number of particles is increased, indicating that the observability of the Laughlin state is restricted to a small number of particles.

id: 1111.0837
title: Exponential Lower Bounds for Polytopes in Combinatorial Optimization
authors: Samuel Fiorini, Serge Massar, Sebastian Pokutta, Hans Raj Tiwary, Ronald de Wolf
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures. This version of the paper will appear in the Journal of the ACM. The earlier conference version in STOC'12 had the title "Linear vs. Semidefinite Extended Formulations: Exponential Separation and Strong Lower Bounds"
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0837
abstract: We solve a 20-year old problem posed by Yannakakis and prove that there exists no polynomial-size linear program (LP) whose associated polytope projects to the traveling salesman polytope, even if the LP is not required to be symmetric. Moreover, we prove that this holds also for the cut polytope and the stable set polytope. These results were discovered through a new connection that we make between one-way quantum communication protocols and semidefinite programming reformulations of LPs.

id: 1111.0838
title: Casimir effect: Edges and diffraction
authors: Dimitra Karabali
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures. Talk at the QTS7 conference, Prague, 2011; to appear in the proceedings
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0838
abstract: The Casimir effect refers to the existence of a macroscopic force between conducting plates in vacuum due to quantum fluctuations of fields. These forces play an important role, among other things, in the design of nano-scale mechanical devices. Accurate experimental observations of this phenomenon have motivated the development of new theoretical approaches in dealing with the effects of different geometries, temperature etc. In this talk, I will focus on a new method we have developed in calculating the contribution to the Casimir effect due to diffraction from edges and holes in different geometries, at zero and at finite temperature.

id: 1111.0891
title: Exact Ionization Potentials from Wavefunction Asymptotics: The Extended Koopmans' Theorem, Revisited
authors: Diederik Vanfleteren, Dimitri Van Neck, Paul W. Ayers, Robert C. Morrison, Patrick Bultinck
comments: 20 pages, 2 figures, preprint
journal: The Journal of Chemical Physics 130, 194104 (2009)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0891
abstract: A simple explanation is given for the exactness of the extended Koopmans' theorem for computing the removal energy of any many-electron system to the lowest-energy ground state ion of a given symmetry. In particular, by removing the electron from a "removal orbital" of appropriate symmetry that is concentrated in the asymptotic region, one obtains the exact ionization potential and the exact Dyson orbital for the corresponding state of the ion. It is argued that the EKT is not restricted to many-electron systems but holds for any finite many-body system, provided the interaction vanishes for increasing interparticle distance. A necessary and sufficient condition for the validity of the extended Koopmans' theorem for any state (not just the lowest-energy states of a given symmetry) in terms of the third-order reduced density matrix is stated and derived.

id: 1111.0892
title: Partitioning of the molecular density matrix over atoms and bonds
authors: Diederik Vanfleteren, Dimitri Van Neck, Patrick Bultinck, Paul W. Ayers, Michel Waroquier
comments: 25 pages, 8 figures, preprint
journal: The Journal of Chemical Physics 132, 164111 2010
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0892
abstract: A double-index atomic partitioning of the molecular first-order density matrix is proposed. Contributions diagonal in the atomic indices correspond to atomic density matrices, whereas off-diagonal contributions carry information about the bonds. The resulting matrices have good localization properties, in contrast to single-index atomic partitioning schemes of the molecular density matrix. It is shown that the electron density assigned to individual atoms, when derived from the density matrix partitioning, can be made con- sistent with well-known partitions of the electron density over AIM basins, either with sharp or with fuzzy boundaries. The method is applied to a test set of about 50 molecules, representative for various types of chemical binding. A close correlation is observed between the trace of the bond matrices and the SEDI (shared electron density index) bond index.

id: 1111.0894
title: Hilbert-space partitioning of the molecular one-electron density matrix with orthogonal projectors
authors: Diederik Vanfleteren, Dimitri Van Neck, Patrick Bultinck, Paul W. Ayers, Michel Waroquier
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, preprint, communication
journal: The Journal of Chemical Physics 133, 231103 (2010)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0894
abstract: A double-atom partitioning of the molecular one-electron density matrix is used to describe atoms and bonds. All calculations are performed in Hilbert space. The concept of atomic weight functions (familiar from Hirshfeld analysis of the electron density) is extended to atomic weight matrices. These are constructed to be orthogonal projection operators on atomic subspaces, which has significant advantages in the interpretation of the bond contributions. In close analogy to the iterative Hirshfeld procedure, self-consistency is built in at the level of atomic charges and occupancies. The method is applied to a test set of about 67 molecules, representing various types of chemical binding. A close correlation is observed between the atomic charges and the Hirshfeld-I atomic charges.

id: 1111.0896
title: Fast density-matrix based partitioning of the energy over the atoms in a molecule consistent with the Hirshfeld-I partitioning of the electron density
authors: Diederik Vanfleteren, Dieter Ghillemijn, Dimitri Van Neck, Patrick Bultinck, Michel Waroquier, Paul W. Ayers
comments: 27 pages, 1 figure, pre-refereeing JCC article
journal: Journal of Computational Chemistry, 32 (16), 3485--3496 (2011)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0896
abstract: For the Hirshfeld-I atom-in-molecule model, associated single-atom energies and interaction energies at the Hartree-Fock level are determined efficiently in one-electron Hilbert space. In contrast to most other approaches, the energy terms are fully consistent with the partitioning of the underlying one-electron density matrix. Starting from the Hirshfeld-I atom-in-molecule model for the electron density, the molecular one-electron density matrix is partitioned with a previously introduced double-atom scheme [Vanfleteren D. et al., J Chem Phys 2010, 132, 164111]. Single-atom density matrices are constructed from the atomic and bond contributions of the double-atom scheme. Since the Hartree-Fock energy can be expressed solely in terms of the one-electron density matrix, the partitioning of the latter over the atoms in the molecule leads naturally to a corresponding partitioning of the Hartree-Fock energy. When the size of the molecule or the molecular basis set does not grow too large, the method shows considerable computational advantages compared to other approaches that require cumbersome numerical integration of the molecular energy integrals weighted by atomic weight functions.

id: 1111.0899
title: Tunneling magnetic effect in heterostructures with paramagnetic impurities
authors: I. V. Rozhansky, N. S. Averkiev, E. Lahderanta
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0899
abstract: An effect of paramagnetic impurity located in a vicinity of a quantum well (QW) on spin polarization of the carriers in the QW is analyzed theoretically. Within approach of Bardeen's tunneling Hamiltonian the problem is formulated in terms of Anderson-Fano model of configuration interaction between a localized hole state at Mn and continuum of heavy hole states in the InGaAs-based QW. The hybridization between the localized state and the QW leads to resonant enhancement of interband radiative recombination. The splitting of the configuration resonances induced by splitting of the localized state in magnetic field results in circular polarization of light emitted from the QW. The developed theory is capable of explaining known experimental results and allows for calculation of the photoluminescence spectra and dependence of integral polarization on temperature and other parameters.

id: 1111.0967
title: Towards computational insights into the large-scale structure of spin foams
authors: Bianca Dittrich, Frank C Eckert
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, to be published in proceedings of the Loops'11 Madrid international conference on quantum gravity
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0967
abstract: Understanding the large-scale physics is crucial for the spin foam approach to quantum gravity. We tackle this challenge from a statistical physics perspective using simplified, yet feature-rich models. In particular, this allows us to explicitly answer whether broken symmetries will be restored by renormalization: We observe a weak phase transition in both Migdal-Kadanoff and tensor network renormalization. In this work we give a concise presentation of the concepts, results and promises of this new direction of research.

id: 1111.1005
title: On detection of quasiclassical states
authors: Micha? Oszmaniec, Marek Ku?
comments: 15 pages, Some typos fixed, Theorem 2 supplemented by two originally missing cases, two references added
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 244034 2012
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1005
abstract: We give a criterion of classicality for mixed states in terms of expectation values of a quantum observable. Using group representation theory we identify all cases when the criterion can be computed exactly in terms of the spectrum of a single operator.

id: 1111.1050
title: Unified derivation of exact solutions for a class of quasi-exactly solvable models
authors: Davids Agboola, Yao-Zhong Zhang
comments: Latex file, 14 pages, many modifications made and misprints corrected
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 042101 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1050
abstract: We present a unified treatment of exact solutions for a class of four quantum mechanical models, namely the singular anharmonic potential, the generalized quantum isotonic oscillator, the soft-core Coulomb potential, and the non-polynomially modified oscillator. We show that all four cases are reducible to the same basic ordinary differential equation, which is quasi-exactly solvable. A systematic and closed form solution to the basic equation is obtained via the Bethe ansatz method. Using the result, general exact expressions for the energies and the allowed potential parameters are given explicitly for each of the four cases in terms of the roots of a set of algebraic equations. A hidden $sl(2)$ algebraic structure is also discovered in these models.

id: 1111.1091
title: On the merit of a Central Limit Theorem-based approximation in statistical physics
authors: Bruno Leggio, Oleg Lychkovskiy, Antonino Messina
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: J Stat Phys (2012) 146:1274-1287
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1091
abstract: The applicability conditions of a recently reported Central Limit Theorem-based approximation method in statistical physics are investigated and rigorously determined. The failure of this method at low and intermediate temperature is proved as well as its inadequacy to disclose quantum criticalities at fixed temperatures. Its high temperature predictions are in addition shown to coincide with those stemming from straightforward appropriate expansions up to (k_B T)^(-2). Our results are clearly illustrated by comparing the exact and approximate temperature dependence of the free energy of some exemplary physical systems.

id: 1111.1159
title: Geometric spectral inversion for singular potentials
authors: Richard L. Hall, Wolfgang Lucha
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 112102 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1159
abstract: The function E = F(v) expresses the dependence of a discrete eigenvalue E of the Schroedinger Hamiltonian H = -\Delta + vf(r) on the coupling parameter v. We use envelope theory to generate a functional sequence \{f^{[k]}(r)\} to reconstruct f(r) from F(v) starting from a seed potential f^{[0]}(r). In the power-law or log cases the inversion can be effected analytically and is complete in just two steps. In other cases convergence is observed numerically. To provide concrete illustrations of the inversion method it is first applied to the Hulth\'en potential, and it is then used to invert spectral data generated by singular potentials with shapes of the form f(r) = -a/r + b\sgn(q)r^q and f(r) = -a/r + b\ln(r), a, b > 0. For the class of attractive central potentials with shapes f(r) = g(r)/r, with g(0)< 0 and g'(r)\ge 0, we prove that the ground-state energy curve F(v) determines f(r) uniquely.

id: 1111.1216
title: Diffusive spin dynamics in ferromagnetic thin films with a Rashba interaction
authors: Xuhui Wang, Aurelien Manchon
comments: 5 pages and 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 117201 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1216
abstract: In a ferromagnetic metal layer, the coupled charge and spin diffusion equations are obtained in the presence of both Rashba spin-orbit interaction and magnetism. The mis-alignment between the magnetization and the non-equilibrium spin density induced by the Rashba field gives rise to Rashba spin torque acting on the ferromagnetic order parameter. In a general form, we find that the Rashba torque consists of both in-plane and out-of-plane components, ie $\bm{T}=T_{\bot}\hat{\bm{y}}\times{\hat{\bm m}}+T_{\parallel}{\hat{\bm m}}\times({\hat{\bm y}}\times{\hat{\bm m}})$. Numerical simulations on a two dimensional nano-wire discuss the impact of diffusion on the Rashba torque, which reveals a large enhancement to the ratio $T_{\parallel}/T_{\bot}$ for thin wires. Our theory provides an explanation to the mechanism that drives the magnetization switching in a single ferromagnet as observed in the recent experiments.

id: 1111.1273
title: From yeV to TeV: Search for the Neutron Electric Dipole Moment
authors: D. H. Beck, D. Budker, B. K. Park, nEDM Collaboration
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1273
abstract: The existence of electric dipole moments (EDM) for fundamental particles signals time-reversal symmetry (T) violation accompanied by violation of parity (P); only upper limits have been established to date. Time-reversal violation in turn implies CP violation under the assumption that CPT is a good symmetry. The neutron is an attractive system for an EDM search, both because it is neu- tral and because a neutron EDM would be relatively easier to interpret than the comparable quantity for a nucleus or even an atom. We introduce briefly the key experimental requirements for such search and describe some aspects of the neutron EDM experiment planned for the Spallation Neutron Source at the U.S. Oak Ridge National Laboratory.

id: 1111.1302
title: Optical antennas as nanoscale resonators
authors: Mario Agio
comments: 17 pages, 20 figures
journal: Nanoscale 4, 692 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1302
abstract: Recent progress in nanotechnology has enabled us to fabricate subwavelength architectures that function as antennas for improving the exchange of optical energy with nanoscale matter. We describe the main features of optical antennas for enhancing quantum emitters and review designs that increase the spontaneous emission rate by orders of magnitude from the ultraviolet up to the near-infrared spectral range. To further explore how optical antennas may lead to unprecedented regimes of light-matter interaction, we draw a relationship between metal nanoparticles, radio-wave antennas and optical resonators. Our analysis points out how optical antennas may function as nanoscale resonators and how these may offer unique opportunities with respect to state-of-the-art microcavities.

id: 1111.1333
title: Broadband sum frequency generation via chirped quasi-phase-matching
authors: A. A. Rangelov, N. V. Vitanov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1333
abstract: An efficient broadband sum frequency generation (SFG) technique using the two collinear optical parametric processes \omega 3=\omega 1+\omega 2 and \omega 4=\omega 1+\omega 3 is proposed. The technique uses chirped quasi-phase-matched gratings, which, in the undepleted pump approximation, make SFG analogous to adiabatic population transfer in three-state systems with crossing energies in quantum physics. If the local modulation period %for aperiodically poled quasi-phase-matching first makes the phase match occur for \omega 3 and then for \omega 4 SFG processes then the energy is converted adiabatically to the \omega 4 field. Efficient SFG of the \omega 4 field is also possible by the opposite direction of the local modulation sweep; then transient SFG of the \omega 3 field is strongly reduced. Most of these features remain valid in the nonlinear regime of depleted pump.

id: 1111.1405
title: A Quantum-mechanical Approach for Constrained Macromolecular Chains
authors: Gabriel F. Calvo, Ramon F. Alvarez-Estrada
comments: Expands review published in The European Physical Journal (Special Topics) Vol. 200, pp. 225-258 (2011)
journal: 
subjects: Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1405
abstract: Many approaches to three-dimensional constrained macromolecular chains at thermal equilibrium, at about room temperatures, are based upon constrained Classical Hamiltonian Dynamics (cCHDa). Quantum-mechanical approaches (QMa) have also been treated by different researchers for decades. QMa address a fundamental issue (constraints versus the uncertainty principle) and are versatile: they also yield classical descriptions (which may not coincide with those from cCHDa, although they may agree for certain relevant quantities). Open issues include whether QMa have enough practical consequences which differ from and/or improve those from cCHDa. We shall treat cCHDa briefly and deal with QMa, by outlining old approaches and focusing on recent ones.

id: 1111.1408
title: Photodetachment Microscope with Repulsive Coulomb Field
authors: P.A. Golovinski, A.A. Drobyshev
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1408
abstract: Investigation of electronic waves with high coherence in photodetachment of a negative ion gives a physical basis to develop the holographic electronic microscopy with high resolution. The interference pattern is considered in the framework of steady-state wave approach. In semiclassical approximation, an outgoing wave is described by the amplitude slowly varying along a trajectory. Quantum description of electron photodetachment from negative ion is formulated with the help of the inhomogeneous Schr\"odinger equation. Its asymptotic solution is expressed in terms of the Green function that has exact expression for the homogeneous electric field and the Coulomb field. It is demonstrated that repulsive Coulomb field is effective for magnification of the interference pattern at a short distance from an ion. For the first time, as shown for this case, the interference pattern in asymptotic area can be calculated by means of global semiclassical approximation or, a little more roughly, by simple uniform field approximation. New proposals and possible parameters for experimental measurement scheme for the effect are discussed.

id: 1111.1487
title: SO(4) Re-revisited
authors: Kazuyuki Fujii
comments: Latex ; 13 pages ; 1 figure. This paper is my mathematical note and is dedicated to the late Steve Jobs
journal: Far East Journal of Mathematical Education, 8(2012) 85-99
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1487
abstract: In this note an explicit expression of $\exp A\ (A\in so(4))$ is given in terms of the magic matrix by Makhlin.

id: 1111.1499
title: Quadrupolar spectra of nuclear spins in strained InGaAs quantum dots
authors: Ceyhun Bulutay
comments: Published version, 13 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 115313 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1499
abstract: Self-assembled quantum dots (QDs) are born out of lattice mismatched ingredients where strain plays an indispensable role. Through the electric quadrupolar coupling, strain affects the magnetic environment as seen by the nuclear spins. To guide prospective single-QD nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) as well as dynamic nuclear spin polarization experiments, an atomistic insight to the strain and quadrupolar field distributions is presented. A number of implications of the structural and compositional profile of the QD have been identified. A high aspect ratio of the QD geometry enhances the quadrupolar interaction. The inclined interfaces introduce biaxiality and the tilting of the major quadrupolar principal axis away from the growth axis; the alloy mixing of gallium into the QD enhances both of these features while reducing the quadrupolar energy. Regarding the NMR spectra, both Faraday and Voigt geometries are investigated, unraveling in the first place the extend of inhomogeneous broadening and the appearance of the normally-forbidden transitions. Moreover, it is shown that from the main extend of the NMR spectra the alloy mole fraction of a single QD can be inferred. By means of the element-resolved NMR intensities it is found that In nuclei has a factor of five dominance over those of As. In the presence of an external magnetic field, the borderlines between the quadrupolar and Zeeman regimes are extracted as 1.5 T for In and 1.1 T for As nuclei. At these values the nuclear spin depolarization rates of the respective nuclei get maximized due to the noncollinear secular hyperfine interaction with a resident electron in the QD.

id: 1111.1520
title: Revisiting Zeno's paradox: Flying arrows for atom-diatom reactions
authors: C. Sanz-Sanz, A. S. Sanz, T. Gonzalez-Lezana, O. Roncero, S. Miret-Artes
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1520
abstract: The possibility to observe quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno scenarios for atom-diatom reactive collisions is investigated for two diferent processes (F+HD and H+O_2) by means of time-dependent wave packet propagations. A novel approach is proposed in which the survival probabilities investigated are those obtained when the initial state is redefined after time intervals tau at which measurements are performed on the system. The comparison with the actual probability for the unperturbed system reveals the existence of a regime in which the decay from the initial state appears to be inhibited (the quantum Zeno effect) or accelerated (the anti-Zeno effect). In contrast with preceding interpretations, given that the time-evolving wave packet is not affected at any time ("flying arrow"), the present procedure does not require to invoke to counterintuitive hindered evolutions ("stopping arrow") to explain the results. On the contrary the consecutive update of the reference state of the system solves the apparent modern version of Zeno's paradox.

id: 1111.1555
title: A scheme to protect against multiple quantum erasures
authors: Gilson O. dos Santos, Francisco M. de Assis
comments: 31 pages
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1555
abstract: We present a scheme able to protect k >= 3 qubits of information against the occurrence of multiple erasures, based on the code proposed by Yang et al. (2004 JETP Letters 79 236). In this scheme redundant blocks are used and we restrict to the case that each erasure must occur in distinct blocks. We explicitly characterize the encoding operation and the restoring operation required to implement this scheme. The operators used in these operations can be adjusted to construct different quantum erasure-correcting codes. A special feature of this scheme is that no measurement is required. To illustrate our scheme, we present an example in which five-qubits of information are protected against the occurrence of two erasures.

id: 1111.1583
title: Spinor particle. An indeterminacy in the motion of relativistic dynamical systems with separately fixed mass and spin
authors: ?ukasz Bratek
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure
journal: 2012 J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 343 012017
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1583
abstract: We give an argument that a broad class of geometric models of spinning relativistic particles with Casimir mass and spin being separately fixed parameters, have indeterminate worldline (while other spinning particles have definite worldline). This paradox suggests that for a consistent description of spinning particles something more general than a worldline concept should be used. As a particular case, we study at the Lagrangian level the Cauchy problem for a spinor particle and then, at the constrained Hamiltonian level, we generalize our result to other particles.

id: 1111.1584
title: Theory of ac-Stark splitting in core-resonant Auger decay under strong x-ray fields
authors: L. A. A. Nikolopoulos, T. J. Kelly, J. T. Costello
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1584
abstract: In this work we report the modification of the normal Auger line shape under the action of an intense x-ray radiation. Under strong Rabi-type coupling of the core, the Auger line profile develops into a doublet structure with an energy separation mainly determined by the relative strength of the Rabi coupling. In addition, we find that the charge resolved ion yields can be controlled by judicious choice of the x-ray frequency.

id: 1111.1646
title: Quantum coherent contributions in biological electron transfer
authors: Ross Dorner, John Goold, Libby Heaney, Tristan Farrow, Philippa G. Roberts, Judy Hirst, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1646
abstract: Many biological electron transfer (ET) reactions are mediated by metal centres in proteins. NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I) contains an intramolecular chain of seven iron-sulphur (FeS) clusters, one of the longest chains of metal centres in biology and a test case for physical models of intramolecular ET. In biology, intramolecular ET is commonly described as a diffusive hopping process, according to the semi-classical theories of Marcus and Hopfield. However, recent studies have raised the possibility that non-trivial quantum mechanical effects play a functioning role in certain biomolecular processes. Here, we extend the semi-classical model for biological ET to incorporate both semi-classical and coherent quantum phenomena using a quantum master equation based on the Holstein Hamiltonian. We test our model on the structurally-defined chain of FeS clusters in complex I. By exploring a wide range of realistic parameters we find that, when the energy profile for ET along the chain is relatively flat, just a small coherent contribution can provide a robust and significant increase in ET rate (above the semi-classical diffusive-hopping rate), even at physiologically-relevant temperatures. Conversely, when the on-site energies vary significantly along the chain the coherent contribution is negligible. For complex I, a crucial respiratory enzyme that is linked to many neuromuscular and degenerative diseases, our results suggest a new contribution towards ensuring that intramolecular ET does not limit the rate of catalysis. For the emerging field of quantum biology, our model is intended as a basis for elucidating the general role of coherent ET in biological ET reactions.

id: 1111.1694
title: Spin-Nematic Squeezed Vacuum in a Quantum Gas
authors: C. D. Hamley, C. S. Gerving, T. M. Hoang, E. M. Bookjans, M. S. Chapman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1694
abstract: Using squeezed states it is possible to surpass the standard quantum limit of measurement uncertainty by reducing the measurement uncertainty of one property at the expense of another complementary property. Squeezed states were first demonstrated in optical fields and later with ensembles of pseudo spin-1/2 atoms using non-linear atom-light interactions. Recently, collisional interactions in ultracold atomic gases have been used to generate a large degree of quadrature spin squeezing in two-component Bose condensates. For pseudo spin-1/2 systems, the complementary properties are the different components of the total spin vector <S>, which fully characterize the state on an SU(2) Bloch sphere. Here, we measure squeezing in a spin-1 Bose condensate, an SU(3) system, which requires measurement of the rank-2 nematic or quadrupole tensor <Q_ij> as well to fully characterize the state. Following a quench through a nematic to ferromagnetic quantum phase transition, squeezing is observed in the variance of the quadratures up to -8.3(-0.7 +0.6) dB (-10.3(-0.9 +0.7) dB corrected for detection noise) below the standard quantum limit. This spin-nematic squeezing is observed for negligible occupation of the squeezed modes and is analogous to optical two-mode vacuum squeezing. This work has potential applications to continuous variable quantum information and quantum-enhanced magnetometry.

id: 1111.1734
title: Failure of protection of Majorana based qubits against decoherence
authors: Jan Carl Budich, Stefan Walter, Bjoern Trauzettel
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 121405 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1734
abstract: Qubit realizations based on Majorana bound states have been considered promising candidates for quantum information processing which is inherently inert to decoherence. We put the underlying general arguments leading to this conjecture to the test from an open quantum system perspective. It turns out that, from a fundamental point of view, the Majorana qubit is as susceptible to decoherence as any local paradigm of a qubit.

id: 1111.1805
title: Repulsive and attractive Casimir interactions in liquids
authors: Anh D. Phan, N. A. Viet
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A (2011). arXiv admin note: minor text overlap with arXiv:1002.2603
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1805
abstract: The Casimir interactions in the solid-liquid-solid systems as a function of separation distance have been studied by the Lifshitz theory. The dielectric permittivity functions for a wide range of materials are described by Drude, Drude-Lorentz and oscillator models. We find that the Casimir forces between gold and silica or MgO materials are both the repulsive and attractive. We also find the stable forms for the systems. Our studies would provide a good guidance for the future experimental studies on the dispersion interactions.

id: 1111.1821
title: Hawking radiation as tunneling is non-Markovian: An information-theoretic solution to the paradox of black hole information loss
authors: Zeqian Chen
comments: 4 pages. Minor corrections
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1821
abstract: We present an information-theoretic solution to the paradox of black hole information loss.

id: 1111.1877
title: Complexified coherent states and quantum evolution with non-Hermitian Hamiltonians
authors: Eva-Maria Graefe, Roman Schubert
comments: 18 pages, small improvements made, similar to published version
journal: J. Phys. A 45 (2012) 244033
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1877
abstract: The complex geometry underlying the Schr\"odinger dynamics of coherent states for non-Hermitian Hamiltonians is investigated. In particular two seemingly contradictory approaches are compared: (i) a complex WKB formalism, for which the centres of coherent states naturally evolve along complex trajectories, which leads to a class of complexified coherent states; (ii) the investigation of the dynamical equations for the real expectation values of position and momentum, for which an Ehrenfest theorem has been derived in a previous paper, yielding real but non-Hamiltonian classical dynamics on phase space for the real centres of coherent states. Both approaches become exact for quadratic Hamiltonians. The apparent contradiction is resolved building on an observation by Huber, Heller and Littlejohn, that complexified coherent states are equivalent if their centres lie on a specific complex Lagrangian manifold. A rich underlying complex symplectic geometry is unravelled. In particular a natural complex structure is identified that defines a projection from complex to real phase space, mapping complexified coherent states to their real equivalents.

id: 1111.1960
title: Statistical properties of spontaneous emission near a rough surface
authors: Svend-Age Biehs, Jean-Jacques Greffet
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 052902 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1960
abstract: We study the lifetime of the excited state of an atom or molecule near a plane surface with a given random surface roughness. In particular, we discuss the impact of the scattering of surface modes within the rough surface. Our study is completed by considering the lateral correlation length of the decay rate and the variance discussing its relation to the C0 correlation.

id: 1111.2041
title: Analytic Results for a PT-symmetric Optical Structure
authors: H. F. Jones
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2041
abstract: Propagation of light through media with a complex refractive index in which gain and loss are engineered to be $PT$ symmetric has many remarkable features. In particular the usual unitarity relations are not satisfied, so that the reflection coefficients can be greater than one, and in general are not the same for left or right incidence. Within the class of optical potentials of the form $v(x)=v_1\cos(2\beta x)+iv_2\sin(2\beta x)$ the case $v_2=v_1$ is of particular interest, as it lies on the boundary of $PT$-symmetry breaking. It has been shown in a recent paper by Lin et al. that in this case one has the property of "unidirectional invisibility", while for propagation in the other direction there is a greatly enhanced reflection coefficient proportional to $L^2$, where $L$ is the length of the medium in the direction of propagation. For this potential we show how analytic expressions can be obtained for the various transmission and reflection coefficients, which are expressed in a very succinct form in terms of modified Bessel functions. While our numerical results agree very well with those of Lin et al. we find that the invisibility is not quite exact, in amplitude or phase. As a test of our formulas we show that they identically satisfy a modified version of unitarity appropriate for $PT$-symmetric potentials. We also examine how the enhanced transmission comes about for a wave-packet, as opposed to a plane wave, finding that the enhancement now arises through an increase, of $O(L)$, in the pulse length, rather than the amplitude.

id: 1111.2165
title: Discrete-time quantum walks: continuous limit and symmetries
authors: Giuseppe Di Molfetta, Fabrice Debbasch
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2165
abstract: The continuous limit of one dimensional discrete-time quantum walks with time- and space-dependent coefficients is investigated. A given quantum walk does not generally admit a continuous limit but some families (1-jets) of quantum walks do. All families (1-jets) admitting a continuous limit are identified. The continuous limit is described by a Dirac-like equation or, alternately, a couple of Klein-Gordon equations. Variational principles leading to these equations are also discussed, together with local invariance properties.

id: 1111.2167
title: Tuning the spin dynamics of kagome systems
authors: D. Wulferding, P. Lemmens, H. Yoshida, Y. Okamoto, Z. Hiroi
comments: 3 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2167
abstract: Despite the conceptional importance of realizing spin liquids in solid states only few compounds are known. On the other side the effect of lattice distortions and anisotropies on the magnetic exchange topology and the fluctuation spectrum are an interesting problem. We compare the excitation spectra of the two s=1/2 kagome lattice compounds volborthite and vesignieite using Raman scattering. We demonstrate that even small modifications of the crystal structure may have a huge effect on the phonon spectrum and low temperature properties.

id: 1111.2189
title: Decoherence and Ontology, or: How I Learned To Stop Worrying And Love FAPP
authors: David Wallace
comments: 20 pages; In S. Saunders. J. Barrett, A. Kent and D. Wallace (eds.), Many Worlds? Everett, Quantum Theory, and Reality (OUP, 2010)
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2189
abstract: I make the case that the Universe according to unitary (no-collapse) quantum theory has a branching structure, and so can literally be regarded as a "many-worlds" theory. These worlds are not part of the fundamental ontology of quantum theory - instead, they are to be understood as structures, or patterns, emergent from the underlying theory, through the dynamical process of decoherence. That they are structures in this sense does not mean that they are in any way unreal: indeed, pretty much all higher-level ontology in science, from tables to phonons to tigers, is likewise emergent. Unitary quantum theory is therefore a "many-worlds" theory without any modification of the mathematical structure of the theory: the Everett interpretation does not consist in adding worlds to the formalism, but in realising that they are there already. Our grounds for accepting the reality of those worlds is no more, but no less, than our grounds for accepting any other not-directly observable consequence of an empirically very successful theory.

id: 1111.2342
title: Quasi-particle Statistics and Braiding from Ground State Entanglement
authors: Yi Zhang, Tarun Grover, Ari Turner, Masaki Oshikawa, Ashvin Vishwanath
comments: revised for clarity; 17 pages, 9 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 235151 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2342
abstract: Topologically ordered phases are gapped states, defined by the properties of excitations when taken around one another. Here we demonstrate a method to extract the statistics and braiding of excitations, given just the set of ground-state wave functions on a torus. This is achieved by studying the Topological Entanglement Entropy (TEE) on partitioning the torus into two cylinders. In this setting, general considerations dictate that the TEE generally differs from that in trivial partitions and depends on the chosen ground state. Central to our scheme is the identification of ground states with minimum entanglement entropy, which reflect the quasi-particle excitations of the topological phase. The transformation of these states allows for a determination of the modular S and U matrices which encode quasi-particle properties. We demonstrate our method by extracting the modular S matrix of an SU(2) spin symmetric chiral spin liquid phase using a Monte Carlo scheme to calculate TEE, and prove that the quasi-particles obey semionic statistics. This method offers a route to a nearly complete determination of the topological order in certain cases.

id: 1111.2446
title: High-accuracy optical clock based on the octupole transition in 171Yb+
authors: N. Huntemann, M. Okhapkin, B. Lipphardt, S. Weyers, Chr. Tamm, E. Peik
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 090801 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2446
abstract: We experimentally investigate an optical frequency standard based on the 467 nm (642 THz) electric-octupole reference transition 2S1/2(F=0) -> F7/2(F=3) in a single trapped 171Yb+ ion. The extraordinary features of this transition result from the long natural lifetime and from the 4f136s2 configuration of the upper state. The electric quadrupole moment of the 2F7/2 state is measured as -0.041(5) e(a0)^2, where e is the elementary charge and a0 the Bohr radius. We also obtain information on the differential scalar and tensorial components of the static polarizability and of the probe light induced ac Stark shift of the octupole transition. With a real-time extrapolation scheme that eliminates this shift, the unperturbed transition frequency is realized with a fractional uncertainty of 7.1x10^(-17). The frequency is measured as 642 121 496 772 645.15(52) Hz.

id: 1111.2478
title: A note on the measures of process fidelity for non-unitary quantum operations
authors: Joydip Ghosh
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2478
abstract: Various fidelity measures can be defined between two quantum processes especially when at least one of them is non-unitary. In this paper we consider two such measures of state averaged process fidelity, put forward an efficient procedure to compute them and investigate their mathematical properties as well as their relationship.

id: 1111.2537
title: The Size of Compact Extra Dimensions from Blackbody Radiation Laws
authors: Ramaton Ramos, Henrique Boschi-Filho
comments: 5 RevTex pages. Results unchanged. Text improved. References updated. Version matches the published one in Physica A
journal: Physica A 393 (2014) 261
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2537
abstract: In this work we generalize the Stefan-Boltzmann and Wien's displacement laws for a $D$-dimensional manifold composed by 4 non-compact dimensions and $D-4$ compact dimensions, $ R^{1,3}$ x $T^{D-4} $. The electromagnetic field is assumed to pervade all compact and non-compact dimensions. In particular, the total radiated power becomes $ R(T) = \sigma_B T^4 + \sigma_D (a) \, T^D $, where $a$ is the size of the compact extra dimensions. For $D=10$, predicted from String Theory, and $D=11$, from M-Theory, the outcomes agree with available experimental data for $a$ as high as 2 x $10^{-7}$m.

id: 1111.2600
title: Dynamical Casimir-Polder Force between a Metallic Particle and a Perfectly Conducting Plate
authors: G. V. Dedkov, A. A. Kyasov
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: J. Comput. Theor. Nanoscience 10 (2013) 1
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2600
abstract: For the first time, we have studied the impact of magnetic polarizability of a neutral metallic particle on the dynamical Casimir-Polder force, when the particle is uniformly moving with relativistic velocity parallel to the surface of an ideally conducting plate. The material properties of particle are taken into account within the Drude model approach.

id: 1111.2644
title: Ground states of a mixture of two species of spin-1 Bose gases with interspecies spin exchange in a magnetic field
authors: Yu Shi, Li Ge
comments: 17 pages, initially submitted to Phys. Rev. A on September 15 2010, to appear in Int. J. Mod. Phys. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2644
abstract: We consider a mixture of two species of spin-1 atoms with both interspecies and intraspecies spin exchanges in a weak magnetic field. Under the usual single mode approximation, it can be reduced to a model of coupled giant spins. We find most of its ground states. This is a complicated problem of energy minimization, with three quantum variables under constraints, i.e. the total spin of each species and the total spin of the whole mixture, as well as four parameters, including intraspecies and interspecies spin coupling strengths and the magnetic field. The quantum phase diagram is very rich. Compared with the case without a magnetic field, the ground states are modified by a magnetic field, which also modifies the ground state boundaries or introduces new crossover regimes on the phase diagram. Without interspecies spin coupling, the quantum phase transitions existing in absence of a magnetic field disappear when a magnetic field is applied, which leads to crossover regimes in the phase diagram. Under ferromagnetic interspecies spin coupling, the ground states remain disentangled no matter whether there is a magnetic field. For antiferromagnetic interspecies spin coupling, a magnetic field entangles the ground states in some parameter regimes. When the intraspecies spin couplings are both ferromagnetic, the quantum phase transition between antiferromagnetic and zero interspecies spin couplings survives the magnetic field. When the intraspecies spin couplings are both antiferromagnetic, a magnetic field induces new quantum phase transitions between antiferromagnetic and zero interspecies spin couplings.

id: 1111.2704
title: Sheaf Logic, Quantum Set Theory and the Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics
authors: J. Benavides
comments: 34 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Logic (math.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2704
abstract: Based on the Sheaf Logic approach to set theoretic forcing, a hierarchy of Quantum Variable Sets is constructed which generalizes and simplifies the analogous construction developed by Takeuti on boolean valued models of set theory. Over this model two alternative proofs of Takeuti's correspondence, between self adjoint operators and the real numbers of the model, are given. This approach results to be more constructive showing a direct relation with the Gelfand representation theorem, revealing also the importance of these results with respect to the interpretation of Quantum Mechanics in close connection with the Deutsch-Everett multiversal interpretation. Finally, it is shown how in this context the notion of genericity and the corresponding generic model theorem can help to explain the emergence of classicality also in connection with the Deutsch- Everett perspective.

id: 1111.2767
title: Introduction to the Theory of Evolution Equations of Quantum Many-Particle Systems
authors: V.I. Gerasimenko
comments: 59 pages
journal: In: Statistical Mechanics and Random Walks: Principles, Processes and Applications. N.Y.: Nova Science Publ., Inc., pp. 233--288, 2012
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2767
abstract: In the paper we review some recent results of the theory of hierarchies of quantum evolution equations.

id: 1111.2810
title: Real-Space Entanglement Spectrum of Quantum Hall States
authors: A. Sterdyniak, A. Chandran, N. Regnault, B. A. Bernevig, Parsa Bonderson
comments: 13 pages, 11 figures; v2: minor corrections and formatting changes
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 125308 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2810
abstract: We investigate the entanglement spectra arising from sharp real-space partitions of the system for quantum Hall states. These partitions differ from the previously utilized orbital and particle partitions and reveal complementary aspects of the physics of these topologically ordered systems. We show, by constructing one to one maps to the particle partition entanglement spectra, that the counting of the real-space entanglement spectra levels for different particle number sectors versus their angular momentum along the spatial partition boundary is equal to the counting of states for the system with a number of (unpinned) bulk quasiholes excitations corresponding to the same particle and flux numbers. This proves that, for an ideal model state described by a conformal field theory, the real-space entanglement spectra level counting is bounded by the counting of the conformal field theory edge modes. This bound is known to be saturated in the thermodynamic limit (and at finite sizes for certain states). Numerically analyzing several ideal model states, we find that the real-space entanglement spectra indeed display the edge modes dispersion relations expected from their corresponding conformal field theories. We also numerically find that the real-space entanglement spectra of Coulomb interaction ground states exhibit a series of branches, which we relate to the model state and (above an entanglement gap) to its quasiparticle-quasihole excitations. We also numerically compute the entanglement entropy for the nu=1 integer quantum Hall state with real-space partitions and compare against the analytic prediction. We find that the entanglement entropy indeed scales linearly with the boundary length for large enough systems, but that the attainable system sizes are still too small to provide a reliable extraction of the sub-leading topological entanglement entropy term.

id: 1111.2811
title: Real-space entanglement spectrum of quantum Hall systems
authors: J. Dubail, N. Read, E. H. Rezayi
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. V2: a bit more on non-locality of OP. V3: typos corrected; as published
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 115321 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2811
abstract: We study the real-space entanglement spectrum for fractional quantum Hall systems, which maintains locality along the spatial cut, and provide evidence that it possesses a scaling property. We also consider the closely-related particle entanglement spectrum, and carry out the Schmidt decomposition of the Laughlin state analytically at large size.

id: 1111.2873
title: Bond order solid of two-dimensional dipolar fermions
authors: S. G. Bhongale, L. Mathey, Shan-Wen Tsai, Charles W. Clark, Erhai Zhao
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, supplementary material also included; to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett. (in press)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 145301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2873
abstract: Recent experimental realization of dipolar Fermi gases near or below quantum degeneracy provides opportunity to engineer Hubbard-like models with long range interactions. Motivated by these experiments, we chart out the theoretical phase diagram of interacting dipolar fermions on the square lattice at zero temperature and half filling. We show that in addition to p-wave superfluid and charge density wave order, two new and exotic types of bond order emerge generically in dipolar fermion systems. These phases feature homogeneous density but periodic modulations of the kinetic hopping energy between nearest or next-nearest neighbors. Similar, but manifestly different, phases of two-dimensional correlated electrons have previously only been hypothesized and termed "density waves of nonzero angular momentum". Our results suggest that these phases can be constructed flexibly with dipolar fermions, using currently available experimental techniques.

id: 1111.2907
title: "Probabilistic" approach to Richardson equations
authors: W. V. Pogosov
comments: 20 pages, 1 figure; final version, accepted for publication in Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter
journal: J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 24, 075701 (2012)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2907
abstract: It is known that solutions of Richardson equations can be represented as stationary points of the "energy" of classical free charges on the plane. We suggest to consider "probabilities" of the system of charges to occupy certain states in the configurational space at the effective temperature given by the interaction constant, which goes to zero in the thermodynamical limit. It is quite remarkable that the expression of "probability" has similarities with the square of Laughlin wave function. Next, we introduce the "partition function", from which the ground state energy of the initial quantum-mechanical system can be determined. The "partition function" is given by a multidimensional integral, which is similar to Selberg integrals appearing in conformal field theory and random-matrix models. As a first application of this approach, we consider a system with the constant density of energy states at arbitrary filling of the energy interval, where potential acts. In this case, the "partition function" is rather easily evaluated using properties of the Vandermonde matrix. Our approach thus yields quite simple and short way to find the ground state energy, which is shown to be described by a single expression all over from the dilute to the dense regime of pairs. It also provides additional insights into the physics of Cooper-paired states.

id: 1111.2915
title: Ultrafast all-optical switching by single photons
authors: Thomas Volz, Andreas Reinhard, Martin Winger, Antonio Badolato, Kevin J. Hennessy, Evelyn L. Hu, Atac Imamoglu
comments: 
journal: Nature Photonics 6, 605-609 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.2915
abstract: An outstanding goal in quantum optics is the realization of fast optical non-linearities at the single-photon level. Such non-linearities would allow for the realization of optical devices with new functionalities such as a single-photon switch/transistor or a controlled-phase gate, which could form the basis of future quantum optical technologies. While non-linear optics effects at the single-emitter level have been demonstrated in different systems, including atoms coupled to Fabry-Perot or toroidal micro-cavities, super-conducting qubits in strip-line resonators or quantum dots (QDs) in nano-cavities, none of these experiments so far has demonstrated single-photon switching on ultrafast timescales. Here, we demonstrate that in a strongly coupled QD-cavity system the presence of a single photon on one of the fundamental polariton transitions can turn on light scattering on a transition from the first to the second Jaynes-Cummings manifold with a switching time of 20 ps. As an additional device application, we use this non-linearity to implement a single-photon pulse-correlator. Our QD-cavity system could form the building-block of future high-bandwidth photonic networks operating in the quantum regime.

id: 1111.3007
title: Path Integral Approach to the Calculation of Reaction Rates for a Reaction Coordinate Coupled to a Dual Harmonic Bath
authors: Yonggang Yang, Oliver K¨¹hn
comments: ISTCP-VII proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3007
abstract: We present a new method for the numerical calculation of canonical reaction rate constants in complex molecular systems, which is based on a path integral formulation of the flux-flux correlation function. Central is the partitioning of the total system into a relevant part coupled to a dual bath. The latter consists of two parts: First, a set of strongly coupled harmonic modes, describing, for example, intramolecular degrees of freedom. They are treated on the basis of a reaction surface Hamiltonian approach. Second, a set of bath modes mimicking an unspecific environment modeled by means of a continuous spectral density. After deriving a set of general equations expressing the canonical rate constant in terms of appropriate influence functionals, several approximations are introduced to provide an efficient numerical implementation. Results for an initial application to the H-transfer in 6-Aminofulvene-1-aldimine are discussed.

id: 1111.3016
title: Entanglement dynamics of a superconducting phase qubit coupled to a two-level system
authors: Guozhu Sun, Zhongyuan Zhou, Bo Mao, Xueda Wen, Peiheng Wu, Siyuan Han
comments: 6 pages,4 figures
journal: PhysRevB.86.064502(2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3016
abstract: We report the observation and quantitative characterization of driven and spontaneous oscillations of quantum entanglement, as measured by concurrence, in a bipartite system consisting of a macroscopic Josephson phase qubit coupled to a microscopic two-level system. The data clearly show the behavior of entanglement dynamics such as sudden death and revival, and the effect of decoherence and ac driving on entanglement.

id: 1111.3039
title: Analytical Solution of Two-Dimensional Scarf II Model by Means of SUSY Methods
authors: M. V. Ioffe, E. V. Krupitskaya, D. N. Nishnianidze
comments: 18 pages; two misprints were improved
journal: Annals of Physics, 327 (2012) 764-773
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3039
abstract: New two-dimensional quantum model - the generalization of the Scarf II - is completely solved analytically for the integer values of parameter. This model being not amenable to conventional procedure of separation of variables is solved by recently proposed method of supersymmetrical separation. The latter is based on two constituents of SUSY Quantum Mechanics: the intertwining relations with second order supercharges and the property of shape invariance. As a result, all energies of bound states were found, and the analytical expressions for corresponding wave functions were obtained.

id: 1111.3124
title: A multiprecision matrix calculation library and its extension library for a matrix-product-state simulation of quantum computing
authors: Akira SaiToh
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, technical report (a software overview)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Software (cs.MS); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3124
abstract: A C++ library, named ZKCM, has been developed for the purpose of multiprecision matrix calculations, which is based on the GNU MP and MPFR libraries. It is especially convenient for writing programs involving tensor-product operations, tracing-out operations, and singular-value decompositions. Its extension library, ZKCM_QC, for simulating quantum computing has been developed using the time-dependent matrix-product-state simulation method. This report gives a brief introduction to the libraries with sample programs.

id: 1111.3125
title: Proving the power of postselection
authors: Abuzer Yakaryilmaz, A. C. Cem Say
comments: 26 pages. This is a heavily improved version of arXiv:1102.0666
journal: Fundamenta Informaticae, Vol. 123, No. 1, pp. 107-134, 2013
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3125
abstract: It is a widely believed, though unproven, conjecture that the capability of postselection increases the language recognition power of both probabilistic and quantum polynomial-time computers. It is also unknown whether polynomial-time quantum machines with postselection are more powerful than their probabilistic counterparts with the same resource restrictions. We approach these problems by imposing additional constraints on the resources to be used by the computer, and are able to prove for the first time that postselection does augment the computational power of both classical and quantum computers, and that quantum does outperform probabilistic in this context, under simultaneous time and space bounds in a certain range. We also look at postselected versions of space-bounded classes, as well as those corresponding to error-free and one-sided error recognition, and provide classical characterizations. It is shown that $\mathsf{NL}$ would equal $\mathsf{RL}$ if the randomized machines had the postselection capability.

id: 1111.3187
title: Wigner measures and the semi-classical limit to the Aubry-Mather measure
authors: Diogo A. Gomes, Artur O. Lopes, Joana Mohr
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3187
abstract: In this paper we investigate the asymptotic behavior of the semi-classical limit of Wigner measures defined on the tangent bundle of the one-dimensional torus. In particular we show the convergence of Wigner measures to the Mather measure on the tangent bundle, for energy levels above the minimum of the effective Hamiltonian. The Wigner measures $\mu_h$ we consider are associated to $\psi_h,$ a distinguished critical solution of the Evans' quantum action given by $\psi_h=a_h\,e^{i\frac{u_h}h}$, with $a_h(x)=e^{\frac{v^*_h(x)-v_h(x)}{2h}}$, $u_h(x)=P\cdot x+\frac{v^*_h(x)+v_h(x)}{2},$ and $v_h,v^*_h$ satisfying the equations -\frac{h\, \Delta v_h}{2}+ 1/2 \, | P + D v_h \,|^2 + V &= \bar{H}_h(P), \frac{h\, \Delta v_h^*}{2}+ 1/2 \, | P + D v_h^* \,|^2 + V &= \bar{H}_h(P), where the constant $\bar{H}_h(P)$ is the $h$ effective potential and $x$ is on the torus. L.\ C.\ Evans considered limit measures $|\psi_h|^2$ in $\mathbb{T}^n$, when $h\to 0$, for any $n\geq 1$. We consider the limit measures on the phase space $\mathbb{T}^n\times\mathbb{R}^n$, for $n=1$, and, in addition, we obtain rigorous asymptotic expansions for the functions $v_h$, and $v^*_h$, when $h\to 0$.

id: 1111.3275
title: Information storage capacity of discrete spin systems
authors: Beni Yoshida
comments: 35 pages, 12 figures
journal: Annals of Physics 338, 134 (2013)
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Cellular Automata and Lattice Gases (nlin.CG); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3275
abstract: Understanding the limits imposed on information storage capacity of physical systems is a problem of fundamental and practical importance which bridges physics and information science. There is a well-known upper bound on the amount of information that can be stored reliably in a given volume of discrete spin systems which are supported by gapped local Hamiltonians. However, all the previously known systems were far below this theoretical bound, and it remained open whether there exists a gapped spin system that saturates this bound. Here, we present a construction of spin systems which saturate this theoretical limit asymptotically by borrowing an idea from fractal properties arising in the Sierpinski triangle. Our construction provides not only the best classical error-correcting code which is physically realizable as the energy ground space of gapped frustration-free Hamiltonians, but also a new research avenue for correlated spin phases with fractal spin configurations.

id: 1111.3306
title: Inhomogeneous Boltzmann equations: distance, asymptotics and comparison of the classical and quantum cases
authors: Lev Sakhnovich
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1106.3254
journal: Physics Letters A 376:3031 (2012) 2073--2080
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3306
abstract: The notion of distance between a global Maxwellian function and an arbitrary solution $f$ (with the same total density $\rho$ at the fixed moment $t$) of Boltzmann equation is introduced. In this way we essentially generalize the important Kullback-Leibler distance, which was used before. Namely, we generalize it for the spatially inhomogeneous case. An extremal problem to find a solution of the Boltzmann equation, such that $\dist\{M,f\}$ is minimal in the class of solutions with the fixed values of energy and of $n$ moments, is solved. The cases of the classical and quantum (for Fermi and Bose particles) Boltzmann equations are studied and compared. The asymptotics and stability of solutions of the Boltzmann equations are also considered.

id: 1111.3319
title: de Broglie Deterministic Dice and emerging Relativistic Quantum Mechanics
authors: Donatello Dolce
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures, talk given at DICE2010 (Space-Time-Matter), minor corrections
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 306 012049 (2011)
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3319
abstract: Generalizing de Broglie's hypothesis, we show that the basic quantum behavior of ordinary field theory can be retrieved in a semi-classical and geometrical way from the assumption of intrinsic periodicity of elementary systems. The geometrodynamical description of interactions that arises in from this approach provides an intuitive interpretation of Maldacena's conjecture and it turns out to be of the same type of the one prescribed by general relativity.

id: 1111.3375
title: Quantum integrability in systems with finite number of levels
authors: Emil A. Yuzbashyan, B. Sriram Shastry
comments: 10 pages, 1 figure, journal version, new material added
journal: J. Stat. Phys. 150, 704 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3375
abstract: We consider the problem of defining quantum integrability in systems with finite number of energy levels starting from commuting matrices and construct new general classes of such matrix models with a given number of commuting partners. We argue that if the matrices depend on a (real) parameter, one can define quantum integrability from this feature alone, leading to specific results such as exact solvability, Poissonian energy level statistics and to level crossings.

id: 1111.3493
title: Proton radioactivity half lives with Skyrme interactions
authors: T. R. Routray, Abhishek Mishra, S. K. Tripathy, B. Behera, D. N. Basu
comments: 10 pages including 4 figures and 4 tables; Some typographical mistakes in text and in Eq.(8) are corrected
journal: Eur.Phys.J. A48 (2012) 77
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3493
abstract: The potential barrier impeding the spontaneous emission of protons in the proton radioactive nuclei is calculated as the sum of nuclear, Coulomb and centrifugal contributions. The nuclear part of the proton-nucleus interaction potential is obtained in the energy density formalism using Skyrme effective interaction that results into a simple algebraic expression. The half-lives of the proton emitters are calculated for the different Skyrme sets within the improved WKB framework. The results are found to be in reasonable agreement with the earlier results obtained for more complicated calculations involving finite range interactions.

id: 1111.3494
title: Glass to superfluid transition in dirty bosons on a lattice
authors: Julia Stasi¨½ska, Pietro Massignan, Michael Bishop, Jan Wehr, Anna Sanpera, Maciej Lewenstein
comments: Revised and corrected manuscript, new figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 043043 (2012)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3494
abstract: We investigate the interplay between disorder and interactions in a Bose gas on a lattice in presence of randomly localized impurities. We compare the performance of two theoretical methods, the simple version of multi-orbital Hartree-Fock and the common Gross-Pitaevskii approach, showing how the former gives a very good approximation to the ground state in the limit of weak interactions, where the superfluid fraction is small. We further prove rigorously that for this class of disorder the fractal dimension of the ground state d* tends to the physical dimension in the thermodynamic limit. This allows us to introduce a quantity, the fractional occupation, which gives insightful information on the crossover from a Lifshits to a Bose glass. Finally, we compare temperature and interaction effects, highlighting similarities and intrinsic differences.

id: 1111.3550
title: Cavity QED of the graphene cyclotron transition
authors: David Hagenm¨¹ller, Cristiano Ciuti
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3550
abstract: We investigate theoretically the cavity quantum electrodynamics of the cyclotron transition for Dirac fermions in graphene. We show that the ultrastrong coupling regime characterized by a vacuum Rabi frequency comparable or even larger than the transition frequency can be obtained for high enough filling factors of the graphene Landau levels. Important qualitative differences occur with respect to the corresponding physics of massive electrons in a semiconductor quantum well. In particular, an instability for the ground state analogous to the one occuring in the Dicke-model is predicted for increasing value of the electron density.

id: 1111.3552
title: On extreme Bosonic linear channels
authors: A. S. Holevo
comments: 11 pages; the proof extended to Bosonic linear (quasifree) channels; further typos corrected, references added
journal: Theor. Math. Phys. vol. 174:2 (2013) 288-297
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3552
abstract: The set of all channels with fixed input and output is convex. We first give a convenient formulation of necessary and sufficient condition for a channel to be extreme point of this set in terms of complementary channel, a notion of big importance in quantum information theory. This formulation is based on the general approach to extremality of completely positive maps in an operator algebra due to Arveson. We then apply this formulation to prove the main result of this note: under certain nondegeneracy conditions, purity of the environment is necessary and sufficient for extremality of Bosonic linear (quasi-free) channel. It follows that Gaussian channel between finite-mode Bosonic systems is extreme if and only if it has minimal noise.

id: 1111.3554
title: Quantum criticality of a one-dimensional Bose-Fermi mixture
authors: Xiangguo Yin, Xi-Wen Guan, Yunbo Zhang, Shu Chen
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013608 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3554
abstract: The one-dimensional interacting Bose-Fermi mixtures, exhibiting quantum phase transitions at zero temperature, are particularly valuable for the study of quantum critical phenomena. In the present paper, we analytically study quantum phase diagram, equation of state and quantum criticality of the Bose-Fermi mixture using the thermodynamic Bethe ansatz equations. We show that thermodynamical properties display universal scaling behaviour at quantum criticality. Furthermore, quantum criticality of the Bose-Fermi mixture in an harmonic trap is also studied within the local density approximation. We thus demonstrate that the phase diagram and critical properties of the bulk system provide insights into understanding universal features of many-body critical phenomena.

id: 1111.3612
title: Theory of the Casimir effect for graphene at finite temperature
authors: Valery N. Marachevsky
comments: 13 pages, based on a talk at QFEXT-11
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3612
abstract: Theory of the Casimir effect for a flat graphene layer interacting with a parallel flat material is presented in detail. The high-temperature asymptotics of a free energy in a graphene-metal system coincides with a Drude high-temperature asymptotics of the metal-metal system. High-temperature behavior in the graphene-metal system is expected at separations of the order of 100 nm at temperature T=300K.

id: 1111.3627
title: Correlated interaction fluctuations in photosynthetic complexes
authors: Sebastiaan M. Vlaming, Robert J. Silbey
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3627
abstract: The functioning and efficiency of natural photosynthetic complexes is strongly influenced by their embedding in a noisy protein environment, which can even serve to enhance the transport efficiency. Interactions with the environment induce fluctuations of the transition energies of and interactions between the chlorophyll molecules, and due to the fact that different fluctuations will partially be caused by the same environmental factors, correlations between the various fluctuations will occur. We argue that fluctuations of the interactions should in general not be neglected, as these have a considerable impact on population transfer rates, decoherence rates and the efficiency of photosynthetic complexes. Furthermore, while correlations between transition energy fluctuations have been studied, we provide the first quantitative study of the effect of correlations between interaction fluctuations and transition energy fluctuations, and of correlations between the various interaction fluctuations. It is shown that these additional correlations typically lead to changes in interchromophore transfer rates, population oscillations and can lead to a limited enhancement of the light harvesting efficiency.

id: 1111.3634
title: Evaluation of ranks of real space and particle entanglement spectra for large systems
authors: Ivan D. Rodriguez, Steven H. Simon, J. K. Slingerland
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; minor changes; New version includes the Real Space ES of Jain states; accepted for publication in Phys.Rev.Lett
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3634
abstract: We devise a way to calculate the dimensions of symmetry sectors appearing in the Particle Entanglement Spectrum (PES) and Real Space Entanglement Spectrum (RSES) of multi-particle systems from their real space wave functions. We first note that these ranks in the entanglement spectra equal the dimensions of spaces of wave functions with a number of particles fixed. This also yields equality of the multiplicities in the PES and the RSES. Our technique allows numerical calculations for much larger systems than were previously feasible. For somewhat smaller systems, we can find approximate entanglement energies as well as multiplicities. We illustrate the method with results on the RSES and PES multiplicities for integer quantum Hall states, Laughlin and Jain composite fermion states and for the Moore-Read state at filling $\nu=5/2$, for system sizes up to 70 particles.

id: 1111.3683
title: Energy-band engineering for improved charge retention in fully self-aligned double floating-gate single-electron memories
authors: Xiaohui Tang, Christophe Krzeminski, Aur¨¦lien Lecavelier des Etangs-Levallois, Zhenkun Chen, Emmanuel Dubois, Erich Kasper, Alim Karmous, Nicolas Reckinger, Denis Flandre, Laurent A. Francis, Jean-Pierre Colinge, Jean-Pierre Raskin
comments: 
journal: Nano Lett., 2011, 11 (11), pp 4520--4526
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3683
abstract: We present a new fully self-aligned single-electron memory with a single pair of nano floating gates, made of different materials (Si and Ge). The energy barrier that prevents stored charge leakage is induced not only by quantum effects but also by the conduction-band offset that arises between Ge and Si. The dimension and position of each floating gate are well defined and controlled. The devices exhibit a long retention time and single-electron injection at room temperature.

id: 1111.3685
title: Analysing surface structures on (Ga,Mn)As by Atomic Force Microscopy
authors: S. Piano, A. W. Rushforth, K. W. Edmonds, R. P. Campion, G. Adesso, B. L. Gallagher
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, 2 tables. To appear in J. Nanosci. Nanotechnol. (special issue for the RTNSA conference 2011)
journal: Journal of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology, Volume 12, Number 9, September 2012 , pp. 7545-7549(5)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3685
abstract: Using atomic force microscopy, we have studied the surface structures of high quality molecular beam epitaxy grown (Ga,Mn)As compound. Several samples with different thickness and Mn concentration, as well as a few (Ga,Mn)(As,P) samples have been investigated. All these samples have shown the presence of periodic ripples aligned along the $[1\bar{1}0]$ direction. From a detailed Fourier analysis we have estimated the period (~50 nm) and the amplitude of these structures.

id: 1111.3776
title: Supersymmetric twisting of carbon nanotubes
authors: Vit Jakubsky, Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures; analysis extended, fig.5 added. Typos corrected, references added
journal: Phys. Rev. D85, 045035 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3776
abstract: We construct exactly solvable models of twisted carbon nanotubes via supersymmetry, by applying the matrix Darboux transformation. We derive the Green's function for these systems and compute the local density of states. Explicit examples of twisted carbon nanotubes are produced, where the back-scattering is suppressed and bound states are present. We find that the local density of states decreases in the regions where the bound states are localized. Dependence of bound-state energies on the asymptotic twist of the nanotubes is determined. We also show that each of the constructed unextended first order matrix systems possesses a proper nonlinear hidden supersymmetric structure with a nontrivial grading operator.

id: 1111.3830
title: Thermodyamic bounds on Drude weights in terms of almost-conserved quantities
authors: Enej Ilievski, Tomaz Prosen
comments: version as accepted by Communications in Mathematical Physics (22 pages with 2 pdf-figures)
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 318, 809-830 (2013)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3830
abstract: We consider one-dimensional translationally invariant quantum spin (or fermionic) lattices and prove a Mazur-type inequality bounding the time-averaged thermodynamic limit of a finite-temperature expectation of a spatio-temporal autocorrelation function of a local observable in terms of quasi-local conservation laws with open boundary conditions. Namely, the commutator between the Hamiltonian and the conservation law of a finite chain may result in boundary terms only. No reference to techniques used in Suzuki's proof of Mazur bound is made (which strictly applies only to finite-size systems with exact conservation laws), but Lieb-Robinson bounds and exponential clustering theorems of quasi-local C^* quantum spin algebras are invoked instead. Our result has an important application in the transport theory of quantum spin chains, in particular it provides rigorous non-trivial examples of positive finite-temperature spin Drude weight in the anisotropic Heisenberg XXZ spin 1/2 chain [Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 217206 (2011)].

id: 1111.3898
title: Wigner-PDC description of photon entanglement as a local-realistic theory
authors: David Rodriguez
comments: Revision, proofs enhanced for more stringent conditions; arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1112.3531 and arXiv:1111.5746
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3898
abstract: Regardless of past proposals (already disproved in experimental work by Brida et al), the Wigner picture of Parametric Down Conversion (works by Casado et al) can be interpreted as a local-realistic formalism, without the need to depart from quantum mechanical predictions at any step, at least for the relevant subset of QED-states. This involves reinterpreting the expressions for the detection probabilities, by means of an additional mathematical manipulation; though such manipulation seemingly provides enough freedom to guarantee consistency with the expectable, experimentally testable behavior of detectors, this is, in any case, irrelevant in relation to our main result, of a purely mathematical nature. Besides, the Wigner-PDC approach opens clear room to explain the elusive nature of a loop-hole free proof of the incompatibility of nature with that local-realism, without the need to assume hypothetical technological inefficiencies yet to overcome after several decades of experimental work. In relation to this, we also address the consequences of this framework in relation to: (i) typical Bell experiments; (ii) perhaps the most relevant recent related test (Phys.Rev.Lett. 108, 2012). Additionally, we also propose an extremely simple interpretation on that apparently awkward "subtraction" of the average ZPF intensity at the Wigner image of the detection process.

id: 1111.3940
title: Integrable Quantum Computation
authors: Yong Zhang
comments: Latex, 9 pages
journal: Quantum Inf Process (2013) 12:631-639
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3940
abstract: Integrable quantum computation is defined as quantum computing via the integrable condition, in which two-qubit gates are either nontrivial unitary solutions of the Yang--Baxter equation or the Swap gate (permutation). To make the definition clear, in this article, we explore the physics underlying the quantum circuit model, and then present a unified description on both quantum computing via the Bethe ansatz and quantum computing via the Yang--Baxter equation.

id: 1111.3949
title: Quantum phase transitions in the Kane-Mele-Hubbard model
authors: M. Hohenadler, Z. Y. Meng, T. C. Lang, S. Wessel, A. Muramatsu, F. F. Assaad
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures; final version; new Figs. 4(b) and 8(b)
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 115132 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.3949
abstract: We study the two-dimensional Kane-Mele-Hubbard model at half filling by means of quantum Monte Carlo simulations. We present a refined phase boundary for the quantum spin liquid. The topological insulator at finite Hubbard interaction strength is adiabatically connected to the groundstate of the Kane-Mele model. In the presence of spin-orbit coupling, magnetic order at large Hubbard U is restricted to the transverse direction. The transition from the topological band insulator to the antiferromagnetic Mott insulator is in the universality class of the three-dimensional XY model. The numerical data suggest that the spin liquid to topological insulator and spin liquid to Mott insulator transitions are both continuous.

id: 1111.4012
title: Versatile Wideband Balanced Detector for Quantum Optical Homodyne Tomography
authors: Ranjeet Kumar, Erick Barrios, Andrew MacRae, E. Cairns, E. H. Huntington, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures, 1 table
journal: Optics Communications 285, 5259 - 5267 (2012)
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4012
abstract: We present a comprehensive theory and an easy to follow method for the design and construction of a wideband homodyne detector for time-domain quantum measurements. We show how one can evaluate the performance of a detector in a specific time-domain experiment based on electronic spectral characteristic of that detector. We then present and characterize a high-performance detector constructed using inexpensive, commercially available components such as low-noise high-speed operational amplifiers and high-bandwidth photodiodes. Our detector shows linear behavior up to a level of over 13 dB clearance between shot noise and electronic noise, in the range from DC to 100 MHz. The detector can be used for measuring quantum optical field quadratures both in the continuous-wave and pulsed regimes with pulse repetition rates up to about 250 MHz.

id: 1111.4062
title: Angular distributions of secondary electrons in fast particle-atom scattering
authors: M. Ya. Amusia, L. V. Chernysheva, E. Z. Liverts
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1012.5465 and arXiv:1108.1013
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4062
abstract: We present the angular distribution of electrons knocked out from an atom in a fast charge particle collision at small momentum transfer. It is determined not only by dipole but also by quadrupole transitions, the contribution of which can be considerably enhanced as compared to the case of photoionization. There the non-dipole parameters are suppressed as compared to the dipole ones by the parameter \omega R/c << 1, where is the photon energy, R is the ionized shell radius and c is the speed of light. This suppression in fast electron-atom collisions can be considerably reduced: the corresponding expansion parameter \omega R/ \nu << 1 is much bigger than in photoionization, since the speed of the incoming electron is much smaller than c. In formation of the angular distribution it is decisively important that the ionizing field in collision process is longitudinal, while in photoionization - it is transversal. We illustrate the general formulas by concrete results for outer s-, p-, and some nd-subshells of multi-electron noble gas atoms Ar, Kr and Xe, at several transferred momentum values: q=0.0, 0.1, 1.1, 2.1. Even for very small transferred momentum q, i.e. in the so-called optical limit, the deviations from the photoionization case are prominent.

id: 1111.4064
title: Characterization of Zero-point Vibration in One-Component Crystals
authors: Yong Yang, Yoshiyuki Kawazoe
comments: 18 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4064
abstract: We study the magnitude of zero-point vibration in one-component crystals. For the crystals whose constituent atoms share the same bonding geometry, we prove the existence of a characteristic temperature, T0, at which the magnitude of zero-point vibrations equals to that of the excited vibrations. Within the Debye model T0 is found to be ~1/3 of the Debye temperature. The results are demonstrated in realistic systems.

id: 1111.4092
title: Detection probability "enhancement" and "unfair sampling" in Bell inequalities
authors: David Rodr¨ªguez
comments: minor revision/reorg.: everything still applies just the same. 28 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4092
abstract: On one side, so far a great part of the evidence accepted as proof of the alleged quantum non-locality relied on inhomogeneous Bell inequalities involving an additional assumption (no-enhancement) whose role had not been sufficiently examined (in contrast to homogeneous inequalities, where the role of low detection rates is well acknowledged). A first contribution of this paper is to provide explicit examples of how a model of hidden local variables (LHV) defying no-enhancement is able to produce a violation of an inhomogeneous inequality, a possibility that so far was pointed out only in qualitative terms. On the other hand, recent tests have attempted to overcome this reliance on supplementary assumptions, but still give rise to doubt, due to: (i) violations are extremely low, which points to some systematical error (the fact that alleged random errors of the detectors seem to conspire to interfere exactly at such narrow strip around the frontier with local-realism and not a different part of the spectrum that QM would theoretically produce can hardly be considered just coincidence); (ii) the correspondence between the observations and one or another quantum state is not clear either, as recent models cannot be really validated against the available data (they have equal or more parameters than restrictions). Following (ii), it would be convenient to verify a more significant set of quantum predictions, instead of just the few counting rates involved in a particular Bell inequality. Finally, another type of "no-go" tests (an instance of which we examine here) also present subtleties which call for serious examination.

id: 1111.4096
title: "Commutator formalism" for pairs correlated through Schmidt decomposition as used in Quantum Information
authors: Monique Combescot
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4096
abstract: To easily calculate statistical properties of pairs correlated through Schmidt decomposition, as commonly used in Quantum Information, we propose a "commutator formalism" for these single-index pairs, somewhat simpler than the one we developed for double-index Wannier excitons. We use it here to get the pair number threshold for bosonic behavior of $N$ pairs through the requirement that their number operator mean value must stay close to $N$. While the main term of this mean value is controlled by the second moment of the Schmidt distribution, so that to increase this threshold, we must increase the Schmidt number, higher momenta appearing at higher orders lead to choosing a distribution as flat as possible.

id: 1111.4105
title: Characterizing the Depolarizing Quantum Channel in Terms of Riemannian Geometry
authors: Carlo Cafaro, Stefano Mancini
comments: 7 pages, 0 figures; Accepted contribution to "Folding and Unfolding: Interactions from Geometry", Workshop in honour of Giuseppe Marmo's 65th birthday; 8-12 June 2011, Ischia (ITALY)
journal: International Journal of Geometric Methods in Modern Physics, Volume 9, Issue 2, 1260020 (10 pages) (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4105
abstract: We explore the conceptual usefulness of Riemannian geometric tools induced by the statistical concept of distinguishability in quantifying the effect of a depolarizing channel on quantum states. Specifically, we compare the geometries of the interior of undeformed and deformed Bloch spheres related to density operators on a two-dimensional Hilbert space. We show that randomization emerges geometrically through a smaller infinitesimal quantum line element on the deformed Bloch sphere while the uniform contraction manifests itself via a deformed set of geodesics where the spacial components of the deformed four-Bloch vector are simply the contracted versions of the undeformed Bloch vector components.

id: 1111.4115
title: Quantum field theory from classical statistics
authors: C.Wetterich
comments: 25 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1102.3586
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4115
abstract: An Ising-type classical statistical model is shown to describe quantum fermions. For a suitable time-evolution law for the probability distribution of the Ising-spins our model describes a quantum field theory for Dirac spinors in external electromagnetic fields, corresponding to a mean field approximation to quantum electrodynamics. All quantum features for the motion of an arbitrary number of electrons and positrons, including the characteristic interference effects for two-fermion states, are described by the classical statistical model. For one-particle states in the non-relativistic approximation we derive the Schr\"odinger equation for a particle in a potential from the time evolution law for the probability distribution of the Ising-spins. Thus all characteristic quantum features, as interference in a double slit experiment, tunneling or discrete energy levels for stationary states, are derived from a classical statistical ensemble. Concerning the particle-wave-duality of quantum mechanics, the discreteness of particles is traced back to the discreteness of occupation numbers or Ising-spins, while the continuity of the wave function reflects the continuity of the probability distribution for the Ising-spins.

id: 1111.4128
title: Quantum entanglement in the multiverse
authors: Salvador Robles-Perez, Pedro F. Gonzalez-Diaz
comments: 18 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4128
abstract: In this paper it is shown that the quantum state of a multiverse made up of classically disconnected regions of the space-time, whose dynamical evolution is dominated by a homogeneous and isotropic fluid, is given by a squeezed state. These are typical quantum states that have no classical counterpart and, therefore, they allow us to analyze the violation of classical inequalities as well as the EPR argument in the context of the quantum multiverse. The thermodynamical properties of entanglement are calculated for a composite quantum state of two universes whose states are quantum mechanically correlated. The energy of entanglement between the positive and negative modes of a scalar field, which correspond to the expanding and contracting branches of a phantom universe, respectively, are also computed.

id: 1111.4178
title: Analysis of a distributed fiber-optic temperature sensor using single-photon detectors
authors: Shellee D. Dyer, Michael G. Tanner, Burm Baek, Robert H. Hadfield, Sae Woo Nam
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4178
abstract: We demonstrate a high-accuracy distributed fiber-optic temperature sensor using superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors and single-photon counting techniques. Our demonstration uses inexpensive single-mode fiber at standard telecommunications wavelengths as the sensing fiber, which enables extremely low-loss experiments and compatibility with existing fiber networks. We show that the uncertainty of the temperature measurement decreases with longer integration periods, but is ultimately limited by the calibration uncertainty. Temperature uncertainty on the order of 3 K is possible with spatial resolution of the order of 1 cm and integration period as small as 60 seconds. Also, we show that the measurement is subject to systematic uncertainties, such as polarization fading, which can be reduced with a polarization diversity receiver.

id: 1111.4224
title: Casimir-Polder repulsion: Polarizable atoms, cylinders, spheres, and ellipsoids
authors: Kimball A. Milton, Prachi Parashar, Nima Pourtolami, Iver Brevik
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures; new version has added references, some additional discussion, and slight corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. D 85, 025008 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4224
abstract: Recently, the topic of Casimir repulsion has received a great deal of attention, largely because of the possibility of technological application. The general subject has a long history, going back to the self-repulsion of a conducting spherical shell and the repulsion between a perfect electric conductor and a perfect magnetic conductor. Recently it has been observed that repulsion can be achieved between ordinary conducting bodies, provided sufficient anisotropy is present. For example, an anisotropic polarizable atom can be repelled near an aperture in a conducting plate. Here we provide new examples of this effect, including the repulsion on such an atom moving on a trajectory nonintersecting a conducting cylinder; in contrast, such repulsion does not occur outside a sphere. Classically, repulsion does occur between a conducting ellipsoid placed in a uniform electric field and an electric dipole. The Casimir-Polder force between an anisotropic atom and an anisotropic dielectric semispace does not exhibit repulsion. The general systematics of repulsion are becoming clear.

id: 1111.4280
title: Dise?o de una Arquitectura para la Solucion de la Ecuacion de Schroedinger usando el Metodo de Numerov
authors: Victor A. Rodriguez-Toro, Fabio Noguera-Leon, Jaime Velasco-Medina
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Numerical Analysis (cs.NA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4280
abstract: This paper presents a first approach in order to design an optimal architecture to implement the Numerov method, which solves the time-independent Schroedinger equation (TISE) for one dimension. The design and simulation have been performed by using 64-bits floating-point megafunctions available in Quartus II (Version 9.0). The verification of these results was done by using Matlab. According to these results, it is possible to extend this design to parallel structures, which would be able to calculate several TISE solutions.

id: 1111.4363
title: An efficient parallel method for relaxing to the minimum action wavefunction
authors: Zachary B. Walters
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4363
abstract: Efficient and accurate numerical propagation of the time dependent Schroedinger equation is a problem with applications across a wide range of physics. This paper develops an efficient, trivially parallelizeable method for relaxing a trial wavefunction toward a variationally optimum propagated wavefunction which minimizes the propagation error relative to a platonic wavefunction which obeys the time dependent Schroedinger equation exactly. This method is shown to be well suited for incorporation with multigrid methods, yielding rapid convergence to a minimum action solution even for Hamiltonians which are not positive definite.

id: 1111.4365
title: Effect of a gap on the decoherence of a qubit
authors: Juliana Restrepo, R. Chitra, S. Camalet, Emilie Dupont
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 245109 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4365
abstract: We revisit the problem of the decoherence and relaxation of a central spin coupled to a bath of conduction electrons. We consider both metallic and semiconducting baths to study the effect of a gap in the bath density of states (DOS) on the time evolution of the density matrix of the central spin. We use two weak coupling approximation schemes to study the decoherence. At low temperatures, though the temperature dependence of the decoherence rate in the case of a metallic bath is the same irrespective of the details of the bath, the same is not true for the semiconducting bath. We also calculate the relaxation and decoherence rates as a function of external magnetic fields applied both on the central spin and the bath. We find that in the presence of the gap, there exists a certain regime of fields, for which surprisingly, the metallic bath has lower rates of relaxation and decoherence than the semiconducting bath.

id: 1111.4382
title: Quantum Fourier sampling, Code Equivalence, and the quantum security of the McEliece and Sidelnikov cryptosystems
authors: Hang Dinh, Cristopher Moore, Alexander Russell
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4382
abstract: The Code Equivalence problem is that of determining whether two given linear codes are equivalent to each other up to a permutation of the coordinates. This problem has a direct reduction to a nonabelian hidden subgroup problem (HSP), suggesting a possible quantum algorithm analogous to Shor's algorithms for factoring or discrete log. However, we recently showed that in many cases of interest---including Goppa codes---solving this case of the HSP requires rich, entangled measurements. Thus, solving these cases of Code Equivalence via Fourier sampling appears to be out of reach of current families of quantum algorithms. Code equivalence is directly related to the security of McEliece-type cryptosystems in the case where the private code is known to the adversary. However, for many codes the support splitting algorithm of Sendrier provides a classical attack in this case. We revisit the claims of our previous article in the light of these classical attacks, and discuss the particular case of the Sidelnikov cryptosystem, which is based on Reed-Muller codes.

id: 1111.4394
title: Tight-binding analysis of the electronic structure of dilute bismide alloys of GaP and GaAs
authors: Muhammad Usman, Christopher A. Broderick, Andrew Lindsay, Eoin P. O'Reilly
comments: 14 Pages, 13 Figures, Accepted for publication in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 245202 (2011)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4394
abstract: We develop an atomistic, nearest-neighbor sp3s* tight-binding Hamiltonian to investigate the electronic structure of dilute bismide alloys of GaP and GaAs. Using this model we calculate that the incorporation of dilute concentrations of Bi in GaP introduces Bi-related defect states in the band gap, which interact with the host matrix valence band edge via a Bi composition dependent band anti-crossing (BAC) interaction. By extending this analysis to GaBiAs we demonstrate that the observed strong variation of the band gap Eg and spin-orbit-splitting (SO) energy with Bi composition can be well explained in terms of a BAC interaction between the extended states of the GaAs valence band edge and highly localized Bi-related defect states lying in the valence band, with the change in Eg also having a significant contribution from a conventional alloy reduction in the conduction band edge energy. Our calculated values of Eg and SO are in good agreement with experiment throughout the investigated composition range x less than 13%. In particular, our calculations reproduce the experimentally observed crossover to an Eg < SO regime at approximately 10.5% Bi composition in bulk GaBiAs. Recent x-ray spectroscopy measurements have indicated the presence of Bi pairs and clusters even for Bi compositions as low as 2%. We include a systematic study of different Bi nearest-neighbor environments in the alloy to achieve a quantitative understanding of the effect of Bi pairing and clustering on the GaBiAs electronic structure.

id: 1111.4449
title: Transmutations for Darboux transformed operators with applications
authors: Vladislav V. Kravchenko, Sergii M. Torba
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012), 075201 (21pp)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4449
abstract: We solve the following problem. Given a continuous complex-valued potential q_1 defined on a segment [-a,a] and let q_2 be the potential of a Darboux transformed Schr\"odinger operator. Suppose a transmutation operator T_1 for the potential q_1 is known such that the corresponding Schr\"odinger operator is transmuted into the operator of second derivative. Find an analogous transmutation operator T_2 for the potential q_2. It is well known that the transmutation operators can be realized in the form of Volterra integral operators with continuously differentiable kernels. Given a kernel K_1 of the transmutation operator T_1 we find the kernel K_2 of T_2 in a closed form in terms of K_1. As a corollary interesting commutation relations between T_1 and T_2 are obtained which then are used in order to construct the transmutation operator for the one-dimensional Dirac system with a scalar potential.

id: 1111.4453
title: Work extraction from microcanonical bath
authors: Armen E. Allahverdyan, Karen V. Hovhannisyan
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: EPL 95, 60004 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4453
abstract: We determine the maximal work extractable via a cyclic Hamiltonian process from a positive-temperature ($T>0$) microcanonical state of a $N\gg 1$ spin bath. The work is much smaller than the total energy of the bath, but can be still much larger than the energy of a single bath spin, e.g. it can scale as ${\cal O}(\sqrt{N\ln N})$. Qualitatively same results are obtained for those cases, where the canonical state is unstable (e.g., due to a negative specific heat) and the microcanonical state is the only description of equilibrium. For a system coupled to a microcanonical bath the concept of free energy does {\it not generally} apply, since such a system|starting from the canonical equilibrium density matrix $\rho_T$ at the bath temperature $T$|can enhance the work extracted from the microcanonical bath without changing its state $\rho_T$. This is impossible for any system coupled to a canonical thermal bath due to the relation between the maximal work and free energy. But the concept of free energy still applies for a sufficiently large $T$. Here we find a compact expression for the {\it microcanonical free-energy} and show that in contrast to the canonical case it contains a {\it linear entropy} instead of the von Neumann entropy.

id: 1111.4513
title: Quantum and classical correlations in antiferromagnetic chains and the realization of Werner states with spins
authors: P. R. Wells Jr., Belita Koiller
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4513
abstract: We investigate pairwise correlation properties of the ground state (GS) of finite antiferromagnetic (AFM) spin chains described by the Heisenberg model. The exchange coupling is restricted to nearest neighbor spins, and is constant $J_0$ except for a pair of neighboring sites, where the coupling $J_1$ may vary. We identify a rich variety of possible behaviors for different measures of pairwise (quantum and classical) correlations and entanglement in the GS of such spin chain. Varying a single coupling affects the degree of correlation between all spin pairs, indicating possible control over such correlations by tuning $J_1$. We also show that a class of two spin states constitutes exact spin realizations of Werner states (WS). Apart from the basic and theoretical aspects, this opens concrete alternatives for experimentally probing non-classical correlations in condensed matter systems, as well as for experimental realizations of a WS via a single tunable exchange coupling in a AFM chain.

id: 1111.4602
title: A chip-scale integrated cavity-electro-optomechanics platform
authors: Martin Winger, Tim Blasius, Thiago P. Mayer Alegre, Amir H. Safavi-Naeini, Se¨¢n Meenehan, Justin Cohen, S?ren Stobbe, Oskar Painter
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Optics Express 19, 24905-24921 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4602
abstract: We present an integrated optomechanical and electromechanical nanocavity, in which a common mechanical degree of freedom is coupled to an ultrahigh-Q photonic crystal defect cavity and an electrical circuit. The sys- tem allows for wide-range, fast electrical tuning of the optical nanocavity resonances, and for electrical control of optical radiation pressure back-action effects such as mechanical amplification (phonon lasing), cooling, and stiffening. These sort of integrated devices offer a new means to efficiently interconvert weak microwave and optical signals, and are expected to pave the way for a new class of micro-sensors utilizing optomechanical back-action for thermal noise reduction and low-noise optical read-out.

id: 1111.4633
title: Confined p-band Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Fernanda Pinheiro, Jani-Petri Martikainen, Jonas Larson
comments: 13 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 033638 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4633
abstract: We study bosonic atoms on the p-band of a two dimensional optical square lattice in the presence of a confining trapping potential. Using a mean-field approach, we show how the anisotropic tunneling for p-band particles affects the cloud of condensed atoms by characterizing the ground state density and the coherence properties of the atomic states both between sites and atomic flavors. In contrast to the usual results based on the local density approximation, the atomic density can become anisotropic. This anisotropic effect is especially pronounced in the limit of weak atom-atom interactions and of weak lattice amplitudes, i.e. when the properties of the ground state are mainly driven by the kinetic energies. We also investigate how the trap influences known properties of the non-trapped case. In particular, we focus on the behavior of the anti-ferromagnetic vortex-antivortex order, which for the confined system, is shown to disappear at the edges of the condensed cloud.

id: 1111.4778
title: Tunable Spin-orbit Coupling and Quantum Phase Transition in a Trapped Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: Yongping Zhang, Gang Chen, Chuanwei Zhang
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Scientific Reports 3, 1937 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4778
abstract: Spin-orbit coupling (SOC), the intrinsic interaction between a particle spin and its motion, is responsible for various important phenomena, ranging from atomic fine structure to topological condensed matter physics. The recent experimental breakthrough on the realization of SOC for ultra-cold atoms provides a completely new platform for exploring spin-orbit coupled superfluid physics. However, the SOC strength in the experiment, determined by the applied laser wavelengths, is not tunable. In this Letter, we propose a scheme for tuning the SOC strength through a fast and coherent modulation of the laser intensities. We show that the many-body interaction between atoms, together with the tunable SOC, can drive a \textit{quantum phase transition} (QPT) from spin-balanced to spin-polarized ground states in a harmonic trapped Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC). This transition realizes the long-sought QPT in the quantum Dicke model, and may have important applications in quantum optics and quantum information. We characterize the QPT using the periods of collective oscillations (center of mass motion and scissors mode) of the BEC, which show pronounced peaks and damping around the quantum critical point.

id: 1111.4812
title: Segre maps and entanglement for multipartite systems of indistinguishable particles
authors: Janusz Grabowski, Marek Kus, Giuseppe Marmo
comments: 16 pages, the version to appear in J. Phys. A. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1012.0758
journal: J. Phys. A 44 (2011) 105301 (17pp)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4812
abstract: We elaborate the concept of entanglement for multipartite system with bosonic and fermionic constituents and its generalization to systems with arbitrary parastatistics. The entanglement is characterized in terms of generalized Segre maps, supplementing thus an algebraic approach to the problem by a more geometric point of view.

id: 1111.4831
title: Analytical calculation of optimal POVM for unambiguous discrimination of quantum states using KKT method
authors: N. Karimi
comments: 18 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0708.2323
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4831
abstract: In the present paper, an exact analytic solution for the optimal unambiguous state discrimination (OPUSD) problem involving an arbitrary number of pure linearly independent quantum states with real and complex inner product is presented. Using semidefinite programming and Karush-Kuhn-Tucker convex optimization method, we derive an analytical formula which shows the relation between optimal solution of unambiguous state discrimination problem and an arbitrary number of pure linearly independent quantum states.

id: 1111.4836
title: Exact relations between particle fluctuations and entanglement in Fermi gases
authors: Pasquale Calabrese, Mihail Mintchev, Ettore Vicari
comments: 6 pages
journal: EPL 98, 20003 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4836
abstract: We derive exact relations between the Renyi entanglement entropies and the particle number fluctuations of spatial connected regions in systems of N noninteracting fermions in arbitrary dimension. We prove that the asymptotic large-N behavior of the entanglement entropies is proportional to the variance of the particle number. We also consider 1D Fermi gases with a localized impurity, where all particle cumulants contribute to the asymptotic large-N behavior of the entanglement entropies. The particle cumulant expansion turns out to be convergent for all integer-order Renyi entropies (except for the von Neumann entropy) and the first few cumulants provide already a good approximation. Since the particle cumulants are accessible to experiments, these relations may provide a measure of entanglement in these systems.

id: 1111.4980
title: Diffusion Scattering of Waves is a Model of Subquantum Level?
authors: E. M. Beniaminov
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4980
abstract: In the paper, we discuss the studies of mathematical models of diffusion scattering of waves in the phase space, and relation of these models with quantum mechanics. In the previous works it is shown that in these models of classical scattering process of waves, the quantum mechanical description arises as the asymptotics after a small time. In this respect, the proposed models can be considered as examples in which the quantum descriptions arise as approximate ones for certain hypothetical reality. The deviation between the proposed models and the quantum ones can arise, for example, for processes with rapidly changing potential function. Under its action the diffusion scattering process of waves will go out from the states described by quantum mechanics. In the paper it is shown that the proposed models of diffusion scattering of waves possess the property of gauge invariance. This implies that they are described similarly in all inertial coordinate systems, i.e., they are invariant under the Galileo transformations. We propose a program of further research.

id: 1111.5026
title: Reduced density matrix hybrid approach: Application to electronic energy transfer
authors: Timothy C. Berkelbach, Thomas E. Markland, David R. Reichman
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 136, 084104 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5026
abstract: Electronic energy transfer in the condensed phase, such as that occurring in photosynthetic complexes, frequently occurs in regimes where the energy scales of the system and environment are similar. This situation provides a challenge to theoretical investigation since most approaches are accurate only when a certain energetic parameter is small compared to others in the problem. Here we show that in these difficult regimes, the Ehrenfest approach provides a good starting point for a dynamical description of the energy transfer process due to its ability to accurately treat coupling to slow environmental modes. To further improve on the accuracy of the Ehrenfest approach, we use our reduced density matrix hybrid framework to treat the faster environmental modes quantum mechanically, at the level of a perturbative master equation. This combined approach is shown to provide an efficient and quantitative description of electronic energy transfer in a model dimer and the Fenna-Matthews-Olson complex and is used to investigate the effect of environmental preparation on the resulting dynamics.

id: 1111.5201
title: Molecular nanomagnets as quantum simulators
authors: P. Santini, S. Carretta, F. Troiani, G. Amoretti
comments: Phys. Rev. Lett., in press
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 230502 (2011)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5201
abstract: Quantum simulators are controllable systems that can be used to simulate other quantum systems. Here we focus on the dynamics of a chain of molecular qubits with interposed antiferromagnetic dimers. We theoretically show that its dynamics can be controlled by means of uniform magnetic pulses and used to mimic the evolution of other quantum systems, including fermionic ones. We propose two proof-of-principle experiments, based on the simulation of the Ising model in transverse field and of the quantum tunneling of the magnetization in a spin-1 system.

id: 1111.5225
title: Finite-temperature mutual information in a simple phase transition
authors: J. Wilms, J. Vidal, F. Verstraete, S. Dusuel
comments: 12 pages, 9 figures, published version
journal: J. Stat. Mech. P01023 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5225
abstract: We study the finite-temperature behavior of the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model, with a focus on correlation properties as measured by the mutual information. The latter, which quantifies the amount of both classical and quantum correlations, is computed exactly in the two limiting cases of vanishing magnetic field and vanishing temperature. For all other situations, numerical results provide evidence of a finite mutual information at all temperatures except at criticality. There, it diverges as the logarithm of the system size, with a prefactor that can take only two values, depending on whether the critical temperature vanishes or not. Our work provides a simple example in which the mutual information appears as a powerful tool to detect finite-temperature phase transitions, contrary to entanglement measures such as the concurrence.

id: 1111.5257
title: Quantumness and Entanglement Witnesses
authors: Paolo Facchi, Saverio Pascazio, Vlatko Vedral, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 105302
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5257
abstract: We analyze the recently introduced notion of quantumness witness and compare it to that of entanglement witness. We show that any entanglement witness is also a quantumness witness. We then consider some physically relevant examples and explicitly construct some witnesses.

id: 1111.5311
title: Spatial Analogue of Quantum Spin Dynamics via Spin-Orbit Interaction
authors: Vanita Srinivasa, Jeremy Levy
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5311
abstract: We map electron spin dynamics from time to space in quantum wires with spatially uniform and oscillating Rashba spin-orbit coupling. The presence of the spin-orbit interaction introduces pseudo-Zeeman couplings of the electron spins to effective magnetic fields. We show that by periodically modulating the spin-orbit coupling along the quantum wire axis, it is possible to create the spatial analogue of spin resonance, without the need for any real magnetic fields. The mapping of time-dependent operations onto a spatial axis suggests a new mode for quantum information processing in which gate operations are encoded into the band structure of the material. We describe a realization of such materials within nanowires at the interface of LaAlO3/SrTiO3 heterostructures.

id: 1111.5367
title: Repulsive Casimir Effects
authors: K. A. Milton, E. K. Abalo, Prachi Parashar, Nima Pourtolami, Iver Brevik, S. A. Ellingsen
comments: 19 pages, 13 figures, plenary talk at Quantum Field Theory Under the Influence of External Conditions 2011 (QFEXT11)
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5367
abstract: Like Casimir's original force between conducting plates in vacuum, Casimir forces are usually attractive. But repulsive Casimir forces can be achieved in special circumstances. These might prove useful in nanotechnology. We give examples of when repulsive quantum vacuum forces can arise with conducting materials.

id: 1111.5443
title: Superradiance Transition in Photosynthetic Light-Harvesting Complexes
authors: G. L. Celardo, F. Borgonovi, M. Merkli, V. I. Tsifrinovich, G. P. Berman
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantitative Methods (q-bio.QM); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5443
abstract: We investigate the role of long-lasting quantum coherence in the efficiency of energy transport at room temperature in Fenna-Matthews-Olson photosynthetic complexes. The excitation energy transfer due to the coupling of the light harvesting complex to the reaction center ("sink") is analyzed using an effective non-Hermitian Hamiltonian. We show that, as the coupling to the reaction center is varied, maximal efficiency in energy transport is achieved in the vicinity of the superradiance transition, characterized by a segregation of the imaginary parts of the eigenvalues of the effective non-Hermitian Hamiltonian. Our results demonstrate that the presence of the sink (which provides a quasi--continuum in the energy spectrum) is the dominant effect in the energy transfer which takes place even in absence of a thermal bath. This approach allows one to study the effects of finite temperature and the effects of any coupling scheme to the reaction center. Moreover, taking into account a realistic electric dipole interaction, we show that the optimal distance from the reaction center to the Fenna-Matthews-Olson system occurs at the superradiance transition, and we show that this is consistent with available experimental data.

id: 1111.5446
title: Mechanical cat states in graphene resonators
authors: A. Voje, J. M. Kinaret, A. Isacsson
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys Rev B 85, 205415 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5446
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of a symmetric nanomechanical graphene resonator with degenerate flexural modes. Applying voltage pulses to two back gates, flexural vibrations of the membrane can be selectively actuated and manipulated. For graphene, nonlinear response becomes important already for amplitudes comparable to the magnitude of zero point fluctuations. We show, using analytical and numerical methods, that this allows for creation of cat-like superpositions of coherent states as well as superpositions of coherent cat-like non-product states.

id: 1111.5503
title: Universal Dimer in a Collisionally Opaque Medium: Experimental Observables and Efimov Resonances
authors: Olga Machtey, David A. Kessler, Lev Khaykovich
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 130403 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5503
abstract: A universal dimer is subject to secondary collisions with atoms when formed in a cloud of ultracold atoms via three-body recombination. We show that in a collisionally opaque medium, the value of the scattering length that results in the maximum number of secondary collisions may not correspond to the Efimov resonance at the atom-dimer threshold and thus can not be automatically associated with it. This result explains a number of controversies in recent experimental results on universal three-body states and supports the emerging evidence for the significant finite range corrections to the first excited Efimov energy level.

id: 1111.5576
title: Searching for the deformation-stability fundamental length (or fundamental time)
authors: R. Vilela Mendes
comments: 35 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5576
abstract: The existence of a fundamental length (or fundamental time) has been conjectured in many contexts. However, the "stability of physical theories principle" seems to be the one that provides, through the tools of algebraic deformation theory, an unambiguous derivation of the stable structures that Nature might have chosen for its algebraic framework. It is well-known that $c$ and $\hbar $ are the deformation parameters that stabilize the Galilean and the Poisson algebra. When the stability principle is applied to the Poincar\'{e}-Heisenberg algebra, two deformation parameters emerge which define two length (or time) scales. In addition there are, for each of them, a plus or minus sign possibility in the relevant commutators. One of the deformation length scales, related to non-commutativity of momenta, is probably related to the Planck length scale but the other might be much larger. In this paper this is used as a working hypothesis to look for physical effects that might settle this question. Phase-space modifications, deviations from $c$ in speed measurements of massless wave packets, resonances, interference, electron spin resonance and non-commutative QED are considered.

id: 1111.5638
title: Conditional expectation and Bayes' rule for quantum random variables and positive operator valued measures
authors: Douglas Farenick, Michael J. Kozdron
comments: v2: 16 pages, 0 figures; substantially revised and updated; shortened significantly with streamlined proofs and removal of several explicit calculations
journal: J. Math. Phys., volume 53, issue 4, paper 042201, 2012
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5638
abstract: A quantum probability measure is a function on a sigma-algebra of subsets of a (locally compact and Hausdorff) sample space that satisfies the formal requirements for a measure, but whose values are positive operators acting on a complex Hilbert space, and a quantum random variable is a measurable operator valued function. Although quantum probability measures and random variables are used extensively in quantum mechanics, some of the fundamental probabilistic features of these structures remain to be determined. In this paper we take a step toward a better mathematical understanding of quantum random variables and quantum probability measures by introducing a quantum analogue for the expected value of a quantum random variable relative to a quantum probability measure. In so doing we are led to theorems for a change of quantum measure and a change of quantum variables. We also introduce a quantum conditional expectation which results in quantum versions of some standard identities for Radon-Nikodym derivatives. This allows us to formulate and prove a quantum analogue of Bayes' rule.

id: 1111.5663
title: Test of many-electron QED effects in the hyperfine splitting of heavy high-Z ions
authors: A. V. Volotka, D. A. Glazov, O. V. Andreev, V. M. Shabaev, I. I. Tupitsyn, G. Plunien
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 073001 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5663
abstract: A rigorous evaluation of the two-photon exchange corrections to the hyperfine structure in lithiumlike heavy ions is presented. As a result, the theoretical accuracy of the specific difference between the hyperfine splitting values of H- and Li-like Bi ions is significantly improved. This opens a possibility for the stringent test of the many-electron QED effects on a few percent level in the strongest electromagnetic field presently available in experiments.

id: 1111.5755
title: On the causality of electrodynamics and the Aharonov-Bohm effect
authors: Richard Kowar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5755
abstract: This paper presents a \emph{non-instant field model} for electrodynamics that permits a causal explanation of the \emph{Aharonov-Bohm effect} and a \emph{covariant quantization} of the respective Maxwell equations via the \emph{Gupta-Bleuler method}. Our model satisfies the following \emph{correspondence principle}: if $A^\mu$, $\vE$, $\vB$ denote the four potential, the electric field and the magnetic field of the non-instant field model, then the respective classical quantities are $\A[A^\mu]$, $\A[\vE]$, $\A[\vB]$, where $\A$ is a covariant time averaging operator. Here $\A[A^\mu]$ is interpreted as the best possible measurement of the four potential $A^\mu$. Although the Lorentz condition is not satisfied for $A^\mu$, it is satisfied for $\A[A^\mu]$. The latter fact means that the Lorentz condition does not hold for the quantized field but for its expectation value (cf. \emph{Gupta-Bleuler method} of quantization). Finally, we derive the energy conservation law of our field model and show that the field energy is quantized.

id: 1111.5787
title: Identifying strongly correlated supersolid states on the optical lattice by quench-induced ¦Ð-states
authors: Uwe R. Fischer, Bo Xiong
comments: 6 pages of EPL2 style, 5 figures
journal: EPL 99, 66003 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5787
abstract: We consider the rapid quench of a one-dimensional strongly correlated supersolid to a localized density wave (checkerboard) phase, and calculate the first-order coherence signal following the quench. It is shown that unique coherence oscillations between the even and odd sublattice sites of the checkerboard are created by the quench, which are absent when the initial state is described by a Gutzwiller product state. This is a striking manifestation of the versatility of the far-from-equilbrium and nonperturbative collapse and revival phenomenon as a microscope for quantum correlations in complex many-body states. For the present example, this opens up the possibility to discriminate experimentally between mean-field and many-body origins of supersolidity.

id: 1111.5829
title: Magnetic-field dependent trap loss of ultracold metastable helium
authors: J. S. Borbely, R. van Rooij, S. Knoop, W. Vassen
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 85, 022706 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5829
abstract: We have experimentally studied the magnetic-field dependence of the decay of a Bose-Einstein condensate of metastable 4He atoms confined in an optical dipole trap, for atoms in the m=+1 and m=-1 magnetic substates, and up to 450 G. Our measurements confirm long-standing calculations of the two-body loss rate coefficient that show an increase above 50 G. We demonstrate that for m=-1 atoms, decay is due to three-body recombination only, with a three-body loss rate coefficient of 6.5(0.4)(0.6)10^(-27)cm^6s^(-1), which is interesting in the context of universal few-body theory. We have also searched for a recently-predicted d-wave Feshbach resonance, but did not observe it.

id: 1111.6009
title: Quantum mechanical inverse scattering problem at fixed energy: a constructive method
authors: Tamas Palmai, Barnabas Apagyi
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures. Based on the contributed talk of the authors presented at the International Conference on Inverse Problems, Wuhan, 2010
journal: Methods and Applications of Analysis 18 (2011) pp. 93-104
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6009
abstract: The inverse scattering problem of the three-dimensional Schroedinger equation is considered at fixed scattering energy with spherically symmetric potentials. The phase shifts determine the potential therefore a constructive scheme for recovering the scattering potential from a finite set of phase shifts at a fixed energy is of interest. Such a scheme is suggested by Cox and Thompson [3] and their method is revisited here. Also some new results are added arising from investigation of asymptotics of potentials and concerning statistics of colliding particles. A condition is given [2] for the construction of potentials belonging to the class L_1,1 which are the physically meaningful ones. An uniqueness theorem is obtained [2] in the special case of one given phase shift by applying the previous condition. It is shown that if only one phase shift is specified for the inversion procedure the unique potential obtained by the Cox-Thompson scheme yields the one specified phase shift while the others are small in a certain sense. The case of two given phase shifts is also discussed by numerical treatment and synthetic examples are given to illustrate the results. Besides the new results this contribution provides a systematic treatment of the CT method.

id: 1111.6021
title: Real-time simulation of finite frequency noise from a single electron emitter
authors: T. Jonckheere, T. Stoll, J. Rech, T. Martin
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 045321 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6021
abstract: We study the real-time emission of single electrons from a quantum dot coupled to a one dimensional conductor, using exact diagonalization on a discrete tight-binding chain. We show that from the calculation of the time-evolution of the one electron states, we have a simple access to all the relevant physical quantities in the system. In particular, we are able to compute accurately the finite frequency current autocorrelation noise. The method which we use is general and versatile, allowing to study the impact of many different parameters like the dot transparency or level position. Our results can be directly compared with existing experiments, and can also serve as a basis for future calculations including electronic interactions using the time dependent density-matrix renormalisation group and other techniques based on tight-binding models.

id: 1111.6029
title: On nonsingular potentials of Cox-Thompson inversion scheme
authors: Tamas Palmai, Barnabas Apagyi
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 022114 (2010)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6029
abstract: We establish a condition for obtaining nonsingular potentials using the Cox-Thompson inverse scattering method with one phase shift. The anomalous singularities of the potentials are avoided by maintaining unique solutions of the underlying Regge-Newton integral equation for the transformation kernel. As a by-product, new inequality sequences of zeros of Bessel functions are discovered.

id: 1111.6039
title: The effect of light assisted collisions on matter wave coherence in superradiant Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: N. S. Kampel, A. Griesmaier, M.P. Hornbak Steenstrup, F. Kaminski, E. S. Polzik, J. H. M¨¹ller
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6039
abstract: We investigate experimentally the effects of light assisted collisions on the coherence between momentum states in Bose-Einstein condensates. The onset of superradiant Rayleigh scattering serves as a sensitive monitor for matter wave coherence. A subtle interplay of binary and collective effects leads to a profound asymmetry between the two sides of the atomic resonance and provides far bigger coherence loss rates for a condensate bathed in blue detuned light than previously estimated. We present a simplified quantitative model containing the essential physics to explain our experimental data and point at a new experimental route to study strongly coupled light matter systems.

id: 1111.6051
title: Development of a Cox-Thompson inverse scattering method to charged particles
authors: Tamas Palmai, Barnabas Apagyi, Werner Scheid
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. G: Nucl. Part. Phys. 37 (2010) 025101
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6051
abstract: A Cox-Thompson fixed-energy quantum inverse scattering method is developed further to treat long-range Coulomb interaction. Depending on the reference potentials chosen, two methods have been formulated which produce inverse potentials with singular or finite value at the origin. Based on the quality of reproduction of input experimental phase shifts, it is guessed that the p-alpha interaction possesses an interesting repulsive hard core.

id: 1111.6066
title: Simplified solutions of the Cox-Thompson inverse scattering method at fixed energy
authors: Tamas Palmai, Miklos Horvath, Barnabas Apagyi
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 235305
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6066
abstract: Simplified solutions of the Cox-Thompson inverse quantum scattering method at fixed energy are derived if a finite number of partial waves with only even or odd angular momenta contribute to the scattering process. Based on new formulae various approximate methods are introduced which also prove applicable to the generic scattering events.

id: 1111.6180
title: Diffraction-corrected neutrino flux and $¦ÍN$ total cross section
authors: Kenzo Ishikawa, Yutaka Tobita
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures, Some explanations about the relation between a non-asymptotic region and an interference were added into section 1
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6180
abstract: A neutrino produced in a particle decay maintains an unusual wave nature that reveals a diffraction phenomenon in a large spatial region. Diffraction gives a new component to a neutrino flux in this region and modifies determinations of physical quantities in neutrino experiments. A total cross section of neutrino nucleon scattering at high energies is studied in this paper. A cross section is proportional to an energy in the quark-parton model and is modified with the energy-dependent neutrino flux induced by the diffraction component. A total number of events divided by the energy is not constant but has a slight energy dependence. Theoretical values agree well with the recent experiments.

id: 1111.6196
title: Experimental methods of ultracold atomic physics
authors: D.M. Stamper-Kurn, J.H. Thywissen
comments: 20 pages, 6 figures; to be printed as a Chapter the forthcoming volume "Ultracold Bosonic and Fermionic Gases", (Contemporary Concepts of Condensed Matter Science (Elsevier)), edited by Alexander Fetter, Katherine Levin, and Dan Stamper-Kurn
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6196
abstract: Experiments on solid-state materials and atomic quantum gases are increasingly investigating similar concepts in many-body quantum physics. Yet, the flavor of experiments on the gaseous atomic materials is different from that of conventional materials research. Here, we summarize some aspects of atomic physics and some of the common technical elements of cold-atom experiments which underlie the investigations described in the remaining chapters of this volume.

id: 1111.6242
title: Back-to-back emission of the electrons in double photoionization of helium
authors: M. Ya. Amusia, E. G. Drukarev, E. Z. Liverts
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6242
abstract: We calculate the double differential distributions and distributions in recoil momenta for the high energy non-relativistic double photoionization of helium. We show that the results of recent experiments is the pioneering experimental manifestation of the quasifree mechanism for the double photoionization, predicted long ago in our papers. This mechanism provides a surplus in distribution over the recoil momenta at small values of the latter, corresponding to nearly "back-to-back" emission of the electrons. Also in agreement with previous analysis the surplus is due to the quadrupole terms of the photon-electron interaction. We present the characteristic angular distribution for the "back-to-back" electron emission. The confirmation of the quasifree mechanism opens a new area of exiting experiments, which are expected to increase our understanding of the electron dynamics and of the bound states structure. The results of this Letter along with the recent experiments open a new field for studies of two-electron ionization not only by photons but by other projectiles, e.g. by fast electrons or heavy ions.

id: 1111.6255
title: Supersymmetric Many-particle Quantum Systems with Inverse-square Interactions
authors: Pijush K.Ghosh
comments: LateX, 65 pages, Added Acknowledgment, Discussions and References, Version to appear in Jouranl of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical (Commissioned Topical Review Article)
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 183001
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6255
abstract: The development in the study of supersymmetric many-particle quantum systems with inverse-square interactions is reviewed. The main emphasis is on quantum systems with dynamical OSp(2|2) supersymmetry. Several results related to exactly solved supersymmetric rational Calogero model, including shape invariance, equivalence to a system of free superoscillators and non-uniqueness in the construction of the Hamiltonian, are presented in some detail. This review also includes a formulation of pseudo-hermitian supersymmetric quantum systems with a special emphasis on rational Calogero model. There are quite a few number of many-particle quantum systems with inverse-square interactions which are not exactly solved for a complete set of states in spite of the construction of infinitely many exact eigen functions and eigenvalues. The Calogero-Marchioro model with dynamical SU(1,1|2) supersymmetry and a quantum system related to short-range Dyson model belong to this class and certain aspects of these models are reviewed. Several other related and important developments are briefly summarized.

id: 1111.6269
title: Towards a state minimizing the output entropy of a tensor product of random quantum channels
authors: Benoit Collins, Motohisa Fukuda, Ion Nechita
comments: 21 pages, 9 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 032203 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6269
abstract: We consider the image of some classes of bipartite quantum states under a tensor product of random quantum channels. Depending on natural assumptions that we make on the states, the eigenvalues of their outputs have new properties which we describe. Our motivation is provided by the additivity questions in quantum information theory, and we build on the idea that a Bell state sent through a product of conjugated random channels has at least one large eigenvalue. We generalize this setting in two directions. First, we investigate general entangled pure inputs and show that that Bell states give the least entropy among those inputs in the asymptotic limit. We then study mixed input states, and obtain new multi-scale random matrix models that allow to quantify the difference of the outputs' eigenvalues between a quantum channel and its complementary version in the case of a non-pure input.

id: 1111.6290
title: Renyi Entropies for Free Field Theories
authors: Igor R. Klebanov, Silviu S. Pufu, Subir Sachdev, Benjamin R. Safdi
comments: 35 pages, 4 figures; v2 refs added, minor changes
journal: JHEP 1204 (2012) 074
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6290
abstract: Renyi entropies S_q are useful measures of quantum entanglement; they can be calculated from traces of the reduced density matrix raised to power q, with q>=0. For (d+1)-dimensional conformal field theories, the Renyi entropies across S^{d-1} may be extracted from the thermal partition functions of these theories on either (d+1)-dimensional de Sitter space or R x H^d, where H^d is the d-dimensional hyperbolic space. These thermal partition functions can in turn be expressed as path integrals on branched coverings of the (d+1)-dimensional sphere and S^1 x H^d, respectively. We calculate the Renyi entropies of free massless scalars and fermions in d=2, and show how using zeta-function regularization one finds agreement between the calculations on the branched coverings of S^3 and on S^1 x H^2. Analogous calculations for massive free fields provide monotonic interpolating functions between the Renyi entropies at the Gaussian and the trivial fixed points. Finally, we discuss similar Renyi entropy calculations in d>2.

id: 1111.6440
title: Cryogenic High-Frequency Readout and Control Platform for Spin Qubits
authors: J. I. Colless, D. J. Reilly
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6440
abstract: We have developed a cryogenic platform for the control and readout of spin qubits that comprises a high density of dc and radio frequency sample interconnects based on a set of coupled printed circuit boards. The modular setup incorporates 24 filtered dc lines, 14 control and readout lines with bandwidth from dc to above 6 GHz, and 2 microwave connections for excitation to 40 GHz. We report the performance of this platform, including signal integrity and crosstalk measurements and discuss design criteria for constructing sample interconnect technology needed for multi-qubit devices.

id: 1111.6467
title: Exceptional orthogonal polynomials and new exactly solvable potentials in quantum mechanics
authors: C. Quesne
comments: 21 pages, no figure; communication at the Symposium Symmetries in Science XV, July 31-August 5, 2011, Bregenz, Austria
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 380 (2012) 012016, 13 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6467
abstract: In recent years, one of the most interesting developments in quantum mechanics has been the construction of new exactly solvable potentials connected with the appearance of families of exceptional orthogonal polynomials (EOP) in mathematical physics. In contrast with families of (Jacobi, Laguerre and Hermite) classical orthogonal polynomials, which start with a constant, the EOP families begin with some polynomial of degree greater than or equal to one, but still form complete, orthogonal sets with respect to some positive-definite measure. We show how they may appear in the bound-state wavefunctions of some rational extensions of well-known exactly solvable quantum potentials. Such rational extensions are most easily constructed in the framework of supersymmetric quantum mechanics (SUSYQM), where they give rise to a new class of translationally shape invariant potentials. We review the most recent results in this field, which use higher-order SUSYQM. We also comment on some recent re-examinations of the shape invariance condition, which are independent of the EOP construction problem.

id: 1111.6497
title: Tunnel Effect or 'Saute-Mouton'?
authors: Antonio Carlos Baptista Antunes, Leila Jorge Antunes
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6497
abstract: An infinite well potential containing a rectangular barrier in its center is used to verify if the passage of a quantum particle through the barrier is described by tunnel effect or 'saute-mouton'.

id: 1111.6520
title: Two-dimensional rocking ratchet for cold atoms
authors: V. Lebedev, F. Renzoni
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 80, 023422 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6520
abstract: We investigate experimentally a two-dimensional rocking ratchet for cold atoms, realized by using a driven three-beam dissipative optical lattice. AC forces are applied in perpendicular directions by phase-modulating two of the lattice beams. As predicted by the general theory [S. Denisov et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 224102 (2008)], we observe a rectification phenomenon unique to high-dimensional rocking ratchets, as determined by two single-harmonic drivings applied in orthogonal directions. Also, by applying two bi-harmonic forces in perpendicular directions, we demonstrate the possibility of generating a current in an arbitrary direction within the optical lattice plane.

id: 1111.6577
title: Finite-size corrections of the Entanglement Entropy of critical quantum chains
authors: J. C. Xavier, F. C. Alcaraz
comments: final version, 9 Pages, 3 figures, 4 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 024418 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6577
abstract: Using the density matrix renormalization group, we calculated the finite-size corrections of the entanglement $\alpha$-Renyi entropy of a single interval for several critical quantum chains. We considered models with U(1) symmetry like the spin-1/2 XXZ and spin-1 Fateev-Zamolodchikov models, as well models with discrete symmetries such as the Ising, the Blume-Capel and the three-state Potts models. These corrections contain physically relevant information. Their amplitudes, that depend on the value of $\alpha$, are related to the dimensions of operators in the conformal field theory governing the long-distance correlations of the critical quantum chains. The obtained results together with earlier exact and numerical ones allow us to formulate some general conjectures about the operator responsible for the leading finite-size correction of the $\alpha$-Renyi entropies. We conjecture that the exponent of the leading finite-size correction of the $\alpha$-Renyi entropies is $p_{\alpha}=2X_{\epsilon}/\alpha$ for $\alpha>1$ and $p_{1}=\nu$, where $X_{\epsilon}$ is the dimensions of the energy operator of the model and $\nu=2$ for all the models.

id: 1111.6580
title: Towards the fast scrambling conjecture
authors: Nima Lashkari, Douglas Stanford, Matthew Hastings, Tobias Osborne, Patrick Hayden
comments: 34 pages. v2: typo corrected
journal: JHEP 2013:22, 2013
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6580
abstract: Many proposed quantum mechanical models of black holes include highly nonlocal interactions. The time required for thermalization to occur in such models should reflect the relaxation times associated with classical black holes in general relativity. Moreover, the time required for a particularly strong form of thermalization to occur, sometimes known as scrambling, determines the time scale on which black holes should start to release information. It has been conjectured that black holes scramble in a time logarithmic in their entropy, and that no system in nature can scramble faster. In this article, we address the conjecture from two directions. First, we exhibit two examples of systems that do indeed scramble in logarithmic time: Brownian quantum circuits and the antiferromagnetic Ising model on a sparse random graph. Unfortunately, both fail to be truly ideal fast scramblers for reasons we discuss. Second, we use Lieb-Robinson techniques to prove a logarithmic lower bound on the scrambling time of systems with finite norm terms in their Hamiltonian. The bound holds in spite of any nonlocal structure in the Hamiltonian, which might permit every degree of freedom to interact directly with every other one.

id: 1111.6630
title: The Quantum Walk of F. Riesz
authors: F. A. Grunbaum, L. Velazquez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6630
abstract: We exhibit a way to associate a quantum walk (QW) on the non-negative integers to any probability measure on the unit circle. This forces us to consider one step transitions that are not traditionally allowed. We illustrate this in the case of a very interesting measure, originally proposed by F. Riesz for a different purpose.

id: 1111.6723
title: Dispersion and damping of potential surface waves in a degenerate plasma
authors: Yu. O. Tyshetskiy, D. Williamson, R. Kompaneets, S. V. Vladimirov
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6723
abstract: Potential (electrostatic) surface waves in plasma half-space with degenerate electrons are studied using the quasi-classical mean-field kinetic model. The wave spectrum and the collisionless damping rate are obtained numerically for a wide range of wavelengths. In the limit of long wavelengths, the wave frequency $\omega$ approaches the cold-plasma limit $\omega=\omega_p/\sqrt{2}$ with $\omega_p$ being the plasma frequency, while at short wavelengths, the wave spectrum asymptotically approaches the spectrum of zero-sound mode propagating along the boundary. It is shown that the surface waves in this system remain weakly damped at all wavelengths (in contrast to strongly damped surface waves in Maxwellian electron plasmas), and the damping rate nonmonotonically depends on the wavelength, with the maximum (yet small) damping occuring for surface waves with wavelength of $\approx5\pi\lambda_{F}$, where $\lambda_{F}$ is the Thomas-Fermi length.

id: 1111.6737
title: Van der Waals Interactions in DFT using Wannier Functions: improved $C_6$ and $C_3$ coefficients by a new approach
authors: A. Ambrosetti, P. L. Silvestrelli
comments: 5 pages, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6737
abstract: A new implementation is proposed for including van der Waals interactions in Density Functional Theory using the Maximally-Localized Wannier functions. With respect to the previous DFT/vdW-WF method, the present DFT/vdW-WF2 approach, which is based on the simpler London expression and takes into account the intrafragment overlap of the localized Wannier functions, leads to a considerable improvement in the evaluation of the $C_6$ van der Waals coefficients, as shown by the application to a set of selected dimers. Preliminary results on Ar on graphite and Ne on the Cu(111) metal surface suggest that also the $C_3$ coefficients, characterizing molecule-surfaces van der Waals interactions are better estimated with the new scheme.

id: 1111.6770
title: Collective strong coupling in a lossy optical cavity
authors: A. Wickenbrock, P. Phoonthong, F. Renzoni
comments: 
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 58, (1310) 2011
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6770
abstract: We observe vacuum Rabi splitting in a lossy nearly confocal cavity indicating the strong coupling regime, despite a weak single-atom single-mode coupling. Strong collective interaction manifests itself in the typical $\sqrt{N}$-dependence of the normal mode splitting on the number of atoms $N$. The $TEM_{00}$-mode coupling parameters are $(g,\kappa,\gamma)=2\pi\times(0.12,0.8,2.6)$ MHz and up to $(1.33\pm 0.08)\times10^5$ cesium atoms were loaded into the mode volume.

id: 1111.6873
title: Magnetic field dependence of Pauli spin blockade: a window into the sources of spin relaxation in silicon quantum dots
authors: G. Yamahata, T. Kodera, H. O. H. Churchill, K. Uchida, C. M. Marcus, S. Oda
comments: supplementary material here: this http URL
journal: Phys Rev. B 86, 115322 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6873
abstract: We investigate spin relaxation in a silicon double quantum dot via leakage current through Pauli blockade as a function of interdot detuning and magnetic field. A dip in leakage current as a function of magnetic field on a \sim 40 mT field scale is attributed to spin-orbit mediated spin relaxation. On a larger (\sim 400 mT) field scale, a peak in leakage current is seen in some, but not all, Pauli-blocked transitions, and is attributed to spin-flip cotunneling. Both dip and peak structure show good agreement between theory and experiment.

id: 1111.6913
title: Coherent states for continuous spectrum operators with non-normalizable fiducial states
authors: Joseph Ben Geloun, Jeff Hnybida, John R. Klauder
comments: 17 pages, typos corrected, references added
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6913
abstract: The problem of building coherent states from non-normalizable fiducial states is considered. We propose a way of constructing such coherent states by regularizing the divergence of the fiducial state norm. Then, we successfully apply the formalism to particular cases involving systems with a continuous spectrum: coherent states for the free particle and for the inverted oscillator $(p^2 - x^2)$ are explicitly provided. Similar ideas can be used for other systems having non-normalizable fiducial states.

id: 1111.6987
title: Solution hierarchies for the Painleve IV equation
authors: David Bermudez, David J. Fernandez C
comments: 9 pages, 4 figures. Proceedings of the XXXI Workshop on Geometric Methods in Physics (June 24-30, 2012. Bialowieza, Poland)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6987
abstract: In this article we will obtain real and complex solutions to the Painleve IV equation through supersymmetric quantum mechanics. Then we will classify them into real solution hierarchies and also the complex solution hierarchies, which are hardly studied.

id: 1111.7031
title: Detecting Majorana fermions by nonlocal entanglement between quantum dots
authors: Zhi Wang, Xiao Hu
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 214513 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7031
abstract: Nonlocal entanglement between two quantum dots can be generated through Majorana fermions. The two Majorana fermions at the ends of an one-dimensional topological superconductor form a nonlocal fermion level, coupling to the occupation states of two quantum dots put close to the two ends, and the entire system will come into an entangled state. After introducing a charging energy by a capacitor, entanglement of the entire system can manifest itself through the nonlocal entanglement between the two quantum dots. That is, when measuring the electron occupations of the quantum dots, the measurement result of one quantum dot will influence the measurement result of the other quantum dot. This nonlocal entanglement between the two quantum dots is a strong evidence of the nonlocal nature of the fermion level constructed by two Majorana fermions.

id: 1111.7043
title: The Stochastic Representation of Hamiltonian Dynamics and The Quantization of Time
authors: Matthew F. Brown
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7043
abstract: Here it is shown that the unitary dynamics of a quantum object may be obtained as the conditional expectation of a counting process of object-clock interactions. Such a stochastic process arises from the quantization of the clock, and this is derived naturally from the matrix-algebra representation of the nilpotent Newton-Leibniz time differential [Belavkin]. It is observed that this condition expectation is a rigorous formulation of the Feynman Path Integral.

id: 1111.7060
title: Radiation Damping for Speeding-up NMR Applications
authors: Gennady P. Berman, Michelle A. Espy, Vyacheslav N. Gorshkov, Vladimir I. Tsifrinovich, Petr L. Volegov
comments: 10 pages, 9 fogers
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Medical Physics (physics.med-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7060
abstract: We demonstrate theoretically and numerically how to control the NMR relaxation rate after application of the standard spin echo technique. Using radiation damping, we return the nuclear magnetization to its equilibrium state during a time interval that is negligible compared to the relaxation time. We obtain an estimate for optimal radiation damping which is consistent with our numerical simulations.

id: 1111.7097
title: Phonon-mediated coupling between quantum dots through an off-resonant microcavity
authors: Arka Majumdar, Michal Bajcsy, Armand Rundquist, Erik Kim, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7097
abstract: We present experimental results showing phonon-mediated coupling between two quantum dots embedded inside a photonic crystal microcavity. With only one of the dots being spectrally close to the cavity, we observe both frequency up-conversion and down-conversion of the pump light via a $\sim1.2$ THz phonon. We demonstrate this process for both weak and strong regimes of dot-cavity coupling, and provide a simple theoretical model explaining our observations.

id: 1111.7114
title: Novel Fermi Liquid of 2D Polar Molecules
authors: Zhen-Kai Lu, G. V. Shlyapnikov
comments: 19 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 023614 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7114
abstract: We study Fermi liquid properties of a weakly interacting 2D gas of single-component fermionic polar molecules with dipole moments $d$ oriented perpendicularly to the plane of their translational motion. This geometry allows the minimization of inelastic losses due to chemical reactions for reactive molecules and, at the same time, provides a possibility of a clear description of many-body (beyond mean field) effects. The long-range character of the dipole-dipole repulsive interaction between the molecules, which scales as $1/r^3$ at large distances $r$, makes the problem drastically different from the well-known problem of the two-species Fermi gas with repulsive contact interspecies interaction. We solve the low-energy scattering problem and develop a many-body perturbation theory beyond the mean field. The theory relies on the presence of a small parameter $k_Fr_*$, where $k_F$ is the Fermi momentum, and $r_*=md^2/\hbar^2$ is the dipole-dipole length, with $m$ being the molecule mass. We obtain thermodynamic quantities as a series of expansion up to the second order in $k_Fr_*$ and argue that many-body corrections to the ground-state energy can be identified in experiments with ultracold molecules, like it has been recently done for ultracold fermionic atoms. Moreover, we show that only many-body effects provide the existence of zero sound and calculate the sound velocity.

id: 1111.7133
title: Sculpting oscillators with light within a nonlinear quantum fluid
authors: G. Tosi, G. Christmann, N.G. Berloff, P. Tsotsis, T. Gao, Z. Hatzopoulos, P.G. Savvidis, J.J. Baumberg
comments: accepted in Nature Physics
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7133
abstract: Seeing macroscopic quantum states directly remains an elusive goal. Particles with boson symmetry can condense into such quantum fluids producing rich physical phenomena as well as proven potential for interferometric devices [1-10]. However direct imaging of such quantum states is only fleetingly possible in high-vacuum ultracold atomic condensates, and not in superconductors. Recent condensation of solid state polariton quasiparticles, built from mixing semiconductor excitons with microcavity photons, offers monolithic devices capable of supporting room temperature quantum states [11-14] that exhibit superfluid behaviour [15,16]. Here we use microcavities on a semiconductor chip supporting two-dimensional polariton condensates to directly visualise the formation of a spontaneously oscillating quantum fluid. This system is created on the fly by injecting polaritons at two or more spatially-separated pump spots. Although oscillating at tuneable THz-scale frequencies, a simple optical microscope can be used to directly image their stable archetypal quantum oscillator wavefunctions in real space. The self-repulsion of polaritons provides a solid state quasiparticle that is so nonlinear as to modify its own potential. Interference in time and space reveals the condensate wavepackets arise from non-equilibrium solitons. Control of such polariton condensate wavepackets demonstrates great potential for integrated semiconductor-based condensate devices.

id: 1111.7148
title: A Cook's Tour of the Finitary Non-Well-Founded Sets
authors: Samson Abramsky
comments: This paper is a write-up of a lecture originally given in 1988. It appeared in the Festschrift for Dov Gabbay, We Will Show Them: Essays in honour of Dov Gabbay, edited by Sergei Artemov, Howard Barringer, Artur d'Avila Garcez, Luis C. Lamb and John Woods, College Publications, Vol. 1, 1-18, 2005
journal: 
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Logic (math.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7148
abstract: We give multiple descriptions of a topological universe of finitary sets, which can be seen as a natural limit completion of the hereditarily finite sets. This universe is characterized as a metric completion of the hereditarily finite sets; as a Stone space arising as the solution of a functorial fixed-point equation involving the Vietoris construction; as the Stone dual of the free modal algebra; and as the subspace of maximal elements of a domain equation involving the Plotkin (or convex) powerdomain. These results illustrate the methods developed in the author's 'Domain theory in logical form', and related literature, and have been taken up in recent work on topological coalgebras. The set-theoretic universe of finitary sets also supports an interesting form of set theory. It contains non-well founded sets and a universal set; and is closed under positive versions of the usual axioms of set theory.

id: 1111.7154
title: A Structural Approach to Reversible Computation
authors: Samson Abramsky
comments: 30 pages, appeared in Theoretical Computer Science
journal: Theoretical Computer Science, Volume 347, Issue 3, 1 December 2005, Pages 441-464
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Logic (math.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7154
abstract: Reversibility is a key issue in the interface between computation and physics, and of growing importance as miniaturization progresses towards its physical limits. Most foundational work on reversible computing to date has focussed on simulations of low-level machine models. By contrast, we develop a more structural approach. We show how high-level functional programs can be mapped compositionally (i.e. in a syntax-directed fashion) into a simple kind of automata which are immediately seen to be reversible. The size of the automaton is linear in the size of the functional term. In mathematical terms, we are building a concrete model of functional computation. This construction stems directly from ideas arising in Geometry of Interaction and Linear Logic---but can be understood without any knowledge of these topics. In fact, it serves as an excellent introduction to them. At the same time, an interesting logical delineation between reversible and irreversible forms of computation emerges from our analysis.

id: 1111.7159
title: Sequentiality vs. Concurrency in Games and Logic
authors: Samson Abramsky
comments: 35 pages, appeared in Mathematical Structures in Computer Science
journal: Mathematical Structures in Computer Science, Volume 13 Issue 4, pages 531-565, August 2003
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Logic (math.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7159
abstract: Connections between the sequentiality/concurrency distinction and the semantics of proofs are investigated, with particular reference to games and Linear Logic.

id: 1111.7199
title: Quantum Trajectory Approach to the Stochastic Thermodynamics of a Forced Harmonic Oscillator
authors: Jordan M. Horowitz
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures, submitted to PRE; expanded introduction and conclusion, corrected typos, new figure 3
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 031110 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7199
abstract: I formulate a quantum stochastic thermodynamics for the quantum trajectories of a continuously-monitored forced harmonic oscillator coupled to a thermal reservoir. Consistent trajectory-dependent definitions are introduced for work, heat, and entropy, through engineering the thermal reservoir from a sequence of two-level systems. Within this formalism the connection between irreversibility and entropy production is analyzed and confirmed by proving a detailed fluctuation theorem for quantum trajectories. Finally, possible experimental verifications are discussed.

id: 1111.7233
title: Casimir effect for parallel metallic plates in cosmic string spacetime
authors: E. R. Bezerra de Mello, A. A. Saharian, A. Kh. Grigoryan
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 374011
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7233
abstract: We evaluate the renormalized vacuum expectation values (VEVs) of electric and magnetic fields squared and the energy-momentum tensor for the electromagnetic field in the geometry of two parallel conducting plates on background of cosmic string spacetime. On the base of these results, the Casimir-Polder force on a polarizable particle and the Casimir forces acting on the plates are investigated. The VEVs are decomposed into the pure string and plate-induced parts. The VEV of the electric field squared is negative for points with radial distance to the string smaller than the distance to the plates and positive for the opposite situation. On the other hand the VEV for the magnetic field squared is negative everywhere. The boundary induced part in the VEV of the energy-momentum tensor is different from zero in the region between the plates only. Moreover, this part only depends on the distance from the string. The boundary-induced part in the vacuum energy density is positive for points with distance to the string smaller than the distance to the plates and negative in opposite situation. The Casimir stresses on the plates depend non-monotonically on the distance from the string. We show that the Casimir forces acting on the plates are always attractive.

id: 1111.7236
title: Interferometer readout-noise below the Standard Quantum Limit of a membrane
authors: Tobias Westphal, Daniel Friedrich, Henning Kaufer, Kazuhiro Yamamoto, Stefan Gossler, Helge Mueller-Ebhardt, Stefan L. Danilishin, Farid Ya. Khalili, Karsten Danzmann, Roman Schnabel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7236
abstract: Here we report on the realization of a Michelson-Sagnac interferometer whose purpose is the precise characterization of the motion of membranes showing significant light transmission. Our interferometer has a readout noise spectral density (imprecision) of 3E-16 m/sqrt(Hz) at frequencies around the fundamental resonance of a SiN_x membrane at about 100 kHz, without using optical cavities. The readout noise demonstrated is more than 16 dB below the peak value of the membrane's standard quantum limit (SQL). This reduction is significantly higher than those of previous works with nano-wires [Teufel et al., Nature Nano. 4, 820 (2009); Anetsberger et al., Nature Phys. 5, 909 (2009)]. We discuss the meaning of the SQL for force measurements and its relation to the readout performance and conclude that neither our nor previous experiments achieved a total noise spectral density as low as the SQL.

id: 1111.7252
title: The 10m AEI prototype facility A brief overview
authors: Tobias Westphal, Gerald Bergmann, Alessandro Bertolini, Michael Born, Yanbei Chen, Alan V Cumming, Liam Cunningham, Katrin Dahl, Christian Graef, Giles Hammond, Gerhard Heinzel, Stefan Hild, Sabina Huttner, Russel Jones, Fumiko Kawazoe, Sina Koehlenbeck, Gerrit Kuehn, Harald Lueck, Kasem Mossavi, Jan H Poeld, Kentaro Somiya, Marielle van Veggel, Alexander Wanner, Benno Willke, Ken A Strain, Stefan Gossler, Karsten Danzmann
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7252
abstract: The AEI 10 m prototype interferometer facility is currently being constructed at the Albert Einstein Institute in Hannover, Germany. It aims to perform experiments for future gravitational wave detectors using advanced techniques. Seismically isolated benches are planned to be interferometrically interconnected and stabilized, forming a low-noise testbed inside a 100 m^3 ultra-high vacuum system. A well-stabilized high power laser will perform differential position readout of 100 g test masses in a 10 m suspended arm-cavity enhanced Michelson interferometer at the crossover of measurement (shot) noise and backaction (quantum radiation pressure) noise, the so-called Standard Quantum Limit (SQL). Such a sensitivity enables experiments in the highly topical field of macroscopic quantum mechanics. In this article we introduce the experimental facility and describe the methods employed, technical details of subsystems will be covered in future papers.

id: 1111.7272
title: Pure dephasing in flux qubits due to flux noise with spectral density scaling as $1/ f^¦Á$
authors: S. M. Anton, C. M¨¹ller, J. S. Birenbaum, S. R. O'Kelley, A. D. Fefferman, D. S. Golubev, G. C. Hilton, H.-M. Cho, K. D. Irwin, F. C. Wellstood, Gerd Sch?n, A. Shnirman, John Clarke
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 224505 (2012)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7272
abstract: For many types of superconducting qubits, magnetic flux noise is a source of pure dephasing. Measurements on a representative dc superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) over a range of temperatures show that $S_\Phi(f) = A^2/(f/1 \hbox{Hz})^\alpha$, where $S_\Phi$ is the flux noise spectral density, $A$ is of the order of 1 $\mu\Phi_0 \, \hbox{Hz}^{-1/2}$ and $0.61 \leq \alpha \leq 0.95$; $\Phi_{0}$ is the flux quantum. For a qubit with an energy level splitting linearly coupled to the applied flux, calculations of the dependence of the pure dephasing time $\tau_\phi$ of Ramsey and echo pulse sequences on $\alpha$ for fixed $A$ show that $\tau_\phi$ decreases rapidly as $\alpha$ is reduced. We find that $\tau_\phi$ is relatively insensitive to the noise bandwidth, $f_1 \leq f \leq f_2$, for all $\alpha$ provided the ultraviolet cutoff frequency $f_2 > 1/\tau_\phi$. We calculate the ratio $\tau_{\phi,E} / \tau_{\phi,R}$ of the echo ($E$) and Ramsey ($R$) sequences, and the dependence of the decay function on $\alpha$ and $f_2$. We investigate the case in which $S_\Phi(f_0)$ is fixed at the "pivot frequency" $f_0 \neq 1$ Hz while $\alpha$ is varied, and find that the choice of $f_0$ can greatly influence the sensitivity of $\tau_{\phi,E}$ and $\tau_{\phi,R}$ to the value of $\alpha$. Finally, we present calculated values of $\tau_\phi$ in a qubit corresponding to the values of $A$ and $\alpha$ measured in our SQUID.

id: 1111.7315
title: Resonance fluorescence in a waveguide geometry
authors: ?¨¹kr¨¹ Ekin Kocaba?, Eden Rephaeli, Shanhui Fan
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures and supplementary material (Mathematica code). This is the published version: typos are fixed, conclusion section is expanded, references are updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 023817 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7315
abstract: We show how to calculate the first- and second-order statistics of the scattered fields for an arbitrary intensity coherent state light field interacting with a two-level system in a waveguide geometry. Specifically, we calculate the resonance fluorescence from the qubit, using input-output formalism. We derive the transmission and reflection coefficients, and illustrate the bunching and anti-bunching of light that is scattered in the forward and backward directions, respectively. Our results agree with previous calculations on one- and two-photon scattering as well as those that are based on the master equation approach.

id: 1111.6119
title: Quench Dynamics in Randomly Generated Extended Quantum Models
authors: G. P. Brandino, A. De Luca, R. M. Konik, G. Mussardo
comments: 30 pages, 44 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 214435 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6119
abstract: We analyze the thermalization properties and the validity of the Eigenstate Thermalization Hypothesis in a generic class of quantum Hamiltonians where the quench parameter explicitly breaks a Z_2 symmetry. Natural realizations of such systems are given by random matrices expressed in a block form where the terms responsible for the quench dynamics are the off-diagonal blocks. Our analysis examines both dense and sparse random matrix realizations of the Hamiltonians and the observables. Sparse random matrices may be associated with local quantum Hamiltonians and they show a different spread of the observables on the energy eigenstates with respect to the dense ones. In particular, the numerical data seems to support the existence of rare states, i.e. states where the observables take expectation values which are different compared to the typical ones sampled by the micro-canonical distribution. In the case of sparse random matrices we also extract the finite size behavior of two different time scales associated with the thermalization process.

id: 1111.6859
title: The minimal length uncertainty and the quantum model for the stock market
authors: Pouria Pedram
comments: 13 pages, no figure
journal: Physica A 391, 2100 (2012)
subjects: General Finance (q-fin.GN); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6859
abstract: We generalize the recently proposed quantum model for the stock market by Zhang and Huang to make it consistent with the discrete nature of the stock price. In this formalism, the price of the stock and its trend satisfy the generalized uncertainty relation and the corresponding generalized Hamiltonian contains an additional term proportional to the fourth power of the trend. We study a driven infinite quantum well where information as the external field periodically fluctuates and show that the presence of the minimal trading value of stocks results in a positive shift in the characteristic frequencies of the quantum system. The connection between the information frequency and the transition probabilities is discussed finally.

id: 1111.7216
title: Deformed gas of p,q-bosons: virial expansion and virial coefficients
authors: A.M. Gavrilik, A.P. Rebesh
comments: 12 pages, 4 figures; v.2: minor changes
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. B 26, No.5 (2012) 1150030 (13 pp)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.7216
abstract: In the study of many-particle systems both the interaction of particles can be essential and such feature as their internal (composite) structure. To describe these aspects, the theory of deformed oscillators is very efficient. Viewing the particles as p,q-deformed bosons, in the corresponding p,q-Bose gas model we obtain in explicit form virial expansion along with the 2nd to 5th virial coefficients. The obtained virial coefficients depend on the deformation parameters p,q in the form symmetric under p<->q, and at p->1, q->1 turn into those known for usual bosons. Besides real parameters, we analyze the case of complex mutually conjugate p and q and find interesting implications. Also, the critical temperature is derived (for the p,q-Bose gas) and compared with the T_c of standard case of Bose condensation. Similar results are presented for the deformed Bose gas model of the Tamm-Dancoff type.

id: 1111.5984
title: Optical probes of the quantum vacuum: The photon polarization tensor in external fields
authors: Felix Karbstein, Lars Roessler, Babette D?brich, Holger Gies
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures; typo in Eq. (5) corrected (matches journal version)
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. Conf. Ser. 14, 403 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5984
abstract: The photon polarization tensor is the central building block of an effective theory description of photon propagation in the quantum vacuum. It accounts for the vacuum fluctuations of the underlying theory, and in the presence of external electromagnetic fields, gives rise to such striking phenomena as vacuum birefringence and dichroism. Standard approximations of the polarization tensor are often restricted to on-the-light-cone dynamics in homogeneous electromagnetic fields, and are limited to certain momentum regimes only. We devise two different strategies to go beyond these limitations: First, we aim at obtaining novel analytical insights into the photon polarization tensor for homogeneous fields, while retaining its full momentum dependence. Second, we employ wordline numerical methods to surpass the constant-field limit.

id: 1111.4321
title: A Multi-Path Interferometer on an Atom Chip
authors: Jovana Petrovic, Ivan Herrera, Pietro Lombardi, Francesco S. Cataliotti
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4321
abstract: Cold-atom interferometry is a powerful tool for high-precision measurements of the quantum properties of atoms, many-body interactions and gravity. Further enhancement of sensitivity and reduction of complexity of these devices are crucial conditions for success of their applications. Here we introduce a multi-path interferometric scheme that offers advances in both these aspects. It uses coherent coupling between Bose-Einstein condensates in different Zeeman states to generate an interferometric signal with sharp fringes. We realise such an interferometer as a compact easy-to-use atom-chip device and thus provide an alternative method for measurement of the light-atom and surface-atom interactions.

id: 1111.5686
title: Quantum dynamics of atomic bright solitons under splitting and re-collision, and implications for interferometry
authors: A. D. Martin, J. Ruostekoski
comments: 30 pages, 9 figures. Modified in response to referees' comments, and with additional simulation results
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 043040
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5686
abstract: We numerically study the classical and quantum dynamics of an atomic bright soliton in a highly-elongated one-dimensional harmonic trap with a Gaussian barrier. In the regime of the recent experiment by Dyke {\it et al.}, the system realizes a coherent nonlinear soliton beam-splitter and interferometer whose accuracy we analyze. In the case of tighter radial trap confinement and enhanced quantum fluctuations, a split soliton can represent a spin-squeezed, or alternatively, a fragmented condensate with reduced phase-coherence that can be measured by interfering the split soliton by the barrier. We also find large quantum mechanical uncertainties in the soliton's position and momentum due to nonlinear interaction with the barrier.

id: 1111.4910
title: Nonequilibrium Polaritonics - Nonlinear Effects and Optical Switching
authors: Regine Frank
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1206.1462
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4910
abstract: We report a theoretical non-equilibrium description of polaritonics and we propose ultrafast all- optical switching due to highly nonlinear polaritonics. The electronic band structure within gold (Au) nano grains is modified by external laser light. The Au grains are coupled to a single mode photonic waveguide and we derive a strong transmission reduction of switching originating from the establishd quantum interference with a finite lifetime.

id: 1111.1472
title: The Problem of Time and Quantum Cosmology in the Relational Particle Mechanics Arena
authors: Edward Anderson
comments: This v3 is a v substantial upgrade: previous v's did not yet announce a local solution, we're up by 77 pages (to 386) & by 35 figs (to 93). It is now a quartet of Theses, the Problem of Time one of v1 splitting into cl and qm parts. I Cl RPM's. II Cl Problem of Time. III QM RPM's. IV QM Problem of Time. Contains over 100 interesting & foundational suggestions for future projects
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.1472
abstract: This article contains a local solution to the notorious Problem of Time in Quantum Gravity at the conceptual level and which is actually realizable for the relational triangle. The Problem of Time is that `time' in GR and `time' in ordinary quantum theory are mutually incompatible notions, which is problematic in trying to put these two theories together to form a theory of Quantum Gravity. Four frontiers to this resolution in full GR are identified, alongside three further directions not yet conquered even for the relational triangle. This article is also the definitive review on relational particle models originally due to Barbour (2003: dynamics of pure shape) and Barbour and Bertotti (1982: dynamics of shape and scale). These are exhibited as useful toy models of background independence, which I argue to be the `other half' of GR to relativistic gravitation, as well as the originator of the Problem of Time itself. Barbour's work and my localized extension of it are shown to be the classical precursor of the background independence that then manifests itself at the quantum level as the full-blown Problem of Time. In fact 7/8ths of the Isham--Kuchar Problem of Time facets are already present in classical GR; even classical mechanics in relational particle mechanics formulation exhibits 5/8ths of these! In addition to Isham, Kuchar and Barbour, the other principal authors whose works are drawn upon in building this Problem of Time approach are Kendall (relational models only: pure-shape configuration spaces), Dirac, Teitelboim and Halliwell (Problem of Time resolving components). The recommended scheme is a combination of the Machian semiclassical approach, histories theory and records theory.

id: 1111.6986
title: Apparent Correction to the Speed of Light in a Gravitational Potential
authors: J. D. Franson
comments: 25 pages, 6 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 16, 065008 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.6986
abstract: The effects of physical interactions are usually incorporated into the quantum theory by including the corresponding terms in the Hamiltonian. Here we consider the effects of including the gravitational potential energy of massive particles in the Hamiltonian of quantum electrodynamics. This results in a predicted correction to the speed of light that is proportional to the fine structure constant. The correction to the speed of light obtained in this way depends on the gravitational potential and not the gravitational field, which is not gauge invariant and presumably nonphysical. Nevertheless, the predicted results are in reasonable agreement with experimental observations from Supernova 1987a.

id: 1111.5608
title: Dynamical Casimir effect in a Josephson metamaterial
authors: Pasi L?hteenm?ki, G. S. Paraoanu, Juha Hassel, Pertti J. Hakonen
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, supplement at this http URL
journal: Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. {\bf 110}, 4234 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5608
abstract: Vacuum modes confined into an electromagnetic cavity give rise to an attractive interaction between the opposite walls. When the distance between the walls is changed non-adiabatically, virtual vacuum modes are turned into real particles, i.e. photons are generated out of the vacuum. These effects are known as the static and dynamical Casimir effect, respectively. Here we demonstrate the dynamical Casimir effect using a Josephson metamaterial embedded in a microwave cavity at 5.4 GHz. We achieve the non-adiabatic change in the effective length of the cavity by flux-modulation of the SQUID-based metamaterial, which results in a few percent variation in the velocity of light. We show that energy-correlated photons are generated from the ground state of the cavity and that their power spectra display a bimodal frequency distribution. These results are in excellent agreement with theoretical predictions, all the way to the regime where classical parametric effects cannot be of consequence.

