id: 1112.0116
title: General Quantum State Swap: an XY model analysis
authors: Ben-Qiong Liu, Lian-Ao Wu, Bin Shao, Jian Zou
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0116
abstract: We consider an exact state swap, defined as the swap between two quantum states |A> and |B> in the Hilbert space of a quantum system. We show that, given an arbitrary Hamiltonian dynamics, there is a straightforward approach to calculating the probability of the occurrence of an exact state swap, by employing an exchange operator P_{AB}. For a given dynamics, the feasibilities of proposed quantum setups, such as quantum state amplifications and transfers can be evaluated. These setups are only distinguished by different forms of P_{AB}, which easily lead to innovative designs of quantum setups or devices. We illustrate the method with the isotropic XY model, whose unnoticed features are revealed.

id: 1112.0171
title: First-order coherence versus entanglement in a nano-mechanical cavity
authors: Li-hui Sun, Gao-xiang Li, Zbigniew Ficek
comments: Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A85, 022327 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0171
abstract: The coherence and correlation properties of effective bosonic modes of a nano-mechanical cavity composed of an oscillating mirror and containing an optical lattice of regularly trapped atoms are studied. The system is modeled as a three-mode system, two orthogonal polariton modes representing the coupled optical lattice and the cavity mode, and one mechanical mode representing the oscillating mirror. We examine separately the cases of two-mode and three-mode interactions which are distinguished by a suitable tuning of the mechanical mode to the polariton mode frequencies. In the two-mode case, we find that the occurrence of entanglement between one of the polariton modes and the mechanical mode is highly sensitive to the presence of the first-order coherence between the modes. In particular, the creation of the first-order coherence among the modes is achieved at the expense of entanglement between the modes. In the three-mode case, we show that no entanglement is created between the independent polariton modes if both modes are coupled to the mechanical mode by the parametric interaction. There is no entanglement between the polaritons even if the oscillating mirror is damped by a squeezed vacuum field. The interaction creates the first-order coherence between the polaritons and the degree of coherence can, in principle, be as large as unity. This demonstrates that the oscillating mirror can establish the first-order coherence between two independent thermal modes. A further analysis shows that two independent thermal modes can be made entangled in the system only when one of the modes is coupled to the intermediate mode by a parametric interaction and the other is coupled by a linear-mixing interaction.

id: 1112.0198
title: Status of the GEO 600 squeezed-light laser
authors: Alexander Khalaidovski, Henning Vahlbruch, Nico Lastzka, Christian Graef, Harald Lueck, Karsten Danzmann, Hartmut Grote, Roman Schnabel
comments: Proceeding of the 9th Edoardo Amaldi Conference on Gravitational Waves
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0198
abstract: In the course of the high-frequency upgrade of GEO 600, its optical configuration was extended by a squeezed-light laser [1]. Recently, a non-classically enhanced measurement sensitivity of GEO 600 was reported [2]. In this paper, a characterization of the squeezed-light laser is presented. Thereupon, the status of the integration into GEO 600 is reviewed, focussing on the sources of optical loss limiting the shot noise reduction by squeezing at the moment. Finally, the possibilities for a future loss reduction are discussed.

id: 1112.0200
title: Quantum Transitions in Terms of non-Adiabatic Dressed States
authors: I. G. Koprinkov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0200
abstract: Nonadiabatic dressed states of a quantum system interacting with an external electromagnetic field and the environment are presented. The relevant matrix elements within the specified states are found. A closed form expression of the quantum transitions based on the nonadiabatic dressed states is proposed for the first time.

id: 1112.0252
title: Non-Markovian Dynamics of Open Quantum Systems: Stochastic Equations and their Perturbative Solutions
authors: C. H. Fleming, B. L. Hu
comments: 28 pages, 1 figure
journal: Annals of Physics 327 (2012), pp. 1238-1276
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0252
abstract: We treat several key stochastic equations for non-Markovian open quantum system dynamics and present a formalism for finding solutions to them via canonical perturbation theory, without making the Born-Markov or rotating wave approximations (RWA). This includes master equations of the (asymptotically) stationary, periodic, and time-nonlocal type. We provide proofs on the validity and meaningfulness of the late-time perturbative master equation and on the preservation of complete positivity despite a general lack of Lindblad form. More specifically, we show how the algebraic generators satisfy the theorem of Lindblad and Gorini, Kossakowski and Sudarshan, even though the dynamical generators do not. These proofs ensure the mathematical viability and physical soundness of solutions to non-Markovian processes. Within the same formalism we also expand upon known results for non-Markovian corrections to the quantum regression theorem. Several directions where these results can be usefully applied to are also described, including the analysis of near-resonant systems where the RWA is inapplicable and the calculation of the reduced equilibrium state of open systems.

id: 1112.0254
title: Dynamical Gaussian state transfer with quantum error correcting architecture
authors: Go Tajimi, Naoki Yamamoto
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, references added, some typos fixed
journal: Physical Review A 85, 022303 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0254
abstract: Transferring a quantum state of a light field to a memory is of particular importance. However, this transfer is usually hampered because the memory system is subjected to some noise and this can limit the performance of the state transfer to a great extent. In this paper, we consider the transfer of a Gaussian state of light to a linear medium memory such as an opto-mechanical oscillator and propose a dynamical feedback controller that suppresses the noise in the memory system. To protect an unknown state, the feedback scheme employs the specific configuration of the quantum error correction; that is, a three-mode Gaussian state having appropriate syndromes is taken as the input. Correspondingly, the memory consists of three independent linear systems. The syndrome errors are estimated continuously in time through the measurement of the output field, and the results are then fed back to control the system. Because the input is Gaussian and the systems are all linear, it is possible to formulate the problem using the framework of the celebrated classical Kalman filtering and linear quadratic Gaussian control. A numerical simulation demonstrates the effectiveness of the control scheme.

id: 1112.0265
title: Physical regularization for the spin-1/2 Aharonov-Bohm problem in conical space
authors: F. M. Andrade, E. O. Silva, M. Pereira
comments: Revtex4, 5 pages, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. D 85, 041701(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0265
abstract: We examine the bound state and scattering problem of a spin-one-half particle undergone to an Aharonov-Bohm potential in a conical space in the nonrelativistic limit. The crucial problem of the \delta-function singularity coming from the Zeeman spin interaction with the magnetic flux tube is solved through the self-adjoint extension method. Using two different approaches already known in the literature, both based on the self-adjoint extension method, we obtain the self-adjoint extension parameter to the bound state and scattering scenarios in terms of the physics of the problem. It is shown that such a parameter is the same for both situations. The method is general and is suitable for any quantum system with a singular Hamiltonian that has bound and scattering states.

id: 1112.0276
title: Extraction of information from a single quantum
authors: G. S. Paraoanu
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 044101 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0276
abstract: We investigate the possibility of performing quantum tomography on a single qubit with generalized partial measurements and the technique of measurement reversal. Using concepts from statistical decision theory, we prove that, somewhat surprisingly, no information can be obtained using this scheme. It is shown that, irrespective of the measurement technique used, extraction of information from single quanta is at odds with other general principles of quantum physics.

id: 1112.0307
title: Fast controlled unitary protocols using group or quasigroup structures
authors: Li Yu
comments: Many corrections including a change in the main result in Theorem 3. The results in Sec. IV will be improved with a different method in a later version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0307
abstract: A nonlocal bipartite unitary gate can sometimes be implemented using prior entanglement and only one round of classical communication in which the two parties send messages to each other simultaneously. This cuts the classical communication time by a half compared to the usual protocols, which require back-and-forth classical communication. We introduce such a "fast" protocol that can implement a class of controlled unitaries exactly, where the controlled operators form a subset of a projective representation of a finite group, which may be Abelian or non-Abelian. The entanglement cost is only related to the size of the group and is independent of the dimension of the systems. We also introduce a second fast protocol that can implement any given controlled unitary approximately. This protocol uses the algebraic structure of right quasigroups, which are generalizations of quasigroups, the latter being equivalent to Latin squares. This second protocol could optionally use shared classical randomness as a resource, in addition to using entanglement. When compared with other known fast unitary protocols, the entanglement cost of this second protocol is lower for general controlled unitaries except for some rare cases.

id: 1112.0333
title: Exploring the trade-off between fidelity- and time-optimal control of quantum unitary transformations
authors: Katharine W. Moore Tibbetts, Constantin Brif, Matthew D. Grace, Ashley Donovan, David L. Hocker, Tak-San Ho, Rebing Wu, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 23 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 062309 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0333
abstract: Generating a unitary transformation in the shortest possible time is of practical importance to quantum information processing because it helps to reduce decoherence effects and improve robustness to additive control field noise. Many analytical and numerical studies have identified the minimum time necessary to implement a variety of quantum gates on coupled-spin qubit systems. This work focuses on exploring the Pareto front that quantifies the trade-off between the competitive objectives of maximizing the gate fidelity $\mathcal{F}$ and minimizing the control time $T$. In order to identify the critical time $T^{\ast}$, below which the target transformation is not reachable, as well as to determine the associated Pareto front, we introduce a numerical method of Pareto front tracking (PFT). We consider closed two- and multi-qubit systems with constant inter-qubit coupling strengths and each individual qubit controlled by a separate time-dependent external field. Our analysis demonstrates that unit fidelity (to a desired numerical accuracy) can be achieved at any $T \geq T^{\ast}$ in most cases. However, the optimization search effort rises superexponentially as $T$ decreases and approaches $T^{\ast}$. Furthermore, a small decrease in control time incurs a significant penalty in fidelity for $T < T^{\ast}$, indicating that it is generally undesirable to operate below the critical time. We investigate the dependence of the critical time $T^{\ast}$ on the coupling strength between qubits and the target gate transformation. Practical consequences of these findings for laboratory implementation of quantum gates are discussed.

id: 1112.0338
title: Atomic Frequency Comb storage as a slow-light effect
authors: M. Bonarota, J.-L. Le Gou?t, S. A. Moiseev, T. Chaneli¨¨re
comments: Submitted to: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys., Special Issue on Quantum Memory; revised introduction, figure 1 added
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 124002 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0338
abstract: Atomic Frequency Comb (AFC) protocol has been particularly successful recently to demonstrate the storage of quantum information in a solid medium (rare-earth doped crystals). The AFC is inspired by the photon-echo technique. We show in this paper that the AFC is actually closely related to the slow-light based storage protocols extensively used in atomic vapours. Experimental verifications are performed in thulium doped YAG (Tm3+:YAG). We clarify the interplay between absorption and dispersion and propose a classification of the existing protocols.

id: 1112.0339
title: Enhancing the intense field control of molecular fragmentation
authors: Fatima Anis, B. D. Esry
comments: 5 pages, 4 figues
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0339
abstract: We describe a pump-probe scheme with which the spatial asymmetry of dissociating molecular fragments --- as controlled by the carrier-envelope phase of an intense few-cycle laser pulse --- can be enhanced by an order of magnitude or more. We illustrate the scheme using extensive, full-dimensional calculations for dissociation of H$_2^+$ and include the averaging necessary for comparison with experiment.

id: 1112.0357
title: Non-Demolition Dispersive Measurement of a Superconducting Qubit with a Microstrip SQUID Amplifier
authors: G.P. Berman, D.I. Kamenev, D. Kinion, V.I. Tsifrinovich
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0357
abstract: We have studied the possibility of a single-shot non-demolition measurement of a superconducting qubit using a microstrip SQUID amplifier (MSA). The Johnson noise generated by all resistors in the MSA is taken into consideration. We show that a single-shot non-demolition measurement is possible with six photons in the measurement resonator. For a phase qubit inductively coupled to a measurement resonator we have obtained the expression for the mutual inductance required for measurement of the qubit state.

id: 1112.0363
title: Einstein's Hydrogen Atom
authors: Y. S. Kim
comments: LaTex 15 pages, 5 figures, presented at the International Workshop on Physics and Mathematics (Hangzhou, China, July 2011), to be published in the proceddings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0363
abstract: In 1905, Einstein formulated his special relativity for point particles. For those particles, his Lorentz covariance and energy-momentum relation are by now firmly established. How about the hydrogen atom? It is possible to perform Lorentz boosts on the proton assuming that it is a point particle. Then what happens to the electron orbit? The orbit could go through an elliptic deformation, but it is not possible to understand this problem without quantum mechanics, where the orbit is a standing wave leading to a localized probability distribution. Is this concept consistent with Einstein's Lorentz covariance? Dirac, Wigner, and Feynman contributed important building blocks for understanding this problem. The remaining problem is to assemble those blocks to construct a Lorentz-covariant picture of quantum bound states based on standing waves. It is shown possible to assemble those building blocks using harmonic oscillators.

id: 1112.0378
title: Entanglement and nonlocality in multi-particle systems
authors: M. D. Reid, Q. Y. He, P. D. Drummond
comments: 
journal: Frontiers of Physics 7 (1), 72-85 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0378
abstract: Entanglement, the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) paradox and Bell's failure of local-hidden-variable (LHV) theories are three historically famous forms of "quantum nonlocality". We give experimental criteria for these three forms of nonlocality in multi-particle systems, with the aim of better understanding the transition from microscopic to macroscopic nonlocality. We examine the nonlocality of N separated spin J systems. First, we obtain multipartite Bell inequalities that address the correlation between spin values measured at each site, and then we review spin squeezing inequalities that address the degree of reduction in the variance of collective spins. The latter have been particularly useful as a tool for investigating entanglement in Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC). We present solutions for two topical quantum states: multi-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states, and the ground state of a two-well BEC.

id: 1112.0380
title: Quantum dynamics in ultra-cold atomic physics
authors: Q. Y. He, M. D. Reid, B. Opanchuk, R. Polkinghorne, Laura E. C. Rosales-Z¨¢rate, P. D. Drummond
comments: 
journal: Frontiers of Physics 7 (1), 16-30 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0380
abstract: We review recent developments in the theory of quantum dynamics in ultra-cold atomic physics, including exact techniques, but focusing on methods based on phase-space mappings that are appli- cable when the complexity becomes exponentially large. These phase-space representations include the truncated Wigner, positive-P and general Gaussian operator representations which can treat both bosons and fermions. These phase-space methods include both traditional approaches using a phase-space of classical dimension, and more recent methods that use a non-classical phase-space of increased dimensionality. Examples used include quantum EPR entanglement of a four-mode BEC, time-reversal tests of dephasing in single-mode traps, BEC quantum collisions with up to 106 modes and 105 interacting particles, quantum interferometry in a multi-mode trap with nonlinear absorp- tion, and the theory of quantum entropy in phase-space. We also treat the approach of variational optimization of the sampling error, giving an elementary example of a nonlinear oscillator.

id: 1112.0421
title: Quantum Public-Key Encryption Schemes Based on Conjugate Coding
authors: Li Yang, Biyao Yang, Chong Xiang
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0421
abstract: We present several quantum public-key encryption (QPKE) protocols designed with conjugate coding single-photon string, thus may be realized in laboratory with nowadays techniques. Two of these schemes are orienting one-bit message, and are extended to two kinds of QPKE schemes orienting multi-bits. The novel structure of these protocols ensures they are information-theoretically secure with, probably, a bound greater than any given polynomial of $n$. Finally, we describe a way to conceal the classical part of the public key with quantum state, this idea is expected to enhance a scheme to be information-theoretically secure.

id: 1112.0437
title: Barycentric measure of quantum entanglement
authors: Wojciech Ganczarek, Marek Ku?, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032314 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0437
abstract: Majorana representation of quantum states by a constellation of n 'stars' (points on the sphere) can be used to describe any pure state of a simple system of dimension n+1 or a permutation symmetric pure state of a composite system consisting of n qubits. We analyze the variance of the distribution of the stars, which can serve as a measure of the degree of non-coherence for simple systems, or an entanglement measure for composed systems. Dynamics of the Majorana points induced by a unitary dynamics of the pure state is investigated.

id: 1112.0446
title: Frequency modulated pulses for quantum bits coupled to time-dependent baths
authors: Benedikt Fauseweh, Stefano Pasini, G?tz S. Uhrig
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Physical Review A 85, 022310 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0446
abstract: We consider the coherent control of a quantum bit by the use of short pulses with finite duration \tau_p. By shaping the pulse, we perturbatively decouple the dynamics of the bath from the dynamics of the quantum bit during the pulse. Such shaped pulses provide single quantum bit gates robust against decoherence which are useful for quantum information processing. We extend previous results in two ways: (i) we treat frequency modulated pulses and (ii) we pass from time-independent baths to analytically time-dependent baths. First and second order solutions for \pi- and \pi/2-pulses are presented. They are useful in experiments where amplitude modulation is difficult to realize.

id: 1112.0456
title: Quantum memory in warm rubidium vapor with buffer gas
authors: Mark Bashkansky, Fredrik K. Fatemi, Igor Vurgaftman
comments: 3 pages. Accepted to Optics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0456
abstract: The realization of quantum memory using warm atomic vapor cells is appealing because of their commercial availability and the perceived reduction in experimental complexity. In spite of the ambiguous results reported in the literature, we demonstrate that quantum memory can be implemented in a single cell with buffer gas using the geometry where the write and read beams are nearly co-propagating. The emitted Stokes and anti-Stokes photons display cross-correlation values greater than 2, characteristic of quantum states, for delay times up to 4 microseconds.

id: 1112.0459
title: Initialization and Readout of Spin Chains for Quantum Information Transport
authors: Gurneet Kaur, Paola Cappellaro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0459
abstract: Linear chains of spins acting as quantum wires are a promising approach to achieve scalable quantum information processors. Nuclear spins in apatite crystals provide an ideal test-bed for the experimental study of quantum information transport, as they closely emulate a one-dimensional spin chain. Nuclear Magnetic Resonance techniques can be used to drive the spin chain dynamics and probe the accompanying transport mechanisms. Here we demonstrate initialization and readout capabilities in these spin chains, even in the absence of single-spin addressability. These control schemes enable preparing desired states for quantum information transport and probing their evolution under the transport Hamiltonian. We further optimize the control schemes by a detailed analysis of $^{19}$F NMR lineshape.

id: 1112.0461
title: Strong Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering with unconditional entangled states
authors: Sebastian Steinlechner, J?ran Bauchrowitz, Tobias Eberle, Roman Schnabel
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022104 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0461
abstract: In 1935 Schr\"odinger introduced the terms entanglement and steering in the context of the famous gedanken experiment discussed by Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen (EPR). Here, we report on a sixfold increase of the observed EPR-steering effect as quantified by the Reid-criterion. We achieved an unprecedented low conditional variance product of about 0.04 < 1, where 1 is the upper bound below which steering is present. The steering effect was observed on an unconditional two-mode-squeezed entangled state that contained a total vacuum state contribution of less than 8%, including detection imperfections. Together with the achieved high interference contrast between the entangled state and a bright coherent laser field, our state is compatible with efficient applications in high-power laser interferometers and fiber-based networks for entanglement distribution.

id: 1112.0517
title: Entanglement spectra of the q-deformed Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki model and matrix product states
authors: Raul A. Santos, Francis N. C. Paraan, Vladimir E. Korepin, Andreas Kl¨¹mper
comments: 5 pages, 4 PDF figures; v2: 6 pages, 4 PDF figures. Introduction and conclusions expanded
journal: Europhys. Lett., 98 (2012) 37005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0517
abstract: We exactly calculate the reduced density matrix of matrix product states (MPS). Our compact result enables one to perform analytic studies of entanglement in MPS. In particular, we consider the MPS ground states of two anisotropic spin chains. One is a q-deformed Affleck-Kennedy-Lieb-Tasaki (AKLT) model and the other is a general spin-1 quantum antiferromagnet with nearest-neighbor interactions. Our analysis shows how anisotropy affects entanglement on different continuous parameter manifolds. We also construct an effective boundary spin model that describes a block of spins in the ground state of the q-deformed AKLT Hamiltonian. The temperature of this effective model is given in terms of the deformation parameter q.

id: 1112.0523
title: Approximate analytical results on the cavity dynamical Casimir effect in the presence of a two-level atom
authors: A. V. Dodonov, V. V. Dodonov
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 015805 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0523
abstract: We study analytically the photon generation from vacuum due to the Dynamical Casimir effect in a cavity with a two-level atom, prepared initially in an arbitrary pure state. Performing small unitary transformations we obtain closed analytical expressions for the probability amplitudes and other important quantities in the resonant/dispersive regimes.

id: 1112.0543
title: Uncertainty relations from simple entropic properties
authors: Patrick J. Coles, Roger Colbeck, Li Yu, Michael Zwolak
comments: 4+4 pages, To appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 210405 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0543
abstract: Uncertainty relations provide constraints on how well the outcomes of incompatible measurements can be predicted, and, as well as being fundamental to our understanding of quantum theory, they have practical applications such as for cryptography and witnessing entanglement. Here we shed new light on the entropic form of these relations, showing that they follow from a few simple entropic properties, including the data processing inequality. We prove these relations without relying on the exact expression for the entropy, and hence show that a single technique applies to several entropic quantities, including the von Neumann entropy, min- and max-entropies and the Renyi entropies.

id: 1112.0548
title: The quantum query complexity of read-many formulas
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Shelby Kimmel, Robin Kothari
comments: 15 pages
journal: Lecture Notes in Computer Science 7501, pp. 337-348 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0548
abstract: The quantum query complexity of evaluating any read-once formula with n black-box input bits is Theta(sqrt(n)). However, the corresponding problem for read-many formulas (i.e., formulas in which the inputs have fanout) is not well understood. Although the optimal read-once formula evaluation algorithm can be applied to any formula, it can be suboptimal if the inputs have large fanout. We give an algorithm for evaluating any formula with n inputs, size S, and G gates using O(min{n, sqrt{S}, n^{1/2} G^{1/4}}) quantum queries. Furthermore, we show that this algorithm is optimal, since for any n,S,G there exists a formula with n inputs, size at most S, and at most G gates that requires Omega(min{n, sqrt{S}, n^{1/2} G^{1/4}}) queries. We also show that the algorithm remains nearly optimal for circuits of any particular depth k >= 3, and we give a linear-size circuit of depth 2 that requires Omega (n^{5/9}) queries. Applications of these results include a Omega (n^{19/18}) lower bound for Boolean matrix product verification, a nearly tight characterization of the quantum query complexity of evaluating constant-depth circuits with bounded fanout, new formula gate count lower bounds for several functions including PARITY, and a construction of an AC^0 circuit of linear size that can only be evaluated by a formula with Omega(n^{2-epsilon}) gates.

id: 1112.0559
title: Dynamics of states in the nonlinear interaction regime between a three-level atom and generalized coherent states and their non-classical features
authors: M K Tavassoly, F. Yadollahi
comments: 15 pages, 17 figures, Accepted for publication in Int. J. Mod. Phys. B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0559
abstract: The present study investigates the interaction of an equidistant three-level atom and a single-mode cavity field that has been initially prepared in a generalized coherent state. The atom-field interaction is considered to be, in general, intensity-dependent. We suppose that the nonlinearity of the initial generalized coherent state of the field and the intensity-dependent coupling between atom and field are distinctly chosen. Interestingly, an exact analytical solution for the time evolution of the state of atom-field system can be found in this general regime in terms of the nonlinearity functions. Finally, the presented formalism has been applied to a few known physical systems such as Gilmore-Perelomov and Barut-Girardello coherent states of SU(1,1) group, as well as a few special cases of interest. Mean photon number and atomic population inversion will be calculated, in addition to investigating particular non-classicality features such as revivals, sub-Poissonian statistics and quadratures squeezing of the obtained states of the entire system. Also, our results will be compared with some of the earlier works in this particular subject.

id: 1112.0632
title: Numerical model for macroscopic quantum superpositions based on phase-covariant quantum cloning
authors: Adam Buraczewski, Magdalena Stobi¨½ska
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures. Accepted for publication in Comp. Phys. Commun
journal: Computer Physics Communications 183 (2012) pp. 2245-2253
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0632
abstract: Macroscopically populated quantum superpositions pose a question to what extent macroscopic world obeys quantum mechanical laws. Recently such superpositions for light, generated by optimal quantum cloner, were demonstrated. They are of fundamental and technological interest. We present numerical methods useful for modeling of these states. Their properties are governed by Gaussian hypergeometric function, which cannot be reduced to neither elementary nor easily tractable functions. We discuss the method of efficient computation of this function for half integer parameters and moderate value of its argument. We show how to dynamically estimate a cutoff for infinite sums involving this function performed over its parameters. Our algorithm exceeds double precision and is parallelizable. Depending on the experimental parameters it chooses one of the several ways of summation to achieve the best efficiency. Methods presented here can be adjusted for analysis of similar experimental schemes.

id: 1112.0638
title: A generalization of Schur-Weyl duality with applications in quantum estimation
authors: Iman Marvian, Robert W. Spekkens
comments: The published version, Typos corrected, 40 pages, 2 figures
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 331, 431-475 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0638
abstract: Schur-Weyl duality is a powerful tool in representation theory which has many applications to quantum information theory. We provide a generalization of this duality and demonstrate some of its applications. In particular, we use it to develop a general framework for the study of a family of quantum estimation problems wherein one is given n copies of an unknown quantum state according to some prior and the goal is to estimate certain parameters of the given state. In particular, we are interested to know whether collective measurements are useful and if so to find an upper bound on the amount of entanglement which is required to achieve the optimal estimation. In the case of pure states, we show that commutativity of the set of observables that define the estimation problem implies the sufficiency of unentangled measurements.

id: 1112.0661
title: Feshbach Projection Operator Partitioning for Quantum Open Systems: Stochastic Approach
authors: Jun Jing, Lian-Ao Wu, J. Q. You, Ting Yu
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 85, 032123 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0661
abstract: Dynamics of a state of interest coupled to a non-Markovian environment is studied for the first time by concatenating the non-Markovian quantum state diffusion (QSD) equation and the Feshbach projection operator partitioning technique. An exact one-dimensional stochastic master equation is derived as a general tool for controlling an arbitrary component of the system. We show that the exact one-dimensional stochastic master equation can be efficiently solved beyond the widely adapted second-order master equations. The generality and applicability of this hybrid approach is justified and exemplified by several coherence control problems concerning quantum state protection against leakage and decoherence.

id: 1112.0736
title: Measurement-induced nonlocality based on the relative entropy
authors: Zhengjun Xi, Xiaoguang Wang, Yongming Li
comments: 5 pages, 1 figures, version accepted Phys. Rev. A, PHYSICAL REVIEW A 85, 042325 (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0736
abstract: We quantify the measurement-induced nonlocality [Luo and Fu, Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 120401 (2011)] from the perspective of the relative entropy. This quantification leads to an operational interpretation for the measurementinduced nonlocality, namely, it is the maximal entropy increase after the locally invariant measurements. The relative entropy of nonlocality is upper bounded by the entropy of the measured subsystem. We establish a relationship between the relative entropy of nonlocality and the geometric nonlocality based on the Hilbert- Schmidt norm, and show that it is equal to the maximal distillable entanglement. Several trade-off relations are obtained for tripartite pure states. We also give explicit expressions for the relative entropy of nonlocality for Bell-diagonal states.

id: 1112.0738
title: Effects of impurity on fidelity of quantum state transfer via spin channels
authors: Wen-Wen Zhang, Ming-Liang Hu, Dong-Ping Tian
comments: 5 pags
journal: Physica B, 2011, 406(2): 270-274
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0738
abstract: By adopting the concept of fidelity, we investigated efficiency of quantum state transfer with the XX chain as the quantum channel. Different from the previous works, we concentrated on effects of spin and magnetic impurity on fidelity of quantum state transfer. Our results revealed that the spin impurity cannot prevent one from implementing perfect transfer of an arbitrary one-qubit pure state across the spin channel, however, the presence of magnetic impurity or both spin and magnetic impurities may destroy the otherwise perfect spin channels.

id: 1112.0757
title: The evolution of quantal uncertainties in at most quadratic potentials
authors: Natascha Riahi
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0757
abstract: We investigate the time evolution of momentum and position uncertainties for wave packets of arbitrary shape in at most quadratic potentials. We consider all possible cases of potentials and initial conditions. Doing so we see that the mixed uncertainty and for Gaussian wave packets moreover the chirp are convenient and important tools to identify the characteristic features of uncertainty dynamics. Special attention is given to the spreading and narrowing of wave packets.

id: 1112.0762
title: Ground-State Spaces of Frustration-Free Hamiltonians
authors: Jianxin Chen, Zhengfeng Ji, David Kribs, Zhaohui Wei, Bei Zeng
comments: 23 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0762
abstract: We study the ground-state space properties for frustration-free Hamiltonians. We introduce a concept of `reduced spaces' to characterize local structures of ground-state spaces. For a many-body system, we characterize mathematical structures for the set $\Theta_k$ of all the $k$-particle reduced spaces, which with a binary operation called join forms a semilattice that can be interpreted as an abstract convex structure. The smallest nonzero elements in $\Theta_k$, called atoms, are analogs of extreme points. We study the properties of atoms in $\Theta_k$ and discuss its relationship with ground states of $k$-local frustration-free Hamiltonians. For spin-1/2 systems, we show that all the atoms in $\Theta_2$ are unique ground states of some 2-local frustration-free Hamiltonians. Moreover, we show that the elements in $\Theta_k$ may not be the join of atoms, indicating a richer structure for $\Theta_k$ beyond the convex structure. Our study of $\Theta_k$ deepens the understanding of ground-state space properties for frustration-free Hamiltonians, from a new angle of reduced spaces.

id: 1112.0808
title: Epsilon-net method for optimizations over separable states
authors: Yaoyun Shi, Xiaodi Wu
comments: 21 pages. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0808
abstract: We give algorithms for the optimization problem: $\max_\rho \ip{Q}{\rho}$, where $Q$ is a Hermitian matrix, and the variable $\rho$ is a bipartite {\em separable} quantum state. This problem lies at the heart of several problems in quantum computation and information, such as the complexity of QMA(2). While the problem is NP-hard, our algorithms are better than brute force for several instances of interest. In particular, they give PSPACE upper bounds on promise problems admitting a QMA(2) protocol in which the verifier performs only logarithmic number of elementary gate on both proofs, as well as the promise problem of deciding if a bipartite local Hamiltonian has large or small ground energy. For $Q\ge0$, our algorithm runs in time exponential in $\|Q\|_F$. While the existence of such an algorithm was first proved recently by Brand{\~a}o, Christandl and Yard [{\em Proceedings of the 43rd annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computation}, 343--352, 2011], our algorithm is conceptually simpler.

id: 1112.0809
title: Angular-momentum nonclassicality by breaking classical bounds on statistics
authors: Alfredo Luis, ?ngel Rivas
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 042111 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0809
abstract: We derive simple practical procedures revealing the quantum behavior of angular momentum variables by the violation of classical upper bounds on the statistics. Data analysis is minimum and definite conclusions are obtained without evaluation of moments, or any other more sophisticated procedures. These nonclassical tests are very general and independent of other typical quantum signatures of nonclassical behavior such as sub-Poissonian statistics, squeezing, or oscillatory statistics, being insensitive to the nonclassical behavior displayed by other variables.

id: 1112.0820
title: Reply to comment on "Information Flow of quantum states interacting with closed timelike curves"
authors: T. C. Ralph, C. R. Myers
comments: 
journal: Phys Rev A 84 056302 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0820
abstract: We respond to the comment by Klobus, et al by emphasizing that the equivalent circuit, once constructed, obeys the standard rules of quantum mechanics - hence there is no ambiguity in how to choose initial states in our model. We discuss the distinction between correlated ensembles produced non-locally via measurements on entangled states and those produced via local preparation.

id: 1112.0825
title: Near-deterministic quantum teleportation and resource-efficient quantum computation using linear optics and hybrid qubits
authors: Seung-Woo Lee, Hyunseok Jeong
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures; extended version, title, abstract and figures changed, details added, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022326 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0825
abstract: We propose a scheme to realize deterministic quantum teleportation using linear optics and hybrid qubits. It enables one to efficiently perform teleportation and universal linear-optical gate operations in a simple and near-deterministic manner using all-optical hybrid entanglement as off-line resources. Our analysis shows that our new approach can outperforms major previous ones when considering both the resource requirements and fault tolerance limits.

id: 1112.0854
title: New approach for normalization and photon-number distributions of photon-added (-subtracted) squeezed thermal states
authors: Li-Yun Hu, Zhi-Ming Zhang
comments: 5 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0854
abstract: Using the thermal field dynamics theory to convert the thermal state to a "pure" state in doubled Fock space, it is found that the average value of e^{fa^{{\dag}}a} under squeezed thermal state (STS) is just the generating function of Legendre polynomials, a remarkable result. Based on this point, the normalization and photon-number distributions of m-photon added (or subtracted) STS are conviently obtained as the Legendre polynomials. This new concise method can be expanded to the entangled case.

id: 1112.0866
title: Peak Doubling in SPDC Coincidence Spectra with a Short-Pulse Pump
authors: Mikhail V. Fedorov, Julia M. Mikhailova, Peter A. Volkov
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0866
abstract: We describe a double-peak structure of the coincidence spectrum of biphoton states in the process of spontaneous parametric down-conversion with a pump having the form of short pulses. The effect is shown to arise owing to the obligatory symmetry of bihoton wave functions, as wave functions describing states of two bozons obeying the Bose-Einstein statistics. Parameters of the peaks are found and conditions necessary for experimental observation of the effect are determined.

id: 1112.0875
title: High-stability time-domain balanced homodyne detector for ultrafast optical pulse applications
authors: Merlin Cooper, Christoph S?ller, Brian J. Smith
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, Volume: 60, Issue: 08, pages 611 - 616, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0875
abstract: Low-noise, efficient, phase-sensitive time-domain optical detection is essential for foundational tests of quantum physics based on optical quantum states and the realization of numerous applications ranging from quantum key distribution to coherent classical telecommunications. Stability, bandwidth, efficiency, and signal-to-noise ratio are crucial performance parameters for effective detector operation. Here we present a high-bandwidth, low-noise, ultra-stable time-domain coherent measurement scheme based on balanced homodyne detection ideally suited to characterization of quantum and classical light fields in well-defined ultrashort optical pulse modes.

id: 1112.0900
title: High-Fidelity Polarization Storage in a Gigahertz Bandwidth Quantum Memory
authors: D. G. England, P. S. Michelberger, T. F. M. Champion, K. F. Reim, K. C. Lee, M. R. Sprague, X.-M. Jin, N. K. Langford, W. S. Kolthammer, J. Nunn, I. A. Walmsley
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures. Accepted for publication in Journal of Physics B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0900
abstract: We demonstrate a dual-rail optical Raman memory inside a polarization interferometer; this enables us to store polarization-encoded information at GHz bandwidths in a room-temperature atomic ensemble. By performing full process tomography on the system we measure up to 97\pm1% process fidelity for the storage and retrieval process. At longer storage times, the process fidelity remains high, despite a loss of efficiency. The fidelity is 86\pm4% for 1.5 \mu s storage time, which is 5,000 times the pulse duration. Hence high fidelity is combined with a large time-bandwidth product. This high performance, with an experimentally simple setup, demonstrates the suitability of the Raman memory for integration into large-scale quantum networks.

id: 1112.0914
title: Measurements of the dependence of the photon-number distribution on the number of modes in parametric down-conversion
authors: L. Dovrat, M. Bakstein, D. Istrati, A. Shaham, H. S. Eisenberg
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0914
abstract: Optical parametric down-conversion (PDC) is a central tool in quantum optics experiments. The number of collected down-converted modes greatly affects the quality of the produced photon state. We use Silicon Photomultiplier (SiPM) number-resolving detectors in order to directly observe the photon-number distribution of a PDC source, and show its dependence on the number of collected modes. Additionally, we show how the stimulated emission of photons and the partition of photons into several modes determine the overall photon number. We present a novel analytical model for the optical crosstalk effect in SiPM detectors, and use it to analyze the results.

id: 1112.0931
title: Group-theoretic approach for multi-copy programmable discriminators between two unknown qudit states
authors: Tao Zhou, Xiaohua Wu, Gui Lu Long
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0931
abstract: The discrimination between two unknown states can be performed by a universal programmable discriminator, where the copies of the two possible states are stored in two program systems respectively and the copies of data, which we want to confirm, are provided in the data system. In the present paper, we propose a group-theretic approach to the multi-copy programmable state discrimination problem. By equivalence of unknown pure states to known mixed states and with the representation theory of U(n) group, we construct the Jordan basis to derive the analytical results for both the optimal unambiguous discrimination and minimum-error discrimination. The POVM operators for unambiguous discrimination and orthogonal measurement operators for minimum-error discrimination are obtained. We find that the optimal failure probability and minimum-error probability for the discrimination between the mean input mixd states are dependent on the dimension of the unknown qudit states. We applied the approach to generalize the results of He and Bergou (Phys. Rev. A {\bf 75}, 032316 (2007)) from qubit to qudit case, and we further solve the problem of programmable dicriminators with arbitrary copies of unknown states in both program and data systems.

id: 1112.0947
title: Topological order, entanglement, and quantum memory at finite temperature
authors: Dalimil Mazac, Alioscia Hamma
comments: typos fixed, refs and a figure added
journal: Ann. Phys. 327, 2096 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0947
abstract: We compute the topological entropy of the toric code models in arbitrary dimension at finite temperature. We find that the critical temperatures for the existence of full quantum (classical) topological entropy correspond to the confinement-deconfinement transitions in the corresponding Z_2 gauge theories. This implies that the thermal stability of topological entropy corresponds to the stability of quantum (classical) memory. The implications for the understanding of ergodicity breaking in topological phases are discussed.

id: 1112.0951
title: N-particle nonclassicality without N-particle correlations
authors: Marcin Wie?niak, Mohamed Nawareg, Marek ?ukowski
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042339 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0951
abstract: Most of known multipartite Bell inequalities involve correlation functions for all subsystems. They are useless for entangled states without such correlations. We give a method of derivation of families of Bell inequalities for N parties, which involve, e.g., only (N-1)-partite correlations, but still are able to detect proper N-partite entanglement. We present an inequality which reveals five-partite entanglement despite only four-partite correlations. Classes of inequalities introduced here can be put into a handy form of a single non-linear inequality. An example is given of an N qubit state, which strongly violates such an inequality, despite having no N-qubit correlations. This surprising property might be of potential value for quantum information tasks.

id: 1112.0981
title: Quantum no-key protocols for secret transmission of quantum and classical message
authors: Li Yang, Min Liang, Bao Li, Lei Hu, Ling-An Wu
comments: 27 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0981
abstract: A theoretical framework of quantum no-key (QNK) protocol has been presented. As its applications, we develop three kinds of QNK protocols: the practical QNK protocols, the QNK protocol based on quantum perfect encryption, and the QNK protocols based on Boolean function computing. The security of these protocols is based on the laws of quantum mechanics, other than computational hypothesis.

id: 1112.0986
title: Comment on "Superradiant Phase Transitions and the Standard Description of Circuit QED"
authors: Cristiano Ciuti, Pierre Nataf
comments: 
journal: Physical Review Letters 109 (2012) 179301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0986
abstract: A Comment on the Letter by O. Viehmann, J. von Delft, and F. Marquardt [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 107}, 113602 (2011)].

id: 1112.1017
title: Generalized Toric Codes Coupled to Thermal Baths
authors: O. Viyuela, A. Rivas, M. A. Martin-Delgado
comments: Revtex4 file, color figures. New Journal of Physics' version
journal: New J. Phys. 14 033044 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1017
abstract: We have studied the dynamics of a generalized toric code based on qudits at finite temperature by finding the master equation coupling the code's degrees of freedom to a thermal bath. As a consequence, we find that for qutrits new types of anyons and thermal processes appear that are forbidden for qubits. These include creation, annihilation and diffusion throughout the system code. It is possible to solve the master equation in a short-time regime and find expressions for the decay rates as a function of the dimension $d$ of the qudits. Although we provide an explicit proof that the system relax to the Gibbs state for arbitrary qudits, we also prove that above a certain crossing temperature, qutrits initial decay rate is smaller than the original case for qubits. Surprisingly this behavior only happens with qutrits and not with other qudits with $d>3$.

id: 1112.1027
title: The power of random measurements: measuring Tr(¦Ñ^n) on single copies of ¦Ñ
authors: S. J. van Enk, C. W. J. Beenakker
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 108, 110503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1027
abstract: While it is known that Tr(\rho^n) can be measured directly (i.e., without first reconstructing the density matrix) by performing joint measurements on n copies of the same state rho, it is shown here that random measurements on single copies suffice, too. Averaging over the random measurements directly yields estimates of Tr(\rho^n), even when it is not known what measurements were actually performed (so that one cannot reconstruct \rho).

id: 1112.1110
title: Improved Eavesdropping Detection in Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Muhammad Mubashir Khan, Jie Xu, Almut Beige
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures, 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1110
abstract: Employing the fundamental laws of quantum physics, Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) promises the unconditionally secure distribution of cryptographic keys. However, in practical realisations, a QKD protocol is only secure, when the quantum bit error rate introduced by an eavesdropper unavoidably exceeds the system error rate. This condition guarantees that an eavesdropper cannot disguise his presence by simply replacing the original transmission line with a less faulty one. Unfortunately, this condition also limits the possible distance between the communicating parties, Alice and Bob, to a few hundred kilometers. To overcome this problem, we design a QKD protocol which allows Alice and Bob to distinguish system errors from eavesdropping errors. If they are able to identify the origin of their errors, they can detect eavesdropping even when the system error rate exceeds the eavesdropping error rate. To achieve this, the proposed protocol employs an alternative encoding of information in two-dimensional photon states. Errors manifest themselves as quantum bit and as index transmission errors with a distinct correlation between them in case of intercept-resend eavesdropping. As a result, Alice and Bob can tolerate lower eavesdropping and higher system error rates without compromising their privacy.

id: 1112.1137
title: Structural Characterization And Condition For Measurement Statistics Preservation Of A Unital Quantum Operation
authors: Kai-Yan Lee, Chi-Hang Fred Fung, H. F. Chau
comments: 9 pages in revtex 4.1, minor revision, to appear in J.Phys.A
journal: J. Phys. A 46, 205305 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1137
abstract: We investigate the necessary and sufficient condition for a convex cone of positive semidefinite operators to be fixed by a unital quantum operation $\phi$ acting on finite-dimensional quantum states. By reducing this problem to the problem of simultaneous diagonalization of the Kraus operators associated with $\phi$, we can completely characterize the kind of quantum states that are fixed by $\phi$. Our work has several applications. It gives a simple proof of the structural characterization of a unital quantum operation that acts on finite-dimensional quantum states --- a result not explicitly mentioned in earlier studies. It also provides a necessary and sufficient condition for what kind of measurement statistics is preserved by a unital quantum operation. Finally, our result clarifies and extends the work of St{\o}rmer by giving a proof of a reduction theorem on the unassisted and entanglement-assisted classical capacities, coherent information, and minimal output Renyi entropy of a unital channel acting on finite-dimensional quantum state.

id: 1112.1139
title: Quantum Verification of Minimum Spanning Tree
authors: Mark Heiligman
comments: 5 papges
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1139
abstract: Previous studies has shown that for a weighted undirected graph having $n$ vertices and $m$ edges, a minimal weight spanning tree can be found with $O^*(\sqrt{mn})$ calls to the weight oracle. The present note shows that a given spanning tree can be verified to be a minimal weight spanning tree with only $O(n\bigr)$ calls to the weight oracle and $O(n+\sqrt{m}\log n)$ total work.

id: 1112.1142
title: Information Causality
authors: Marcin Paw?owski, Valerio Scarani
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1142
abstract: We review the literature on Information Causality. Since it's for a book, we don't think an abstract will be needed at all, so we have written this one just for the sake of the arXiv.

id: 1112.1159
title: Evolution of the single-mode squeezed vacuum state in amplitude dissipative channel
authors: Hong-Yi Fan, Shuai Wang, Li-Yun Hu
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1159
abstract: Using the way of deriving infinitive sum representation of density operator as a solution to the master equation describing the amplitude dissipative channel by virtue of the entangled state representation, we show manifestly how the initial density operator of a single-mode squeezed vacuum state evolves into a definite mixed state which turns out to be a squeezed chaotic state with decreasing-squeezing. We investigate average photon number, photon statistics distributions for this state.

id: 1112.1212
title: Quantum election scheme based on anonymous quantum key distribution
authors: Rui-Rui Zhou, Li Yang
comments: 15 pages, 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1212
abstract: An unconditionally secure authority-certified anonymous quantum key distribution scheme using conjugate coding is presented, base on which we construct a quantum election scheme without the help of entanglement state. We show that this election scheme ensures the completeness, soundness, privacy, eligibility, unreusability, fairness and verifiability of a large-scale election in which the administrator and counter are semi-honest. This election scheme can work even if there exist loss and errors in quantum channels. In addition, any irregularity in this scheme is sensible.

id: 1112.1221
title: Linear optical scheme for producing polarization-entangled NOON states
authors: Su-Yong Lee, Tomasz Paterek, Hee Su Park, Hyunchul Nha
comments: Published version, 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Opt. Comm. 285, 307 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1221
abstract: We propose a linear optical scheme that can conditionally generate high NOON states using polarization modes. This scheme provides advantages over the previous proposals on path-entangled NOON states in view of success probability or required resources of optical elements. We also investigate two experimental schemes feasible within existing technology that can produce the NOON-like or the NOON state for N = 4.

id: 1112.1242
title: Fourier Optics and Time Evolution of De Broglie Wave Packets
authors: Giorgio Dillon
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures. Revised introduction. Added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1242
abstract: We prove that, under the condition of validity of the Fresnel approximation, diffraction and interference for a wave traveling in the z-direction may be described in terms of the spreading in time of the transverse (x,y)-wave packet. The time required for the evolved wave packet to yield identical patterns as given by standard optics corresponds to the time for the quantum to cross the optical apparatus. This point of view may provide interesting cues in wave mechanics and quantum physics education.

id: 1112.1272
title: Spin quantum correlations of relativistic particles
authors: Pablo L. Saldanha, Vlatko Vedral
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures. The introductory part has changed. More arguments against the definition of a reduced spin density matrix for a relativistic system are presented
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062101 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1272
abstract: We show that a pair of massive relativistic spin-1/2 particles prepared in a maximally entangled spin state in general is not capable of maximally violating the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) version of Bell's inequalities without a post-selection of the particles momenta, representing a major difference in relation to non-relativistic systems. This occurs because the quantization axis of the measurements performed on each particle depends on the particle velocity, such that it is not possible to define a reduced density matrix for the particles spin. We also show that the amount of violation of the CHSH inequality depends on the reference frame, and that in some frames the inequality may not be violated.

id: 1112.1273
title: Mini-Proceedings ECT*: Speakable in quantum mechanics: atomic, nuclear and subnuclear physics tests
authors: C. Curceanu, J. Marton, E. Milotti
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1273
abstract: Mini-Proceedings ECT*: Speakable in quantum mechanics: atomic, nuclear and subnuclear physics tests, ECT*-Trento, 29 August - 2 September, 2011

id: 1112.1279
title: Global entanglement in XXZ chains
authors: N. Canosa, R. Rossignoli
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Physical Review A 73, 022347 (2006)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1279
abstract: We examine the thermal entanglement of XXZ-type Heisenberg chains in the presence of a uniform magnetic field along the z axes, through the evaluation of the negativity associated with bipartitions of the whole system and subsystems. Limit temperatures for non-zero global negativities are shown to depend on the asymmetry $\Delta$ but not on the uniform field, and can be much higher than those limiting pairwise entanglement. It is also shown that global bipartite entanglement may exist for T>0 even for $\Delta\geq 1$, i.e., when the system is fully aligned (and hence separable) at T=0, and that the bipartition leading to the highest limit temperature depends on $\Delta$.

id: 1112.1287
title: Trapping a particle of a quantum walk on the line
authors: Antoni Wojcik, Tomasz Luczak, Pawel Kurzynski, Andrzej Grudka, Tomasz Gdala, Malgorzata Bednarska-Bzdega
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012329 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1287
abstract: We observe that changing a phase at a single point in a discrete quantum walk results in a rather surprising localization effect. For certain values of this phase change the possibility of localization strongly depends on the internal coin-state of the walker.

id: 1112.1301
title: Casimir Effect : Theory and Experiments
authors: Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: Invited contribution to Quantum Field Theory under the Influence of External Conditions (QFEXT 2011)
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics A 27 (2012) 1260013(10)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1301
abstract: The Casimir effect is a crucial prediction of Quantum Field Theory which has fascinating connections with open questions in fundamental physics. The ideal formula written by Casimir does not describe real experiments and it has to be generalized by taking into account the effects of imperfect reflection, thermal fluctuations, geometry as well as the corrections coming from surface physics. We discuss these developments in Casimir physics and give the current status in the comparison between theory and experiment after years of improvements in measurements as well as theory.

id: 1112.1305
title: Formation of helical ion chains
authors: Ramil Nigmatullin, Adolfo del Campo, Gabriele De Chiara, Giovanna Morigi, Martin B. Plenio, Alex Retzker
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1305
abstract: We study the nonequilibrium dynamics of the linear to zigzag structural phase transition exhibited by an ion chain confined in a trap with periodic boundary conditions. The transition is driven by reducing the transverse confinement at a finite quench rate, which can be accurately controlled. This results in the formation of zigzag domains oriented along different transverse planes. The twists between different domains can be stabilized by the topology of the trap and under laser cooling the system relaxes to a helical chain with possibly nonzero winding number. Molecular dynamics simulations are used to obtain a large sample of possible trajectories for different quench rates. The scaling of the average winding number with different quench rates is compared to the prediction of the Kibble-Zurek theory, and a good quantitative agreement is found.

id: 1112.1311
title: Stability, complex modes and non-separability in rotating quadratic potentials
authors: R. Rossignoli, A. M. Kowalski
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 79, 062103 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1311
abstract: We examine the dynamics of a particle in a general rotating quadratic potential, not necessarily stable or isotropic, using a general complex mode formalism. The problem is equivalent to that of a charged particle in a quadratic potential in the presence of a uniform magnetic field. It is shown that the unstable system exhibits a rich structure, with complex normal modes as well as non-standard modes of evolution characterized by equations of motion which cannot be decoupled (non-separable cases). It is also shown that in some unstable cases the dynamics can be stabilized by increasing the magnetic field or tuning the rotational frequency, giving rise to dynamical stability or instability windows. The evolution in general non-diagonalizable cases is as well discussed.

id: 1112.1355
title: Optimal nonlocal multipartite entanglement concentration based on projection measurements
authors: Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022311 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1355
abstract: We propose an optimal nonlocal entanglement concentration protocol (ECP) for multi-photon systems in a partially entangled pure state, resorting to the projection measurement on an additional photon. One party in quantum communication first performs a parity-check measurement on her photon in an N-photon system and an additional photon, and then she projects the additional photon into an orthogonal Hilbert space for dividing the original $N$-photon systems into two groups. In the first group, the N parties will obtain a subset of $N$-photon systems in a maximally entangled state. In the second group, they will obtain some less-entangled N-photon systems which are the resource for the entanglement concentration in the next round. By iterating the entanglement concentration process several times, the present ECP has the maximal success probability which is just equivalent to the entanglement of the partially entangled state. That is, this ECP is an optimal one.

id: 1112.1366
title: Material dependence of Casimir forces: gradient expansion beyond proximity
authors: G. Bimonte, T. Emig, M. Kardar
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 100, 074110 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1366
abstract: A widely used method for estimating Casimir interactions [H. B. G. Casimir, Proc. K. Ned. Akad. Wet. 51, 793 (1948)] between gently curved material surfaces at short distances is the proximity force approximation (PFA). While this approximation is asymptotically exact at vanishing separations, quantifying corrections to PFA has been notoriously difficult. Here we use a derivative expansion to compute the leading curvature correction to PFA for metals (gold) and insulators (SiO$_2$) at room temperature. We derive an explicit expression for the amplitude $\hat\theta_1$ of the PFA correction to the force gradient for axially symmetric surfaces. In the non-retarded limit, the corrections to the Casimir free energy are found to scale logarithmically with distance. For gold, $\hat\theta_1$ has an unusually large temperature dependence.

id: 1112.1413
title: A constructive commutative quantum Lovasz Local Lemma, and beyond
authors: Toby S. Cubitt, Martin Schwarz
comments: 43 pages, 2 conjectures, no figures; unresolved gap in the proof; see arXiv:1311.6474 or arXiv:1310.7766 for correct proofs of the symmetric case
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1413
abstract: The recently proven Quantum Lovasz Local Lemma generalises the well-known Lovasz Local Lemma. It states that, if a collection of subspace constraints are "weakly dependent", there necessarily exists a state satisfying all constraints. It implies e.g. that certain instances of the kQSAT quantum satisfiability problem are necessarily satisfiable, or that many-body systems with "not too many" interactions are always frustration-free. However, the QLLL only asserts existence; it says nothing about how to find the state. Inspired by Moser's breakthrough classical results, we present a constructive version of the QLLL in the setting of commuting constraints, proving that a simple quantum algorithm converges efficiently to the required state. In fact, we provide two different proofs, one using a novel quantum coupling argument, the other a more explicit combinatorial analysis. Both proofs are independent of the QLLL. So these results also provide independent, constructive proofs of the commutative QLLL itself, but strengthen it significantly by giving an efficient algorithm for finding the state whose existence is asserted by the QLLL. We give an application of the constructive commutative QLLL to convergence of CP maps. We also extend these results to the non-commutative setting. However, our proof of the general constructive QLLL relies on a conjecture which we are only able to prove in special cases.

id: 1112.1428
title: Few photon transport in a waveguide coupled to a pair of collocated two-level atoms
authors: Eden Rephaeli, Sukru Ekin Kocabas, Shanhui Fan
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 063832 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1428
abstract: We calculate the one- and two-photon scattering matrices of a pair of collocated non-identical two-level atoms coupled to a waveguide. We show that by proper choice of a two-photon input, the background fluorescence by the atoms may be completely quenched, as a result of quantum interference, and that when the atoms' detuning is smaller than their linewidths, extremely narrow fluorescence features emerge. Furthermore, the system emits a two-photon bound state which can display spatial oscillations/quantum beats, and can be tuned from bunched to anti-bunched statistics as the total photon energy is varied.

id: 1112.1441
title: Entanglement of two harmonic modes coupled by angular momentum
authors: L. Reb¨®n, R. Rossignoli
comments: 10 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review A 84, 052320 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1441
abstract: We examine the entanglement induced by an angular momentum coupling between two harmonic systems. The Hamiltonian corresponds to that of a charged particle in a uniform magnetic field in an anisotropic quadratic potential, or equivalently, to that of a particle in a rotating quadratic potential. We analyze both the vacuum and thermal entanglement, obtaining analytic expressions for the entanglement entropy and negativity through the gaussian state formalism. It is shown that vacuum entanglement diverges at the edges of the dynamically stable sectors, increasing with the angular momentum and saturating for strong fields, whereas at finite temperature, entanglement is non-zero just within a finite field or frequency window and no longer diverges. Moreover, the limit temperature for entanglement is finite in the whole stable domain. The thermal behavior of the gaussian quantum discord and its difference with the negativity is also discussed.

id: 1112.1446
title: Quantum Computation with Coherent Spin States and the Close Hadamard Problem
authors: Mark Adcock, Peter Hoyer, Barry C. Sanders
comments: RevTeX4, 13 pages with 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1446
abstract: We study a model of quantum computation based on the continuously-parameterized yet finite-dimensional Hilbert space of a spin system. We explore the computational powers of this model by analyzing a pilot problem we refer to as the close Hadamard problem. We show that the highest-squeezed spin state possible can be approximated by a superposition of two states thus transcending the usual model of using a single basis state as algorithm input. We demonstrate that this input superposition enables us to solve the restricted version of close Hadamard problem efficiently in a single query. We conclude that this model of quantum computation is suitable for solving certain types of problems. The model is effective for problems where symmetries between the structure of the information associated with the problem and the structure of the unitary operators employed in the quantum algorithm can be exploited.

id: 1112.1469
title: Optimal Probabilistic Simulation of Quantum Channels from the Future to the Past
authors: Dina Genkina, Giulio Chiribella, Lucien Hardy
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022330 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1469
abstract: We introduce the study of quantum protocols that probabilistically simulate quantum channels from a sender in the future to a receiver in the past. The maximum probability of simulation is determined by causality and depends on the amount and type (classical or quantum) of information that the channel can transmit. We illustrate this dependence in several examples, including ideal classical and quantum channels, measure-and-prepare channels, partial trace channels, and universal cloning channels. For the simulation of partial trace channels, we consider generalized teleportation protocols that take N input copies of a pure state in the future and produce M < N output copies of the same state in the past. In this case, we show that the maximum probability of successful teleportation increases with the number of input copies, a feature that was impossible in classical physics. In the limit of asymptotically large N, the probability converges to the probability of simulation for an ideal classical channel. Similar results are found for universal cloning channels from N copies to M > N approximate copies, exploiting a time-reversal duality between universal cloning and partial trace.

id: 1112.1485
title: Properties of a single photon generated by a solid-state emitter: effects of pure dephasing
authors: Eiki Iyoda, Takeo Kato, Takao Aoki, Keiichi Edamatsu, Kazuki Koshino
comments: 25pages(one column), 10 figures
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 82 (2013) 014301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1485
abstract: We investigate the properties of a single photon generated by a solid-state emitter subject to strong pure dephasing. We employ a model in which all the elements of the system, including the propagating fields, are treated quantum mechanically. We analytically derive the density matrix of the emitted photon, which contains full information about the photon, such as its pulse profile, power spectrum, and purity. We visualize these analytical results using realistic parameters and reveal the conditions for maximizing the purity of generated photons.

id: 1112.1487
title: Two quantum walkers sharing coins
authors: Peng Xue, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 85, 022307 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1487
abstract: We consider two independent quantum walks on separate lines augmented by partial or full swapping of coins after each step. For classical random walks, swapping or not swapping coins makes little difference to the random walk characteristics, but we show that quantum walks with partial swapping of coins have complicated yet elegant inter-walker correlations. Specifically we study the joint position distribution of the reduced two-walker state after tracing out the coins and analyze total, classical and quantum correlations in terms of the mutual information, the quantum mutual information, and the measurement-induced disturbance. Our analysis shows intriguing quantum features without classical analogues.

id: 1112.1491
title: Single-photon scattering on a strongly dressed atom
authors: Z. H. Wang, Yong Li, D. L. Zhou, Chang-pu Sun, Peng Zhang
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023824 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1491
abstract: We develop the generalized rotating-wave approximation (GRWA) approach (Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 173601 (2007)) to study the single-photon scattering on a two-level system (TLS) with arbitrarily strong coupling to a local mode in a one-dimensional (1D) coupled resonator array. We calculate the scattering amplitudes analytically, and the independent numerical results show that our approach works well in a broad parameter region. Especially, when the resonator mode is faroff resonance with the TLS, we obtain more reasonable results than the ones from the standard adiabatic approximation. Our approach is further extended to the cases with a 1D resonator array strongly coupled to more than one TLSs.

id: 1112.1507
title: The Physical Principles of Quantum Mechanics. A critical review
authors: F. Strocchi
comments: Bibliography and section 2.1 slightly improved
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Plus (2012) 127: 12
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1507
abstract: The standard presentation of the principles of quantum mechanics is critically reviewed both from the experimental/operational point and with respect to the request of mathematical consistency and logical economy. A simpler and more physically motivated formulation is discussed. The existence of non commuting observables, which characterizes quantum mechanics with respect to classical mechanics, is related to operationally testable complementarity relations, rather than to uncertainty relations. The drawbacks of Dirac argument for canonical quantization are avoided by a more geometrical approach.

id: 1112.1516
title: Nonlocality as a Benchmark for Universal Quantum Computation in Ising Anyon Topological Quantum Computers
authors: Mark Howard, Jiri Vala
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022304 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1516
abstract: An obstacle affecting any proposal for a topological quantum computer based on Ising anyons is that quasiparticle braiding can only implement a finite (non-universal) set of quantum operations. The computational power of this restricted set of operations (often called stabilizer operations) has been studied in quantum information theory, and it is known that no quantum-computational advantage can be obtained without the help of an additional non-stabilizer operation. Similarly, a bipartite two-qubit system based on Ising anyons cannot exhibit non-locality (in the sense of violating a Bell inequality) when only topologically protected stabilizer operations are performed. To produce correlations that cannot be described by a local hidden variable model again requires the use of a non-stabilizer operation. Using geometric techniques, we relate the sets of operations that enable universal quantum computing (UQC) with those that enable violation of a Bell inequality. Motivated by the fact that non-stabilizer operations are expected to be highly imperfect, our aim is to provide a benchmark for identifying UQC-enabling operations that is both experimentally practical and conceptually simple. We show that any (noisy) single-qubit non-stabilizer operation that, together with perfect stabilizer operations, enables violation of the simplest two-qubit Bell inequality can also be used to enable UQC. This benchmarking requires finding the expectation values of two distinct Pauli measurements on each qubit of a bipartite system.

id: 1112.1529
title: An asymptotic error bound for testing multiple quantum hypotheses
authors: Michael Nussbaum, Arleta Szko?a
comments: Published in at this http URL the Annals of Statistics (this http URL) by the Institute of Mathematical Statistics (this http URL)
journal: Annals of Statistics 2011, Vol. 39, No. 6, 3211-3233
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1529
abstract: We consider the problem of detecting the true quantum state among $r$ possible ones, based of measurements performed on $n$ copies of a finite-dimensional quantum system. A special case is the problem of discriminating between $r$ probability measures on a finite sample space, using $n$ i.i.d. observations. In this classical setting, it is known that the averaged error probability decreases exponentially with exponent given by the worst case binary Chernoff bound between any possible pair of the $r$ probability measures. Define analogously the multiple quantum Chernoff bound, considering all possible pairs of states. Recently, it has been shown that this asymptotic error bound is attainable in the case of $r$ pure states, and that it is unimprovable in general. Here we extend the attainability result to a larger class of $r$-tuples of states which are possibly mixed, but pairwise linearly independent. We also construct a quantum detector which universally attains the multiple quantum Chernoff bound up to a factor 1/3.

id: 1112.1551
title: Casimir effect across a layered medium
authors: Marin-Slobodan Tomas
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, presented at QFEXT11
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. Conf. Ser., 14, 561 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1551
abstract: Using nonstandard recursion relations for Fresnel coefficients involving successive stacks of layers, we extend the Lifshitz formula to configurations with an inhomogeneous, n-layered, medium separating two planar objects. The force on each object is the sum of a Lifshitz like force and a force arising from the inhomogeneity of the medium. The theory correctly reproduces very recently obtained results for the Casimir force/energy in some simple systems of this kind. As a by product, we obtain a formula for the force on an (unspecified) stack of layers between two planar objects which generalizes our previous result for the force on a slab in a planar cavity.

id: 1112.1587
title: Quantum correlations and least disturbing local measurements
authors: R. Rossignoli, N. Canosa, L. Ciliberti
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 84, 052329 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1587
abstract: We examine the evaluation of the minimum information loss due to an unread local measurement in mixed states of bipartite systems, for a general entropic form. Such quantity provides a measure of quantum correlations, reducing for pure states to the generalized entanglement entropy, while in the case of mixed states it vanishes just for classically correlated states with respect to the measured system, as the quantum discord. General stationary conditions are provided, together with their explicit form for general two-qubit states. Closed expressions for the minimum information loss as measured by quadratic and cubic entropies are also derived for general states of two-qubit systems. As application, we analyze the case of states with maximally mixed marginals, where a general evaluation is provided, as well as X states and the mixture of two aligned states.

id: 1112.1613
title: Incoherent dynamics in the toric code subject to disorder
authors: Beat R?thlisberger, James R. Wootton, Robert M. Heath, Jiannis K. Pachos, Daniel Loss
comments: 13 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022313 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1613
abstract: We numerically study the effects of two forms of quenched disorder on the anyons of the toric code. Firstly, a new class of codes based on random lattices of stabilizer operators is presented, and shown to be superior to the standard square lattice toric code for certain forms of biased noise. It is further argued that these codes are close to optimal, in that they tightly reach the upper bound of error thresholds beyond which no correctable CSS codes can exist. Additionally, we study the classical motion of anyons in toric codes with randomly distributed onsite potentials. In the presence of repulsive long-range interaction between the anyons, a surprising increase with disorder strength of the lifetime of encoded states is reported and explained by an entirely incoherent mechanism. Finally, the coherent transport of the anyons in the presence of both forms of disorder is investigated, and a significant suppression of the anyon motion is found.

id: 1112.1621
title: Enhanced lifetime of positronium atoms via collective radiative effects
authors: Ni Cui, Mihai Macovei, Karen Z. Hatsagortsyan, Christoph H. Keitel
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 243401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1621
abstract: A method is proposed to manipulate the annihilation dynamics of a dense gas of positronium atoms employing superradiance and subradiance regimes of the cooperative spontaneous emission of the system. The annihilation dynamics is controlled by the gas density and by the intensity of the driving strong resonant laser field. In particular, the method allows to increase the annihilation lifetime of an ensemble of positronium atoms more than hundred times by trapping the atoms in the excited state via collective radiative effects in the resonant laser and cavity fields.

id: 1112.1690
title: Driven-dissipative preparation of entangled states in cascaded quantum-optical networks
authors: K. Stannigel, P. Rabl, P. Zoller
comments: 20 pages, 7 figures, version as accepted by NJP
journal: New J. Phys 14, 063014 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1690
abstract: We study the dissipative dynamics and the formation of entangled states in driven cascaded quantum networks, where multiple systems are coupled to a common unidirectional bath. Specifically, we identify the conditions under which emission and coherent reabsorption of radiation drives the whole network into a pure stationary state with non-trivial quantum correlations between the individual nodes. We illustrate this effect in more detail for the example of cascaded two-level systems, where we present an explicit preparation scheme that allows one to tune the whole network through "bright" and "dark" states associated with different multi-partite entanglement patterns. In a complementary setting consisting of cascaded non-linear cavities, we find that two cavity modes can be driven into a non-Gaussian entangled dark state. Potential realizations of such cascaded networks with optical and microwave photons are discussed.

id: 1112.1719
title: Tests of Bell inequality with arbitrarily low photodetection efficiency and homodyne measurements
authors: Mateus Ara¨²jo, Marco T¨²lio Quintino, Daniel Cavalcanti, Marcelo Fran?a Santos, Ad¨¢n Cabello, Marcelo Terra Cunha
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 030101(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1719
abstract: We show that hybrid local measurements combining homodyne measurements and photodetection provide violations of a Bell inequality with arbitrarily low photodetection efficiency. This is shown in two different scenarios: when one part receives an atom entangled to the field mode to be measured by the other part and when both parts make similar photonic measurements. Our findings promote the hybrid measurement scenario as a candidate for loophole-free Bell tests beyond previous expectations.

id: 1112.1735
title: Retrieval of multiple spin waves from a weakly excited, metastable atomic ensemble
authors: F. Bariani, T. A. B. Kennedy
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 033811 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1735
abstract: The emission of light from a multiply excited atomic ensemble is examined and it is shown how symmetric (spin-wave) and non-symmetric states of excitation radiate into spatially separate field modes. This observation has potential application to single photon generation and spin wave entanglement, since in the presence of atomic interactions it can result in isolated single photon emission into a phase-matched field mode.

id: 1112.1776
title: Limitations to sharing entanglement
authors: Jeong San Kim, Gilad Gour, Barry C. Sanders
comments: Pedagogical review article on monogamy and polygamy of entanglement
journal: Contemporary Physics 53:5 417-432 (17 Oct 2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1776
abstract: We discuss limitations to sharing entanglement known as monogamy of entanglement. Our pedagogical approach commences with simple examples of limited entanglement sharing for pure three-qubit states and progresses to the more general case of mixed-state monogamy relations with multiple qudits.

id: 1112.1778
title: Review of Entangled Coherent States
authors: Barry C. Sanders
comments: Comprehensive review of entangled coherent states. Comments welcome, especially advice on missing references or perhaps misrepresentations of existing references, which will be accommodated in version 2
journal: B. C. Sanders, Review of entangled coherent states, Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 45(24): 244002 (22 pp.), 30 May 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1778
abstract: We review entangled coherent state research since its first implicit use in 1967 to the present. Entangled coherent states are important to quantum superselection principles, quantum information processing, quantum optics, and mathematical physics. Despite their inherent fragility they have produced in a conditional propagating-wave quantum optics realization. Fundamentally the states are intriguing because they are entanglements of the coherent states, which are in a sense the most classical of all states of a dynamical system.

id: 1112.1811
title: How a wave function can collapse without violating Schroedinger's equation, and how to understand Born's rule
authors: Gerard 't Hooft
comments: 18 pages (including title page), one figure added. The revised version contains some more clarifications and references in response to remarks by a referee on an earlier version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1811
abstract: It is often claimed that the collapse of the wave function and Born's rule to interpret the square of the norm as a probability, have to be introduced as separate axioms in quantum mechanics besides the Schroedinger equation. Here we show that this is not true in certain models where quantum behavior can be attributed to underlying deterministic equations. It is argued that indeed the apparent spontaneous collapse of wave functions and Born's rule are features that strongly point towards determinism underlying quantum mechanics.

id: 1112.1856
title: Dual quantum-correlation paradigms exhibit opposite statistical-mechanical properties
authors: R. Prabhu, Aditi Sen De, Ujjwal Sen
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, REVTeX 4.1; v2: published version, 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012336 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1856
abstract: We report opposite statistical mechanical behaviors of the two major paradigms in which quantum correlation measures are defined, viz., the entanglement-separability paradigm and the information-theoretic one. We show this by considering the ergodic properties of such quantum correlation measures in transverse quantum XY spin-1/2 systems in low dimensions. While entanglement measures are ergodic in such models, the quantum correlation measures defined from an information-theoretic perspective can be nonergodic.

id: 1112.1882
title: Topological phenomena in quantum walks; elementary introduction to the physics of topological phases
authors: Takuya Kitagawa
comments: Review article commissioned for Quantum Information Processing, special issue on quantum walk
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1882
abstract: Discrete quantum walks are dynamical protocols for controlling a single quantum particle. Despite of its simplicity, quantum walks display rich topological phenomena and provide one of the simplest systems to study and understand topological phases. In this article, we review the physics of discrete quantum walks in one and two dimensions in light of topological phenomena and provide elementary explanations of topological phases and their physical consequence, namely the existence of boundary states. We demonstrate that quantum walks are versatile systems that simulate many topological phases whose classifications are known for static Hamiltonians. Furthermore, topological phenomena appearing in quantum walks go beyond what has been known in static systems; there are phenomena unique to quantum walks, being an example of periodically driven systems, that do not exist in static systems. Thus the quantum walks not only provide a powerful tool as a quantum simulator for static topological phases but also give unique opportunity to study topological phenomena in driven systems.

id: 1112.1905
title: Relation between Poisson and Schr?dinger equation in one dimension
authors: Gabriel Gonzalez
comments: Revised version
journal: Am. J. Phys. 80, 715 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1905
abstract: The relation between the Poisson and Schr\"odinger equation in one dimension is obtained through a simple transformation. It is pointed out that this analogy between both equations can be only applied for potentials that involve a combination of attractive and repulsive delta function potentials. This relationship enables us to use elementary electrostatic results to find the exact solution of the associated quantum bound state problem in one dimension. Particularly, the result shows that it is possible to trap a single electron in a one dimensional ionic crystal.

id: 1112.1941
title: Toward a fully relativistic theory of quantum information
authors: Christoph Adami
comments: 14 pages, 3 figures. Includes material from quant-ph/0405005
journal: From Nuclei to Stars: Festschrift in Honor of Gerald E. Brown (World Scientific, Singapore, 2011), pp 71-102
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1941
abstract: Information theory is a statistical theory dealing with the relative state of detectors and physical systems. Because of this physicality of information, the classical framework of Shannon needs to be extended to deal with quantum detectors, perhaps moving at relativistic speeds, or even within curved space-time. Considerable progress toward such a theory has been achieved in the last fifteen years, while much is still not understood. This review recapitulates some milestones along this road, and speculates about future ones.

id: 1112.1975
title: Superradiance in spin-$J$ particles: Effects of multiple levels
authors: G.-D. Lin, S. F. Yelin
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 033831 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1975
abstract: We study the superradiance dynamics in a dense system of atoms each of which can be generally a spin-$j$ particle with $j$ an arbitrary half-integer. We generalize Dicke's superradiance point of view to multiple-level systems, and compare the results based on a novel approach we have developed in {[}Yelin \textit{et al.}, arXiv:quant-ph/0509184{]}. Using this formalism we derive an effective two-body description that shows cooperative and collective effects for spin-$j$ particles, taking into account the coherence of transitions between different atomic levels. We find that the superradiance, which is well-known as a many-body phenomenon, can also be modified by multiple level effects. We also discuss the feasibility and propose that our approach can be applied to polar molecules, for their vibrational states have multi-level structure which is partially harmonic.

id: 1112.2010
title: Memory-Enhanced Noiseless Cross Phase Modulation
authors: M. Hosseini, S. Rebic, B. M. Sparkes, J. Twamley, B. C. Buchler, P. K. Lam
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2010
abstract: Using a gradient echo memory, we experimentally demonstrate cross phase modulation (XPM) between two optical pulses; one stored and one freely propagating through the memory medium. We explain how this idea can be extended to enable substantial nonlinear interaction between two single photons that are both stored in the memory. We present semi-classical and quantum simulations along with a proposed experimental scheme to demonstrate the feasibility of achieving large XPM at single photon level.

id: 1112.2019
title: Four-Photon Quantum Interferometry at a Telecom Wavelength
authors: Masahiro Yabuno, Ryosuke Shimizu, Yasuyoshi Mitsumori, Hideo Kosaka, Keiichi Edamatsu
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2019
abstract: We report the experimental demonstration of four-photon quantum interference using telecom-wavelength photons. Realization of multi-photon quantum interference is essential to linear optics quantum information processing and measurement-based quantum computing. We have developed a source that efficiently emits photon pairs in a pure spectrotemporal mode at a telecom wavelength region, and have demonstrated the quantum interference exhibiting the reduced fringe intervals that correspond to the reduced de Broglie wavelength of up to the four photon `NOON' state. Our result should open a path to practical quantum information processing using telecom-wavelength photons.

id: 1112.2022
title: One-way finite automata with quantum and classical states
authors: Shenggen Zheng, Daowen Qiu, Lvzhou Li, Jozef Gruska
comments: Comments are welcome. The paper is for a volume of LNCS Festschifts Series devoted to birthday of Prof. Dr. Juergen Dassov
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2022
abstract: In this paper, we introduce and explore a new model of {\it quantum finite automata} (QFA). Namely, {\it one-way finite automata with quantum and classical states} (1QCFA), a one way version of {\it two-way finite automata with quantum and classical states} (2QCFA) introduced by Ambainis and Watrous in 2002 \cite{AJ}. First, we prove that {\it one-way probabilistic finite automata} (1PFA) \cite{AP} and {\it one-way quantum finite automata with control language} (1QFACL) \cite{ACB} as well as several other models of QFA, can be simulated by 1QCFA. Afterwards, we explore several closure properties for the family of languages accepted by 1QCFA. Finally, the state complexity of 1QCFA is explored and the main succinctness result is derived. Namely, for any prime $m$ and any $\epsilon_1>0$, there exists a language $L_{m}$ that cannot be recognized by any {\it measure-many one-way quantum finite automata} (MM-1QFA) \cite{Kon97} with bounded error $7/9+\epsilon_1$, and any 1PFA recognizing it has at last $m$ states, but $L_{m}$ can be recognized by a 1QCFA for any error bound $\epsilon>0$ with $\bf{O}(\log{m})$ quantum states and 12 classical states.

id: 1112.2034
title: Solipsistic hidden variables
authors: H. Nikolic
comments: 19 pages, version accepted for publication in Int. J. Quantum Inf
journal: Int. J. Quantum Inf. 10 (2012) 1241016
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2034
abstract: We argue that it is logically possible to have a sort of both reality and locality in quantum mechanics. To demonstrate this, we construct a new quantitative model of hidden variables (HV's), dubbed solipsistic HV's, that interpolates between the orthodox no-HV interpretation and nonlocal Bohmian interpretation. In this model, the deterministic point-particle trajectories are associated only with the essential degrees of freedom of the observer, and not with the observed objects. In contrast with Bohmian HV's, nonlocality in solipsistic HV's can be substantially reduced down to microscopic distances inside the observer. Even if such HV's may look philosophically unappealing to many, the mere fact that they are logically possible deserves attention.

id: 1112.2050
title: Markovian evolution of classical and quantum correlations in transverse-field XY model
authors: Amit Kumar Pal, Indrani Bose
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures, revtex4-1. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1205.1300
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B, Volume 85, Number 8, 277 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2050
abstract: The transverse-field XY model in one dimension is a well-known spin model for which the ground state properties and excitation spectrum are known exactly. The model has an interesting phase diagram describing quantum phase transitions (QPTs) belonging to two different universality classes. These are the transverse-field Ising model and the XX model universality classes with both the models being special cases of the transverse-field XY model. In recent years, quantities related to quantum information theoretic measures like entanglement, quantum discord (QD) and fidelity have been shown to provide signatures of QPTs. Another interesting issue is that of decoherence to which a quantum system is subjected due to its interaction, represented by a quantum channel, with an environment. In this paper, we determine the dynamics of different types of correlations present in a quantum system, namely, the mutual information, the classical correlations and the quantum correlations, as measured by the quantum discord, in a two-qubit state. The density matrix of this state is given by the nearest-neighbour reduced density matrix obtained from the ground state of the transverse-field XY model in 1d. We assume Markovian dynamics for the time-evolution due to system-environment interactions. The quantum channels considered include the bit-flip, bit-phase-flip and phase-flip channels. Two different types of dynamics are identified for the channels in one of which the quantum correlations are greater in magnitude than the classical correlations in a finite time interval. The origins of the different types of dynamics are further explained. For the different channels, appropriate quantities associated with the dynamics of the correlations are identified which provide signatures of QPTs. We also report results for further-neighbour two-qubit states and finite temperatures.

id: 1112.2078
title: On Asymptotic Quantum Statistical Inference
authors: Richard D. Gill, Madalin Guta
comments: 34 pages. to appear in `From Probability to Statistics and Back: High-Dimensional Models and Processes'. A Festschrift in Honor of Jon Wellner. Edited by Banerjee, M., Bunea, F., Huang, J., Maathuis, M. and Koltchinskii, V. extension of a previous paper arXiv:math/0512443
journal: IMS Collections (9) 105-127, 2013 (From Probability to Statistics and Back: High-Dimensional Models and Processes A Festschrift in Honor of Jon A. Wellner Banerjee, M., Bunea, F., Huang, J., Koltchinskii, V., and Maathuis, M. H., Editors)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2078
abstract: We study asymptotically optimal statistical inference concerning the unknown state of $N$ identical quantum systems, using two complementary approaches: a "poor man's approach" based on the van Trees inequality, and a rather more sophisticated approach using the recently developed quantum form of LeCam's theory of Local Asymptotic Normality.

id: 1112.2079
title: Google in a Quantum Network
authors: G.D. Paparo, M.A. Martin-Delgado
comments: RevTeX 4 file, color figures
journal: Sci. Rep. 2, 444; (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Networking and Internet Architecture (cs.NI)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2079
abstract: We introduce the characterization of a class of quantum PageRank algorithms in a scenario in which some kind of quantum network is realizable out of the current classical internet web, but no quantum computer is yet available. This class represents a quantization of the PageRank protocol currently employed to list web pages according to their importance. We have found an instance of this class of quantum protocols that outperforms its classical counterpart and may break the classical hierarchy of web pages depending on the topology of the web.

id: 1112.2080
title: Asymptotic inference in system identification for the atom maser
authors: Catalin Catana, Merlijn van Horssen, Madalin Guta
comments: 20pages, 3 figures
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A (370) 5308-5323, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2080
abstract: System identification is an integrant part of control theory and plays an increasing role in quantum engineering. In the quantum set-up, system identification is usually equated to process tomography, i.e. estimating a channel by probing it repeatedly with different input states. However for quantum dynamical systems like quantum Markov processes, it is more natural to consider the estimation based on continuous measurements of the output, with a given input which may be stationary. We address this problem using asymptotic statistics tools, for the specific example of estimating the Rabi frequency of an atom maser. We compute the Fisher information of different measurement processes as well as the quantum Fisher information of the atom maser, and establish the local asymptotic normality of these statistical models. The statistical notions can be expressed in terms of spectral properties of certain deformed Markov generators and the connection to large deviations is briefly discussed.

id: 1112.2084
title: Bipartite entanglement of localized separated systems
authors: Carlos Sab¨ªn
comments: PhD. Thesis. November 2011, Universidad Complutense de Madrid. Acknowledgements in spanish. 149 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2084
abstract: The main part of this Thesis is devoted to the dynamics of entanglement in matter-radiation interaction and circuit QED systems, and its relationship with the notion of causality. Results on non-RWA effects in circuit QED and quantum simulations of relativistic dynamics are also included.

id: 1112.2086
title: Macroscopic Quantum Self-Trapping in Dynamical Tunnelling
authors: Sebastian W¨¹ster, Beata J. Dabrowska-W¨¹ster, Matthew J. Davis
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters, 109, 080401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2086
abstract: It is well-known that increasing the nonlinearity due to repulsive atomic interactions in a double-well Bose-Einstein condensate suppresses quantum tunnelling between the two sites. Here we find analogous behaviour in the dynamical tunnelling of a Bose-Einstein condensate between period-one resonances in a single driven potential well. For small nonlinearities we find unhindered tunnelling between the resonances, but with an increasing period as compared to the non-interacting system. For nonlinearities above a critical value we generally observe that the tunnelling shuts down. However, for certain regimes of modulation parameters we find that dynamical tunnelling re-emerges for large enough nonlinearities, an effect not present in spatial double-well tunnelling. We develop a two-mode model in good agreement with full numerical simulations over a wide range of parameters, which allows the suppression of tunnelling to be attributed to macroscopic quantum self-trapping.

id: 1112.2156
title: Stabilizer States as a Basis for Density Matrices
authors: Simon J. Gay
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Emerging Technologies (cs.ET)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2156
abstract: We show that the space of density matrices for n-qubit states, considered as a (2^n)^2 dimensional real vector space, has a basis consisting of density matrices of stabilizer states. We describe an application of this result to automated verification of quantum protocols.

id: 1112.2164
title: Multifractal dimensions for all moments for certain critical random matrix ensembles in the strong multifractality regime
authors: E. Bogomolny, O. Giraud
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2164
abstract: We construct perturbation series for the q-th moment of eigenfunctions of various critical random matrix ensembles in the strong multifractality regime close to localization. Contrary to previous investigations, our results are valid in the region q<1/2. Our findings allow to verify, at first leading orders in the strong multifractality limit, the symmetry relation for anomalous fractal dimensions Delta(q)=Delta(1-q), recently conjectured for critical models where an analogue of the metal-insulator transition takes place. It is known that this relation is verified at leading order in the weak multifractality regime. Our results thus indicate that this symmetry holds in both limits of small and large coupling constant. For general values of the coupling constant we present careful numerical verifications of this symmetry relation for different critical random matrix ensembles. We also present an example of a system closely related to one of these critical ensembles, but where the symmetry relation, at least numerically, is not fulfilled.

id: 1112.2179
title: Continuous Variable Quantum Key Distribution: Finite-Key Analysis of Composable Security against Coherent Attacks
authors: Fabian Furrer, Torsten Franz, Mario Berta, Anthony Leverrier, Volkher B. Scholz, Marco Tomamichel, Reinhard F. Werner
comments: v2: new author, technical inaccuracy corrected, new plots, v3: substantially improved key rates against coherent attacks (due to correction of an error in the numerical computation)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 100502 (2012), Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 019902(E) (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2179
abstract: We provide a security analysis for continuous variable quantum key distribution protocols based on the transmission of squeezed vacuum states measured via homodyne detection. We employ a version of the entropic uncertainty relation for smooth entropies to give a lower bound on the number of secret bits which can be extracted from a finite number of runs of the protocol. This bound is valid under general coherent attacks, and gives rise to keys which are composably secure. For comparison, we also give a lower bound valid under the assumption of collective attacks. For both scenarios, we find positive key rates using experimental parameters reachable today.

id: 1112.2184
title: Classical simulation of dissipative fermionic linear optics
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Robert Koenig
comments: 19 pages
journal: Quant. Inf. Comp., vol. 12, no. 11-12, pp. 925-943 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2184
abstract: Fermionic linear optics is a limited form of quantum computation which is known to be efficiently simulable on a classical computer. We revisit and extend this result by enlarging the set of available computational gates: in addition to unitaries and measurements, we allow dissipative evolution governed by a Markovian master equation with linear Lindblad operators. We show that this more general form of fermionic computation is also simulable efficiently by classical means. Given a system of $N$ fermionic modes, our algorithm simulates any such gate in time $O(N^3)$ while a single-mode measurement is simulated in time $O(N^2)$. The steady state of the Lindblad equation can be computed in time $O(N^3)$.

id: 1112.2252
title: Explicit formula of the separability criterion for continuous variables systems
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: 8 pages. Talk given at 5th Asia-Pacific Workshop on Quantum Information Science (5th APWQIS)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2252
abstract: A very explicit analytic formula of the separability criterion of two-party Gaussian systems is given. This formula is compared to the past formulation of the separability criterion of continuous variables two-party Gaussian systems.

id: 1112.2285
title: Dynamics of quantum correlations for central two-qubit coupled to an isotropic Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick bath
authors: Yi ying Yan, Li guo Qin, Li jun Tian
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2285
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of quantum discord and entanglement for two central spin qubits coupled to an isotropic Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick bath. It is found that both quantum discord and entanglement have quite distinct behaviors with respect to the two different phases of the bath. In the case of the symmetry broken phase bath, quantum discord and entanglement can remain as constant. In the case of the symmetric phase bath, quantum discord and entanglement always periodically oscillate with time. The critical point of quantum phase transition of the bath can be revealed clearly by the distinct behaviors of quantum correlations. Furthermore, it is observed that quantum discord is significantly enhanced during the evolution while entanglement periodically vanishes.

id: 1112.2308
title: Upper bounds on the relative energy difference of pure and mixed Gaussian states with a fixed fidelity
authors: V. V. Dodonov
comments: 9 pages, accepted for publication in Journal of Physics A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2308
abstract: Exact and approximate formulas for the upper bound of the relative energy difference of two Gaussian states with the fixed fidelity between them are derived. The reciprocal formulas for the upper bound of the fidelity for the fixed value of the relative energy difference are obtained as well. The bounds appear higher for pure states than for mixed ones, and their maximal values correspond to squeezed vacuum states. In particular, to guarantee the relative energy difference less than 10%, for quite arbitrary Gaussian states, the fidelity between them must exceed the level 0.998866.

id: 1112.2331
title: Exploring quantum non-locality with de Broglie-Bohm trajectories
authors: Ivan P. Christov
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2331
abstract: Here in this paper, it is shown how the quantum nonlocality reshapes probability distributions of quantum trajectories in configuration space. By variationally minimizing the ground state energy of helium atom we show that there exists an optimal nonlocal quantum correlation length which also minimizes the mean integrated square error of the smooth trajectory ensemble with respect to the exact many-body wave function. The nonlocal quantum correlation length can be used for studies of both static and driven many-body quantum systems.

id: 1112.2343
title: Spatial confinement effects on quantum harmonic oscillator I: Nonlinear coherent state approach
authors: M. Bagheri Harouni, R. Roknizadeh, M. H. Naderi
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0710.1942
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42, 045403 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2343
abstract: In this paper we study some basic quantum confinement effects through investigation of a deformed harmonic oscillator algebra. We show that spatial confinement effects on a quantum harmonic oscillator can be represented by a deformation function within the framework of nonlinear coherent states theory. We construct the coherent states associated with the spatially confined quantum harmonic oscillator in a one-dimensional infinite well and examine some of their quantum statistical properties, including sub-poissonian statistics and quadrature squeezing.

id: 1112.2344
title: Nonlinear coherent state of an exciton in a wide quantum dot
authors: M. Bagheri Harouni, R. Roknizadeh, M. H. Naderi
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 41, 225501 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2344
abstract: In this paper, we derive the dynamical algebra of a particle confined in an infinite spherical well by using the $f$-deformed oscillator approach. We consider an exciton with definite angular momentum in a wide quantum dot interacting with two laser beams. We show that under the weak confinement condition, and quantization of the center-of-mass motion of exciton, the stationary state of it can be considered as a special kind of nonlinear coherent states which exhibits the quadrature squeezing.

id: 1112.2346
title: $Q$-deformed description of excitons and associated physical results
authors: M. Bagheri Harouni, R. Roknizadeh, M. H. Naderi
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 42, 095501 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2346
abstract: We consider excitons in a quantum dot as q-deformed systems. Interaction of some excitonic systems with one cavity mode is considered. Dynamics of the system is obtained by diagonalizing total Hamiltonian and emission spectrum of quantum dot is derived. Physical consequences of q-deformed exciton on emission spectrum of quantum dot is given. It is shown that when the exciton system deviates from Bose statistics, emission spectra will become multi peak. With our investigation we try to find the origin of the q-deformation of exciton. The optical response of excitons, which affected by the nonlinear nature of q-deformed systems, up to the second order of approximation is calculated and absorption spectra of the system is given.

id: 1112.2347
title: Geometry of the set of mixed quantum states: An apophatic approach
authors: Ingemar Bengtsson, Stephan Weis, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: 13 pages, 12 figures, v2: 5 figures changed from bw to color
journal: Geometric Methods in Physics. XXX Workshop 2011, Trends in Mathematics, pp 175-197 Springer Basel 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2347
abstract: The set of quantum states consists of density matrices of order $N$, which are hermitian, positive and normalized by the trace condition. We analyze the structure of this set in the framework of the Euclidean geometry naturally arising in the space of hermitian matrices. For N=2 this set is the Bloch ball, embedded in $\mathbb R^3$. For $N \geq 3$ this set of dimensionality $N^2-1$ has a much richer structure. We study its properties and at first advocate an apophatic approach, which concentrates on characteristics not possessed by this set. We also apply more constructive techniques and analyze two dimensional cross-sections and projections of the set of quantum states. They are dual to each other. At the end we make some remarks on certain dimension dependent properties.

id: 1112.2417
title: Fault-tolerant quantum error correction code conversion
authors: Charles D. Hill, Austin G. Fowler, David S. Wang, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2417
abstract: In this paper we demonstrate how data encoded in a five-qubit quantum error correction code can be converted, fault-tolerantly, into a seven-qubit Steane code. This is achieved by progressing through a series of codes, each of which fault-tolerantly corrects at least one error. Throughout the conversion the encoded qubit remains protected. We found, through computational search, that the method used to convert between codes given in this paper is optimal.

id: 1112.2418
title: The Berry Phase for Simple Harmonic Oscillators
authors: Sergei K. Suslov
comments: 7 pages, one figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2418
abstract: We evaluate the Berry phase for a "missing" family of the square integrable wavefunctions for the linear harmonic oscillator, which cannot be derived by the separation of variables (in a natural way). Instead, it is obtained by the action of the maximal kinematical invariance group on the standard solutions. A simple closed formula for the phase (in terms of elementary functions) is found by integration with the help of a computer algebra system.

id: 1112.2446
title: The quantum state should be interpreted statistically
authors: Holger F. Hofmann
comments: 3 pages, comment on arXiv:1111.3328. Ordering of terms in Equation (1) and spellings corrected in the second version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2446
abstract: In a recent paper (arXiv:1111.3328), Pusey, Barrett and Rudolph claim to prove that statistical interpretations of quantum mechanics do not work. In fact, their proof assumes that all statistical interpretations must be based on hidden variable realism. Effectively, the authors demand from the start that reality must be decided by mathematics, and not by measurements. If this unjustified assumption is dropped, the quantum formalism has a natural statistical interpretation that fully explains the paradox presented by the authors. It is therefore possible to conclude that the paradox actually supports the statistical interpretation, demonstrating once more that quantum mechanics should not be explained by measurement independent realities that are never observed and therefore lie beyond the reach of empirical tests.

id: 1112.2527
title: A witness for topological order and stable quantum memories in abelian anyonic systems
authors: James R. Wootton
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures; J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2527
abstract: We propose a novel parameter, the anyonic topological entropy, designed to detect the error correcting phase of a topological memory. Unlike similar quantities such as the topological entropy, the anyonic topological entropy is defined using the states of the anyon occupations. As such, though the parameter deals with phases and phase transitions that are quantum in nature, it can be calculated solely from classical probability distributions. In many cases, these calculations will be tractable using efficient classical algorithms. The parameter therefore provides a new avenue for efficient studies of anyonic systems.

id: 1112.2541
title: Bound Chains of Tilted Dipoles in Layered Systems
authors: A. G. Volosniev, J. R. Armstrong, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen, N. T. Zinner
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures. Submitted to Few-body Systems special issue on Critical Stability, revised version
journal: Few-Body Systems, Volume 54, Issue 5-6, pp. 707-715 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2541
abstract: Ultracold polar molecules in multilayered systems have been experimentally realized very recently. While experiments study these systems almost exclusively through their chemical reactivity, the outlook for creating and manipulating exotic few- and many-body physics in dipolar systems is fascinating. Here we concentrate on few-body states in a multilayered setup. We exploit the geometry of the interlayer potential to calculate the two- and three-body chains with one molecule in each layer. The focus is on dipoles that are aligned at some angle with respect to the layer planes by means of an external eletric field. The binding energy and the spatial structure of the bound states are studied in several different ways using analytical approaches. The results are compared to stochastic variational calculations and very good agreement is found. We conclude that approximations based on harmonic oscillator potentials are accurate even for tilted dipoles when the geometry of the potential landscape is taken into account.

id: 1112.2561
title: Particle correlation from uncorrelated non Born-Oppenheimer SCF wavefunctions
authors: Paolo Amore, Francisco M. Fern¨¢ndez
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2561
abstract: We analyse a nonadiabatic self-consistent field method by means of an exactly-solvable model. The method is based on nuclear and electronic orbitals that are functions of the cartesian coordinates in the laboratory-fixed frame. The kinetic energy of the center of mass is subtracted from the molecular Hamiltonian operator in the variational process. The results for the simple model are remarkably accurate and show that the integration over the redundant cartesian coordinates leads to couplings among the internal ones.

id: 1112.2586
title: On a Hidden Symmetry of Quantum Harmonic Oscillators
authors: Raquel M. Lopez, Sergei K. Suslov, Jose M. Vega-Guzman
comments: 11 pages, 20 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2586
abstract: We consider a six-parameter family of the square integrable wave functions for the simple harmonic oscillator, which cannot be obtained by the standard separation of variables. They are given by the action of the corresponding maximal kinematical invariance group on the standard solutions. In addition, the phase space oscillations of the electron position and linear momentum probability distributions are computer animated and some possible applications are briefly discussed. A visualization of the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle is presented.

id: 1112.2599
title: Lifshitz formula by spectral summation method
authors: V. V. Nesterenko, I. G. Pirozhenko
comments: The version published in Phys. Rev. A 86, 052503 (2012); criticism of some previous derivations of the Lifshitz formula is diminished (Introduction) and emphasizing the authors achievements (Conclusion) is moderated
journal: Physical Review A 86, 052503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2599
abstract: The Lifshitz formula is derived by making use of the spectral summation method which is a mathematically rigorous simultaneous application of both the mode-by-mode summation technique and scattering formalism. The contributions to the Casimir energy of electromagnetic excitations of different types (surface modes, waveguide modes, and photonic modes) are clearly retraced. A correct transition to imaginary frequencies is accomplished with allowance for all the peculiarities of the frequency equations and pertinent scattering data in the complex $\omega $ plane, including, in particular, the cuts connecting the branch points and complex roots of the frequency equations (quasi-normal modes). The principal novelty of our approach is a special choice of appropriate passes in the contour integrals, which are used for transition to imaginary frequencies. As a result, the long standing problem of cuts in the complex $\omega $ plane is solved completely. Inconsistencies of some previous derivations of the Lifshitz formula are traced briefly. For completeness of the presentation, the necessary mathematical facts are also stated, namely, solution of the Maxwell equations for configurations under consideration, scattering formalism for parallel plane interfaces, determination of the frequency equation roots, and others.

id: 1112.2614
title: Green function approach for scattering quantum walks
authors: F. M. Andrade, M. G. E. da Luz
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, this article was selected by APS for Virtual Journal of Quantum Information, Vol 11, Iss 11 (2011)
journal: Physical Review A 84, 042343 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2614
abstract: In this work a Green function approach for scattering quantum walks is developed. The exact formula has the form of a sum over paths and always can be cast into a closed analytic expression for arbitrary topologies and position dependent quantum amplitudes. By introducing the step and path operators, it is shown how to extract any information about the system from the Green function. The method relevant features are demonstrated by discussing in details an example, a general diamond-shaped graph.

id: 1112.2626
title: The definition of multipartite nonlocality
authors: Jean-Daniel Bancal, Jonathan Barrett, Nicolas Gisin, Stefano Pironio
comments: Appendix uploaded
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 014102 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2626
abstract: In a multipartite setting, it is possible to distinguish quantum states that are genuinely $n$-way entangled from those that are separable with respect to some bipartition. Similarly, the nonlocal correlations that can arise from measurements on entangled states can be classified into those that are genuinely $n$-way nonlocal, and those that are local with respect to some bipartition. Svetlichny introduced an inequality intended as a test for genuine tripartite nonlocality. This work introduces two alternative definitions of $n$-way nonlocality, which we argue are better motivated both from the point of view of the study of nature, and from the point of view of quantum information theory. We show that these definitions are strictly weaker than Svetlichny's, and introduce a series of suitable Bell-type inequalities for the detection of 3-way nonlocality. Numerical evidence suggests that all 3-way entangled pure quantum states can produce 3-way nonlocal correlations.

id: 1112.2629
title: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm laboratory experiments: Data analysis and simulation
authors: H. De Raedt, K. Michielsen, F. Jin
comments: FPP6 - Foundations of Probability and Physics 6, AIP Conference Proceedings, in press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2629
abstract: Data produced by laboratory Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen-Bohm (EPRB) experiments is tested against the hypothesis that the statistics of this data is given by quantum theory of this thought experiment. Statistical evidence is presented that the experimental data, while violating Bell inequalities, does not support this hypothesis. It is shown that an event-based simulation model, providing a cause-and-effect description of real EPRB experiments at a level of detail which is not covered by quantum theory, reproduces the results of quantum theory of this thought experiment, indicating that there is no fundamental obstacle for a real EPRB experiment to produce data that can be described by quantum theory.

id: 1112.2641
title: Efficient measurement-based quantum computing with continuous-variable systems
authors: Matthias Ohliger, Jens Eisert
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062318 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2641
abstract: We present strictly efficient schemes for scalable measurement-based quantum computing using continuous-variable systems: These schemes are based on suitable non-Gaussian resource states, ones that can be prepared using interactions of light with matter systems or even purely optically. Merely Gaussian measurements such as optical homodyning as well as photon counting measurements are required, on individual sites. These schemes overcome limitations posed by Gaussian cluster states, which are known not to be universal for quantum computations of unbounded length, unless one is willing to scale the degree of squeezing with the total system size. We establish a framework derived from tensor networks and matrix product states with infinite physical dimension and finite auxiliary dimension general enough to provide a framework for such schemes. Since in the discussed schemes the logical encoding is finite-dimensional, tools of error correction are applicable. We also identify some further limitations for any continuous-variable computing scheme from which one can argue that no substantially easier ways of continuous-variable measurement-based computing than the presented one can exist.

id: 1112.2645
title: Robust multipartite quantum correlations without complex encodings
authors: Rafael Chaves, Leandro Aolita, Antonio Ac¨ªn
comments: 4 pages + appendix, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 020301(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2645
abstract: One of the main challenges for the manipulation and storage of multipartite entanglement is its fragility under noise. We present a simple recipe for the systematic enhancement of the resistance of multipartite entanglement against any local noise with a privileged direction in the Bloch sphere. For the case of exact local dephasing along any given basis, and for all noise strengths, our prescription grants full robustness: Even states with exponentially decaying entanglement are mapped to states whose entanglement is constant. In contrast to previous techniques resorting to complex logical-qubit encodings, such enhancement is attained simply by performing local-unitary rotations before the noise acts. The scheme is therefore highly experimentally friendly, as it brings no overhead of extra physical qubits to encode logical ones. In addition, we show that, apart from entanglement, the resiliences of the relative entropy of quantumness and the usefulness as resources for practical tasks such as metrology and nonlocality-based protocols are equivalently enhanced.

id: 1112.2647
title: An operational framework for nonlocality
authors: Rodrigo Gallego, Lars E. W¨¹rflinger, Antonio Ac¨ªn, Miguel Navascu¨¦s
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 070401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2647
abstract: Due to the importance of entanglement for quantum information purposes, a framework has been developed for its characterization and quantification as a resource based on the following operational principle: entanglement among $N$ parties cannot be created by local operations and classical communication, even when $N-1$ parties collaborate. More recently, nonlocality has been identified as another resource, alternative to entanglement and necessary for device-independent quantum information protocols. We introduce an operational framework for nonlocality based on a similar principle: nonlocality among $N$ parties cannot be created by local operations and allowed classical communication even when $N-1$ parties collaborate. We then show that the standard definition of multipartite nonlocality, due to Svetlichny, is inconsistent with this operational approach: according to it, genuine tripartite nonlocality could be created by two collaborating parties. We finally discuss alternative definitions for which consistency is recovered.

id: 1112.2665
title: Analysis of multipath interference in three-slit experiments
authors: H. De Raedt, K. Michielsen, K. Hess
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review A. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1103.0121
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2665
abstract: It is demonstrated that the three-slit interference, as obtained from explicit solutions of Maxwell's equations for realistic models of three-slit devices, including an idealized version of the three-slit device used in a recent three-slit experiment with light (U. Sinha {\sl et al.}, Science 329, 418 (2010)), is nonzero. The hypothesis that the three-slit interference should be zero is the result of dropping the one-to-one correspondence between the symbols in the mathematical theory and the different experimental configurations, opening the route to conclusions that cannot be derived from the theory proper. It is also shown that under certain experimental conditions, this hypothesis is a good approximation.

id: 1112.2667
title: Quantum simulations and experiments on Rabi oscillations of spin qubits: intrinsic {\sl vs} extrinsic damping
authors: H. De Raedt, B. Barbara, S. Miyashita, K. Michielsen, S. Bertaina, S. Gambarelli
comments: Accepted for publication in Physical Review B
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2667
abstract: Electron Paramagnetic Resonance experiments show that the decay of Rabi oscillations of ensembles of spin qubits depends noticeably on the microwave power and more precisely on the Rabi frequency, an effect recently called "driven decoherence". By direct numerical solution of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation of the associated many-body system, we scrutinize the different mechanisms that may lead to this type of decoherence. Assuming the effects of dissipation to be negligible ($T_1=\infty$), it is shown that a system of dipolar-coupled spins with -- even weak-- random inhomogeneities is sufficient to explain the salient features of the experimental observations. Some experimental examples are given to illustrate the potential of the numerical simulation approach.

id: 1112.2672
title: Event-based simulation of interference with alternatingly blocked particle sources
authors: K. Michielsen, S. Mohanty, L. Arnold, H. De Raedt
comments: FPP6 - Foundations of Probability and Physics 6, edited by A. Khrennikov et al., AIP Conference Proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2672
abstract: We analyze the predictions of an event-based corpuscular model for interference in the case of two-beam interference experiments in which the two sources are alternatingly blocked. We show that such experiments may be used to test specific predictions of the corpuscular model.

id: 1112.2716
title: Solving non-Markovian open quantum systems with multi-channel reservoir coupling
authors: Curtis J. Broadbent, Jun Jing, Ting Yu, Joseph H. Eberly
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2716
abstract: We extend the non-Markovian quantum state diffusion (QSD) equation to open quantum systems which exhibit multi-channel coupling to a harmonic oscillator reservoir. Open quantum systems which have multi-channel reservoir coupling are those in which canonical transformation of reservoir modes cannot reduce the number of reservoir operators appearing in the interaction Hamiltonian to one. We show that the non-Markovian QSD equation for multi-channel reservoir coupling can, in some cases, lead to an exact master equation which we derive. We then derive the exact master equation for the three-level system in a vee-type configuration which has multi-channel reservoir coupling and give the analytical solution. Finally, we examine the evolution of the three-level vee-type system with generalized Ornstein-Uhlenbeck reservoir correlations numerically.

id: 1112.2767
title: Quantum discord: "discord" between the whole and its constituent
authors: X.-J. Ren, H. Fan
comments: title changed, abstract rewritten. Rank-1 POVM measurements are needed for our results
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 425304 (7pp)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2767
abstract: Quantum discord, a measure of quantum correlation beyond entanglement, is initially defined as the discord between two classically equivalent while quantum discordant definitions of mutual information. In this paper, we report some new interpretations of discord which rely on the differences between measurement induced effects on the local measured system and the whole system. Specifically, with proper quantitative definitions introduced in [Buscemi, Hayashi and Horodecki, Phys. Rev. Lett. 100, 2210504 (2008)], we find that quantum discord can be interpreted as the differences of measurement induced disturbance or information gain on the local measured system and on the whole system. Combined with previous similar results based on measurement induced entanglement and decoherence, our results provide a unified view on quantum discord.

id: 1112.2804
title: Comment on "Role of Initial Entanglement and Non-Gaussianity in the Docoherence of Photon-Number Entangled States Evolving in a Noisy Channel"
authors: Jaehak Lee, M. S. Kim, Hyunchul Nha
comments: published version, originally submitted on 22 November 2010
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 238901 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2804
abstract: A discussion on the robustness of continuous-variable entangled states under noisy environment is briefly given in direct relation to Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 100503 (2010).

id: 1112.2806
title: Effective operator formalism for open quantum systems
authors: Florentin Reiter, Anders S. S?rensen
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032111 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2806
abstract: We present an effective operator formalism for open quantum systems. Employing perturbation theory and adiabatic elimination of excited states for a weakly driven system, we derive an effective master equation which reduces the evolution to the ground-state dynamics. The effective evolution involves a single effective Hamiltonian and one effective Lindblad operator for each naturally occurring decay process. Simple expressions are derived for the effective operators which can be directly applied to reach effective equations of motion for the ground states. We compare our method with the hitherto existing concepts for effective interactions and present physical examples for the application of our formalism, including dissipative state preparation by engineered decay processes.

id: 1112.2827
title: Homogenization of Bell inequalities
authors: Yu-Chun Wu, Marek ?ukowski
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2827
abstract: A technique, which we call homogenization, is applied to transform CH-type Bell inequalities, which contain lower order correlations, into CHSH-type Bell inequalities, which are defined for highest order correlation functions. A homogenization leads to inequalities involving more settings, that is a choice of one more observable is possible for each party. We show that this technique preserves the tightness of Bell inequalities: a homogenization of a tight CH-type Bell inequality is still a tight CHSH-type Bell inequality. As an example we obtain $3\times3\times3$ CHSH-type Bell inequalities by homogenization of $2\times 2\times 2$ CH-type Bell inequalities derived by Sliwa in [Phys. Lett. A {\bf 317}, 165 (2003)].

id: 1112.2839
title: Quantum transport efficiency and Fourier's law
authors: Daniel Manzano, Markus Tiersch, Ali Asadian, Hans J. Briegel
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phis. Rev. E 86, 061118 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2839
abstract: We analyze the steady-state energy transfer in a chain of coupled two-level systems connecting two thermal reservoirs. Through an analytic treatment we find that the energy current is independent of the system size, hence violating Fourier's law of heat conduction. The classical diffusive behavior in Fourier's law of heat conduction can be recovered by introducing decoherence to the quantum systems constituting the chain. Implications of these results on energy transfer in biological light harvesting systems, and the role of quantum coherences and entanglement are discussed.

id: 1112.2844
title: Some Languages Recognized by Two-Way Finite Automata with Quantum and Classical States
authors: Shenggen Zheng, Daowen Qiu, Lvzhou Li
comments: Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2844
abstract: {\it Two-way finite automata with quantum and classical states} (2QCFA) were introduced by Ambainis and Watrous, and it was shown that 2QCFA have superiority over {\it two-way probabilistic finite automata} (2PFA) for recognizing some non-regular languages such as the language $L_{eq}=\{a^{n}b^{n}\mid n\in \mathbf{N}\}$ and the palindrome language $L_{pal}=\{\omega\in \{a,b\}^*\mid\omega=\omega^R\}$, where $x^R$ is $x$ in the reverse order. It is interesting to find more languages like these that witness the superiority of 2QCFA over 2PFA. In this paper, we consider the language $L_{m}=\{xcy\mid \Sigma=\{a, b, c\}, x,y\in\{a,b\}^{*},c\in\Sigma, |x|=|y|\}$ that is similar to the middle language $L_{middle}=\{xay\mid x,y\in\Sigma^{*},a\in\Sigma, |x|=|y|\}$. We prove that the language $L_{m}$ can be recognized by 2QCFA with one-sided error in polynomial expected time. Also, we show that $L_{m}$ can be recognized by 2PFA with bounded error, but only in exponential expected time. Thus $L_{m}$ is another witness of the fact that 2QCFA are more powerful than their classical counterparts.

id: 1112.2856
title: Worst case analysis of non-local games
authors: Andris Ambainis, Arturs Backurs, Kaspars Balodis, Agnis Skuskovniks, Juris Smotrovs, Madars Virza
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2856
abstract: Non-local games are studied in quantum information because they provide a simple way for proving the difference between the classical world and the quantum world. A non-local game is a cooperative game played by 2 or more players against a referee. The players cannot communicate but may share common random bits or a common quantum state. A referee sends an input $x_i$ to the $i^{th}$ player who then responds by sending an answer $a_i$ to the referee. The players win if the answers $a_i$ satisfy a condition that may depend on the inputs $x_i$. Typically, non-local games are studied in a framework where the referee picks the inputs from a known probability distribution. We initiate the study of non-local games in a worst-case scenario when the referee's probability distribution is unknown and study several non-local games in this scenario.

id: 1112.2899
title: Time evolution of entangled biatomic states in a cavity
authors: E. G. Figueiredo, C. A. Linhares, A. P. C. Malbouisson, J. M. C. Malbouisson
comments: Revtex4, 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A, vol. 84. 045802 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2899
abstract: We study the time evolution of entangled states of a pair of identical atoms, considered in the harmonic approximation, coupled to an environment represented by an infinite set of free oscillators, with the whole system confined within a spherical cavity of radius $R$. Taking the center-of-mass and the relative-position coordinates, and using the dressed-state approach, we present the time evolution of some quantities measuring the entanglement, for both limits of a very large and a small cavity; the chosen examples are simple and illustrate these very distinct behaviors.

id: 1112.2923
title: The Uncertainty Relation for Quantum propositions
authors: Paola Zizzi
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2923
abstract: Logical propositions with the fuzzy modality "Probably" are shown to obey an uncertainty principle very similar to that of Quantum Optics. In the case of such propositions, the partial truth values are in fact probabilities. The corresponding assertions in the metalanguage, have complex assertion degrees which can be interpreted as probability amplitudes. In the logical case, the uncertainty relation is about the assertion degree, which plays the role of the phase, and the total number of atomic propositions, which plays the role of the number of modes. In analogy with coherent states in quantum physics, we define "quantum coherent propositions" those which minimize the above logical uncertainty relation. Finally, we show that there is only one kind of compound quantum-coherent propositions: the "cat state" propositions.

id: 1112.3133
title: Geometric entangling gates for coupled cavity system in decoherence-free subspaces
authors: Yue-Yue Chen, Xun-Li Feng, C.H. Oh
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3133
abstract: We propose a scheme to implement geometric entangling gates for two logical qubits in a coupled cavity system in decoherence-free subspaces. Each logical qubit is encoded with two atoms trapped in a single cavity and the geometric entangling gates are achieved by cavity coupling and controlling the external classical laser fields. Based on the coupled cavity system, the scheme allows the scalability for quantum computing and relaxes the requirement for individually addressing atoms.

id: 1112.3141
title: Necessary and sufficient conditions for local creation of quantum correlation
authors: Xueyuan Hu, Heng Fan, D. L. Zhou, Wu-Ming Liu
comments: Theorem 2 has been modified
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032102 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3141
abstract: Quantum correlation can be created by a local operation from some initially classical states. We prove that the necessary and sufficient condition for a local trace-preserving channel to create quantum correlation is that it is not a commutativity-preserving channel. This condition is valid for arbitrary finite dimension systems. We also derive the explicit form of commutativity-preserving channels. For a qubit, a commutativity-preserving channel is either a completely decohering channel or a mixing channel. For a three-dimensional system (qutrit), a commutativity-preserving channel is either a completely decohering channel or an isotropic channel.

id: 1112.3155
title: Balanced-heterodyne detection of sub-shot-noise optical signals
authors: Sheng Feng, Zehuan Lu, Jie Zhang, Chenggang Shao
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3155
abstract: As part of the effort to make use of squeezed states of light for detection of sub-shot-noise optical signals, we study the balanced heterodyne scheme, for which the corresponding spectral density of the photocurrent fluctuations produced at the output of the detector is calculated as the Fourier transform of their autocorrelation function. Our analysis shows that, for maximal signal-to-noise ratio enhancement by use of squeezed states of light, an optical signal to be measured must be carried in the squeezed quadrature of the carrier field. We discuss how "the additional heterodyne noise" can be eliminated in this scheme and its potential application to gravitational-wave searching. To demonstrate the practical feasibility, we propose and study a phase-locking technique for this scheme.

id: 1112.3161
title: An atomic clockwork using phase dependent energy shifts
authors: D. De Munshi, B. Dutta-Roy, M. Mukherjee
comments: This paper is withdrawn because of critical failure of ideas!
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3161
abstract: A frequency stabilized laser referenced to an unperturbed atomic two level system acts as the most accurate clock with femtosecond clock ticks. For any meaningful use, a Femtosecond Laser Frequency Comb (FLFC) is used to transfer the atomic clock accuracy to electronically countable nanosecond clock ticks. Here we propose an alternative clockwork based on the phenomenon that when an atomic system is slowly evolved in a cyclic path, the atomic energy levels gather some phase called the geometric phase. This geometric phase dependent energy shift has been used here to couple the two frequency regimes in a phase coherent manner. It has also been shown that such a technique can be implemented experimentally, bypassing the highly involved setup of a FLFC.

id: 1112.3164
title: Classical and Quantum Mechanical State Reconstruction
authors: F. C. Khanna, P. A. Mello, M. Revzen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3164
abstract: We review the problem of state reconstruction in classical and in quantum physics, which is rarely considered at the textbook level. We review a method for retrieving a classical state in phase space, similar to that used in medical imaging known as Computer Aided Tomography. We explain how this method can be taken over to quantum mechanics, where it leads to a description of the quantum state in terms of the Wigner function which, although may take on negative values, plays the role of the probability density in phase space in classical physics. We explain another approach to quantum state reconstruction based on the notion of Mutually Unbiased Bases, and indicate the relation between these two approaches. Both are for a continuous, infinite-dimensional Hilbert space. We then study the finite-dimensional case and show how the second method, based on Mutually Unbiased Bases, can be used for state reconstruction.

id: 1112.3218
title: Multiple-Access Quantum Key Distribution Networks
authors: Mohsen Razavi
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: IEEE Trans Commun 60, 3071 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3218
abstract: This paper addresses multi-user quantum key distribution networks, in which any two users can mutually exchange a secret key without trusting any other nodes. The same network also supports conventional classical communications by assigning two different wavelength bands to quantum and classical signals. Time and code division multiple access (CDMA) techniques, within a passive star network, are considered. In the case of CDMA, it turns out that the optimal performance is achieved at a unity code weight. A listen-before-send protocol is then proposed to improve secret key generation rates in this case. Finally, a hybrid setup with wavelength routers and passive optical networks, which can support a large number of users, is considered and analyzed.

id: 1112.3224
title: Magnetic moment of an electron near a surface with dispersion
authors: Robert Bennett, Claudia Eberlein
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 123035
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3224
abstract: Boundary-dependent radiative corrections that modify the magnetic moment of an electron near a dielectric or conducting surface are investigated. Normal-mode quantization of the electromagnetic field and perturbation theory applied to the Dirac equation for a charged particle in a weak magnetic field yields a general formula for the magnetic moment correction in terms of any choice of electromagnetic mode functions. For two particular models, a non-dispersive dielectric and an undamped plasma, it is shown that, by using contour integration techniques over a complex wave vector, this can be simplified to a formula featuring just integrals over TE and TM reflection coefficients of the surface. Analysing the magnetic moment correction for several models of surfaces, we obtain markedly different results from the previously considered simplistic `perfect reflector' model, which is due to the inclusion of physically important features of the surface like evanescent field modes and dispersion in the material. Remarkably, for a general dispersive dielectric surface, the magnetic moment correction of an electron nearby has a peak whose position and height can be tuned by choice of material parameters.

id: 1112.3238
title: Tight Bell inequalities with no quantum violation from qubit unextendible product bases
authors: R. Augusiak, T. Fritz, M. Kotowski, M. Kotowski, M. Paw?owski, M. Lewenstein, A. Ac¨ªn
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure, some minor improvements
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042113 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3238
abstract: We investigate the relation between unextendible product bases (UPB) and Bell inequalities found recently in [R. Augusiak et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 070401 (2011)]. We first review the procedure introduced there that associates to any set of mutually orthogonal product vectors in a many-qubit Hilbert space a Bell inequality. We then show that if a set of mutually orthogonal product vectors can be completed to a full basis, then the associated Bell inequality is trivial, in the sense of not being violated by any nonsignalling correlations. This implies that the relevant Bell inequalities that arise from the construction all come from UPBs, which adds additional weight to the significance of UPBs for Bell inequalities. Then, we provide new examples of tight Bell inequalities with no quantum violation constructed from UPBs in this way. Finally, it is proven that the Bell inequalities with no quantum violation introduced recently in [M. Almeida et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 230404 (2010)] are tight for any odd number of parties.

id: 1112.3252
title: Analytic and numerical demonstration of quantum self-correction in the 3D Cubic Code
authors: Sergey Bravyi, Jeongwan Haah
comments: 40 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 200501 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3252
abstract: A big open question in the quantum information theory concerns feasibility of a self-correcting quantum memory. A quantum state recorded in such memory can be stored reliably for a macroscopic time without need for active error correction if the memory is put in contact with a cold enough thermal bath. In this paper we derive a rigorous lower bound on the memory time $T_{mem}$ of the 3D Cubic Code model which was recently conjectured to have a self-correcting behavior. Assuming that dynamics of the memory system can be described by a Markovian master equation of Davies form, we prove that $T_{mem}\ge L^{c\beta}$ for some constant $c>0$, where $L$ is the lattice size and $\beta$ is the inverse temperature of the bath. However, this bound applies only if the lattice size does not exceed certain critical value $L^*\sim e^{\beta/3}$. We also report a numerical Monte Carlo simulation of the studied memory indicating that our analytic bounds on $T_{mem}$ are tight up to constant coefficients. In order to model the readout step we introduce a new decoding algorithm which might be of independent interest. Our decoder can be implemented efficiently for any topological stabilizer code and has a constant error threshold under random uncorrelated errors.

id: 1112.3274
title: Irreducible Scalar Many-Body Casimir Energies: Theorems and Numerical Studies
authors: Martin Schaden
comments: Writeup of talk given at QFEXT11 (Sept.18-24) in Benasque, Spain. 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3274
abstract: We define irreducible N-body spectral functions and Casimir energies and consider a massless scalar quantum field interacting locally by positive potentials with classical objects. Irreducible N-body spectral functions in this case are shown to be conditional probabilities of random walks. The corresponding irreducible contributions to scalar many-body Casimir energies are finite and positive/negative for an odd/even number of objects. The force between any two finite objects separable by a plane is always attractive in this case. Analytical and numerical world-line results for the irreducible four-body Casimir energy of a scalar with Dirichlet boundary conditions on a tic-tac-toe pattern of lines are presented. Numerical results for the irreducible three-body Casimir energy of a massless scalar satisfying Dirichlet boundary conditions on three intersecting lines forming an isosceles triangle are also reported. In both cases the symmetric configuration (square and isosceles triangle) corresponds to the minimal irreducible contribution to the Casimir energy.

id: 1112.3280
title: Optimal correlations in many-body quantum systems
authors: Luigi Amico, Davide Rossini, Alioscia Hamma, Vladimir E. Korepin
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures + supplementary material. To be published in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 240503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3280
abstract: Information and correlations in a quantum system are closely related through the process of measurement. We explore such relation in a many-body quantum setting, effectively bridging between quantum metrology and condensed matter physics. To this aim we adopt the information-theory view of correlations, and study the amount of correlations after certain classes of Positive-Operator-Valued Measurements are locally performed. As many-body system we consider a one-dimensional array of interacting two-level systems (a spin chain) at zero temperature, where quantum effects are most pronounced. We demonstrate how the optimal strategy to extract the correlations depends on the quantum phase through a subtle interplay between local interactions and coherence.

id: 1112.3317
title: Reply on "Comment on 'Role of initial entanglement and non-Gaussianity in the decoherence of photon-number entangled states evolving in a noisy channel' "
authors: Michele Allegra, Paolo Giorda, Matteo G. A. Paris
comments: 1 page, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 238902 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3317
abstract: In a recent work (Allegra et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 100503, 2010) we addressed the evolution of photon-number entangled states in noisy Gaussian channels. Upon exploiting several non equivalent separability criteria we found evidence that entanglement of Gaussian PNES survives longer, and thus we drew a conjecture about the generality of this result. In their Comment to our work, Lee et al. use an additional entanglement criterion (NDPT) which allows them to show some counterexamples to our conjecture, i.e., nonGaussian states whose entanglement survives longer. In this reply, we argue that although there are no flaws or central errors in our original Letter, the conjecture is not maintanable in a strict sense if one includes the NDPT criterion. Nevertheless, for the examples of non Gaussian states proposed in the Comment, which violate the conjecture, the residual entanglement is extremely low. Therefore it remains an open question whether these, as well as other kinds of states, could represent a useful resource in quantum communication protocols.

id: 1112.3330
title: Quantum strategies are better than classical in almost any XOR game
authors: Andris Ambainis, Arturs Backurs, Kaspars Balodis, Dmitry Kravcenko, Raitis Ozols, Juris Smotrovs, Madars Virza
comments: 22 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3330
abstract: We initiate a study of random instances of nonlocal games. We show that quantum strategies are better than classical for almost any 2-player XOR game. More precisely, for large n, the entangled value of a random 2-player XOR game with n questions to every player is at least 1.21... times the classical value, for 1-o(1) fraction of all 2-player XOR games.

id: 1112.3333
title: Another subexponential-time quantum algorithm for the dihedral hidden subgroup problem
authors: Greg Kuperberg
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3333
abstract: We give an algorithm for the hidden subgroup problem for the dihedral group $D_N$, or equivalently the cyclic hidden shift problem, that supersedes our first algorithm and is suggested by Regev's algorithm. It runs in $\exp(O(\sqrt{\log N}))$ quantum time and uses $\exp(O(\sqrt{\log N}))$ classical space, but only $O(\log N)$ quantum space. The algorithm also runs faster with quantumly addressable classical space than with fully classical space. In the hidden shift form, which is more natural for this algorithm regardless, it can also make use of multiple hidden shifts. It can also be extended with two parameters that trade classical space and classical time for quantum time. At the extreme space-saving end, the algorithm becomes Regev's algorithm. At the other end, if the algorithm is allowed classical memory with quantum random access, then many trade-offs between classical and quantum time are possible.

id: 1112.3337
title: Search by quantum walks on two-dimensional grid without amplitude amplification
authors: Andris Ambainis, Arturs Backurs, Nikolajs Nahimovs, Raitis Ozols, Alexander Rivosh
comments: 22 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3337
abstract: We study search by quantum walk on a finite two dimensional grid. The algorithm of Ambainis, Kempe, Rivosh (quant-ph/0402107) takes O(\sqrt{N log N}) steps and finds a marked location with probability O(1/log N) for grid of size \sqrt{N} * \sqrt{N}. This probability is small, thus amplitude amplification is needed to achieve \Theta(1) success probability. The amplitude amplification adds an additional O(\sqrt{log N}) factor to the number of steps, making it O(\sqrt{N} log N). In this paper, we show that despite a small probability to find a marked location, the probability to be within an O(\sqrt{N}) neighbourhood (at an O(\sqrt[4]{N}) distance) of the marked location is \Theta(1). This allows to skip amplitude amplification step and leads to an O(\sqrt{log N}) speed-up. We describe the results of numerical experiments supporting this idea, and we prove this fact analytically.

id: 1112.3372
title: Quantum Mutual Information Along Unitary Orbits
authors: Sania Jevtic, David Jennings, Terry Rudolph
comments: 23 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052121 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3372
abstract: Motivated by thermodynamic considerations, we analyse the variation of the quantum mutual information on a unitary orbit of a bipartite system's state, with and without global constraints such as energy conservation. We solve the full optimisation problem for the smallest system of two qubits, and explore thoroughly the effect of unitary operations on the space of reduced-state spectra. We then provide applications of these ideas to physical processes within closed quantum systems, such as a generalized collision model approach to thermal equilibrium and a global Maxwell demon playing tricks on local observers. For higher dimensions, the maximization of correlations is relatively straightforward for equal-sized subsystems, however their minimisation displays non-trivial structures. We characterise a set of separable states in which the minimally correlated state resides: a collection of classically correlated states admitting a particular "Young tableau" form. Furthermore, a partial order exists on this set with respect to individual marginal entropies, and the presence of a "see-saw effect" for these entropies forces a finer analysis to determine the optimal tableau.

id: 1112.3382
title: Simulating equatorial measurements on GHZ states with finite expected communication cost
authors: Gilles Brassard, Marc Kaplan
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3382
abstract: The communication cost of simulating probability distributions obtained by measuring quantum states is a natural way to quantify quantum non-locality. While much is known in the case of bipartite entanglement, little has been done in the multipartite setting. In this paper, we focus on the GHZ state. Specifically, equatorial measurements lead to correlations similar to the ones obtained with Bell states. We give a protocol to simulate these measurements on the n-partite GHZ state using O(n^2) bits of communication on average.

id: 1112.3396
title: Symmetries in Quantum Key Distribution and the Connection between Optimal Attacks and Optimal Cloning
authors: Agnes Ferenczi, Norbert L¨¹tkenhaus
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3396
abstract: We investigate the connection between the optimal collective eavesdropping attack and the optimal cloning attack where the eavesdropper employs an optimal cloner to attack the quantum key distribution (QKD) protocol. The analysis is done in the context of the security proof in [Devetak and Winter, Proc. of the Roy. Soc. of London Series A, 461, 207 (2005); Kraus, Gisin and Renner, Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 080501 (2005)] for discrete variable protocols in d-dimensional Hilbert spaces. We consider a scenario in which the protocols and cloners are equipped with symmetries. These symmetries are used to define a quantum cloning scenario. We find that, in general, it does not hold that the optimal attack is an optimal cloner. However, there are classes of protocols, where we can identify an optimal attack by an optimal cloner. We analyze protocols with 2, d and d+1 mutually unbiased bases where d is a prime, and show that for the protocols with 2 and d+1 MUBs the optimal attack is an optimal cloner, but for the protocols with d MUBs, it is not. Finally, we give criteria to identify protocols which have different signal states, but the same optimal attack. Using these criteria, we present qubit protocols which have the same optimal attack as the BB84 protocol or the 6-state protocol.

id: 1112.3399
title: Explaining Counts from EPRB Experiments: Are They Consistent with Quantum Theory?
authors: James H. Bigelow
comments: 25 pages, including 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3399
abstract: I have fit data from EPRB experiments of Weihs et al to a model that consists of an EPRB thought experiment whose output is filtered. The filter implements the assumptions made by most investigators: that EPRB experiments satisfy a fair sampling assumption; and that detections and coincidences occur randomly with Poisson distributions (this provides a basis for calculating standard errors of coincidence counts, correlations, and so forth). The model does not fit the data-predicted and observed counts of detections and coincidences differ far too much, by a chi-square criterion. Logically, one must give up fair sampling and/or Poisson errors and/or the assumption that the data derive ultimately from an EPRB thought experiment. In the literature, giving up fair sampling seems to be coupled to giving up EPRB, but to me it seems just as sensible to keep EPRB and to give up fair sampling and Poisson errors. Some rather ordinary mechanisms can violate fair sampling, and there is the possibility in any experiment for uncontrolled and unmonitored factors to contribute to unwanted variation. By sufficiently relaxing the fair sampling and Poisson assumptions-it doesn't take much-my model can be made to fit the data.

id: 1112.3424
title: The approach to typicality in many-body quantum systems
authors: Shawn Dubey, Luciano Silvestri, Justin Finn, Sai Vinjanampathy, Kurt Jacobs
comments: 6 pages, 2 png figures, revtex4
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 011141 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3424
abstract: The recent discovery that for large Hilbert spaces, almost all (that is, typical) Hamiltonians have eigenstates that place small subsystems in thermal equilibrium, has shed much light on the origins of irreversibility and thermalization. Here we give numerical evidence that many-body lattice systems generically approach typicality as the number of subsystems is increased, and thus provide further support for the eigenstate thermalization hypothesis. Our results indicate that the deviation of many-body systems from typicality decreases exponentially with the number of systems. Further, by averaging over a number of randomly-selected nearest-neighbor interactions, we obtain a power-law for the atypicality as a function of the Hilbert space dimension, distinct from the power-law possessed by random Hamiltonians.

id: 1112.3437
title: Entanglement, mixedness and perfect local discrimination of orthogonal quantum states
authors: Somshubhro Bandyopadhyay
comments: Latex, 12 pages; journal version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042319 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3437
abstract: It is shown that local distinguishability of orthogonal mixed states can be completely characterized by local distinguishability of their supports irrespective of entanglement and mixedness of the states. This leads to two kinds of upper bounds on the number of perfect LOCC distinguishable orthogonal mixed states. The first one depends only on pure-state entanglement within the supports of the states, and therefore may be easy to compute in many instances. The second bound is optimal in the sense that it optimizes the bounding quantities, not necessarily function of entanglement alone, over all orthogonal mixed state ensembles (satisfying certain conditions) admissible within the supports of the density matrices.

id: 1112.3439
title: Microwave Photonics Parallel Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Jose Mora, Antonio Ruiz-Alba, Waldimar Amaya, Alfonso Martinez, Victor Garcia- Munoz, David Calvo, Jose Capmany
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3439
abstract: The incorporation of multiplexing techniques used in Microwave Photonics to Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) systems bring important advantages enabling the simultaneous and parallel delivery of multiple keys between a central station and different end-users in the context of multipoint access and metropolitan networks, or by providing higher key distribution rates in point to point links by suitably linking the parallel distributed keys. It also allows the coexistence of classical information and quantum key distribution channels over a single optical fibre infrastructure. Here we show, for the first time to our knowledge, the successful operation of a two domain (subcarrier and wavelength division) multiplexed strong reference BB84 quantum key distribution system. A four independent channel QKD system featuring 10 kb/s/channel over an 11 km link with Quantum Bit Error Rate (QBER) < 2 % is reported. These results open the way for multi-quantum key distribution over optical fiber networks.

id: 1112.3442
title: Casimir effect between two spheres at small separations
authors: L. P. Teo
comments: 21 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. D 85 (2012), 045027
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3442
abstract: We consider the Casimir interaction between two spheres at zero and finite temperature, for both scalar fields and electromagnetic fields. Of particular interest is the asymptotic expansions of the Casimir free energy when the distance between the spheres is small. The scenario where one sphere is inside the other is discussed in detail. At zero temperature, we compute analytically the leading and the next-to-leading order terms from the functional determinant representation of the Casimir energy. As expected, the leading order term agrees with the proximity force approximation. The results for the next-to-leading order terms are new. In the limit where the radius of the outer sphere goes to infinity, the results for the sphere-plane geometry are reproduced. At finite temperature, the leading order term is computed and it is found to agree completely with the proximity force approximation in the medium and high temperature regions. For the scenario where two spheres are outside each other, analogous results are obtained. In the case of Dirichlet boundary conditions on both spheres, the next-to-leading order term of the zero temperature Casimir energy is found to agree with that computed recently using derivative expansion.

id: 1112.3489
title: Quantum computing in a piece of glass
authors: Warner A. Miller, Grigoriy Kreymerman, Christopher Tison, Paul M. Alsing, Jonathan R. McDonald
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation IX, Proceedings of SPIE Vol. 8057 (2011) 8057-27
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3489
abstract: Quantum gates and simple quantum algorithms can be designed utilizing the diffraction phenomena of a photon within a multiplexed holographic element. The quantum eigenstates we use are the photon's linear momentum (LM) as measured by the number of waves of tilt across the aperture. Two properties of quantum computing within the circuit model make this approach attractive. First, any conditional measurement can be commuted in time with any unitary quantum gate - the timeless nature of quantum computing. Second, photon entanglement can be encoded as a superposition state of a single photon in a higher-dimensional state space afforded by LM. Our theoretical and numerical results indicate that OptiGrate's photo-thermal refractive (PTR) glass is an enabling technology. We will review our previous design of a quantum projection operator and give credence to this approach on a representative quantum gate grounded on coupled-mode theory and numerical simulations, all with parameters consistent with PTR glass. We discuss the strengths (high efficiencies, robustness to environment) and limitations (scalability, crosstalk) of this technology. While not scalable, the utility and robustness of such optical elements for broader quantum information processing applications can be substantial.

id: 1112.3504
title: Self-intersecting Regge trajectories in multi-channel scattering
authors: D. Sokolovski, Z. Felfli, A. Z. Msezane
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3504
abstract: We present a simple direct method for calculating Regge trajectories for a multichannel scattering problem. The approach is applied to the case of two coupled Thomas-Fermi type potentials, used as a crude model for electron-atom scattering below the second excitation threshold. It is shown that non-adiabatic interaction may cause formation of loops in Regge trajectories. The accuracy of the method is tested by evaluating resonance contributions to elastic and inelastic integral cross sections.

id: 1112.3509
title: A bosonic Josephson junction controlled by a single trapped ion
authors: R. Gerritsma, A. Negretti, H. Doerk, Z. Idziaszek, T. Calarco, F. Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 6 pages and 5 figures, including additional material. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3509
abstract: We theoretically investigate the properties of a double-well bosonic Josephson junction coupled to a single trapped ion. We find that the coupling between the wells can be controlled by the internal state of the ion, which can be used for studying mesoscopic entanglement between the two systems and to measure their interaction with high precision. As a particular example we consider a single $^{87}$Rb atom and a small Bose-Einstein condensate controlled by a single $^{171}$Yb$^+$ ion. We calculate inter-well coupling rates reaching hundreds of Hz, while the state dependence amounts to tens of Hz for plausible values of the currently unknown s-wave scattering length between the atom and the ion. The analysis shows that it is possible to induce either the self-trapping or the tunneling regime, depending on the internal state of the ion. This enables the generation of large scale ion-atomic wavepacket entanglement within current technology.

id: 1112.3524
title: NMR implementation of Quantum Delayed-Choice Experiment
authors: Soumya Singha Roy, Abhishek Shukla, T. S. Mahesh
comments: Revised text, more figures added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3524
abstract: We report the first experimental demonstration of quantum delayed-choice experiment via nuclear magnetic resonance techniques. An ensemble of molecules each with two spin-1/2 nuclei are used as target and the ancilla qubits to perform the quantum circuit corresponding the delayed-choice setup. As expected in theory, our experiments clearly demonstrate the continuous morphing of the target qubit between particle-like and wave-like behaviors. The experimental visibility of the interference patterns shows good agreement with the theory.

id: 1112.3530
title: Berry Phase Quantum Thermometer
authors: E. Martin-Martinez, A. Dragan, R. B. Mann, I. Fuentes
comments: Updated to published version. I. Fuentes previously published as I. Fuentes-Guridi and I. Fuentes-Schuller
journal: New J. Phys. 15 (2013) 053036
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3530
abstract: We show how Berry phase can be used to construct an ultra-high precision quantum thermometer. An important advantage of our scheme is that there is no need for the thermometer to acquire thermal equilibrium with the sample. This reduces measurement times and avoids precision limitations.

id: 1112.3531
title: Bell tests with photon-entanglement: LHV models and critical efficiencies at the light of Wigner-PDC optics
authors: David Rodriguez
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3531
abstract: Within the Wigner-PDC picture of photon entanglement, detection "errors" are not independent (though they may look, on average), nor can they be controlled by means of a technological improvement on the detectors. Those two elements make possible the interpretation of experimental evidence without the need to exclude local realism: for that reason, we propose the abandonment of the usual (photon, particle-based) description of (PDC-generated) light states, in favour of an also quantum, but field-theoretical description (QED), a description that finds a one-to-one equivalent in the Wigner-PDC approach we have advocated in recent posts.

id: 1112.3534
title: Tools for detecting entanglement between different degrees of freedom in quadrature squeezed cylindrically polarized modes
authors: Christian Gabriel, Andrea Aiello, Stefan Berg-Johansen, Christoph Marquardt, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3534
abstract: Quadrature squeezed cylindrically polarized modes contain entanglement not only in the polarization and spatial electric field variables but also between these two degrees of freedom [1]. In this paper we present tools to generate and detect this entanglement. Experimentally we demonstrate the generation of quadrature squeezing in cylindrically polarized modes by mode transforming a squeezed Gaussian mode. Specifically, -1.2 dB of amplitude squeezing are achieved in the radially and azimuthally polarized mode. Furthermore, theoretically it is shown how the entanglement contained within these modes can be measured and how strong the quantum correlations, depending on the measurement scheme, are.

id: 1112.3560
title: Qubism: self-similar visualization of many-body wavefunctions
authors: Javier Rodriguez-Laguna, Piotr Migda?, Miguel Ib¨¢?ez Berganza, Maciej Lewenstein, Germ¨¢n Sierra
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 14 053028 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3560
abstract: A visualization scheme for quantum many-body wavefunctions is described, which we have termed qubism. Its main property is its recursivity: increasing the number of qubits reflects in an increase in the image resolution. Thus, the plots are typically fractal. As examples, we provide images for the ground states of commonly used Hamiltonians in condensed matter and cold atom physics, such as Heisenberg or ITF. Many features of the wavefunction, such as magnetization, correlations and criticality, can be visualized as properties of the images. In particular, factorizability can be easily spotted, and a way to estimate the entanglement entropy from the image is provided.

id: 1112.3563
title: Rank-one Quantum Games
authors: T. Cooney, M. Junge, C. Palazuelos, D. P¨¦rez-Garc¨ªa
comments: v2: Paper re-written: Abstrac modified, more detailed explanations of results and proofs. New example in Section 7.1.3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3563
abstract: In this work we study rank-one quantum games. In particular, we focus on the study of the computability of the entangled value $\omega^*$. We show that the value $\omega^*$ can be efficiently approximated up to a multiplicative factor of 4. We also study the behavior of $\omega^*$ under the parallel repetition of rank-one quantum games, showing that it does not verify a perfect parallel repetition theorem. To obtain these results, we first connect rank-one games with the mathematical theory of operator spaces. We also reprove with these new tools essentially known results about the entangled value of rank-one games with one-way communication $\omega_{qow}$. In particular, we show that $\omega_{qow}$ can be computed efficiently and it satisfies a perfect parallel repetition theorem.

id: 1112.3575
title: Direct Measurement of the Quantum Wavefunction
authors: Jeff S. Lundeen, Brandon Sutherland, Aabid Patel, Corey Stewart, Charles Bamber
comments: 
journal: Nature, 474, 188 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3575
abstract: Central to quantum theory, the wavefunction is the complex distribution used to completely describe a quantum system. Despite its fundamental role, it is typically introduced as an abstract element of the theory with no explicit definition. Rather, physicists come to a working understanding of the wavefunction through its use to calculate measurement outcome probabilities via the Born Rule. Presently, scientists determine the wavefunction through tomographic methods, which estimate the wavefunction that is most consistent with a diverse collection of measurements. The indirectness of these methods compounds the problem of defining the wavefunction. Here we show that the wavefunction can be measured directly by the sequential measurement of two complementary variables of the system. The crux of our method is that the first measurement is performed in a gentle way (i.e. weak measurement) so as not to invalidate the second. The result is that the real and imaginary components of the wavefunction appear directly on our measurement apparatus. We give an experimental example by directly measuring the transverse spatial wavefunction of a single photon, a task not previously realized by any method. We show that the concept is universal, being applicable both to other degrees of freedom of the photon (e.g. polarization, frequency, etc.) and to other quantum systems (e.g. electron spin-z quantum state, SQUIDs, trapped ions, etc.). Consequently, this method gives the wavefunction a straightforward and general definition in terms of a specific set of experimental operations. We expect it to expand the range of quantum systems scientists are able to characterize and initiate new avenues to understand fundamental quantum theory.

id: 1112.3642
title: How to Device-Independently Generate States for Which Unambiguous State Discrimination is Impossible
authors: Won-Young Hwang
comments: Published version, no essential correction, 3 pages
journal: Journal of the Korean Physical Society 60, 1837 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3642
abstract: We describe how to device-independently generate a set of quantum states for which unambiguous state discrimination is not possible. First, we derive a formula that a certain non-signaling black box must satisfy. Then, we describe how to generate a set of quantum states. Devices for generating states and possible measurements on the states can be put into a black box. Because this black box is non-signaling, it satisfies the formula. Using the formula, we prove that unambiguous state discrimination is not possible for the generated states. Because we did not consider internal mechanisms but only outcomes, our argument is valid for any (imperfect) devices.

id: 1112.3664
title: Using weak values to experimentally determine "negative probabilities" in a two-photon state with Bell correlations
authors: B. L. Higgins, M. S. Palsson, G. Y. Xiang, H. M. Wiseman, G. J. Pryde
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 91, 012113 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3664
abstract: Bipartite quantum entangled systems can exhibit measurement correlations that violate Bell inequalities, revealing the profoundly counter-intuitive nature of the physical universe. These correlations reflect the impossibility of constructing a joint probability distribution for all values of all the different properties observed in Bell inequality tests. Physically, the impossibility of measuring such a distribution experimentally, as a set of relative frequencies, is due to the quantum back-action of projective measurements. Weakly coupling to a quantum probe, however, produces minimal back-action, and so enables a weak measurement of the projector of one observable, followed by a projective measurement of a non-commuting observable. By this technique it is possible to empirically measure weak-valued probabilities for all of the values of the observables relevant to a Bell test. The marginals of this joint distribution, which we experimentally determine, reproduces all of the observable quantum statistics including a violation of the Bell inequality, which we independently measure. This is possible because our distribution, like the weak values for projectors on which it is built, is not constrained to the interval [0, 1]. It was first pointed out by Feynman that, for explaining singlet-state correlations within "a [local] hidden variable view of nature ... everything works fine if we permit negative probabilities". However, there are infinitely many such theories. Our method, involving "weak-valued probabilities", singles out a unique set of probabilities, and moreover does so empirically.

id: 1112.3674
title: Sharp and Infinite Boundaries in the Path Integral Formalism
authors: Phillip Dluhy, Asim Gangopadhyaya
comments: 9 pages and 1 Figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3674
abstract: We revisit the analysis of sharp infinite potentials within the path integral formalism using the image method [1]. We show that the use of a complete set of energy eigenstates that satisfy the boundary conditions of an infinite wall precisely generates the propagator proposed in Ref. [1]. We then show the validity of the image method by using supersymmetric quantum mechanics to relate a potential without a sharp boundary to the infinite square well and derive its propagator with an infinite number of image charges. Finally, we show that the image method readily generates the propagator for the half-harmonic oscillator, a potential that has a sharp infinite boundary at the origin and a quadratic potential in the allowed region, and leads to the well known eigenvalues and eigenfunctions.

id: 1112.3679
title: Conceptual inconsistencies in finite-dimensional quantum and classical mechanics
authors: Denys I. Bondar, Renan Cabrera, Herschel A. Rabitz
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 012116 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3679
abstract: Utilizing operational dynamic modeling [Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 190403 (2012); arXiv:1105.4014], we demonstrate that any finite-dimensional representation of quantum and classical dynamics violates the Ehrenfest theorems. Other peculiarities are also revealed, including the nonexistence of the free particle and ambiguity in defining potential forces. Non-Hermitian mechanics is shown to have the same problems. This work compromises a popular belief that finite-dimensional mechanics is a straightforward discretization of the corresponding infinite-dimensional formulation.

id: 1112.3695
title: Nonlocality of Symmetric States
authors: Zizhu Wang, Damian Markham
comments: 4 pages of main text + 5 pages of proofs. 1 figure
journal: Physical Review Letters, Vol. 108, 210407, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3695
abstract: In this paper we study the non-local properties of permutation symmetric states of n-qubits. We extend the bipartite Hardy paradox and the associated CH-inequality to n-party permutation symmetric states to show that all symmetric states exhibit non-locality. Natural extensions of both the paradoxes and the inequalities are developed which relate different entanglement classes to different non-local features. We define inequalities which are violated by all states of one entanglement class, whereas there are states outside that class which do not violate.

id: 1112.3731
title: Stability, Adiabaticity and Transfer efficiency in a nonlinear ¦«-system
authors: Ning Jia, Jing Qian, Guangjiong Dong, Weiping Zhang
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 (2012) 015301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3731
abstract: We investigate the relationship between stability, adiabaticity and transfer efficiency in a \Lambda-type atom-molecule coupling system via a nonlinear stimulated Raman adiabatic passage. We find that only when the pump and control lasers overlap in time domain, the coherent population trapping (CPT) state could become unstable. If the overlapping time of the two lasers is short so that unstable growth of the deviation from the CPT state is negligible, then good adiabaticity of the CPT state could be maintained even in the unstable region. In this case, a high atom-molecule transfer efficiency could be obtained by chirping applied laser pulses to elegantly compensate the frequency shift induced by intra-atomic collision. Our results could be useful for efficiently photoassociating ground-state molecules from a cold atomic gas with strong atom-atom collisional interaction.

id: 1112.3754
title: Geometrical structures of multipartite quantum systems
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 5 pages, Talk given at The Seventh International Conference Quantum Theory and Symmetries (QTS-7), Prague, August 7-13, 2011
journal: 2012 J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 343 012001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3754
abstract: In this paper I will investigate geometrical structures of multipartite quantum systems based on complex projective varieties. These varieties are important in characterization of quantum entangled states. In particular I will establish relation between multi-projective Segre varieties and multip-qubit quantum states. I also will discuss other geometrical approaches such as toric varieties to visualize complex multipartite quantum systems.

id: 1112.3762
title: Combinatorial structure of a holonomic controlled phase gate
authors: Hoshang Heydari
comments: 5 pages, talk given at the conference on Foundations of Probability and Physics-6 (FPP6), V\"axj\"o, June 13-16, 2011
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1424, 139 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3762
abstract: We investigate the combinatorial structures of a holonomic controlled quantum gate based on toric varieties. In particular, we in detail discuss the combinatorial structures of a two-qubit holonomic controlled quantum gate on a two-qubit, a three-qubit, and a four-qubit quantum states. Our results show interesting relations between toric varieties of qubit systems and action of a two-qubit holonomic quantum gate on multi-qubit states.

id: 1112.3795
title: Spin Squeezing in Finite Temperature Bose-Einstein Condensates : Scaling with the system size
authors: Alice Sinatra, Emilia Witkowska, Yvan Castin
comments: 31 pages 8 figures, follow up of Sinatra et al PRL (2011), final version; Casagrande
journal: European Physical Journal - Special Topics 203 (2012) 87
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3795
abstract: We perform a multimode treatment of spin squeezing induced by interactions in atomic condensates, and we show that, at finite temperature, the maximum spin squeezing has a finite limit when the atom number $N\to \infty$ at fixed density and interaction strength. To calculate the limit of the squeezing parameter for a spatially homogeneous system we perform a double expansion with two small parameters: 1/N in the thermodynamic limit and the non-condensed fraction $<N_{\rm nc}>/N$ in the Bogoliubov limit. To test our analytical results beyond the Bogoliubov approximation, and to perform numerical experiments, we use improved classical field simulations with a carefully chosen cut-off, such that the classical field model gives for the ideal Bose gas the correct non-condensed fraction in the Bose-condensed regime.

id: 1112.3806
title: Self-calibrating Tomography for Angular Schmidt Modes in Spontaneous Parametric Down-Conversion
authors: Stanislav Straupe, Denis Ivanov, Alexander Kalinkin, Ivan Bobrov, Sergey P. Kulik, D.Mogilevtsev
comments: 10 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042109 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3806
abstract: We report an experimental self-calibrating tomography scheme for entanglement characterization in high-dimensional quantum systems using Schmidt decomposition techniques. The self-tomography technique based on maximal likelihood estimation was developed for characterizing non-ideal measurements in Schmidt basis allowing us to infer both Schmidt eigenvalues and detecting efficiencies.

id: 1112.3814
title: Efficient quantification of non-Gaussian spin distributions
authors: B. Dubost, M. Koschorreck, M. Napolitano, N. Behbood, R.J. Sewell, M.W. Mitchell
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 183602 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3814
abstract: We study theoretically and experimentally the quantification of non-Gaussian distributions via non-destructive measurements. Using the theory of cumulants, their unbiased estimators, and the uncertainties of these estimators, we describe a quantification which is simultaneously efficient, unbiased by measurement noise, and suitable for hypothesis tests, e.g., to detect non-classical states. The theory is applied to cold $^{87}$Rb spin ensembles prepared in non-gaussian states by optical pumping and measured by non-destructive Faraday rotation probing. We find an optimal use of measurement resources under realistic conditions, e.g., in atomic ensemble quantum memories.

id: 1112.3828
title: Speeding up the spatial adiabatic passage of matter waves in optical microtraps by optimal control
authors: Antonio Negretti, Albert Benseny, Jordi Mompart, Tommaso Calarco
comments: 17 pages, 14 figures
journal: Quantum Inf. Process. 12, 1439-1467 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3828
abstract: We numerically investigate the performance of atomic transport in optical microtraps via the so called spatial adiabatic passage technique. Our analysis is carried out by means of optimal control methods, which enable us to determine suitable transport control pulses. We investigate the ultimate limits of the optimal control in speeding up the transport process in a triple well configuration for both a single atomic wave packet and a Bose-Einstein condensate within a regime of experimental parameters achievable with current optical technology.

id: 1112.3829
title: Quantum Zeno effect: Quantum shuffling and Markovianity
authors: A. S. Sanz, C. Sanz-Sanz, T. Gonzalez-Lezana, O. Roncero, S. Miret-Artes
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures
journal: Ann. Phys. 327, 1277 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3829
abstract: The behavior displayed by a quantum system when it is perturbed by a series of von Neumann measurements along time is analyzed. Because of the similarity between this general process with giving a deck of playing cards a shuffle, here it is referred to as quantum shuffling, showing that the quantum Zeno and anti-Zeno effects emerge naturally as two time limits. Within this framework, a connection between the gradual transition from anti-Zeno to Zeno behavior and the appearance of an underlying Markovian dynamics is found. Accordingly, although a priori it might result counterintuitive, the quantum Zeno effect corresponds to a dynamical regime where any trace of knowledge on how the unperturbed system should evolve initially is wiped out (very rapid shuffling). This would explain why the system apparently does not evolve or decay for a relatively long time, although it eventually undergoes an exponential decay. By means of a simple working model, conditions characterizing the shuffling dynamics have been determined, which can be of help to understand and to devise quantum control mechanisms in a number of processes from the atomic, molecular and optical physics.

id: 1112.3830
title: On the unique mapping relationship between initial and final quantum states
authors: A. S. Sanz, S. Miret-Artes
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures; substantial reorganization of the material presented (including title change)
journal: Ann. Phys. 339, 11 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3830
abstract: In its standard formulation, quantum mechanics presents a very serious inconvenience: given a quantum system, there is no possibility at all to unambiguously (causally) connect a particular feature of its final state with some specific section of its initial state. This constitutes a practical limitation, for example, in numerical analyses of quantum systems, which often make necessary the use of some extra assistance from classical methodologies. Here it is shown how the Bohmian formulation of quantum mechanics removes the ambiguity of quantum mechanics, providing a consistent and clear answer to such a question without abandoning the quantum framework. More specifically, this formulation allows to define probability tubes, along which the enclosed probability keeps constant in time all the way through as the system evolves in configuration space. These tubes have the interesting property that once their boundary is defined at a given time, they are uniquely defined at any time. As a consequence, it is possible to determine final restricted (or partial) probabilities directly from localized sets of (Bohmian) initial conditions on the system initial state. Here, these facts are illustrated by means of two simple yet physically insightful numerical examples: tunneling transmission and grating diffraction.

id: 1112.3847
title: Correlated metallic two particle bound states in quasiperiodic chains
authors: Sergej Flach, Mikhail Ivanchenko, Ramaz Khomeriki
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3847
abstract: Single particle states in a chain with quasiperiodic potential show a metal-insulator transition upon the change of the potential strength. We consider two particles with local interaction in the single particle insulating regime. The two particle states change from being localized to delocalized upon an increase of the interaction strength to a nonperturbative finite value. At even larger interaction strength the states become localized again. This transition of two particle bound states into a correlated metal is due to a resonant mixing of the noninteracting two particle eigenstates. In the discovered correlated metal states two particles move coherently together through the whole chain, therefore contributing to a finite conductivity.

id: 1112.3853
title: Memory cost of quantum protocols
authors: Alessandro Bisio, Giacomo Mauro D'Ariano, Paolo Perinotti, Michal Sedlak
comments: 9 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032333 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3853
abstract: In this paper we consider the problem of minimizing the ancillary systems required to realize an arbitrary strategy of a quantum protocol, with the assistance of classical memory. For this purpose we introduce the notion of memory cost of a strategy, which measures the resources required in terms of ancillary dimension. We provide a condition for the cost to be equal to a given value, and we use this result to evaluate the cost in some special cases. As an example we show that any covariant protocol for the cloning of a unitary transformation requires at most one ancillary qubit. We also prove that the memory cost has to be determined globally, and cannot be calculated by optimizing the resources independently at each step of the strategy.

id: 1112.3881
title: The quantum Levy walk
authors: Manuel O. C¨¢ceres, Marco Nizama
comments: 26 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, (2010) 455306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3881
abstract: We introduce the quantum Levy walk to study transport and decoherence in a quantum random model. We have derived from second order perturbation theory the quantum master equation for a \textit{Levy-like particle}that moves along a lattice through hopping scale-free while interacting with a thermal bath of oscillators. The general evolution of the quantum Levy particle has been solved for different preparations of the system. We examine the evolution of the quantum purity, the localized correlation, and the probability to be in a lattice site, all them leading to important conclusions concerning quantum irreversibility and decoherence features. We prove that the quantum thermal mean-square displacement is finite under a constraint that is different when compared to the classical Weierstrass random walk. We prove that when the mean-square displacement is infinite the density of state has a complex null-set inside the Brillouin zone. We show the existence of a critical behavior in the continuous eigenenergy which is related to its non-differentiability and self-affine characteristics. In general our approach allows to study analytically quantum fluctuations and decoherence in a long-range hopping model.

id: 1112.3885
title: Dissipative quantum light field engineering
authors: Martin Kiffner, Uwe Dorner, Dieter Jaksch
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 023812 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3885
abstract: We put forward a dissipative preparation scheme for strongly correlated photon states. Our approach is based on a two-photon loss mechanism that is realised via a single four-level atom inside a bimodal optical cavity. Each elementary two-photon emission event removes one photon out of each of the two modes. The dark states of this loss mechanism are given by NOON states and arbitrary superpositions thereof. We find that the steady state of the two cavity modes exhibits entanglement and for certain parameters, a mixture of two coherent entangled states is produced. We discuss how the quantum correlations in the cavity modes and the output fields can be measured.

id: 1112.3910
title: Bounds and optimisation of orbital angular momentum bandwidths within parametric down-conversion systems
authors: F. M. Miatto, D. Giovannini, J. Romero, S. Franke-Arnold, S. M. Barnett, M. J. Padgett
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2012) 66: 178
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3910
abstract: The measurement of high-dimensional entangled states of orbital angular momentum prepared by spontaneous parametric down-conversion can be considered in two separate stages: a generation stage and a detection stage. Given a certain number of generated modes, the number of measured modes is determined by the measurement apparatus. We derive a simple relationship between the generation and detection parameters and the number of measured entangled modes.

id: 1112.3923
title: EPR Secure Non-relativistic Bit Commitment Through Entanglement Breaking Channels
authors: S. Arash Sheikholeslam, T. Aaron Gulliver
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3923
abstract: This paper considers the use an entanglement breaking channel in the construction of a secure bit-commitment protocol. It is shown that this can be done via a depolarizing quantum channel.

id: 1112.3967
title: Are general quantum correlations monogamous?
authors: Alexander Streltsov, Gerardo Adesso, Marco Piani, Dagmar Bruss
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, added a discussion of our main result in relation to the fact that separable states are infinitely shareable
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 050503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3967
abstract: Quantum entanglement and quantum non-locality are known to exhibit monogamy, that is, they obey strong constraints on how they can be distributed among multipartite systems. Quantum correlations that comprise and go beyond entanglement are quantified by, e.g., quantum discord. It was observed recently that for some states quantum discord is not monogamous. We prove in general that any measure of correlations that is monogamous for all states and satisfies reasonable basic properties must vanish for all separable states: only entanglement measures can be strictly monogamous. Monogamy of other than entanglement measures can still be satisfied for special, restricted cases: we prove that the geometric measure of discord satisfies the monogamy inequality on all pure states of three qubits.

id: 1112.3975
title: Quantum interference of single photons from remote nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond
authors: Alp Sipahigil, Michael L. Goldman, Emre Togan, Yiwen Chu, Matthew Markham, Daniel J. Twitchen, Alexander S. Zibrov, Alexander Kubanek, Mikhail D. Lukin
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 143601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3975
abstract: We demonstrate quantum interference between indistinguishable photons emitted by two nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in distinct diamond samples separated by two meters. Macroscopic solid immersion lenses are used to enhance photon collection efficiency. Quantum interference is verified by measuring a value of the second-order cross-correlation function $g^{(2)}(0) = 0.35 \pm 0.04<0.5$. In addition, optical transition frequencies of two separated NV centers are tuned into resonance with each other by applying external electric fields. Extension of the present approach to generate entanglement of remote solid-state qubits is discussed.

id: 1112.3986
title: The significance of the imaginary part of the weak value
authors: J. Dressel, A. N. Jordan
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012107 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3986
abstract: Unlike the real part of the generalized weak value of an observable, which can in a restricted sense be operationally interpreted as an idealized conditioned average of that observable in the limit of zero measurement disturbance, the imaginary part of the generalized weak value does not provide information pertaining to the observable being measured. What it does provide is direct information about how the initial state would be unitarily disturbed by the observable operator. Specifically, we provide an operational interpretation for the imaginary part of the generalized weak value as the logarithmic directional derivative of the post-selection probability along the unitary flow generated by the action of the observable operator. To obtain this interpretation, we revisit the standard von Neumann measurement protocol for obtaining the real and imaginary parts of the weak value and solve it exactly for arbitrary initial states and post-selections using the quantum operations formalism, which allows us to understand in detail how each part of the generalized weak value arises in the linear response regime. We also provide exact treatments of qubit measurements and Gaussian detectors as illustrative special cases, and show that the measurement disturbance from a Gaussian detector is purely decohering in the Lindblad sense, which allows the shifts for a Gaussian detector to be completely understood for any coupling strength in terms of a single complex weak value that involves the decohered initial state.

id: 1112.3987
title: Entanglement behavior of quantum states of fermionic system in accelerated frame
authors: Jinho Chang, Younghun Kwon
comments: 
journal: Phys.Rev. A $\mathbf{85}$, 032302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3987
abstract: In this article we investigate the entanglement behavior of quantum states of fermionic system in accelerated frame. It was known that unlike scalar case the entanglement of fermionic maximally entangled states survives even in the infinite acceleration limit. Also for the fermionic system it was discussed that one may consider the approach beyond single mode approximation. However due to the peculiar property of fermionic system there has been different opinions about correct physical structure of fermionic system. Recently Montero and Mart\'{i}n-Mart\'{i}nez suggested an approach beyond single mode approximation. Using the structure proposed by Montero and Mart\'{i}n-Mart\'{i}nez we investigate the entanglement behavior of quantum states of fermionic system in accelerated frame. We find that the approach by Montero and Mart\'{i}n-Mart\'{i}nez seems to work appropriately. Also we may obtain the proper entanglement behavior of quantum states in fermionic system in accelerated frame(our result may correct the previous results published in Phys.Rev.A 83 052306).

id: 1112.3992
title: Quantum random walks with multiphoton interference and high order correlation functions
authors: Bryan T Gard, Robert M Cross, Petr M Anisimov, Hwang Lee, Jonathan P Dowling
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3992
abstract: We show a simulation of quantum random walks with multiple photons using a staggered array of 50/50 beam splitters with a bank of detectors at any desired level. We discuss the multiphoton interference effects that are inherent to this setup, and introduce one, two, and threefold coincidence detection schemes. The use of Feynman diagrams are used to intuitively explain the unique multiphoton interference effects of these quantum random walks.

id: 1112.4036
title: Time averaged distribution of a discrete-time quantum walk on the path
authors: Yusuke Ide, Norio Konno, Etsuo Segawa
comments: 8 pages, Quantum Information Processing (in press)
journal: Quantum Information Processing 11 (5), 1207-1218, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Spectral Theory (math.SP)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4036
abstract: The discrete time quantum walk which is a quantum counterpart of random walk plays important roles in the theory of quantum information theory. In the present paper, we focus on discrete time quantum walks viewed as quantization of random walks on the path. We obtain a weak limit theorem for the time averaged distribution of our quantum walks.

id: 1112.4045
title: Using simple elastic bands to explain quantum mechanics: a conceptual review of two of Aert's machine-models
authors: Massimiliano Sassoli de Bianchi
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: Central European Journal of Physics, February 2013, Volume 11, Issue 2, pp 147-161
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4045
abstract: From the beginning of his research, the Belgian physicist Diederik Aerts has shown great creativity in inventing a number of concrete machine-models that have played an important role in the development of general mathematical and conceptual formalisms for the description of the physical reality. These models can also be used to demystify much of the strangeness in the behavior of quantum entities, by allowing to have a peek at what's going on - in structural terms - behind the "quantum scenes," during a measurement. In this author's view, the importance of these machine-models, and of the approaches they have originated, have been so far seriously underappreciated by the physics community, despite their success in clarifying many challenges of quantum physics. To fill this gap, and encourage a greater number of researchers to take cognizance of the important work of so-called Geneva-Brussels school, we describe and analyze in this paper two of Aerts' historical machine-models, whose operations are based on simple breakable elastic bands. The first one, called the spin quantum-machine, is able to replicate the quantum probabilities associated with the spin measurement of a spin-1/2 entity. The second one, called the \emph{connected vessels of water model} (of which we shall present here an alternative version based on elastics) is able to violate Bell's inequality, as coincidence measurements on entangled states can do.

id: 1112.4126
title: Bright single photon emission from a quantum dot in a circular Bragg grating microcavity
authors: Serkan Ates, Luca Sapienza, Marcelo Davanco, Antonio Badolato, Kartik Srinivasan
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures
journal: IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Quantum Electronics, Vol. 18, No.6, 1711 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4126
abstract: Bright single photon emission from single quantum dots in suspended circular Bragg grating microcavities is demonstrated. This geometry has been designed to achieve efficient (> 50 %) single photon extraction into a near-Gaussian shaped far-field pattern, modest (~10x) Purcell enhancement of the radiative rate, and a spectral bandwidth of a few nanometers. Measurements of fabricated devices show progress towards these goals, with collection efficiencies as high as ~10% demonstrated with moderate spectral bandwidth and rate enhancement. Photon correlation measurements are performed under above-bandgap excitation (pump wavelength = 780 nm to 820 nm) and confirm the single photon character of the collected emission. While the measured sources are all antibunched and dominantly composed of single photons, the multi-photon probability varies significantly. Devices exhibiting tradeoffs between collection efficiency, Purcell enhancement, and multi-photon probability are explored and the results are interpreted with the help of finite-difference time-domain simulations. Below-bandgap excitation resonant with higher states of the quantum dot and/or cavity (pump wavelength = 860 nm to 900 nm) shows a near-complete suppression of multi-photon events and may circumvent some of the aforementioned tradeoffs.

id: 1112.4153
title: Using macroscopic entanglement to close the detection loophole in Bell inequality
authors: Youngrong Lim, Mauro Paternostro, Jinhyoung Lee, Minsu Kang, Hyunseok Jeong
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, to be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062112 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4153
abstract: We consider a Bell-like inequality performed using various instances of multi-photon entangled states to demonstrate that losses occurring after the unitary transformations used in the nonlocality test can be counteracted by enhancing the "size" of such entangled states. In turn, this feature can be used to overcome detection inefficiencies affecting the test itself: a slight increase in the size of such states, pushing them towards a more "macroscopic" form of entanglement, significantly improves the state robustness against detection inefficiency, thus easing the closing of the detection loophole. Differently, losses before the unitary transformations cause decoherence effects that cannot be compensated using macroscroscopic entanglement.

id: 1112.4184
title: Lower and upper bounds on the fidelity susceptibility
authors: J. G. Brankov, N. S. Tonchev
comments: 19 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4184
abstract: We derive upper and lower bounds on the fidelity susceptibility in terms of macroscopic thermodynamical quantities, like susceptibilities and thermal average values. The quality of the bounds is checked by the exact expressions for a single spin in an external magnetic field. Their usefulness is illustrated by two examples of many-particle models which are exactly solved in the thermodynamic limit: the Dicke superradiance model and the single impurity Kondo model. It is shown that as far as divergent behavior is considered, the fidelity susceptibility and the thermodynamic susceptibility are equivalent for a large class of models exhibiting critical behavior.

id: 1112.4198
title: "Time operator": the challenge persists
authors: Bogdan Mielnik, Gabino Torres-Vega
comments: 7 pages, 3 figure
journal: Concepts of Physics 2, 81 (2005)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4198
abstract: Contrary to the conviction expressed by J. Kijowski [Phys. Rev. A 59, 897 (1999)] and shared in some other papers, the reasons to look for the 'time operator' in the context of the standard quantum doctrine of orthogonal projectors and self-adjoint observables are highly questionable. Some improved solutions in terms of POV measures invite critical discussions as well.

id: 1112.4200
title: Comparing Energy Difference and Fidelity of Quantum States
authors: Victor V. Dodonov
comments: 9 pages
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research, Volume 32, Number 5, p.412-421 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4200
abstract: We look for upper bounds of the relative energy difference of two pure quantum states with a fixed fidelity between them or upper bounds of the fidelity for a fixed relative energy difference. The results depend on the concrete families of states chosen for the comparison. Exact analytical expressions are found for several popular sets of states: coherent, squeezed vacuum, binomial, negative binomial, and coherent phase states. Their consequence is that to guarantee, for example, the relative energy difference less than 10% for quite arbitrary (unknown) coherent states, the fidelity must exceed the level 0.995. For other kinds of states, the restrictions can be much stronger.

id: 1112.4220
title: Nonequilibrium Spin Magnetization Quantum Transport Equations: Spin and Charge Coupling
authors: F. A. Buot, R. A. Loberternos, R. E. S. Otadoy, D. L. Villarin
comments: 16 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4220
abstract: The classical Bloch equations of spin magnetization transport is extended to fully time-dependent and highly-nonlinear nonequilibrium spin magnetization quantum distribution function transport (SMQDFT) equations. The relevant variables are the spinor correlation functions which separate into charge and spin magnetization distributions that becomes highly coupled in SMQDFT equa- tions. The leading terms consist of the Boltzmann kinetic equation with spin-orbit coupling in a magnetic eld together with spin-dependent scattering terms which contribute to the torque. These do not have analogue within the classical relaxation-dephasing picture, but are inherently quantum many-body effects. These should incorporate the spatiotemporal-dependent phase-space dynam- ics of Elliot-Yafet and Dyakonov-Perel scatterings. The resulting SMQDFT equations should serve as a theoretical foundation for computational spintronic and nanomagnetic device applications, in ultrafast-switching-speed/low-power performance and reliability analyses.

id: 1112.4275
title: Correlations in optically-controlled quantum emitters
authors: Cristian E. Susa, John H. Reina
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures, this version contains minor modifications; to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022111 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4275
abstract: We address the problem of optically controlling and quantifying the dissipative dynamics of quantum and classical correlations in a set-up of individual quantum emitters under external laser excitation. We show that both types of correlations, the former measured by the quantum discord, are present in the system's evolution even though the emitters may exhibit an early stage disentanglement. In the absence of external laser pumping,we demonstrate analytically, for a set of suitable initial states, that there is an entropy bound for which quantum discord and entanglement of the emitters are always greater than classical correlations, thus disproving an early conjecture that classical correlations are greater than quantum correlations. Furthermore, we show that quantum correlations can also be greater than classical correlations when the system is driven by a laser field. For scenarios where the emitters' quantum correlations are below their classical counterparts, an optimization of the evolution of the quantum correlations can be carried out by appropriately tailoring the amplitude of the laser field and the emitters' dipole-dipole interaction. We stress the importance of using the entanglement of formation, rather than the concurrence, as the entanglement measure, since the latter can grow beyond the total correlations and thus give incorrect results on the actual system's degree of entanglement.

id: 1112.4280
title: Generalized Coherent States and Extremal Positive Operator Valued Measures
authors: Teiko Heinosaari, Juha-Pekka Pellonp??
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 244019
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4280
abstract: We present a correspondence between positive operator valued measures (POVMs) and sets of generalized coherent states. Positive operator valued measures describe quantum observables and, similarly to quantum states, also quantum observables can be mixed. We show how the formalism of generalized coherent states leads to a useful characterization of extremal POVMs. We prove that covariant phase space observables related to squeezed states are extremal, while the ones related to number states are not extremal.

id: 1112.4282
title: Three-dimensional Quantum Polarization Tomography of Macroscopic Bell States
authors: Bhaskar Kanseri, Timur Iskhakov, Ivan Agafonov, Maria Chekhova, Gerd Leuchs
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4282
abstract: The polarization properties of macroscopic Bell states are characterized using three-dimensional quantum polarization tomography. This method utilizes three-dimensional inverse Radon transform to reconstruct the polarization quasiprobability distribution function of a state from the probability distributions measured for various Stokes observables. The reconstructed 3D distributions obtained for the macroscopic Bell states are compared with those obtained for a coherent state with the same mean photon number. The results demonstrate squeezing in one or more Stokes observables.

id: 1112.4283
title: Laguerre asymptotic formula and stability of Landau levels influenced by an electric field
authors: James Chee, Yu-Hua Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4283
abstract: Consider the quantum evolution of a charged particle subjected to a uniform magnetic field and an electric field E(t) that exists for a finite period of time. The electric field can induce intra-Landau level transitions (magnetic translations) that do not change the energy of the particle. It may also induce energy changing inter-Landau level transitions. Our purpose in this paper is two-fold: We first demonstrate that the inter-Landau level transition probability is completely determined by the Fourier component of the electric field corresponding to the cyclotron frequency. Then we point out that the Fejer asymptotic form of Laguerre polynomials implies that no matter how small the Fourier component is inter-Landau level transition probability from a fixed Landau level to other energy levels can be arbitrarily close to 1 if the original Landau energy level is high enough, i.e., influenced by a given electric field, Landau levels of higher energy are less stable asymptotically and their transition probabilities are explicitly predicted by the Fejer formula.

id: 1112.4318
title: Geometric measure of quantum discord and the geometry of a class of two-qubit states
authors: Wei Song, Long-Bao Yu, Ping Dong, Da-Chuang Li, Ming Yang, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, comments are welcome
journal: Science China Physics, Mechanics and Astronomy, 56, 737-744 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4318
abstract: We investigate the geometric picture of the level surfaces of quantum entanglement and geometric measure of quantum discord (GMQD) of a class of X-states, respectively. This pictorial approach provides us a direct understanding of the structure of entanglement and GMQD. The dynamic evolution of GMQD under two typical kinds of quantum decoherence channels is also investigated. It is shown that there exists a class of initial states for which the GMQD is not destroyed by decoherence in a finite time interval. Furthermore, we establish a factorization law between the initial and final GMQD, which allows us to infer the evolution of entanglement under the influences of the environment.

id: 1112.4335
title: A note on Ito's formula for discrete-time quantum walk
authors: Norio Konno
comments: 7 pages, submitted to Journal of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience as the special issue on "Theoretical and Mathematical Aspects of the Discrete Time Quantum Walk"
journal: Journal of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience, Vol.10, No.7, pp.1579-1582 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4335
abstract: We present an Ito's formula for the one-dimensional discrete-time quantum walk and give some examples including a Tanaka's formula by using the formula. Moreover we discuss integrals for the quantum walk.

id: 1112.4371
title: Experimental tomography of high-NOON states
authors: Yonatan Israel, Itai Afek, Shamir Rosen, Oron Ambar, Yaron Silberberg
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4371
abstract: We have performed experimental quantum state tomography of NOON states with up to four photons. The measured states are generated by mixing a classical coherent state with spontaneous parametric down-conversion. We show that this method produces states which exhibit a high fidelity with ideal NOON states. The fidelity is limited by the overlap of the two-photon down-conversion state with any two photons originating from the coherent state, for which we introduce and measure a figure of merit. A second limitation on the fidelity set by the total setup transmission is discussed. We also apply the same tomography procedure for characterizing correlated photon hole states.

id: 1112.4414
title: Phase diagram and quench dynamics of the Cluster-XY spin chain
authors: Sebastian Montes, Alioscia Hamma
comments: Some references added. Better looking plots. Some paragraphs were rewritten for readibility
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86, 021101 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4414
abstract: We study the complete phase space and the quench dynamics of an exactly solvable spin chain, the cluster-XY model. In this chain, the cluster term and the XY couplings compete to give a rich phase diagram. The phase diagram is studied by means of the quantum geometric tensor. We study the time evolution of the system after a critical quantum quench using the Loschmidt echo. The structure of the revivals after critical quantum quenches presents a non trivial behavior depending on the phase of the initial state and the critical point.

id: 1112.4415
title: Entanglement in stationary nonequilibrium states at high energies
authors: Marko Znidaric
comments: 7 pages, 11 figures; v2: minor typos corrected
journal: Phys.Rev.A 85, 012324 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4415
abstract: In recent years it has been found that quantum systems can posses entanglement in equilibrium thermal states provided temperature is low enough. In the present work we explore a possibility of having entanglement in nonequilibrium stationary states. We show analytically that, in a simple one-dimensional spin chain, there is entanglement even at highest attainable energies; that is, starting from an equilibrium state at infinite temperature, a sufficiently strong driving can induce entanglement, even in the thermodynamic limit. We also show that dissipative dephasing, on the other hand, destroys entanglement.

id: 1112.4442
title: Geometry of the adiabatic theorem
authors: A. C. Lobo, R. A. Ribeiro, P. R. Dieguez, C. A. Ribeiro
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: Eur. J. Phys. 33 (2012) 1063-1072
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4442
abstract: We present a simple and pedagogical derivation of the quantum adiabatic theorem for two level systems (a single qubit) based on geometrical structures of quantum mechanics developed by Anandan and Aharonov, among others. We have chosen to use only the minimum geometric structure needed for an understanding of the adiabatic theorem for this case.

id: 1112.4489
title: Photon collection from a trapped ion--cavity system
authors: J. D. Sterk, L. Luo, T. A. Manning, P. Maunz, C. Monroe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4489
abstract: We present the design and implementation of a trapped ion cavity QED system. A single ytterbium ion is confined by a micron-scale ion trap inside a 2 mm optical cavity. The ion is coherently pumped by near resonant laser light while the cavity output is monitored as a function of pump intensity and cavity detuning. We observe a Purcell enhancement of scattered light into the solid angle subtended by the optical cavity, as well as a three-peak structure arising from strongly driving the atom. This system can be integrated into existing atom{photon quantum network protocols and is a pathway towards an efficient atom{photon quantum interface.

id: 1112.4492
title: Self-calibrating Quantum State Tomography
authors: Agata M. Branczyk, Dylan H. Mahler, Lee A. Rozema, Ardavan Darabi, Aephraim M. Steinberg, Daniel F. V. James
comments: 13 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 085003 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4492
abstract: We introduce and experimentally demonstrate a technique for performing quantum state tomography on multiple-qubit states despite incomplete knowledge about the unitary operations used to change the measurement basis. Given unitary operations with unknown rotation angles, our method can be used to reconstruct the density matrix of the state up to local sigma-z rotations as well as recover the magnitude of the unknown rotation angle. We demonstrate high-fidelity self-calibrating tomography on polarization-encoded one- and two-photon states. The unknown unitary operations are realized in two ways: using a birefringent polymer sheet---an inexpensive smartphone screen protector---or alternatively a liquid crystal wave plate with a tuneable retardance. We explore how our technique may be adapted for quantum state tomography of systems such as biological molecules where the magnitude and orientation of the transition dipole moment is not known with high accuracy.

id: 1112.4502
title: Bilocal versus non-bilocal correlations in entanglement swapping experiments
authors: Cyril Branciard, Denis Rosset, Nicolas Gisin, Stefano Pironio
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032119 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4502
abstract: Entanglement swapping is a process by which two initially independent quantum systems can become entangled and generate nonlocal correlations. To characterize such correlations, we compare them to those predicted by bilocal models, where systems that are initially independent are described by uncorrelated states. We extend in this paper the analysis of bilocal correlations initiated in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 170401 (2010)]. In particular, we derive new Bell-type inequalities based on the bilocality assumption in different scenarios, we study their possible quantum violations, and analyze their resistance to experimental imperfections. The bilocality assumption, being stronger than Bell's standard local causality assumption, lowers the requirements for the demonstration of quantumness in entanglement swapping experiments.

id: 1112.4503
title: Exploiting boundary states of imperfect spin chains for high-fidelity state transfer
authors: M. Bruderer, K. Franke, S. Ragg, W. Belzig, D. Obreschkow
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures + spinGUIn description and Matlab files iepsolve.m, spinGUIn.fig, spinGUIn.p
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022312 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4503
abstract: We study transfer of a quantum state through XX spin chains with static imperfections. We combine the two standard approaches for state transfer based on (i) modulated couplings between neighboring spins throughout the spin chain and (ii) weak coupling of the outermost spins to an unmodulated spin chain. The combined approach allows us to design spin chains with modulated couplings and localized boundary states, permitting high-fidelity state transfer in the presence of random static imperfections of the couplings. The modulated couplings are explicitly obtained from an exact algorithm using the close relation between tridiagonal matrices and orthogonal polynomials [Linear Algebr. Appl. 21, 245 (1978)]. The implemented algorithm and a graphical user interface for constructing spin chains with boundary states (spinGUIn) are provided as Supplemental Material.

id: 1112.4505
title: Practical experimental certification of computational quantum gates via twirling
authors: Osama Moussa, Marcus P. da Silva, Colm A. Ryan, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 070504 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4505
abstract: Due to the technical difficulty of building large quantum computers, it is important to be able to estimate how faithful a given implementation is to an ideal quantum computer. The common approach of completely characterizing the computation process via quantum process tomography requires an exponential amount of resources, and thus is not practical even for relatively small devices. We solve this problem by demonstrating that twirling experiments previously used to characterize the average fidelity of quantum memories efficiently can be easily adapted to estimate the average fidelity of the experimental implementation of important quantum computation processes, such as unitaries in the Clifford group, in a practical and efficient manner with applicability in current quantum devices. Using this procedure, we demonstrate state-of-the-art coherent control of an ensemble of magnetic moments of nuclear spins in a single crystal solid by implementing the encoding operation for a 3 qubit code with only a 1% degradation in average fidelity discounting preparation and measurement errors. We also highlight one of the advances that was instrumental in achieving such high fidelity control.

id: 1112.4516
title: Creation and vanishing of superposition states
authors: Janusz Gluza, Jerzy Kosek
comments: Will be replaced by the published version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4516
abstract: The evolution of a measured system and an experimental apparatus is presented in an unified form. Conditions under which the state of such a total system forms, evaluates and declines from a superposition of states are defined. The problem of definite outcomes in the quantum-mechanical measurement theory is considered.

id: 1112.4522
title: A Very Common Fallacy in Quantum Mechanics: Superposition, Delayed Choice, Quantum Erasers, Retrocausality, and All That
authors: David Ellerman
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4522
abstract: There is a very common fallacy, here called the separation fallacy, that is involved in the interpretation of quantum experiments involving a certain type of separation such as the: double-slit experiments, which-way interferometer experiments, polarization analyzer experiments, Stern-Gerlach experiments, and quantum eraser experiments. It is the separation fallacy that leads not only to flawed textbook accounts of these experiments but to flawed inferences about retrocausality in the context of "delayed choice" versions of separation experiments.

id: 1112.4542
title: Source monitoring for continuous-variable quantum key distribution
authors: Jian Yang, Xiang Peng, Hong Guo
comments: The first version. 9 pages and 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4542
abstract: The noise in optical source needs to be characterized for the security of continuous-variable quantum key distribution (CVQKD). Two feasible schemes, based on either active optical switch or passive beamsplitter are proposed to monitor the variance of source noise, through which, Eve's knowledge can be properly estimated. We derive the security bounds for both schemes against collective attacks in the asymptotic case, and find that the passive scheme performs better.

id: 1112.4551
title: Compact source of narrow-band counterpropagating polarization-entangled photon pairs using a single dual-periodically poled crystal
authors: Yan-Xiao Gong, Zhen-Da Xie, Ping Xu, Xiao-Qiang Yu, Peng Xue, Shi-Ning Zhu
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053825 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4551
abstract: We propose a scheme for the generation of counterpropagating polarization-entangled photon pairs from a dual-periodically poled crystal. Compared with the usual forward-wave type source, this source, in the backward-wave way, has a much narrower bandwidth. With a 2-cm-long bulk crystal, the bandwidths of the example sources are estimated to be 3.6 GHz, and the spectral brightnesses are more than 100 pairs/(s GHz mW). Two concurrent quasi-phase-matched spontaneous parametric down-conversion processes in a single crystal enable our source to be compact and stable. This scheme does not rely on any state projection and applies to both degenerate and non-degenerate cases, facilitating applications of the entangled photons.

id: 1112.4582
title: Phase transitions for random states and a semi-circle law for the partial transpose
authors: Guillaume Aubrun, Stanislaw J. Szarek, Deping Ye
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. This short note contains a high-level overview of two long and technical papers, arXiv:1011.0275 and arXiv:1106.2264. Version 2: unchanged results, editorial changes, added reference, close to the published article
journal: Physical Review A (Rapid Communications) 85, 030302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4582
abstract: For a system of N identical particles in a random pure state, there is a threshold k_0 = k_0(N) ~ N/5 such that two subsystems of k particles each typically share entanglement if k > k_0, and typically do not share entanglement if k < k_0. By "random" we mean here "uniformly distributed on the sphere of the corresponding Hilbert space." The analogous phase transition for the positive partial transpose (PPT) property can be described even more precisely. For example, for N qubits the two subsystems of size k are typically in a PPT state if k < k_1 := N/4 - 1/2, and typically in a non-PPT state if k > k_1. Since, for a given state of the entire system, the induced state of a subsystem is given by the partial trace, the above facts can be rephrased as properties of random induced states. An important step in the analysis depends on identifying the asymptotic spectral density of the partial transposes of such random induced states, a result which is interesting in its own right.

id: 1112.4616
title: On the lattice structure of probability spaces in quantum mechanics
authors: Federico Holik, C¨¦sar Massri, Leandro Zuberman, Angel Plastino
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1008.4168
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4616
abstract: Let C be the set of all possible quantum states. We study the convex subsets of C with attention focused on the lattice theoretical structure of these convex subsets and, as a result, find a framework capable of unifying several aspects of quantum mechanics, including entanglement and Jaynes' Max-Ent principle. We also encounter links with entanglement witnesses, which leads to a new separability criteria expressed in lattice language. We also provide an extension of a separability criteria based on convex polytopes to the infinite dimensional case and show that it reveals interesting facets concerning the geometrical structure of the convex subsets. It is seen that the above mentioned framework is also capable of generalization to any statistical theory via the so-called convex operational models' approach. In particular, we show how to extend the geometrical structure underlying entanglement to any statistical model, an extension which may be useful for studying correlations in different generalizations of quantum mechanics.

id: 1112.4622
title: Neither Name, Nor Number
authors: Federico Holik
comments: arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0705.3417
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4622
abstract: Since its origins, Quantum mechanics has presented problems with the concept of individuality. It is argued that quantum particles do not have individuality, and so, one can speak about "entities without identity". On the contrary, we claim that the problem of quantum non individuality goes deeper, and that one of its most important features is the fact that there are quantum systems for which particle number is not well defined. In this work, we continue this discussion in relation to the problem about the one and the many.

id: 1112.4633
title: Limit theorems for the interference terms of discrete-time quantum walks on the line
authors: Takuya Machida
comments: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol.13 No.7&8, pp.661-671 (2013)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4633
abstract: The probability distributions of discrete-time quantum walks have been often investigated, and many interesting properties of them have been discovered. The probability that the walker can be find at a position is defined by diagonal elements of the density matrix. On the other hand, although off-diagonal parts of the density matrices have an important role to quantify quantumness, they have not received attention in quantum walks. We focus on the off-diagonal parts of the density matrices for discrete-time quantum walks on the line and derive limit theorems for them.

id: 1112.4672
title: Activating optomechanical entanglement
authors: Laura Mazzola, Mauro Paternostro
comments: Published version
journal: Nature Scientific Reports 1, 199 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4672
abstract: We propose an optomechanical setup where the activation of entanglement through the pre-availability of non-classical correlations can be demonstrated experimentally. We analyse the conditions under which the scheme is successful and relate them to the current experimental state of the art. The successful activation of entanglement embodies an interesting alternative to current settings for the revelation of fully mechanical nonclassicality.

id: 1112.4693
title: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Steerability Criterion for Two-Qubit Density Matrices
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Hong-Yi Su, Xiang-Jun Ye, Chunfeng Wu, C. H. Oh
comments: 4 pages, 3 figure. 3 figures are added. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4693
abstract: We propose a sufficient criterion ${S}=\lambda_1+\lambda_2-(\lambda_1-\lambda_2)^2<0$ to detect Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen steering for arbitrary two-qubit density matrix $\rho_{AB}$. Here $\lambda_1,\lambda_2$ are respectively the minimal and the second minimal eigenvalues of $\rho^{T_B}_{AB}$, which is the partial transpose of $\rho_{AB}$. By investigating several typical two-qubit states such as the isotropic state, Bell-diagonal state, maximally entangled mixed state, etc., we show this criterion works efficiently and can make reasonable predictions for steerability. We also present a mixed state of which steerability always exists, and compare the result with the violation of steering inequalities.

id: 1112.4720
title: Disorder effects in tunable waveguide arrays with parity-symmetric tunneling
authors: Clinton Thompson, Yogesh N. Joglekar, Gautam Vemuri
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4720
abstract: We investigate the effects of disorder on single particle time-evolution and two-particle correlations in an array of evanescently coupled waveguides with position-dependent tunneling rates. In the clean limit, the energy spectrum of such an array is widely tunable. In the presence of a Hermitian on-site or tunneling disorder, we find that the localization of a wave packet is highly sensitive to this energy spectrum. In particular, for an input confined to a single waveguide, we show that the fraction of light localized to the original waveguide depends on the tunneling profile. We compare the two-particle intensity correlations in the presence of Hermitian, tunneling disorder and non-Hermitian, parity-and-time-reversal ($\mathcal{PT}$) symmetric, on-site potential disorder. We show the two-particle correlation function in both cases is qualitatively similar, since both disorders preserve the particle-hole symmetric nature of the energy spectrum.

id: 1112.4721
title: Heuristic approach to BEC self-trapping in double wells beyond mean-field
authors: Kevin Rapedius
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 (2012) 085303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4721
abstract: We present a technically simple treatment of self-trapping of Bose-Einstein condensates in double well traps based on intuitive semi-classical approximations. Our analysis finally leads to a convenient closed form approximation for the time-averaged population imbalance valid in both the mean-field case and in the case of finite particle numbers for short times.

id: 1112.4733
title: Bose-Einstein condensate as a quantum memory for a photonic polarization qubit
authors: Stefan Riedl, Matthias Lettner, Christoph Vo, Simon Baur, Gerhard Rempe, Stephan D¨¹rr
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022318 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4733
abstract: A scheme based on electromagnetically induced transparency is used to store light in a Bose-Einstein condensate. In this process, a photonic polarization qubit is stored in atomic Zeeman states. The performance of the storage process is characterized and optimized. The average process fidelity is 1.000 +/- 0.004. For long storage times, temporal fluctuations of the magnetic field reduce this value, yielding a lifetime of the fidelity of 1.1 +/- 0.2 ms. The write-read efficiency of the pulse energy can reach 0.53 +/- 0.05.

id: 1112.4767
title: Strong magnetic coupling of an inhomogeneous NV ensemble to a cavity
authors: K. Sandner, H. Ritsch, R. Ams¨¹ss, Ch. Koller, T. N?bauer, S. Putz, J. Schmiedmayer, J. Majer
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053806 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4767
abstract: We study experimentally and theoretically a dense ensemble of negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond coupled to a high $Q$ superconducting coplanar waveguide cavity mode at low temperature. The nitrogen-vacancy centers are modeled as effective spin one defects with inhomogeneous frequency distribution. For a large enough ensemble the effective magnetic coupling of the collective spin dominates the mode losses and inhomogeneous broadening of the ensemble and the system exhibits well resolved normal mode splitting in probe transmission spectra. We use several theoretical approaches to model the probe spectra and the number and frequency distribution of the spins. This analysis reveals an only slowly temperature dependent q-Gaussian energy distribution of the defects with a yet unexplained decrease of effectively coupled spins at very low temperatures below $\unit{100}{\milli\kelvin}$. Based on the system parameters we predict the possibility to implement an extremely stable maser by adding an external pump to the system.

id: 1112.4795
title: Spatial fluctuations in an optical parametric oscillator below threshold with an intracavity photonic crystal
authors: M. A. Garcia-March, M. M. De Castro, R. Zambrini
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053804 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4795
abstract: We show how to control spatial quantum correlations in a multimode degenerate optical parametric oscillator type I below threshold by introducing a spatially inhomogeneous medium, such as a photonic crystal, in the plane perpendicular to light propagation. We obtain the analytical expressions for all the correlations in terms of the relevant parameters of the problem and study the number of photons, entanglement, squeezing, and twin beams. Considering different regimes and configurations we show the possibility to tune the instability thresholds as well as the quantumness of correlations by breaking the translational invariance of the system through a photonic crystal modulation.

id: 1112.4852
title: High speed spatially multimode Lambda-type atomic memory with arbitrary frequency detuning
authors: T. Golubeva, Yu. Golubev, O. Mishina, A. Bramati, J. Laurat, E. Giacobino
comments: 13 pages, 12 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2012) 66: 275
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4852
abstract: We present a general model for an atomic memory using ultra-short pulses of light, which allows both spatial and temporal multimode storage. The process involves the storage of a faint quantum light pulse into the spin coherence of the ground state of Lambda-type 3-level atoms, in the presence of a strong driving pulse. Our model gives a full description of the evolution of the field and of the atomic coherence in space and time throughout the writing and the read-out processes. It is valid for any frequency detuning, from the resonant case to the Raman case, and allows a detailed optimization of the memory efficiency.

id: 1112.4855
title: Tomography of a High-Purity Narrowband Photon From a Transient Atomic Collective Excitation
authors: A. MacRae, T. Brannan, A. I. Lvovsky
comments: Version 2: Fixed typo in bandwidth, Changed fig. 3 to png reduce file size, added 1 reference, expanded several explanations
journal: Physical Review Letters 109, 033601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4855
abstract: We demonstrate the efficient heralded generation of high purity narrow-bandwidth single photons from a transient collective spin excitation in a hot atomic vapour cell. Employing optical homodyne tomography, we fully reconstruct the density matrix of the generated photon and observe a Wigner function reaching the zero value without correcting for any inefficiencies. The narrow bandwidth of the photon produced is accompanied by a high generation rate yielding a high spectral brightness. The source is therefore compatible with atomic-based quantum memories as well as other applications in light-atom interfacing. This work paves the way to preparing and measuring arbitrary superposition states of collective atomic excitations.

id: 1112.4860
title: Stabilizing Entangled States with Quasi-Local Quantum Dynamical Semigroups
authors: Francesco Ticozzi, Lorenza Viola
comments: 11 pages, no figures
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A (2012) vol. 370, no. 1979, 5259-5269
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4860
abstract: We provide a solution to the problem of determining whether a target pure state can be asymptotically prepared using dissipative Markovian dynamics under fixed locality constraints. Beside recovering existing results for a large class of physically relevant entangled states, our approach has the advantage of providing an explicit stabilization test solely based on the input state and constraints of the problem. Connections with the formalism of frustration-free parent Hamiltonians are discussed, as well as control implementations in terms of a switching output-feedback law.

id: 1112.4957
title: New features of quantum discord uncovered by q-entropies
authors: A. P. Majtey, A. R. Plastino, A. Plastino
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4957
abstract: The notion of quantum discord introduced by Ollivier and Zurek [Phys. Rev. Lett 88, 017901 (2001)] (see also Henderson and Vedral [J. Phys. A 34, 6899 (2001)]) has attracted increasing attention, in recent years, as an entropic quantifier of non-classical features pertaining to the correlations exhibited by bipartite quantum systems. Here we generalize the notion so as to encompass power-law q-entropies (that reduce to the standard Shannon entropy in the limit $q \to 1$) and study the concomitant consequences. The ensuing, new discord-like measures we advance describe aspects of non-classicality that are different from those associated with the standard quantum discord. A particular manifestation of this difference concerns a feature related to order. Let $D_1$ stand for the standard, Shannon-based discord measure and $D_q$ for the $q \ne 1$ one. If two quantum states $A$, $B$ are such that $D_1(A) > D_1(B)$, this order-relation does not remain invariant under a change from $D_1$ to $D_q$.

id: 1112.4958
title: Complemetarity of Phases in Aharonov-Bohm Solenoid Effect
authors: Y. Ben-Aryeh
comments: 6 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0909.3958
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4958
abstract: In the present Note it is suggested that there should be a certain complementarity of phases between Aharonov-Bohm (AB) solenoid phase calculation on one part of the system and a phase calculation about another part of the physical system. Assuming a unique value for the function of the total system, after a complete circulation of the electron around the solenoid, the sum of these two phase changes should vanish. Such assumption leads to a compatibility relation between our previous calculations for the AB solenoid phase effect and that of the original calculation by AB.

id: 1112.4965
title: Quantum entanglement in exactly soluble atomic models: The Moshinsky model with three electrons, and with two electrons in a uniform magnetic field
authors: P. A. Bouvrie, A. P. Majtey, A. R. Plastino, P. S¨¢nchez-Moreno, J. S. Dehesa
comments: 21 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4965
abstract: We investigate the entanglement-related features of the eigenstates of two exactly soluble atomic models: a one-dimensional three-electron Moshinsky model, and a three-dimensional two-electron Moshinsky system in an external uniform magnetic field. We analytically compute the amount of entanglement exhibited by the wavefunctions corresponding to the ground, first and second excited states of the three-electron model. We found that the amount of entanglement of the system tends to increase with energy, and in the case of excited states we found a finite amount of entanglement in the limit of vanishing interaction. We also analyze the entanglement properties of the ground and first few excited states of the two-electron Moshinsky model in the presence of a magnetic field. The dependence of the eigenstates' entanglement on the energy, as well as its behaviour in the regime of vanishing interaction, are similar to those observed in the three-electron system. On the other hand, the entanglement exhibits a monotonically decreasing behavior with the strength of the external magnetic field. For strong magnetic fields the entanglement approaches a finite asymptotic value that depends on the interaction strength. For both systems studied here we consider a perturbative approach in order to shed some light on the entanglement's dependence on energy and also to clarify the finite entanglement exhibited by excited states in the limit of weak interactions. As far as we know, this is the first work that provides analytical and exact results for the entanglement properties of a three-electron model.

id: 1112.4982
title: Localization of quantum walks induced by recurrence properties of random walks
authors: Etsuo Segawa
comments: 12 pages
journal: Journal of Computational and Theoretical Nanoscience: Special Issue: Theoretical and Mathematical Aspects of the Discrete Time Quantum Walk. 10 (2013), 1583--1590
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4982
abstract: We study a quantum walk (QW) whose time evolution is induced by a random walk (RW) first introduced by Szegedy (2004). We focus on a relation between recurrent properties of the RW and localization of the corresponding QW. We find the following two fundamental derivations of localization of the QW. The first one is the set of all the $\ell^2$ summable eigenvectors of the corresponding RW. The second one is the orthogonal complement, whose eigenvalues are $\pm 1$, of the subspace induced by the RW. In particular, as a consequence, for an infinite half line, we show that localization of the QW can be ensured by the positive recurrence of the corresponding RWs, and also that the existence of only one self loop affects localization properties.

id: 1112.5064
title: Multipartite entanglement verification resistant against dishonest parties
authors: Anna Pappa, Andr¨¦ Chailloux, Stephanie Wehner, Eleni Diamanti, Iordanis Kerenidis
comments: The statement of Theorem 2 has been revised and a new proof is given. Other results unchanged
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 260502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5064
abstract: Future quantum information networks will likely consist of quantum and classical agents, who have the ability to communicate in a variety of ways with trusted and untrusted parties and securely delegate computational tasks to untrusted large-scale quantum computing servers. Multipartite quantum entanglement is a fundamental resource for such a network and hence it is imperative to study the possibility of verifying a multipartite entanglement source in a way that is efficient and provides strong guarantees even in the presence of multiple dishonest parties. In this work, we show how an agent of a quantum network can perform a distributed verification of a multipartite entangled source with minimal resources, which is, nevertheless, resistant against any number of dishonest parties. Moreover, we provide a tight tradeoff between the level of security and the distance between the state produced by the source and the ideal maximally entangled state. Last, by adding the resource of a trusted common random source, we can further provide security guarantees for all honest parties in the quantum network simultaneously.

id: 1112.5065
title: Dissipative collapse models with non-white noises
authors: Luca Ferialdi, Angelo Bassi
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022108 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5065
abstract: We study the generalization of the QMUPL model which accounts both for memory and dissipative effects. This is the first model where both features are combined. After having derived the non-local Action describing the system, we solve the equation for a quantum harmonic oscillator via the path integral formalism. We give the explicit expression for the Green's function of the process. We focus on the case of an exponential correlation function and we analyze in detail the behavior Gaussian wave functions. We eventually study the collapse process, comparing the results with those of previous models.

id: 1112.5066
title: Discord and non-classicality in probabilistic theories
authors: Paolo Perinotti
comments: 5 pages, revtex style
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 120502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5066
abstract: Quantum discord quantifies non-classical correlations in quantum states. We introduce discord for states in causal probabilistic theories, inspired by the original definition proposed in Ref. [17]. We show that the only probabilistic theory in which all states have null discord is classical probability theory. Non-null discord is then not just a quantum feature, but a generic signature of non-classicality.

id: 1112.5133
title: Maximally entangled gapped ground state of lattice fermions
authors: David L. Feder
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012312 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5133
abstract: Entanglement between the constituents of a quantum system is an essential resource in the implementation of many quantum processes and algorithms. Indeed, universal quantum computation is possible by measuring individual qubits comprising highly entangled cluster states. In this work it is shown that the unique gapped ground state of non-interacting fermions hopping on a specially prepared lattice is equivalent to a cluster state, where the entanglement between qubits results solely by fermionic indistinguishability and antisymmetry. A deterministic strategy for universal measurement-based quantum computation with this resource is described. Because most matter is composed of fermions, these results suggest that resources for quantum information processing might be generic in Nature.

id: 1112.5149
title: State-independent quantum contextuality and maximum nonlocality
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5149
abstract: Recently, Yu and Oh [Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 030402 (2012)] have conjectured that the simplest set of vectors needed to prove state-independent contextuality on a qutrit requires 13 vectors. Here we first prove that a necessary and sufficient condition for a set of vectors in any dimension $d \ge 3$ to prove contextuality for a system prepared in a maximally mixed state is that the graph $G_C$ in which vertices represent vectors and edges link orthogonal ones has chromatic number $\chi(G_G)$ larger than $d$. Then, we prove Yu and Oh's conjecture. Finally, we prove that any set satisfying $\chi(G_G)>d$ assisted with $d$-party maximum entanglement generates nonlocality which cannot be improved without violating the no-signalling principle. This shows that any set satisfying $\chi(G_G)>d$ is a valuable resource for quantum information processing.

id: 1112.5198
title: Heisenberg position-momentum uncertainty relation beyond central potentials
authors: ?ukasz Rudnicki
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022012 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5198
abstract: Recently it was shown in [New J. Phys. 8, 330 (2006)] that the three dimensional Heisenberg uncertainty principle might be signifficantly sharpened if the relevant quantum state describes the particle in a central potential. I extend that result to the case of states which are not the eigenstates of the square of the angular momentum operator. I derive a new lower bound which involves the mean value and the variance of the $\hat{L}^2$ operator.

id: 1112.5208
title: Magneto-quantum-nanomechanics: ultra-high Q levitated mechanical oscillators
authors: M. Cirio, J. Twamley, G. K. Brennen
comments: 24 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 147206 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5208
abstract: Engineering nano-mechanical quantum systems possessing ultra-long motional coherence times allow for applications in ultra-sensitive quantum sensing, motional quantum memories and motional interfaces between other carriers of quantum information such as photons, quantum dots and superconducting systems. To achieve ultra-high motional Q one must work hard to remove all forms of motional noise and heating. We examine a magneto-nanomechanical quantum system that consists of a 3D arrangement of miniature superconducting loops which is stably levitated in a static inhomogenous magnetic field. The resulting motional Q is limited by the tiny decay of the supercurrent in the loops and may reach up to Q~10^(10). We examine the classical and quantum dynamics of the levitating superconducting system and prove that it is stably trapped and can achieve motional oscillation frequencies of several tens of MHz. By inductively coupling this levitating object to a nearby flux qubit we further show that by driving the qubit one can cool the motion of the levitated object and in the case of resonance, this can cool the vertical motion of the object close to it's ground state.

id: 1112.5222
title: Number-phase uncertainty relations in terms of generalized entropies
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 15 pages, no figures. Minor grammatical changes are made. Typos are corrected
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 12, 0743-0762 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5222
abstract: Number-phase uncertainty relations are formulated in terms of unified entropies which form a family of two-parametric extensions of the Shannon entropy. For two generalized measurements, unified-entropy uncertainty relations are given in both the state-dependent and state-independent forms. A few examples are discussed as well. Using the Pegg--Barnett formalism and the Riesz theorem, we obtain a nontrivial inequality between norm-like functionals of generated probability distributions in finite dimensions. The principal point is that we take the infinite-dimensional limit right for this inequality. Hence number-phase uncertainty relations with finite phase resolutions are expressed in terms of the unified entropies. Especially important case of multiphoton coherent states is separately considered. We also give some entropic bounds in which the corresponding integrals of probability density functions are involved.

id: 1112.5271
title: Weak multiplicativity for random quantum channels
authors: Ashley Montanaro
comments: 21 pages; v2: corrections and additional remarks
journal: Communications in Mathematical Physics, vol. 319 no. 2, pp. 535-555, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5271
abstract: It is known that random quantum channels exhibit significant violations of multiplicativity of maximum output p-norms for any p>1. In this work, we show that a weaker variant of multiplicativity nevertheless holds for these channels. For any constant p>1, given a random quantum channel N (i.e. a channel whose Stinespring representation corresponds to a random subspace S), we show that with high probability the maximum output p-norm of n copies of N decays exponentially with n. The proof is based on relaxing the maximum output infinity-norm of N to the operator norm of the partial transpose of the projector onto S, then calculating upper bounds on this quantity using ideas from random matrix theory.

id: 1112.5292
title: Transient fluctuation theorem in closed quantum systems
authors: Christian Bartsch, Jochen Gemmer
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 96, 60008 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5292
abstract: Our point of departure are the unitary dynamics of closed quantum systems as generated from the Schr\"odinger equation. We focus on a class of quantum models that typically exhibit roughly exponential relaxation of some observable within this framework. Furthermore, we focus on pure state evolutions. An entropy in accord with Jaynes principle is defined on the basis of the quantum expectation value of the above observable. It is demonstrated that the resulting deterministic entropy dynamics are in a sense in accord with a transient fluctuation theorem. Moreover, we demonstrate that the dynamics of the expectation value are describable in terms of an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process. These findings are demonstrated numerically and supported by analytical considerations based on quantum typicality.

id: 1112.5294
title: Matrix algorithm for solving Schroedinger equations with position-dependent mass or complex optical potentials
authors: Johann Foerster, Alejandro Saenz, Ulli Wolff
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures. Several clarifications in the text and new sect. IV.G. Version to appear in Phys. Rev. E
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5294
abstract: We represent low dimensional quantum mechanical Hamiltonians by moderately sized finite matrices that reproduce the lowest O(10) boundstate energies and wave functions to machine precision. The method extends also to Hamiltonians that are neither Hermitian nor PT symmetric and thus allows to investigate whether or not the spectra in such cases are still real. Furthermore, the approach is especially useful for problems in which a position-dependent mass is adopted, for example in effective-mass models in solid-state physics or in the approximate treatment of coupled nuclear motion in molecular physics or quantum chemistry. The performance of the algorithm is demonstrated by considering the inversion motion of different isotopes of ammonia molecules within a position-dependent-mass model and some other examples of one- and two-dimensional Hamiltonians that allow for the comparison to analytical or numerical results in the literature.

id: 1112.5295
title: Thermalization under randomized local Hamiltonians
authors: M. Cramer
comments: published version
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 053051 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5295
abstract: Recently, there have been significant new insights concerning conditions under which closed systems equilibrate locally. The question if subsystems thermalize---if the equilibrium state is independent of the initial state---is however much harder to answer in general. Here, we consider a setting in which thermalization can be addressed: A quantum quench under a Hamiltonian whose spectrum is fixed and basis is drawn from the Haar measure. If the Fourier transform of the spectral density is small, almost all bases lead to local equilibration to the thermal state with infinite temperature. This allows us to show that, under almost all Hamiltonians that are unitarily equivalent to a local Hamiltonian, it takes an algebraically small time for subsystems to thermalize.

id: 1112.5300
title: Statistical mechanics of entanglement mediated by a thermal reservoir I
authors: Endre Kajari, Alexander Wolf, Eric Lutz, Giovanna Morigi
comments: 18 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042318 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5300
abstract: Two defect particles that couple to a harmonic chain, acting as common reservoir, can become entangled even when the two defects do not directly interact and the harmonic chain is effectively a thermal reservoir for each individual defect. This dynamics is encountered for sufficiently low temperatures of the chain and depends on the initial state of the two oscillators. In particular, when each defect is prepared in a squeezed state, entanglement can be found at time scales at which the steady state of a single defect is reached. We provide a microscopic description of the coupled quantum dynamics of chain and defects. By means of numerical simulations, we explore the parameter regimes for which entanglement is found under the specific assumption that both particles couple to the same ion of the chain. This model provides the microscopic setting where bath-induced entanglement can be observed.

id: 1112.5302
title: Designer Spin Pseudomolecule Implemented with Trapped Ions in a Magnetic Gradient
authors: A. Khromova, Ch. Piltz, B. Scharfenberger, T. F. Gloger, M. Johanning, A. F. Var¨®n, Ch. Wunderlich
comments: replaced with published version, 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 108, 220502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5302
abstract: We report on the experimental investigation of an individual pseudomolecule using trapped ions with adjustable magnetically induced J-type coupling between spin states. Resonances of individual spins are well separated and are addressed with high fidelity. Quantum gates are carried out using microwave radiation in the presence of thermal excitation of the pseudomolecule's vibrations. Demonstrating Controlled-NOT gates between non-nearest neighbors serves as a proof-of-principle of a quantum bus employing a spin chain. Combining advantageous features of nuclear magnetic resonance experiments and trapped ions, respectively, opens up a new avenue towards scalable quantum information processing.

id: 1112.5307
title: Experimental Quantum Networking Protocols via Four-Qubit Hyperentangled Dicke States
authors: A. Chiuri, C. Greganti, M. Paternostro, G. Vallone, P. Mataloni
comments: 4 pages + Supplementary Information, 6 figures; revised version: Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 173604 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5307
abstract: We report the experimental demonstration of two quantum networking protocols, namely quantum 1->3 telecloning and open-destination teleportation, implemented using a four-qubit register whose state is encoded in a high-quality two-photon hyperentangled Dicke state. The state resource is characterized using criteria based on multipartite entanglement witnesses. We explore the characteristic entanglement-sharing structure of a Dicke state by implementing high-fidelity projections of the four-qubit resource onto lower-dimensional states. Our work demonstrates for the first time the usefulness of Dicke states for quantum information processing.

id: 1112.5322
title: Maximum-confidence discrimination among symmetric qudit states
authors: O. Jim¨¦nez, M. A. Sol¨ªs-Prosser, A. Delgado, L. Neves
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures. Published version
journal: Physical Review A 84, 062315 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5322
abstract: We study the maximum-confidence (MC) measurement strategy for discriminating among nonorthogonal symmetric qudit states. Restricting to linearly dependent and equally likely pure states, we find the optimal positive operator valued measure (POVM) that maximizes our confidence in identifying each state in the set and minimizes the probability of obtaining inconclusive results. The physical realization of this POVM is completely determined and it is shown that after an inconclusive outcome, the input states may be mapped into a new set of equiprobable symmetric states, restricted, however, to a subspace of the original qudit Hilbert space. By applying the MC measurement again onto this new set, we can still gain some information about the input states, although with less confidence than before. This leads us to introduce the concept of "sequential maximum-confidence" (SMC) measurements, where the optimized MC strategy is iterated in as many stages as allowed by the input set, until no further information can be extracted from an inconclusive result. Within each stage of this measurement our confidence in identifying the input states is the highest possible, although it decreases from one stage to the next. In addition, the more stages we accomplish within the maximum allowed, the higher will be the probability of correct identification. We will discuss an explicit example of the optimal SMC measurement applied in the discrimination among four symmetric qutrit states and propose an optical network to implement it.

id: 1112.5385
title: Universal Quantum Computation with Continuous-Variable Abelian Anyons
authors: Darran F. Milne, Natalia V. Korolkova, Peter van Loock
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5385
abstract: We describe how continuous-variable abelian anyons, created on the surface of a continuous-variable analogue of Kitaev's lattice model can be utilized for quantum computation. In particular, we derive protocols for the implementation of quantum gates using topological operations. We find that the topological operations alone are insufficient for universal quantum computation which leads us to study additional non-topological operations such as offline squeezing and single-mode measurements. It is shown that these in conjunction with a non-Gaussian element allow for universal quantum computation using continuous-variable abelian anyons.

id: 1112.5394
title: Quantum Noise for Faraday Light Matter Interfaces
authors: Denis V. Vasilyev, Klemens Hammerer, Nikolaj Korolev, Anders S. S?rensen
comments: 20 pages, 12 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 (2012) 124007
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5394
abstract: In light matter interfaces based on the Faraday effect quite a number of quantum information protocols have been successfully demonstrated. In order to further increase the performance and fidelities achieved in these protocols a deeper understanding of the relevant noise and decoherence processes needs to be gained. In this article we provide for the first time a complete description of the decoherence from spontaneous emission. We derive from first principles the effects of photons being spontaneously emitted into unobserved modes. Our results relate the resulting decay and noise terms in effective equations of motion for collective atomic spins and the forward propagating light modes to the full atomic level structure. We illustrate and apply our results to the case of a quantum memory protocol. Our results can be applied to any suitable atomic species, and the general approach taken in this article can be applied to light matter interfaces and quantum memories based on different mechanisms.

id: 1112.5419
title: Reduction of anomalous heating in an in-situ-cleaned ion trap
authors: D. A. Hite, Y. Colombe, A. C. Wilson, K. R. Brown, U. Warring, R. J?rdens, J. D. Jost, D. P. Pappas, D. Leibfried, D. J. Wineland
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 103001 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5419
abstract: Anomalous heating of trapped atomic ions is a major obstacle to their use as quantum bits in a scalable quantum computer. The physical origin of this heating is not fully understood, but experimental evidence suggests that it is caused by electric-field noise emanating from the surface of the trap electrodes. In this study, we have investigated the role that adsorbates on the electrodes play by identifying contaminant overlayers, developing an in situ argon-ion beam cleaning procedure, and measuring ion heating rates before and after cleaning the trap electrodes' surfaces. We find a reduction of two orders of magnitude in heating rate after cleaning.

id: 1112.5456
title: Unforgeable Noise-Tolerant Quantum Tokens
authors: Fernando Pastawski, Norman Y. Yao, Liang Jiang, Mikhail D. Lukin, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 18 pages, 5 figures
journal: PNAS 109, 16079-16082 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5456
abstract: The realization of devices which harness the laws of quantum mechanics represents an exciting challenge at the interface of modern technology and fundamental science. An exemplary paragon of the power of such quantum primitives is the concept of "quantum money". A dishonest holder of a quantum bank-note will invariably fail in any forging attempts; indeed, under assumptions of ideal measurements and decoherence-free memories such security is guaranteed by the no-cloning theorem. In any practical situation, however, noise, decoherence and operational imperfections abound. Thus, the development of secure "quantum money"-type primitives capable of tolerating realistic infidelities is of both practical and fundamental importance. Here, we propose a novel class of such protocols and demonstrate their tolerance to noise; moreover, we prove their rigorous security by determining tight fidelity thresholds. Our proposed protocols require only the ability to prepare, store and measure single qubit quantum memories, making their experimental realization accessible with current technologies.

id: 1112.5471
title: Direct measurement of general quantum states using weak measurement
authors: Jeff S. Lundeen, Charles Bamber
comments: This is a later and very different version of arXiv:1110.0727v3 [quant-ph]. New content: a method to directly measure each element of the density matrix, specific Hamiltonians to weakly measure the product of non-commuting observables, and references to recent related work
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 070402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5471
abstract: Recent work [J.S. Lundeen et al. Nature, 474, 188 (2011)] directly measured the wavefunction by weakly measuring a variable followed by a normal (i.e. `strong') measurement of the complementary variable. We generalize this method to mixed states by considering the weak measurement of various products of these observables, thereby providing the density matrix an operational definition in terms of a procedure for its direct measurement. The method only requires measurements in two bases and can be performed `in situ', determining the quantum state without destroying it.

id: 1112.5490
title: Dynamic stabilization of the optical resonances of single nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond
authors: V. M. Acosta, C. Santori, A. Faraon, Z. Huang, K.-M. C. Fu, A. Stacey, D. A. Simpson, S. Tomljenovic-Hanic, K. Ganesan, A. D. Greentree, S. Prawer, R. G. Beausoleil
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures + Supplementary Info (4 pages, 3 figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 206401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5490
abstract: We report electrical tuning by the Stark effect of the excited-state structure of single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers located less than ~100 nm from the diamond surface. The zero-phonon line (ZPL) emission frequency is controllably varied over a range of 300 GHz. Using high-resolution emission spectroscopy, we observe electrical tuning of the strengths of both cycling and spin-altering transitions. Under resonant excitation, we apply dynamic feedback to stabilize the ZPL frequency. The transition is locked over several minutes and drifts of the peak position on timescales greater than ~100 ms are reduced to a fraction of the single-scan linewidth, with standard deviation as low as 16 MHz (obtained for an NV in bulk, ultra-pure diamond). These techniques should improve the entanglement success probability in quantum communications protocols.

id: 1112.5502
title: Diamond based single molecule magnetic resonance spectroscopy
authors: Jianming Cai, Fedor Jelezko, Martin B. Plenio, Alex Retzker
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures, published version
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 013020 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5502
abstract: The detection of a nuclear spin in an individual molecule represents a key challenge in physics and biology whose solution has been pursued for many years. The small magnetic moment of a single nucleus and the unavoidable environmental noise present the key obstacles for its realization. Here, we demonstrate theoretically that a single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond can be used to construct a nano-scale single molecule spectrometer that is capable of detecting the position and spin state of a single nucleus and can determine the distance and alignment of a nuclear or electron spin pair. The proposed device will find applications in single molecule spectroscopy in chemistry and biology, such as in determining protein structure or monitoring macromolecular motions and can thus provide a tool to help unravelling the microscopic mechanisms underlying bio-molecular function.

id: 1112.5509
title: Lower Bound of Concurrence and Distillation for Arbitrary Dimensional Bipartite Quantum States
authors: Ming-Jing Zhao, Xue-Na Zhu, Shao-Ming Fei, Xianqing Li-Jost
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84 (2011) 062322
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5509
abstract: We present a lower bound of concurrence for arbitrary dimensional bipartite quantum states. This lower bound may be used to improve all the known lower bounds of concurrence. Moreover, the lower bound gives rise to an operational sufficient criterion of distillability of quantum entanglement. The significance of our result is illustrated by quantitative evaluation of entanglement for entangled states that fail to be identified by the usual concurrence estimation method, and by showing the distillability of mixed states that can not be recognized by other distillability criteria.

id: 1112.5513
title: Minimal Kochen-Specker theorem in finite dimensions
authors: Sixia Yu, C.H. Oh
comments: 5 pages 2 figures 1 appendix
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5513
abstract: In [1] we proved a strengthened Kochen-Specker theorem in 3 dimensions: non-contextual hidden variable (NCHV) models cannot reproduce all the quantum correlations of two compatible observables, which is a minimal requirement imposed on the NCHV models. Here we shall exclude the NCHV models with this minimal requirement in $d\ge 4$ dimensions by state-independent and experimentally testable inequalities satisfied by all NCHV models that are required to reproduce only the quantum correlations of at most two compatible observables. Furthermore our proofs use the smallest number of rays known so far, e.g., 25 (instead of 31) rays in $5$ dimensions and $5d-2\lfloor d/3\rfloor$ rays in $d\ge 6$ dimensions.

id: 1112.5522
title: Multiple Schr?dinger pictures and dynamics in shortcuts to adiabaticity
authors: S. Ib¨¢?ez, Xi Chen, E. Torrontegui, A. Ruschhaupt, J. G. Muga
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5522
abstract: A Schr\"odinger equation may be transformed by unitary operators into dynamical equations in different interaction pictures which share with it a common physical frame, i.e., the same underlying interactions, processes and dynamics. In contrast to this standard scenario, other relations are also possible, such as a common interaction-picture dynamical equation corresponding to several Schr\"odinger equations that represent different physics. This may enable us to design alternative and feasible experimental routes for operations that are a priori difficult or impossible to perform. The power of this concept is exemplified by engineering Hamiltonians that improve the performance or make realizable several shortcuts to adiabaticity.

id: 1112.5542
title: Quantum key distribution with finite resources: Taking advantage of quantum noise
authors: Markus Mertz, Hermann Kampermann, Zahra Shadman, Dagmar Bru?
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042312 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5542
abstract: We compare the effect of different noise scenarios on the achievable rate of an epsilon-secure key for the BB84 and the six-state protocol. We study the situation where quantum noise is added deliberately, and investigate the remarkable benefit for the finite key rate. We compare our results to the known case of added classical noise and the asymptotic key rate, i.e. in the limit of infinitely many signals. As a complementary interpretation we show that under the realistic assumption that the noise which is unavoidably introduced by a real channel is not fully dedicated to the eavesdropper, the secret key rate increases significantly.

id: 1112.5580
title: Experimental characterization of photonic fusion using fiber sources
authors: B. Bell, A. S. Clark, M. S. Tame, M. Halder, J. Fulconis, W. Wadsworth, J. Rarity
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 023021 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5580
abstract: We report the fusion of photons from two independent photonic crystal fiber sources into polarization entangled states using a fiber-based polarizing beam splitter. We achieve fidelities of up to F = 0.74 $\pm$ 0.01 with respect to the maximally entangled Bell state \phi+ using a low pump power of 5.3mW with a success rate of 3.2 four-fold detections per second. By increasing the pump power we find that success rates of up to 111.6 four-folds per second can be achieved, with entanglement still present in the fused state. We characterize the fusion operation by providing a full quantum process reconstruction. Here a model is developed to describe the generation of entanglement, including the main causes of imperfection, and we show that this model fits well with the experimental results. Our work shows how non-ideal settings limit the success of the fusion, providing useful information about the practical requirements for an operation that may be used to build large entangled states in bulk and on-chip quantum photonic waveguides.

id: 1112.5591
title: Classical signal model reproducing quantum probabilities for single and coincidence detections
authors: Andrei Khrennikov, B?rje Nilsson, Sven Nordebo
comments: 
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series, 361, art N 012030 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5591
abstract: We present a simple classical (random) signal model reproducing Born's rule. The crucial point of our approach is that the presence of detector's threshold and calibration procedure have to be treated not as simply experimental technicalities, but as the basic counterparts of the theoretical model. We call this approach threshold signal detection model (TSD). The experiment on coincidence detection which was done by Grangier in 1986 \cite{Grangier} played a crucial role in rejection of (semi-)classical field models in favor of quantum mechanics (QM): impossibility to resolve the wave-particle duality in favor of a purely wave model. QM predicts that the relative probability of coincidence detection, the coefficient $g^{(2)}(0),$ is zero (for one photon states), but in (semi-)classical models $g^{(2)}(0)\geq 1.$ In TSD the coefficient $g^{(2)}(0)$ decreases as $1/{\cal E}_d^2,$ where ${\cal E}_d>0$ is the detection threshold. Hence, by increasing this threshold an experimenter can make the coefficient $g^{(2)}(0)$ essentially less than 1. The TSD-prediction can be tested experimentally in new Grangier type experiments presenting a detailed monitoring of dependence of the coefficient $g^{(2)}(0)$ on the detection threshold.

id: 1112.5609
title: Quantum Magnetomechanics with Levitating Superconducting Microspheres
authors: O. Romero-Isart, L. Clemente, C. Navau, A. Sanchez, J. I. Cirac
comments: 4.5 pages, 3 figures, amended version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 147205 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5609
abstract: We show that by magnetically trapping a superconducting microsphere close to a quantum circuit, it is experimentally feasible to perform ground-state cooling and to prepare quantum superpositions of the center-of-mass motion of the microsphere. Due to the absence of clamping losses and time dependent electromagnetic fields, the mechanical motion of micrometer-sized metallic spheres in the Meissner state is predicted to be very well isolated from the environment. Hence, we propose to combine the technology of magnetic microtraps and superconducting qubits to bring relatively large objects to the quantum regime.

id: 1112.5674
title: Statistical theory of a quantum emitter strongly coupled to Anderson-localized modes
authors: Henri Thyrrestrup, Stephan Smolka, Luca Sapienza, Peter Lodahl
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 113901 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5674
abstract: A statistical theory of the coupling between a quantum emitter and Anderson-localized cavity modes is presented based on a dyadic Green's function formalism. The probability of achieving the strong light-matter coupling regime is extracted for an experimentally realistic system composed of InAs quantum dots embedded in a disordered photonic crystal waveguide. We demonstrate that by engineering the relevant parameters that define the quality of light confinement, i.e. the light localization length and the loss length, strong coupling between a single quantum dot and an Anderson-localized cavity is within experimental reach. As a consequence of disorder-induced light confinement provides a novel platform for quantum electrodynamics experiments.

id: 1112.5699
title: Dipole-Dipole interaction in photonic crystal nanocavity
authors: Yong-Gang Huang, Gengyan Chen, Chong-Jun Jin, W. M. Liu, Xue-Hua Wang
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5699
abstract: Dipole-dipole interaction between two two-level `atoms' in photonic crystal nanocavity is investigated based on finite-difference time domain algorithm. This method includes both real and virtual photon effects and can be applied for dipoles with different transition frequencies in both weak and strong coupling regimes. Numerical validations have been made for dipoles in vacuum and in an ideal planar microcavity. For dipoles located in photonic crystal nanocavity, it is found that the cooperative decay parameters and the dipole-dipole interaction potential strongly depend on the following four factors: the atomic position, the atomic transition frequency, the resonance frequency, and the cavity quality factor. Properly arranging the positions of the two atoms, we can acquire equal value of the cooperative decay parameters and the local coupling strength. Large cooperative decay parameters can be achieved when transition frequency is equal to the resonance frequency. For transition frequency varying in a domain of the cavity linewidth around the resonance frequency, dipole-dipole interaction potential changes continuously from attractive to repulsive case. Larger value and sharper change of cooperative parameters and dipole-dipole interaction can be obtained for higher quality factor. Our results provide some manipulative approaches for dipole-dipole interaction with potential application in various fields such as quantum computation and quantum information processing based on solid state nanocavity and quantum dot system.

id: 1112.5700
title: Quantum channels that preserve the commutativity
authors: Sixia Yu, Chengjie Zhang, Qing Chen, C.H. Oh
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5700
abstract: We identify and characterize all the local quantum channels that preserves the set of classical states, i.e., does not create any quantum correlations. At first we show that the quantum correlations cannot be created from without if and only if the local quantum channel preserves the commutativity, i.e., the images of any two commuting states also commute. And then we provide an operational necessary and sufficient criterion for a known quantum channel to preserve the commutativity as well as a single observable to witness an arbitrary unknown commutativity-preserving channel. All the distance-based measures for quantum correlations, e.g., the geometric measure, are non-increasing while the quantum discord defined by von Neumann measurements can be increasing or decreasing under local commutativity-preserving channels.

id: 1112.5701
title: Superselection Rules from Measurement Theory
authors: Shogo Tanimura
comments: 19 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5701
abstract: In quantum theory, physically measurable quantities of a microscopic system are represented by self-adjoint operators. However, not all of the self-adjoint operators correspond to measurable quantities. The superselection rule is a criterion to distinguish measurable quantities. Any measurable quantity must obey the superselection rules. By contraposition, any quantity which does not obey the superselection rules cannot be measured. Although some of superselection rules were proved, the raizon d'\^etre of the superselection rules has been still obscure. In this paper we deduce the superselection rules from an assumption on symmetry property of measurement process. We introduce the notion of covariant indicator, which is a macroscopic observable whose value indicates the value of a microscopic object observable. We prove that if an object system has a quantity that is conserved during the measurement process, other quantities that do not commute with the conserved quantity are non-measurable by the covariant indicator. Our derivation of superselection rules is compared with the uncertainty relation under the restriction by a conservation law. An implication of the color superselection rule for the color confinement is discussed. It is also argued that spontaneous symmetry breaking enables a measurement that the superselection rule prohibits.

id: 1112.5731
title: Time-dependent density functional theory for open spin chains
authors: Diego de Falco, Dario Tamascelli
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022341 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5731
abstract: The application of methods of time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT) to systems of qubits provided the interesting possibility of simulating an assigned Hamiltonian evolution by means of an auxiliary Hamiltonian having different two-qubit interactions and hence a possibly simpler wave function evolution. In this note we extend these methods to some instances of Lindblad evolution of a spin chain.

id: 1112.5775
title: A single trapped ion in a finite range trap
authors: M. Bagheri Harouni, M. Davoudi Darareh
comments: 
journal: Annals of Physics 326, 968 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5775
abstract: This paper presents a method to describe dynamics of an ion confined in a realistic finite range trap. We model this realistic potential with a solvable one and we obtain dynamical variables (raising and lowering operators) of this potential. We consider coherent interaction of this confined ion in a finite range trap and we show that its center-of-mass motion steady state is a special kind of nonlinear coherent states. Physical properties of this state and their dependence on the finite range of potential are studied.

id: 1112.5797
title: Quantum Correlations Relativity for Continuous Variable Systems
authors: M. Dugic, M. Arsenijevic, J. Jeknic-Dugic
comments: rewritten, 10 pages; accepted by Science China PMA (2012)
journal: Sci China-Phys Mech Astron, 2013, 56(4): 732-736
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5797
abstract: It is shown that a choice of degrees of freedom of a bipartite continuous variable system determines amount of non-classical correlations (quantified by discord) in the system's state. Non-classical correlations (that include entanglement as a special kind of correlations) are ubiquitous for such systems. For a quantum state, if there are not non-classical correlations (quantum discord is zero) for one, there are in general non-classical correlations (quantum discord is non-zero) for another set of the composite system's degrees of freedom. The physical relevance of this 'quantum correlations relativity' is emphasized also in the more general context.

id: 1112.5830
title: Classical to quantum in large number limit
authors: Kavan Modi, Rosario Fazio, Saverio Pascazio, Vlatko Vedral, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 370, 4810-4820 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5830
abstract: We construct a quantumness witness following the work of Alicki and van Ryn (AvR) in "A simple test of quantumness for a single system" [J. Phys. A: Math. Theor., vol. 41, 062001 (2008)]. The AvR test is designed to detect quantumness. We reformulate the AvR test by defining it for quantum states rather than for observables. This allows us to identify the necessary quantities and resources to detect quantumness for any given system. The first quantity turns out to be the purity of the system. When applying the witness to a system with even moderate mixedness the protocol is unable to reveal any quantumness. We then show that having many copies of the system leads the witness to reveal quantumness. This seems contrary to the Bohr correspondence, which asserts that in the large number limit quantum systems become classical, while the witness shows quantumness when several non-quantum systems, as determined by the witness, are considered together. However, the resources required to detect the quantumness increase dramatically with the number of systems. We apply the quantumness witness for systems that are highly mixed but in the large number limit, which resembles nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) systems. We make several conclusion about detecting quantumness in NMR-like systems.

id: 1112.5845
title: Influence of phonons on exciton-photon interaction and photon statistics of a quantum dot
authors: M. Bagheri Harouni, R. Roknizadeh, M. H. Naderi
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 79, 165304 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5845
abstract: In this paper, we investigate, phonon effects on the optical properties of a spherical quantum dot. For this purpose, we consider the interaction of a spherical quantum dot with classical and quantum fields while the exciton of quantum dot interacts with a solid state reservoir. We show that phonons strongly affect the Rabi oscillations and optical coherence on first picoseconds of dynamics. We consider the quantum statistics of emitted photons by quantum dot and we show that these photons are anti-bunched and obey the sub-Poissonian statistics. In addition, we examine the effects of detuning and interaction of quantum dot with the cavity mode on optical coherence of energy levels. The effects of detuning and interaction of quantum dot with cavity mode on optical coherence of energy levels are compared to the effects of its interaction with classical pulse.

id: 1112.5855
title: Improving Quantum Query Complexity of Boolean Matrix Multiplication Using Graph Collision
authors: Stacey Jeffery, Robin Kothari, Fr¨¦d¨¦ric Magniez
comments: 
journal: Proceedings of the 39th International Colloquium on Automata, Languages and Programming (ICALP 2012), Lecture Notes in Computer Science 7391, pp. 522-532
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5855
abstract: The quantum query complexity of Boolean matrix multiplication is typically studied as a function of the matrix dimension, n, as well as the number of 1s in the output, \ell. We prove an upper bound of O (n\sqrt{\ell}) for all values of \ell. This is an improvement over previous algorithms for all values of \ell. On the other hand, we show that for any \eps < 1 and any \ell <= \eps n^2, there is an \Omega(n\sqrt{\ell}) lower bound for this problem, showing that our algorithm is essentially tight. We first reduce Boolean matrix multiplication to several instances of graph collision. We then provide an algorithm that takes advantage of the fact that the underlying graph in all of our instances is very dense to find all graph collisions efficiently.

id: 1112.5866
title: Structure of Fermionic Density Matrices: Complete N-representability Conditions
authors: David A. Mazziotti
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 263002 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5866
abstract: We present a constructive solution to the N-representability problem---a full characterization of the conditions for constraining the two-electron reduced density matrix (2-RDM) to represent an N-electron density matrix. Previously known conditions, while rigorous, were incomplete. Here we derive a hierarchy of constraints built upon (i) the bipolar theorem and (ii) tensor decompositions of model Hamiltonians. Existing conditions D, Q, G, T1, and T2, known classical conditions, and new conditions appear naturally. Subsets of the conditions are amenable to polynomial-time computations of strongly correlated systems.

id: 1112.5876
title: Bell inequalities from variable elimination methods
authors: Costantino Budroni, Adan Cabello
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 385304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5876
abstract: Tight Bell inequalities are facets of Pitowsky's correlation polytope and are usually obtained from its extreme points by solving the hull problem. Here we present an alternative method based on a combination of algebraic results on extensions of measures and variable elimination methods, e.g., the Fourier-Motzkin method. Our method is shown to overcome some of the computational difficulties associated with the hull problem in some non-trivial cases. Moreover, it provides an explanation for the arising of only a finite number of families of Bell inequalities in measurement scenarios where one experimenter can choose between an arbitrary number of different measurements.

id: 1112.5889
title: Pure Gaussian state generation via dissipation: A quantum stochastic differential equation approach
authors: Naoki Yamamoto
comments: 15 pages in the single column format, to appear in Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. A
journal: Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. A, 370, 5324/5337, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5889
abstract: Recently the complete characterization of a general Gaussian dissipative system having a unique pure steady state was obtained in [Koga and Yamamoto 2012, Phys. Rev. A 85, 022103]. This result provides a clear guideline for engineering an environment such that the dissipative system has a desired pure steady state such as a cluster state. In this paper, we describe the system in terms of a quantum stochastic differential equation (QSDE) so that the environment channels can be explicitly dealt with. Then a physical meaning of that characterization, which cannot be seen without the QSDE representation, is clarified; more specifically, the nullifier dynamics of any Gaussian system generating a unique pure steady state is passive. In addition, again based on the QSDE framework, we provide a general and practical method to implement a desired dissipative Gaussian system, which has a structure of quantum state transfer.

id: 1112.5903
title: Collision entropy and optimal uncertainty
authors: G. M. Bosyk, M. Portesi, A. Plastino
comments: The manuscript has been accepted for publication as a Regular Article in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85 (2012) 012108
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5903
abstract: We propose an alternative measure of quantum uncertainty for pairs of arbitrary observables in the 2-dimensional case, in terms of collision entropies. We derive the optimal lower bound for this entropic uncertainty relation, which results in an analytic function of the overlap of the corresponding eigenbases. Besides, we obtain the minimum uncertainty states. We compare our relation with other formulations of the uncertainty principle.

id: 1112.5962
title: Probabilistic whereabouts of the "quantum potential"
authors: P. Garbaczewski
comments: Presented at the Heinz von Foerster Congress on "Self-Organization and Emergence", Univ. Wien, Nov. 11-13, 2011
journal: J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 361, (2012), 012012 (1-15)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5962
abstract: We review major appearances of the functional expression $\pm \Delta \rho ^{1/2}/ \rho ^{1/2}$ in the theory of diffusion-type processes and in quantum mechanically supported dynamical scenarios. Attention is paid to various manifestations of "pressure" terms and their meaning(s) in-there.

id: 1112.5967
title: Comment on "Improved bounds on entropic uncertainty relations"
authors: G. M. Bosyk, M. Portesi, A. Plastino, S. Zozor
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84 (2011) 056101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5967
abstract: We provide an analytical proof of the entropic uncertainty relations presented by de Vicente and Sanchez-Ruiz in [Phys. Rev. A 77, 042110 (2008)] and also show that the replacement of Eq. (27) by Eq. (29) in that reference introduces solutions that do not take fully into account the contraints of the problem, which in turn leads to some mistakes in their treatment.

id: 1112.6002
title: Tunable linear and quadratic optomechanical coupling for a tilted membrane within an optical cavity: theory and experiment
authors: M. Karuza, M. Galassi, C. Biancofiore, C. Molinelli, R. Natali, P. Tombesi, G. Di Giuseppe, D. Vitali
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Opt. vol. 15, 025704 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6002
abstract: We present an experimental study of an optomechanical system formed by a vibrating thin semi-transparent membrane within a high-finesse optical cavity. We show that the coupling between the optical cavity modes and the vibrational modes of the membrane can be tuned by varying the membrane position and orientation. In particular we demonstrate a large quadratic dispersive optomechanical coupling in correspondence with avoided crossings between optical cavity modes weakly coupled by scattering at the membrane surface. The experimental results are well explained by a first order perturbation treatment of the cavity eigenmodes.

id: 1112.6026
title: Quantum-mechanical effects in a linear time-dependent potential
authors: S. V. Mousavi
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 57, 3-7 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6026
abstract: The solution of the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation is discussed for a particle confined in half-space $x>0$ with a linear potential $V(x)=Kx$ in the following situations: (a) sudden removal of the wall and switching on the linear potential $V(x)=Kx$ at $x \leq 0$, (b) sudden removal of the wall and the potential and (c) sudden removal of the potential. A brief discussion of the quantum statistic is presented.

id: 1112.6027
title: Diffraction in time of a confined particle and its Bohmian paths
authors: S. V. Mousavi
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 035304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6027
abstract: Diffraction in time of a particle confined in a box which its walls are removed suddenly at $t=0$ is studied. The solution of the time-dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equation is discussed analytically and numerically for various initial wavefunctions. In each case Bohmian trajectories of the particles are computed and also the mean arrival time at a given location is studied as a function of the initial state.

id: 1112.6063
title: Collapse of the Hierarchy of Constant-Depth Exact Quantum Circuits
authors: Yasuhiro Takahashi, Seiichiro Tani
comments: 19 pages, 4 figures; v2: one theorem added, title changed, text substantially rewritten
journal: Proceedings of the 28th IEEE Conference on Computational Complexity (CCC 2013), pp.168-178, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6063
abstract: We study the quantum complexity class QNC^0_f of quantum operations implementable exactly by constant-depth polynomial-size quantum circuits with unbounded fan-out gates (called QNC^0_f circuits). Our main result is that the quantum OR operation is in QNC^0_f, which is an affirmative answer to the question of Hoyer and Spalek. In sharp contrast to the strict hierarchy of the classical complexity classes: NC^0 \subsetneq AC^0 \subsetneq TC^0, our result with Hoyer and Spalek's one implies the collapse of the hierarchy of the corresponding quantum ones: QNC^0_f = QAC^0_f = QTC^0_f. Then, we show that there exists a constant-depth subquadratic-size quantum circuit for the quantum threshold operation. This implies the size difference between the QNC^0_f and QTC^0_f circuits for implementing the same quantum operation. Lastly, we show that, if the quantum Fourier transform modulo a prime is in QNC^0_f, there exists a polynomial-time exact classical algorithm for a discrete logarithm problem using a QNC^0_f oracle. This implies that, under a plausible assumption, there exists a classically hard problem that is solvable exactly by a QNC^0_f circuit with gates for the quantum Fourier transform.

id: 1112.6112
title: Optical quantum memory for polarization qubits with V-type three-level atoms
authors: D. Viscor, A. Ferraro, Yu. Loiko, R. Corbal¨¢n, J. Mompart, V. Ahufinger
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 44 (2011) 195504
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6112
abstract: We investigate an optical quantum memory scheme with V-type three-level atoms based on the controlled reversible inhomogeneous broadening (CRIB) technique. We theoretically show the possibility to store and retrieve a weak light pulse interacting with the two optical transitions of the system. This scheme implements a quantum memory for a polarization qubit - a single photon in an arbitrary polarization state - without the need of two spatially separated two-level media, thus offering the advantage of experimental compactness overcoming the limitations due to mismatching and unequal efficiencies that can arise in spatially separated memories. The effects of a relative phase change between the atomic levels, as well as of phase noise due to, for example, the presence of spurious electric and magnetic fields are analyzed.

id: 1112.6119
title: The role of damping for the driven anharmonic quantum oscillator
authors: Lingzhen Guo, Michael Marthaler, Stephan Andr¨¦, Gerd Sch?n
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures; submitted to "Journal of Physics: Conference Series"
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 400, 042014(2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6119
abstract: For the model of a linearly driven quantum anharmonic oscillator, the role of damping is investigated. We compare the position of the stable points in phase space obtained from a classical analysis to the result of a quantum mechanical analysis. The solution of the full master equation shows that the stable points behave qualitatively similar to the classical solution but with small modifications. Both the quantum effects and additional effects of temperature can be described by renormalizing the damping.

id: 1112.6135
title: Photonic two-qubit parity gate with tiny cross-Kerr nonlinearity
authors: Xin-Wen Wang, Deng-Yu Zhang, Shi-Qing Tang, Li-Jun Xie, Zhi-Yong Wang, Le-Man Kuang
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures; some revisions have been made
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052326 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6135
abstract: The cross-Kerr nonlinearity (XKNL) effect can induce efficient photon interactions in principle with which photonic multiqubit gates can be performed using far fewer physical resources than linear optical schemes. Unfortunately, it is extremely challenging to generate giant cross-Kerr nonlinearities. In recent years, much effort has been made to perform multiqubit gates via weak XKNLs. However, the required nonlinearity strengths are still difficult to achieve in the experiment. We here propose an XKNL-based scheme for realizing a two-photon polarization-parity gate, a universal two-qubit gate, in which the required strength of the nonlinearity could be orders of magnitude weaker than those required for previous schemes. The scheme utilizes a ring cavity fed by a coherent state as a quantum information bus which interacts with a path mode of the two polarized photons (qubits). The XKNL effect makes the bus pick up a phase shift dependent on the photon number of the path mode. Even when the potential phase shifts are very small they can be effectively measured using photon-number resolving detectors, which accounts for the fact that our scheme can work in the regime of tiny XKNL. The measurement outcome reveals the parity (even parity or odd parity) of the two polarization qubits.

id: 1112.6139
title: Quantum Statistics and Thermodynamics in the Harmonic Approximation
authors: J. R. Armstrong, N. T. Zinner, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 021117 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6139
abstract: We describe a method to compute thermodynamic quantities in the harmonic approximation for identical bosons and fermions in an external confining field. We use the canonical partition function where only energies and their degeneracies enter. The number of states of given energy and symmetry is found by separating the center of mass motion, and counting the remaining states of given symmetry and excitation energy of the relative motion. The oscillator frequencies that enter the harmonic Hamiltonian can be derived from realistic model parameters and the method corresponds to an effective interaction approach based on harmonic interactions. To demonstrate the method, we apply it to systems in two dimensions. Numerical calculations are compared to a brute force method that is considerably more computationally intensive.

id: 1112.6171
title: Transverse Ising Chain under Periodic Instantaneous Quenches: Dynamical Many-Body Freezing and Emergence of Solitary Oscillation
authors: Sirshendu Bhattacharyya, Arnab Das, Subinay Dasgupta
comments: Published version (with minor changes and typo corrections)
journal: Phys. Rev. B Vol. 86 Pg. 054410 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6171
abstract: We study the real-time dynamics of a quantum Ising chain driven periodically by instantaneous quenches of the transverse field (the transverse field varying as rectangular wave symmetric about zero). Two interesting phenomena are reported and analyzed: (1) We observe dynamical many-body freezing or DMF (Phys. Rev. B, vol. 82, 172402, 2010), i.e. strongly non-monotonic freezing of the response (transverse magnetization) with respect to the driving parameters (pulse width and height) resulting from equivocal freezing behavior of all the many-body modes. The freezing occurs due to coherent suppression of dynamics of the many-body modes. For certain combination of the pulse height and period, maximal freezing (freezing peaks) are observed. For those parameter values, a massive collapse of the entire Floquet spectrum occurs. (2) Secondly, we observe emergence of a distinct solitary oscillation with a single frequency, which can be much lower than the driving frequency. This slow oscillation, involving many high-energy modes, dominates the response remarkably in the limit of long observation time. We identify this slow oscillation as the unique survivor of destructive quantum interference between the many-body modes. The oscillation is found to decay algebraically with time to a constant value. All the key features are demonstrated analytically with numerical evaluations for specific results.

id: 1112.6238
title: The classical-quantum boundary for correlations: discord and related measures
authors: Kavan Modi, Aharon Brodutch, Hugo Cable, Tomasz Paterek, Vlatko Vedral
comments: Close to the published version
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 84, 1655-1707 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6238
abstract: One of the best signatures of nonclassicality in a quantum system is the existence of correlations that have no classical counterpart. Different methods for quantifying the quantum and classical parts of correlations are amongst the more actively-studied topics of quantum information theory over the past decade. Entanglement is the most prominent of these correlations, but in many cases unentangled states exhibit nonclassical behavior too. Thus distinguishing quantum correlations other than entanglement provides a better division between the quantum and classical worlds, especially when considering mixed states. Here we review different notions of classical and quantum correlations quantified by quantum discord and other related measures. In the first half, we review the mathematical properties of the measures of quantum correlations, relate them to each other, and discuss the classical-quantum division that is common among them. In the second half, we show that the measures identify and quantify the deviation from classicality in various quantum-information-processing tasks, quantum thermodynamics, open-system dynamics, and many-body physics. We show that in many cases quantum correlations indicate an advantage of quantum methods over classical ones.

id: 1112.6271
title: Why Do We See a Classical World?
authors: Hartmann R?mer
comments: 19 pages, based on a talk given at the symposium in honour of Basil Hiley, Helsinki 11.-14. 11. 2010 New version with minor additions and improvements at various places, expansion of Section 5, additional and updated references
journal: Travaux Mathematiques XX, (2012), 167-186 (Special issue based on the commemorative colloquium dedicated to Nicolai Neumaier, Mulhouse, France June 2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6271
abstract: From a general abstract system theoretical perspective, a quantum-like system description in the spirit of a generalized Quantum Theory may appear to be simpler and more natural than a classically inspired description. We investigate the reasons why we nevertheless conceive ourselves embedded into a classically structured world. Categorial, physical and pragmatic reasons are proposed as explanations.

id: 1112.6277
title: Phase noise measurement of external cavity diode lasers and implications for optomechanical sideband cooling of GHz mechanical modes
authors: Tobias J. Kippenberg, Albert Schliesser, Michael Gorodetsky
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6277
abstract: Cavity opto-mechanical cooling via radiation pressure dynamical backaction enables ground state cooling of mechanical oscillators, provided the laser exhibits sufficiently low phase noise. Here, we investigate and measure the excess phase noise of widely tunable external cavity diode lasers, which have been used in a range of recent nano-optomechanical experiments, including ground-state cooling. We report significant excess frequency noise, with peak values on the order of 10^7 rad^2 Hz near 3.5 GHz, attributed to the diode lasers' relaxation oscillations. The measurements reveal that even at GHz frequencies diode lasers do not exhibit quantum limited performance. The associated excess backaction can preclude ground-state cooling even in state-of-the-art nano-optomechanical systems.

id: 1112.6280
title: Chain representations of open quantum systems and their numerical simulation with time-adapative density matrix renormalisation group methods
authors: Alex W. Chin, Susana F. Huelga, Martin B. Plenio
comments: Book chapter
journal: In Uli Wurfel, Michael Thorwart, Eicke R. Weber and Professor Chennupati Jagadish, editors: Semiconductors and Semimetals Vol85, Vol 85, Burlington: Academic Press, 2011, pp. 115-144
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6280
abstract: This chapter gives a self-contained review of the how standard open quantum system Hamiltonians can be mapped analytically onto representations in which the environments appear as one dimensional harmonic chains with nearest neighbour interactions. This mapping, carried out rigorously using orthogonal polynomial theory, then allows the full evolution of the system and environment to be simulated using time-adaptive density matrix renormalisation group methods. With the combination of these two techniques, numerically-exact results can be obtained for dissipative quantum systems in the presence of arbitrarily complex environmental spectral functions, and the correlations and processes in the environment which drive the effectively irreversible dynamics of the reduced state of the quantum system can be explored in real time. The chain representation also reveals a number of universal features of harmonic environments characterised by a spectral density which are discussed here.

id: 1112.6313
title: Energetically constrained co-tunneling of cold atoms
authors: Andrey R. Kolovsky, Julia Link, Sandro Wimberger
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: New J. of Phys. 14, 075002 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6313
abstract: We study under-barrier tunneling for a pair of energetically bound bosonic atoms in an optical lattice with a barrier. We identify conditions under which this exotic molecule tunnels as a point particle with the coordinate given by the bound pair center of mass and discuss the atomic co-tunneling beyond this regime. In particular, we quantitatively analyze resonantly enhanced co-tunneling, where two interacting atoms penetrate the barrier with higher probability than a single atom.

id: 1112.6329
title: Quantum plasmonics with a metal nanoparticle array
authors: Changhyoup Lee, Mark Tame, James Lim, Jinhyoung Lee
comments: 18 pages, 10 figures, RevTeX4
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 063823 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6329
abstract: We investigate an array of metal nanoparticles as a channel for nanophotonic quantum communication and the generation of quantum plasmonic interference. We consider the transfer of quantum states, including single-qubits as plasmonic wavepackets, and highlight the necessity of a quantum mechanical description by comparing the predictions of quantum theory with those of classical electromagnetic theory. The effects of loss in the metal are included, thus putting our investigation into a practical setting and enabling the quantification of the performance of realistic nanoparticle arrays as plasmonic quantum channels. We explore the interference of single plasmons, finding nonlinear absorption effects associated with the quantum properties of the plasmon excitations. This work highlights the benefits and drawbacks of using nanophotonic periodic systems for quantum plasmonic applications, such as quantum communication, and the generation of quantum interference.

id: 1112.6343
title: Quantum Chi-Squared and Goodness of Fit Testing
authors: K. Temme, F. Verstraete
comments: 22 Pages, with a new section on parameter estimation
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6343
abstract: The density matrix in quantum mechanics parameterizes the statistical properties of the system under observation, just like a classical probability distribution does for classical systems. The expectation value of observables cannot be measured directly, it can only be approximated by applying classical statistical methods to the frequencies by which certain measurement outcomes (clicks) are obtained. In this paper, we make a detailed study of the statistical fluctuations obtained during an experiment in which a hypothesis is tested, i.e. the hypothesis that a certain setup produces a given quantum state. Although the classical and quantum problem are very much related to each other, the quantum problem is much richer due to the additional optimization over the measurement basis. Just as in the case of classical hypothesis testing, the confidence in quantum hypothesis testing scales exponentially in the number of copies. In this paper, we will argue 1) that the physically relevant data of quantum experiments is only contained in the frequencies of the measurement outcomes, and that the statistical fluctuations of the experiment are essential, so that the correct formulation of the conclusions of a quantum experiment should be given in terms of hypothesis tests, 2) that the (classical) $\chi^2$ test for distinguishing two quantum states gives rise to the quantum $\chi^2$ divergence when optimized over the measurement basis, 3) present a max-min characterization for the optimal measurement basis for quantum goodness of fit testing, find the quantum measurement which leads both to the maximal Pitman and Bahadur efficiency, and determine the associated divergence rates.

id: 1112.6350
title: Double dark state cooling in a three level system
authors: Javier Cerrillo, Alex Retzker, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6350
abstract: A detailed study of a robust and fast laser cooling scheme on a three level system is presented. A special laser configuration, applicable to trapped ions, atoms or cantilevers, designs a quantum interference that eliminates the blue sideband in addition to the carrier transition, thus excluding any heating process involving up to one-phonon processes. As a consequence cooling achieves vanishing phonon occupation up to first order in the Lamb-Dicke parameter expansion. Underlying this scheme is a combined action of two cooling schemes which makes the proposal very stable under fluctuations of the physical parameters such as laser intensity or detuning, making it a viable candidate for experimental implementation. Furthermore, it is considerably faster than existing ground state cooling schemes, overcoming one of the limitations of current quantum information processing implementations. Its suitability as a cooling scheme for several ions in a trap or for a cloud of atoms in a dipole trap is shown.

id: 1112.6356
title: Position-momentum uncertainty relations based on moments of arbitrary order
authors: Steeve Zozor, Mariela Portesi, Pablo Sanchez-Moreno, Jesus S. Dehesa
comments: 31 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83 (2011) 052107
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6356
abstract: The position-momentum uncertainty-like inequality based on moments of arbitrary order for d-dimensional quantum systems, which is a generalization of the celebrated Heisenberg formulation of the uncertainty principle, is improved here by use of the Renyi-entropy-based uncertainty relation. The accuracy of the resulting lower bound is physico-computationally analyzed for the two main prototypes in d-dimensional physics: the hydrogenic and oscillator-like systems.

id: 1112.6370
title: Unified view of correlations using the square norm distance
authors: Bruno Bellomo, Gian Luca Giorgi, Fernando Galve, Rosario Lo Franco, Giuseppe Compagno, Roberta Zambrini
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures (to appear in Phys. Rev. A)
journal: Physical Review A 85, 032104 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6370
abstract: The distance between a quantum state and its closest state not having a certain property has been used to quantify the amount of correlations corresponding to that property. This approach allows a unified view of the various kinds of correlations present in a quantum system. In particular, using relative entropy as a distance measure, total correlations can be meaningfully separated in a quantum and a classical part thanks to an additive relation involving only distances between states. Here, we investigate a unified view of correlations using as distance measure the square norm, already used to define the so-called geometric quantum discord. We thus consider geometric quantifiers also for total and classical correlations finding, for a quite general class of bipartite states, their explicit expressions. We analyze the relationship among geometric total, quantum and classical correlations and we find that they do not satisfy anymore a closed additivity relation.

id: 1112.0013
title: Relaxation and Pre-thermalization in an Isolated Quantum System
authors: Michael Gring, Maximilian Kuhnert, Tim Langen, Takuya Kitagawa, Bernhard Rauer, Matthias Schreitl, Igor Mazets, David A. Smith, Eugene Demler, J?rg Schmiedmayer
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Science 2012: Vol. 337 no. 6100 pp. 1318-1322
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0013
abstract: Understanding relaxation processes is an important unsolved problem in many areas of physics. A key challenge in studying such non-equilibrium dynamics is the scarcity of experimental tools for characterizing their complex transient states. We employ measurements of full quantum mechanical probability distributions of matter-wave interference to study the relaxation dynamics of a coherently split one-dimensional Bose gas and obtain unprecedented information about the dynamical states of the system. Following an initial rapid evolution, the full distributions reveal the approach towards a thermal-like steady state characterized by an effective temperature that is independent from the initial equilibrium temperature of the system before the splitting process. We conjecture that this state can be described through a generalized Gibbs ensemble and associate it with pre-thermalization.

id: 1112.0079
title: Scalar Casimir Energies of Tetrahedra
authors: E. K. Abalo, K. A. Milton, L. Kaplan
comments: Talk given at QFEXT 11
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0079
abstract: New results for scalar Casimir self-energies arising from interior modes are presented for the three integrable tetrahedral cavities. Since the eigenmodes are all known, the energies can be directly evaluated by mode summation, with a point-splitting regulator, which amounts to evaluation of the cylinder kernel. The correct Weyl divergences, depending on the volume, surface area, and the corners, are obtained, which is strong evidence that the counting of modes is correct. Because there is no curvature, the finite part of the quantum energy may be unambiguously extracted. Dirichlet and Neumann boundary conditions are considered and systematic behavior of the energy in terms of geometric invariants is explored.

id: 1112.0083
title: Temperature and Voltage Probes Far from Equilibrium
authors: Ph. A. Jacquet, C.-A. Pillet
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85 125120 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0083
abstract: We consider an open system of non-interacting electrons consisting of a small sample connected to several reservoirs and temperature or voltage probes. We study the non-linear system of equations that determines the probe parameters. We show that it has a unique solution, which can be computed with a fast converging iterative algorithm. We illustrate our method with two well-known models: the three-terminal system and the open Aharovov-Bohm interferometer.

id: 1112.0147
title: Q-Adapted Quantum Stochastic Integrals and Differentials in Fock Scale
authors: Viacheslav P. Belavkin, Matthew F. Brown
comments: A similar version is due to appear in the proceedings of the 13th workshop: non-commutative harmonic analysis. 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0147
abstract: In this paper we first introduce the Fock-Guichardet formalism for the quantum stochastic integration, then the four fundamental processes of the dynamics are introduced in the canonical basis as the operator-valued measures of the QS integration over a space-time. Then rigorous analysis of the QS integrals is carried out, and continuity of the QS derivative is proved. Finally, Q-adapted dynamics is discussed, including Bosonic Q=1, Fermionic Q=-1, and monotone Q=0 quantum dynamics. These may be of particular interest to quantum field theory, quantum open systems, and quantum theory of stochastic processes.

id: 1112.0159
title: Multiple Q-Adapted Integrals and Ito Formula of Noncommutative Stochastic Calculus in Fock Space
authors: Viacheslav P. Belavkin, Matthew F. Brown
comments: Due to appear in communications on stochastic analysis journal (KRP volume). 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0159
abstract: We study the continuity property of multiple Q-adapted quantum stochastic integrals with respect to noncommuting integrands given by the non-adapted multiple integral kernels in Fock scale. The noncommutative algebra of relatively (exponentially) bounded nonadapted quantum stochastic processes is studied in the kernel form as introduced by Belavkin in 1991. The differential Q-adapted formula generalizing Ito product formula for adapted integrals is presented in both strong and weak sense as a particular case of the quantum stochastic nonadapted Ito formula.

id: 1112.0225
title: Gravity vs. Quantum theory: Is electron really pointlike?
authors: Alexander Burinskii
comments: 15 pages,6 figures, proceedings of the conference QTS7, v.2 reference corrected
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 343: 012019, 2012
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0225
abstract: The observable gravitational and electromagnetic parameters of an electron: mass $m$, spin $J=\hbar/2$, charge $e$ and magnetic moment $ea = e\hbar /(2m)$ indicate unambiguously that the electron should had the Kerr-Newman background geometry -- exact solution of the Einstein-Maxwell gravity for a charged and rotating black hole. Contrary to the widespread opinion that gravity plays essential role only on the Planck scales, the Kerr-Newman gravity displays a new dimensional parameter $a =\hbar/(2m),$ which for parameters of an electron corresponds to the Compton wavelength and turns out to be very far from the Planck scale. Extremely large spin of the electron with respect to its mass produces the Kerr geometry without horizon, which displays very essential topological changes at the Compton distance resulting in a two-fold structure of the electron background. The corresponding gravitational and electromagnetic fields of the electron are concentrated near the Kerr ring, forming a sort of a closed string, structure of which is close to the described by Sen heterotic string. The indicated by Gravity stringlike structure of the electron contradicts to the statements of Quantum theory that electron is pointlike and structureless. However, it confirms the peculiar role of the Compton zone of the "dressed" electron and matches with the known limit of the localization of the Dirac electron. We discuss the relation of the Kerr string with the low energy string theory and with the Dirac theory of electron and suggest that the predicted by the Kerr-Newman gravity closed string in the core of the electron, should be experimentally observable by the novel regime of the high energy scattering -- the Deeply Virtual (or "nonforward")Compton Scattering".

id: 1112.0258
title: Measuring nonadiabaticity of molecular quantum dynamics with quantum fidelity and with its efficient semiclassical approximation
authors: Tomas Zimmermann, Jiri Vanicek
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, submitted to J. Chem. Phys
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 136, 094106 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0258
abstract: We propose to measure nonadiabaticity of molecular quantum dynamics rigorously with the quantum fidelity between the Born-Oppenheimer and fully nonadiabatic dynamics. It is shown that this measure of nonadiabaticity applies in situations where other criteria, such as the energy gap criterion or the extent of population transfer, fail. We further propose to estimate this quantum fidelity efficiently with a generalization of the dephasing representation to multiple surfaces. Two variants of the multiple-surface dephasing representation (MSDR) are introduced, in which the nuclei are propagated either with the fewest-switches surface hopping (FSSH) or with the locally mean field dynamics (LMFD). The LMFD can be interpreted as the Ehrenfest dynamics of an ensemble of nuclear trajectories, and has been used previously in the nonadiabatic semiclassical initial value representation. In addition to propagating an ensemble of classical trajectories, the MSDR requires evaluating nonadiabatic couplings and solving the Schr\"{o}dinger (or more generally, the quantum Liouville-von Neumann) equation for a single discrete degree of freedom. The MSDR can be also used to measure the importance of other terms present in the molecular Hamiltonian, such as diabatic couplings, spin-orbit couplings, or couplings to external fields, and to evaluate the accuracy of quantum dynamics with an approximate nonadiabatic Hamiltonian. The method is tested on three model problems introduced by Tully, on a two-surface model of dissociation of NaI, and a three-surface model including spin-orbit interactions. An example is presented that demonstrates the importance of often-neglected second-order nonadiabatic couplings.

id: 1112.0334
title: Quantised supercurrent decay in an annular Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: Stuart Moulder, Scott Beattie, Robert P. Smith, Naaman Tammuz, Zoran Hadzibabic
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures; expanded version, including numerical simulations
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 013629 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0334
abstract: We study the metastability and decay of multiply-charged superflow in a ring-shaped atomic Bose-Einstein condensate. Supercurrent corresponding to a giant vortex with topological charge up to q=10 is phase-imprinted optically and detected both interferometrically and kinematically. We observe q=3 superflow persisting for up to a minute and clearly resolve a cascade of quantised steps in its decay. These stochastic decay events, associated with vortex-induced $2 \pi$ phase slips, correspond to collective jumps of atoms between discrete q values. We demonstrate the ability to detect quantised rotational states with > 99 % fidelity, which allows a detailed quantitative study of time-resolved phase-slip dynamics. We find that the supercurrent decays rapidly if the superflow speed exceeds a critical velocity in good agreement with numerical simulations, and we also observe rare stochastic phase slips for superflow speeds below the critical velocity.

id: 1112.0361
title: Quantum discord in a spin system with symmetry breaking
authors: Bruno Tomasello, Davide Rossini, Alioscia Hamma, Luigi Amico
comments: 9 pages, 9 figure, Contribution to the Festschrift volume in honour of Vladimir Korepin
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 26, 1243002 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0361
abstract: We analyze the quantum discord Q throughout the low-temperature phase diagram of the quantum XY model in transverse field. We first focus on the T=0 order-disorder quantum phase transition both in the symmetric ground state and in the symmetry broken one. Besides it, we highlight how Q displays clear anomalies also at a non critical value of the control parameter inside the ordered phase, where the ground state is completely factorized. We evidence how the phenomenon is in fact of collective nature and displays universal features. We also study Q at finite temperature. We show that, close to the quantum phase transition, Q exhibits quantum-classical crossover of the system with universal scaling behavior. We evidence a non trivial pattern of thermal correlations resulting from the factorization phenomenon.

id: 1112.0366
title: Laser spectroscopy and cooling of Yb+ ions on a deep-UV transition
authors: Hendrik M. Meyer, Matthias Steiner, Lothar Ratschbacher, Christoph Zipkes, Michael K?hl
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012502 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0366
abstract: We perform laser spectroscopy of Yb+ ions on the 4f14 6s 2S_{1/2} - 4f13 5d 6s 3D[3/2]_{1/2} transition at 297 nm. The frequency measurements for 170Yb+, 172Yb+, 174Yb+, and 176Yb+ reveal the specific mass shift as well as the field shifts. In addition, we demonstrate laser cooling of Yb+ ions using this transition and show that light at 297 nm can be used as the second step in the photoionization of neutral Yb atoms.

id: 1112.0373
title: Topological Quantum Field Theory via Chren-Simons Theory, part 1
authors: Yifan Zhang, Ke Wu
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0373
abstract: To understand what does Chern-Simons with compact Lie group(does not like Dijkgraaf-Witten model with finite group in 3d) attach to a point, we first give a construction of Topological Quantum Field Theory(TQFT) via Chern-Simons theory in this paper. We discuss the Topological Quantum Field Theory and Chern-Simons theory via Category, then interpret the cobordism as cospan and field of space-time as span, which ultimately deduce the construction of TQFT.

id: 1112.0392
title: Modified Tucker Decomposition for Tensor Network and Fast Linearized Tensor Renormalization Group Algorithm for Two-Dimensional Quantum Spin Lattice Systems
authors: Shi-Ju Ran, Wei Li, Gang Su
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0392
abstract: We propose a novel algorithm with a modified Tucker decomposition for tensor network that allows for efficiently and precisely calculating the ground state and thermodynamic properties of two-dimensional (2D) quantum spin lattice systems, and is coined as the fast linearized tensor renormalization group (fLTRG). Its amazing efficiency and precision are examined by studying the spin-1/2 anisotropic Heisenberg antiferromagnet on a honeycomb lattice, and the results are found to be fairly in agreement with the quantum Monte Carlo calculations. It is also successfully applied to tackle a quasi-2D spin-1/2 frustrated bilayer honeycomb Heisenberg model, where a quantum phase transition from an ordered antiferromagnetic state to a gapless quantum spin liquid phase is found. The thermodynamic behaviors of this frustrated spin system are also explored. The present fLTRG algorithm could be readily extended to other quantum lattice systems.

id: 1112.0427
title: A Generalized Kahn Principle for Abstract Asynchronous Networks
authors: Samson Abramsky
comments: 25 pages. Published in the Proceedings of the Symposium on Mathematical Foundations of Programming Language Semantics, Springer Lecture Notes in Computer Science vol. 442, pp. 1--21
journal: 
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0427
abstract: Our general motivation is to answer the question: "What is a model of concurrent computation?". As a preliminary exercise, we study dataflow networks. We develop a very general notion of model for asynchronous networks. The "Kahn Principle", which states that a network built from functional nodes is the least fixpoint of a system of equations associated with the network, has become a benchmark for the formal study of dataflow networks. We formulate a generalized version of the Kahn Principle, which applies to a large class of non-deterministic systems, in the setting of abstract asynchronous networks; and prove that the Kahn Principle holds under certain natural assumptions on the model. We also show that a class of models, which represent networks that compute over arbitrary event structures, generalizing dataflow networks which compute over streams, satisfy these assumptions.

id: 1112.0469
title: Energy-momentum tensors with worldline numerics
authors: Marco Sch?fer, Idrish Huet, Holger Gies
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, Contribution to QFEXT11
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0469
abstract: We apply the worldline formalism and its numerical Monte-Carlo approach to computations of fluctuation induced energy-momentum tensors. For the case of a fluctuating Dirichlet scalar, we derive explicit worldline expressions for the components of the canonical energy-momentum tensor that are straightforwardly accessible to partly analytical and generally numerical evaluation. We present several simple proof-of-principle examples, demonstrating that efficient numerical evaluation is possible at low cost. Our methods can be applied to an investigation of positive-energy conditions.

id: 1112.0554
title: Dipole Interaction Mediated Laser Cooling of Polar Molecules to Ultra-cold Temperatures
authors: Sebastian D. Huber, Hans Peter B¨¹chler
comments: 4+ pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett, 108 193006 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0554
abstract: We present a method to design a finite decay rate for excited rotational states in polar molecules. The setup is based on a hybrid system of polar molecules with atoms driven into a Rydberg state. The atoms and molecules are coupled via the strong dipolar exchange interaction between two rotation levels of the polar molecule and two Rydberg states. Such a controllable decay rate opens the way to optically pump the hyperfine levels of polar molecules and it enables the application of conventional laser cooling techniques for cooling polar molecules into quantum degeneracy.

id: 1112.0564
title: Linear Nearest Neighbor Synthesis of Reversible Circuits by Graph Partitioning
authors: Amlan Chakrabarti, Susmita Sur-Kolay, Ayan Chaudhury
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0564
abstract: Linear Nearest Neighbor (LNN) synthesis in reversible circuits has emerged as an important issue in terms of technological implementation for quantum computation. The objective is to obtain a LNN architecture with minimum gate cost. As achieving optimal synthesis is a hard problem, heuristic methods have been proposed in recent literature. In this work we present a graph partitioning based approach for LNN synthesis with reduction in circuit cost. In particular, the number of SWAP gates required to convert a given gate-level quantum circuit to its equivalent LNN configuration is minimized. Our algorithm determines the reordering of indices of the qubit line(s) for both single control and multiple controlled gates. Experimental results for placing the target qubits of Multiple Controlled Toffoli (MCT) library of benchmark circuits show a significant reduction in gate count and quantum gate cost compared to those of related research works.

id: 1112.0617
title: Quantum social networks
authors: Adan Cabello, Lars Eirik Danielsen, Antonio J. Lopez-Tarrida, Jose R. Portillo
comments: REVTeX4, 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 285101
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0617
abstract: We introduce a physical approach to social networks (SNs) in which each actor is characterized by a yes-no test on a physical system. This allows us to consider SNs beyond those originated by interactions based on pre-existing properties, as in a classical SN (CSN). As an example of SNs beyond CSNs, we introduce quantum SNs (QSNs) in which actor is characterized by a test of whether or not the system is in a quantum state. We show that QSNs outperform CSNs for a certain task and some graphs. We identify the simplest of these graphs and show that graphs in which QSNs outperform CSNs are increasingly frequent as the number of vertices increases. We also discuss more general SNs and identify the simplest graphs in which QSNs cannot be outperformed.

id: 1112.0624
title: Fluorescence photon measurements from single quantum dots on an optical nanofiber
authors: Ramachandrarao Yalla, K. P. Nayak, K. Hakuta
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0624
abstract: We experimentally investigate the fluorescence photon emission characteristics for single q-dots by using optical nanofibers. We demonstrate that single q-dots can be deposited along an optical nanofiber systematically and reproducibly with a precision of 5 {\mu}m. For single q-dots on an optical nanofiber, we measure the fluorescence photon numbers coupled into the nanofiber and the normalized photon correlations, by varying the excitation laser intensity. We estimate the fluorescence photon coupling efficiency into the nanofiber guided modes to be higher than 9.4\pm3%.

id: 1112.0645
title: Probing the quantum behaviors of a nanomechanical resonator coupled to a double quantum dot
authors: Zeng-Zhao Li, Shi-Hua Ouyang, Chi-Hang Lam, J. Q. You
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 235420 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0645
abstract: We propose a current correlation spectrum approach to probe the quantum behaviors of a nanome-chanical resonator (NAMR). The NAMR is coupled to a double quantum dot (DQD), which acts as a quantum transducer and is further coupled to a quantum-point contact (QPC). By measuring the current correlation spectrum of the QPC, shifts in the DQD energy levels, which depend on the phonon occupation in the NAMR, are determined. Quantum behaviors of the NAMR could, thus, be observed. In particular, the cooling of the NAMR into the quantum regime could be examined. In addition, the effects of the coupling strength between the DQD and the NAMR on these energy shifts are studied. We also investigate the impacts on the current correlation spectrum of the QPC due to the backaction from the charge detector on the DQD.

id: 1112.0667
title: Spectroscopy of composite solid-state spin environments for improved metrology with spin ensembles
authors: N. Bar-Gill, L. M. Pham, C. Belthangady, D. Le Sage, P. Cappellaro, J. R. Maze, M. D. Lukin, A. Yacoby, R. Walsworth
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0667
abstract: For precision coherent measurements with ensembles of quantum spins the relevant Figure-of-Merit (FOM) is the product of polarized spin density and coherence lifetime, which is generally limited by the dynamics of the spin environment. Here, we apply a coherent spectroscopic technique to characterize the dynamics of the composite solid-state spin environment of Nitrogen-Vacancy (NV) centers in room temperature diamond. For samples of very different NV densities and impurity spin concentrations, we show that NV FOM values can be almost an order of magnitude larger than previously achieved in other room-temperature solid-state spin systems, and within an order of magnitude of the state-of-the-art atomic system. We also identify a new mechanism for suppression of electronic spin bath dynamics in the presence of a nuclear spin bath of sufficient concentration. This suppression could inform efforts to further increase the FOM for solid-state spin ensemble metrology and collective quantum information processing.

id: 1112.0713
title: Quantum Strategies Win in a Defector-Dominated Population
authors: Qiang Li, Azhar Iqbal, Minyou Chen, Derek Abbott
comments: 8 pages, 7figures
journal: Physica A, Volume 391, Issue 11, pp. 3316-3322, 2012
subjects: Computer Science and Game Theory (cs.GT); Adaptation and Self-Organizing Systems (nlin.AO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0713
abstract: Quantum strategies are introduced into evolutionary games. The agents using quantum strategies are regarded as invaders whose fraction generally is 1% of a population in contrast to the 50% defectors. In this paper, the evolution of strategies on networks is investigated in a defector-dominated population, when three networks (Regular Lattice, Newman-Watts small world network, scale-free network) are constructed and three games (Prisoners' Dilemma, Snowdrift, Stag-Hunt) are employed. As far as these three games are concerned, the results show that quantum strategies can always invade the population successfully. Comparing the three networks, we find that the regular lattice is most easily invaded by agents that adopt quantum strategies. However, for a scale-free network it can be invaded by agents adopting quantum strategies only if a hub is occupied by an agent with a quantum strategy or if the fraction of agents with quantum strategies in the population is significant.

id: 1112.0740
title: Thermal Pure Quantum States at Finite Temperature
authors: Sho Sugiura, Akira Shimizu
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, A shortened version will appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 108, 240401 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0740
abstract: An equilibrium state can be represented by a pure quantum state, which we call a thermal pure quantum (TPQ) state. We propose a new TPQ state and a simple method of obtaining it. A single realization of the TPQ state suffices for calculating all statistical-mechanical properties, including correlation functions and genuine thermodynamic variables, of a quantum system at finite temperature.

id: 1112.0766
title: Current reversals in a rocking ratchet: the frequency domain
authors: A. Wickenbrock, D. Cubero, N. A. Abdul Wahab, P. Phoonthong, F. Renzoni
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. E 84, 021127 (2011)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0766
abstract: Motivated by recent work [D. Cubero et al., Phys. Rev. E 82, 041116 (2010)], we examine the mechanisms which determine current reversals in rocking ratchets as observed by varying the frequency of the drive. We found that a class of these current reversals in the frequency domain are precisely determined by dissipation-induced symmetry breaking. Our experimental and theoretical work thus extends and generalizes the previously identified relationship between dynamical and symmetry-breaking mechanisms in the generation of current reversals.

id: 1112.0849
title: Quantum Rabi model for N-state atoms
authors: Victor V. Albert
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures + supplement (2 pages); to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 180401 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0849
abstract: A tractable N-state Rabi Hamiltonian is introduced by extending the parity symmetry of the two-state model. The single-mode case provides a few-parameter description of a novel class of periodic systems, predicting that the ground state of certain four-state atom-cavity systems will undergo parity change at strong coupling. A group-theoretical treatment provides physical insight into dynamics and a modified rotating wave approximation obtains accurate analytical energies. The dissipative case can be applied to study excitation energy transfer in molecular rings or chains.

id: 1112.0851
title: Driven Ratchets for Cold Atoms
authors: F. Renzoni
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:cond-mat/0610262 and arXiv:cond-mat/0512550
journal: Advances In Atomic Molecular and Optical Physics 57, 1-32 (2009)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0851
abstract: Brownian motors, or ratchets, are devices which "rectify" Brownian motion, i.e. they can generate a current of particles out of unbiased fluctuations. The ratchet effect is a very general phenomenon which applies to a wide range of physical systems, and indeed ratchets have been realized with a variety of solid state devices, with optical trap setups as well as with synthetic molecules and granular gases. The present article reviews recent experimental realizations of ac driven ratchets with cold atoms in driven optical lattices. This is quite an unusual system for a Brownian motor as there is no a real thermal bath, and both the periodic potential for the atoms and the fluctuations are determined by laser fields. Such a system allowed us to realize experimentally rocking and gating ratchets, and to precisely investigate the relationship between symmetry and transport in these ratchets, both for the case of periodic and quasiperiodic driving.

id: 1112.0855
title: Two-Photon Correlation of Spontaneously Generated Broadband Four-Waves Mixing
authors: Rafi Vered, Michael Rosenbluh, Avi Pe'er
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, Accepted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0855
abstract: We measure the time-energy correlation of broadband, spontaneously generated four wave mixing (FWM), and demonstrate novel time-frequency coupling effects; specifically, we observe a power-dependent splitting of the correlation in both energy and time. By pumping a photonic crystal fiber with narrowband picosecond pulses we generate FWM in a unique regime, where broadband (>100nm), sidebands are generated that are incoherent, yet time-energy correlated. Although the observed time-energy correlation in FWM is conceptually similar to parametric down conversion, its unique dependence on pump intensity due to self and cross phase modulation effects, yields spectral and temporal structure in the correlations. While these effects are minute compared to the time duration and bandwidth of the FWM sidebands, they are well observed using sum frequency generation as a precise, ultrafast, wide-bandwidth correlation detector.

id: 1112.0898
title: Landauer's erasure principle in non-equilibrium systems
authors: O. J. E. Maroney
comments: 9 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0898
abstract: In two recent papers, Maroney and Turgut separately and independently show generalisations of Landauer's erasure principle to indeterministic logical operations, as well as to logical states with variable energies and entropies. Here we show that, although Turgut's generalisation seems more powerful, in that it implies but is not implied by Maroney's and that it does not rely upon initial probability distributions over logical states, it does not hold for non-equilibrium states, while Maroney's generalisation holds even in non-equilibrium. While a generalisation of Turgut's inequality to non-equilibrium seems possible, it lacks the properties that makes the equilibrium inequality appealing. The non-equilibrium generalisation also no longer implies Maroney's inequality, which may still be derived independently. Furthermore, we show that Turgut's inequality can only give a necessary, but not sufficient, criteria for thermodynamic reversibility. Maroney's inequality gives the necessary and sufficient conditions.

id: 1112.0899
title: Creating atom-number states around tapered optical fibres by loading from an optical lattice
authors: T. Hennessy, Th. Busch
comments: 7 pages. 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053418 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0899
abstract: We describe theoretically a setup in which a tapered optical nanofibre is introduced into an optical lattice potential for cold atoms. Firstly, we consider the disturbance to the geometry of the lattice potential due to scattering of the lattice lasers from the dielectric fibre surface and show that the resulting distortion to the lattice can be minimized by placing the fibre at an appropriate position in the lattice. We then calculate the modifications of the local potentials that are achievable by transmitting off-resonant light through the fibre. The availability of such a technique holds the potential to deterministically create and address small well-defined samples of atoms in the evanescent field of the tapered nanofibre.

id: 1112.0916
title: Towards density and phase space compression of molecular gases in magneto-electrostatic traps
authors: Yuval Shagam, Edvardas Narevicius
comments: 11 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053406 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0916
abstract: We introduce, analyze, and compare two novel methods of Single Photon Cooling that generically cool and compress molecular gases. The first method compresses the molecular gas density by three orders of magnitude and increases collision frequency in trapped samples. The second method compresses the phase space density of the gas by at least two orders of magnitude. Designed with combinations of electric and magnetic fields these methods cool the molecules from ~100mK to 1mK using a single irreversible state change. They can be regarded as generic cooling schemes applicable to any molecule with a magnetic and electric dipole moment. The high efficiency calculated, compared to schemes involving cycling, is a result of cooling the molecules with a single step.

id: 1112.0935
title: New SUSYQM coherent states for Poschl-Teller potentials: a detailed mathematical analysis
authors: H. Bergeron, P. Siegl, A. Youssef
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45(2012)244028
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0935
abstract: In a recent short note [Bergeron H, Gazeau J P, Siegl P and Youssef A 2010 EPL 92 60003], we have presented the nice properties of a new family of semi-classical states for P\"oschl-Teller potentials. These states are built from a supersymmetric quantum mechanics approach and the parameters of these "coherent" states are points in the classical phase space. In this article we develop all the mathematical aspects that have been left apart in the previous article (proof of the resolution of unity, detailed calculations of quantized version of classical observables and mathematical study of the resulting operators: problems of domains, self- adjointness or self-adjoint extensions). Some additional questions as asymptotic behavior are also studied. Moreover, the framework is extended to a larger class of P\"oschl-Teller potentials.

id: 1112.0994
title: Generalized uncertainty principles and localization in discrete space
authors: Martin Bojowald, Achim Kempf
comments: 26 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. D 86 (2012) 085017
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.0994
abstract: Generalized uncertainty principles are able to serve as useful descriptions of some of the phenomenology of quantum gravity effects, providing an intuitive grasp on non-trivial space-time structures such as a fundamental discreteness of space, a universal bandlimit or an irreducible extendedness of elementary particles. In this article, uncertainty relations are derived by a moment expansion of states for quantum systems with a discrete coordinate, and correspondingly a periodic momentum. Corrections to standard uncertainty relations are found, with some similarities but also key differences to what is often assumed in this context. The relations provided can be applied to discrete models of matter or space-time, including loop quantum cosmology.

id: 1112.1015
title: Quantum Mechanics of Hyperbolic Metamaterials: Modeling of Quantum Time and Everett's Universal Wavefunction
authors: Igor I. Smolyaninov
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures, this version is accepted for publication in Physica B: Condensed Matter
journal: Physica B 453, 131-135 (2014)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1015
abstract: Modern advances in transformation optics and electromagnetic metamaterials made possible experimental demonstrations of highly unusual curvilinear optical spaces, such as various geometries necessary for electromagnetic cloaking. Recently we demonstrated that mapping light intensity in a hyperbolic metamaterial may also model the flow of time in an effective (2+1) dimensional Minkowski spacetime. Curving such an effective spacetime creates experimental model of a toy big bang. Here we demonstrate that at low light levels this model may be used to emulate a fully covariant version of quantum mechanics in a (2+1) dimensional Minkowski spacetime. When quantum mechanical description is applied near the toy big bang, the Everett universal wave function formalism arises naturally, in which the wave function of the model universe appears to be a quantum superposition of mutually orthogonal parallel universe states.

id: 1112.1029
title: Polarons and dressed molecules near narrow Feshbach resonances
authors: P. Massignan
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures; minor modifications, published version
journal: EuroPhysics Letters 98, 10012 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1029
abstract: The properties of impurities immersed in a large Fermi sea are naturally described in terms of dressed quasiparticles: attractive and repulsive polarons, and dressed molecules. Motivated by recent experiments on narrow Feshbach resonances, we analyze here how the quasiparticle properties are affected by a non-zero resonance range. We find two interesting analytic results. For large range, the ground state energy close to resonance is shown to become perturbative in the inverse range. In the limit of broad resonance instead, we provide a new Tan's relation linking the impurity ground state energy $E_\downarrow$ to the number of atoms in its dressing cloud $\Delta N$. As a corollary, at unitarity one finds $\Delta N=-E_\downarrow/\epsilon_F $, with $\epsilon_F$ the Fermi energy of the bath.

id: 1112.1069
title: Universal crossovers between entanglement entropy and thermal entropy
authors: Brian Swingle, T. Senthil
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1069
abstract: We postulate the existence of universal crossover functions connecting the universal parts of the entanglement entropy to the low temperature thermal entropy in gapless quantum many-body systems. These scaling functions encode the intuition that the same low energy degrees of freedom which control low temperature thermal physics are also responsible for the long range entanglement in the quantum ground state. We demonstrate the correctness of the proposed scaling form and determine the scaling function for certain classes of gapless systems whose low energy physics is described by a conformal field theory. We also use our crossover formalism to argue that local systems which are "natural" can violate the boundary law at most logarithmically. In particular, we show that several non-Fermi liquid phases of matter have entanglement entropy that is at most of order $L^{d-1}\log{(L)} $ for a region of linear size $L$ thereby confirming various earlier suggestions in the literature. We also briefly apply our crossover formalism to the study of fluctuations in conserved quantities and discuss some subtleties that occur in systems that spontaneously break a continuous symmetry.

id: 1112.1160
title: Trapped modes in finite quantum waveguides
authors: Andrey L. Delitsyn, Binh-Thanh Nguyen, Denis S. Grebenkov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1160
abstract: The Laplace operator in infinite quantum waveguides (e.g., a bent strip or a twisted tube) often has a point-like eigenvalue below the essential spectrum that corresponds to a trapped eigenmode of finite L2 norm. We revisit this statement for resonators with long but finite branches that we call "finite waveguides". Although now there is no essential spectrum and all eigenfunctions have finite L2 norm, the trapping can be understood as an exponential decay of the eigenfunction inside the branches. We describe a general variational formalism for detecting trapped modes in such resonators. For finite waveguides with general cylindrical branches, we obtain a sufficient condition which determines the minimal length of branches for getting a trapped eigenmode. Varying the branch lengths may switch certain eigenmodes from non-trapped to trapped states. These concepts are illustrated for several typical waveguides (L-shape, bent strip, crossing of two stripes, etc.). We conclude that the well-established theory of trapping in infinite waveguides may be incomplete and require further development for being applied to microscopic quantum devices.

id: 1112.1204
title: Dynamic Kosterlitz-Thouless transition in 2D Bose mixtures of ultra-cold atoms
authors: L. Mathey, Kenneth J. G¨¹nter, Jean Dalibard, A. Polkovnikov
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1204
abstract: We propose a realistic experiment to demonstrate a dynamic Kosterlitz-Thouless transition in ultra-cold atomic gases in two dimensions. With a numerical implementation of the Truncated Wigner Approximation we simulate the time evolution of several correlation functions, which can be measured via matter wave interference. We demonstrate that the relaxational dynamics is well-described by a real-time renormalization group approach, and argue that these experiments can guide the development of a theoretical framework for the understanding of critical dynamics.

id: 1112.1218
title: Nonlinear Plasma Dipole Oscillations in Spheroidal Metal Nanoparticles
authors: P. M. Tomchuk, D. V. Butenko
comments: this http URL
journal: Ukrainian Journal of Physics, 2011, Vol. 56, no. 10, pp. 1110-1119
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1218
abstract: The theory of nonlinear dipole plasma oscillations generated in a metal spheroidal nanoparticle by a laser-wave field has been developed. Approximate (to within the cubic term) analytic expressions for the nanoparticle dipole moment have been obtained in the case where the laser field is oriented along the spheroid rotation axis.

id: 1112.1270
title: Generalized random matrix conjecture for chaotic systems
authors: P. Leboeuf, A. G. Monastra
comments: 14 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1270
abstract: The eigenvalues of quantum chaotic systems have been conjectured to follow, in the large energy limit, the statistical distribution of eigenvalues of random ensembles of matrices of size $N\rightarrow\infty$. Here we provide semiclassical arguments that extend the validity of this correspondence to finite energies. We conjecture that the spectrum of a generic fully chaotic system without time-reversal symmetry has, around some large but finite energy $E$, the same statistical properties as the Circular Unitary Ensemble of random matrices of dimension $N_{\rm eff} = \tH / \sqrt{24 d_1}$, where $\tH$ is Heisenberg time and $\sqrt{d_1}$ is a characteristic classical time, both evaluated at energy $E$. A corresponding conjecture is also made for chaotic maps.

id: 1112.1276
title: Rashba spin-orbit interaction in quantum ring with confining potential of finite depth
authors: V. V. Kudryashov
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, 2 tables. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0708.3904
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1276
abstract: We present the exact wave functions and energy levels for an electron in a two-dimensional quantum ring with confining potential of finite depth in the presence of the Rashba spin-orbit interaction.

id: 1112.1291
title: A single NV defect coupled to a nanomechanical oscillator
authors: Olivier Arcizet, Vincent Jacques, Alessandro Siria, Philippe Poncharal, Pascal Vincent, Signe Seidelin
comments: 
journal: Nature Physics 7 (2011) 879
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1291
abstract: A single Nitrogen Vacancy (NV) center hosted in a diamond nanocrystal is positioned at the extremity of a SiC nanowire. This novel hybrid system couples the degrees of freedom of two radically different systems, i.e. a nanomechanical oscillator and a single quantum object. The dynamics of the nano-resonator is probed through time resolved nanocrystal fluorescence and photon correlation measurements, conveying the influence of a mechanical degree of freedom given to a non-classical photon emitter. Moreover, by immersing the system in a strong magnetic field gradient, we induce a magnetic coupling between the nanomechanical oscillator and the NV electronic spin, providing nanomotion readout through a single electronic spin. Spin-dependent forces inherent to this coupling scheme are essential in a variety of active cooling and entanglement protocols used in atomic physics, and should now be within the reach of nanomechanical hybrid systems.

id: 1112.1298
title: Longitudinal polariton condensation and superradiant emission in semiconductor edge-emitting laser structures
authors: D. L. Boiko, P. P. Vasil'ev
comments: 23 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1298
abstract: We show that superradiant emission (SR) in semiconductor laser diode structures is governed by the master equation of the form of Ginzburg-Landau equation or Gross-Pitaevskii equation for a phase transition to coherent matter state. We conjectured condensation of one-dimensional longitudinal lower polaritons with effective mass of 10$^{-11}$ the mass of free electron. Two different regimes of SR emission and polariton condensation are predicted, one of which exhibits some characteristic features of the Dicke superradiance in atomic gases. The predictions of analytic model are confirmed by the results of numerical simulations based on Maxwell-Bloch equations, utilizing InGaN/GaN heterostructure quantum well as a model system.

id: 1112.1347
title: On the Necessity of Entanglement for the Explanation of Quantum Speedup
authors: Michael E. Cuffaro
comments: Many clarificatory changes, and improved argumentation. Comments and criticisms are still welcome
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1347
abstract: In this paper I argue that entanglement is a necessary component for any explanation of quantum speedup and I address some purported counter-examples that some claim show that the contrary is true. In particular, I address Biham et al.'s mixed-state version of the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm, and Knill & Laflamme's deterministic quantum computation with one qubit (DQC1) model of quantum computation. I argue that these examples do not demonstrate that entanglement is unnecessary for the explanation of quantum speedup, but that they rather illuminate and clarify the role that entanglement does play.

id: 1112.1395
title: Theory of Polar Corrections to Donor Binding
authors: G. D. Mahan, Kristian Berland
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 84, 235203 (2011)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1395
abstract: We calculate the optical phonon correction to the binding energy of electrons to donors in cubic materials. Previous theories calculated the Rydberg energy reduced by the effective mass and the static dielectric function. They omitted an important energy term from the long-range polarization of the ionized donor, which vanishes for the neutral donor. They also omitted the donor-phonon interaction. Including these terms yields a new formula for the donor binding energy.

id: 1112.1412
title: Renormalization group contraction of tensor networks in three dimensions
authors: A. Garcia-Saez, J. I. Latorre
comments: 5 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 085130 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1412
abstract: We present a new strategy for contracting tensor networks in arbitrary geometries. This method is designed to follow as strictly as possible the renormalization group philosophy, by first contracting tensors in an exact way and, then, performing a controlled truncation of the resulting tensor. We benchmark this approximation procedure in two dimensions against an exact contraction. We then apply the same idea to a three dimensional system. The underlying rational for emphasizing the exact coarse graining renormalization group step prior to truncation is related to monogamy of entanglement.

id: 1112.1557
title: Quantum cooling by unitary transformations
authors: Winny O'Kelly de Galway, Jan Naudts
comments: 18 pages -- Withdrawn because the new version of the paper is substantially different
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1557
abstract: We study the unitary time evolution of a simple quantum Hamiltonian describing a heat engine coupled to two heat baths. The engine is modeled as a three-level system. Each heat bath consists of a single harmonic oscillator. The engine is operated via time-dependent external fields. The S-matrix of the thermodynamic cycle is obtained in analytic form. We conjecture that the spectrum of this S-matrix contains a continuous part, and that this is a requirement for the operation as a heat engine. Energy currents flow in both directions through the engine. The balance of these currents determines whether the engine performs work or whether its operation requires the application of external forces.

id: 1112.1579
title: The entropy of dense non-commutative fermion gases
authors: Johannes N. Kriel, Frederik G. Scholtz
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1579
abstract: We investigate the properties of two- and three-dimensional non-commutative fermion gases with fixed total z-component of angular momentum, J_z, and at high density for the simplest form of non-commutativity involving constant spatial commutators. Analytic expressions for the entropy and pressure are found. The entropy exhibits non-extensive behaviour while the pressure reveals the presence of incompressibility in two, but not in three dimensions. Remarkably, for two-dimensional systems close to the incompressible density, the entropy is proportional to the square root of the system size, i.e., for such systems the number of microscopic degrees of freedom is determined by the circumference, rather than the area (size) of the system. The absence of incompressibility in three dimensions, and subsequently also the absence of a scaling law for the entropy analogous to the one found in two dimensions, is attributed to the form of the non-commutativity used here, the breaking of the rotational symmetry it implies and the subsequent constraint on J_z, rather than the angular momentum J. Restoring the rotational symmetry while constraining the total angular momentum J seems to be crucial for incompressibility in three dimensions. We briefly discuss ways in which this may be done and point out possible obstacles.

id: 1112.1665
title: Exciton coherence lifetimes from electronic structure
authors: John Parkhill, David Tempel, Alan Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1665
abstract: We model the coherent energy transfer of an electronic excitation within covalently linked aromatic homodimers from first-principles, to answer whether the usual models of the bath calculated via detailed electronic structure calculations can reproduce the key dynamics. For these systems the timescales of coherent transport are experimentally known from time-dependent polarization anisotropy measurements, and so we can directly assess the whether current techniques might be predictive for this phenomenon. Two choices of electronic basis states are investigated, and their relative merits discussed regarding the predictions of the perturbative model. The coupling of the electronic degrees of freedom to the nuclear degrees of freedom is calculated rather than assumed, and the fluorescence anisotropy decay is directly reproduced. Surprisingly we find that although TDDFT absolute energies are routinely in error by orders of magnitude more than the coupling energy, the coherent transport properties of these dimers can be semi-quantitatively reproduced from first-principles. The directions which must be pursued to yield predictive and reliable prediction of coherent transport are suggested.

id: 1112.1682
title: Entanglement Entropy of the Early Universe in Generalized Chaplygin Gas Model
authors: Pisin Chen, Yuezhen Niu
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1682
abstract: We provide an explicit calculation of the evolution of the cosmic entanglement entropy in the early universe before the matter dominant era. This is made possible by invoking the generalized Chaplygin gas (GCG) model, which has the advantage of preserving unitarity and providing a smooth transition between the inflation epoch and the radiation dominant era. The dynamics of the universe is described by the quantization in the minisuperspace of the GCG model, following the prescription proposed by Wheeler and DeWitt. Two sources of contribution to the cosmic entanglement entropy are considered: one from the homogeneous background where the observable and the unobservable regions of the universe are entangled and the other from the inhomogeneous cosmological perturbations where different modes are entangled. We find that the homogeneous contribution grows exponentially at the very beginning of the inflation, but decreases during the radiation dominant era. Conversely, that from the cosmological perturbation is found to decrease at first and then increase after reaching a minimum value. The net result is that the total entanglement entropy reaches a minimum at an early stage of the inflation and then increases throughout most of the inflation and the entire radiation dominant era.

id: 1112.1687
title: Non-asymptotic information theoretic bound for some multi-party scenarios
authors: Naresh Sharma, Naqueeb Ahmad Warsi
comments: This is the version that was published with a changed title in the Fiftieth Annual Allerton Conference on Communication, Control, and Computing, Oct 2012, Monticello, IL, USA
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1687
abstract: In the last few years, there has been a great interest in extending the information-theoretic scenario for the non-asymptotic or one-shot case, i.e., where the channel is used only once. We provide the one-shot rate region for the distributed source-coding (Slepian-Wolf) and the multiple-access channel. Our results are based on defining a novel one-shot typical set based on smooth entropies that yields the one-shot achievable rate regions while leveraging the results from the asymptotic analysis. Our results are asymptotically optimal, i.e., for the distributed source coding they yield the same rate region as the Slepian-Wolf in the limit of unlimited independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) copies. Similarly for the multiple-access channel the asymptotic analysis of our approach yields the rate region which is equal to the rate region of the memoryless multiple-access channel in the limit of large number of channel uses.

id: 1112.1804
title: Optical layout for a 10m Fabry-P¨¦rot Michelson interferometer with tunable stability
authors: Christian Gr?f, Stefan Hild, Harald L¨¹ck, Benno Willke, Kenneth A. Strain, Stefan Go?ler, Karsten Danzmann
comments: 
journal: Class. Quantum Grav. 29 (2012) 075003
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1804
abstract: The sensitivity of high-precision interferometric measurements can be limited by Brownian noise within dielectric mirror coatings. This occurs, for instance, in the optical resonators of gravitational wave detectors where the noise can be reduced by increasing the laser beam size. However, the stability of the resonator and its optical performance often impose a limit on the maximally feasible beam size. In this article we describe the optical design of a 10\,m Fabry-P\'erot Michelson interferometer with tunable stability. Our design will allow us to carry out initial commissioning with arm cavities of high stability, while afterwards the arm cavity length can be increased stepwise towards the final, marginally stable configuration. Requiring only minimal hardware changes, with respect to a comparable "static" layout, the proposed technique will not only enable us to explore the stability limits of an optical resonator with realistic mirrors exhibiting inevitable surface imperfections, but also the opportunity to measure coating Brownian noise at frequencies as low as a few hundred Hertz. A detailed optical design of the tunable interferometer is presented and requirements for the optical elements are derived from robustness evaluations.

id: 1112.1834
title: Cylindrical vector beams for rapid polarization-dependent measurements in atomic systems
authors: Fredrik K. Fatemi
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures. Accepted in Optics Express
journal: Optics Express 19, 25143-25150 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1834
abstract: We demonstrate the use of cylindrical vector beams - beams with spatially varying polarization - for detecting and preparing the spin of a warm rubidium vapor in a spatially dependent manner. We show that a modified probe vector beam can serve as an atomic spin analyzer for an optically pumped medium, which spatially modulates absorption of the beam. We also demonstrate space-variant atomic spin by optical pumping with the vector beams. The beams are thus beneficial for making singleshot polarization-dependent measurements, as well as for providing a means of preparing samples with position-dependent spin.

id: 1112.1900
title: Single-electron Faraday generator
authors: Gabriel Gonzalez
comments: 5 pages
journal: Rev. Mex. Fis. 57 (2011) 232-235
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1900
abstract: In this paper I study the posibility of inducing a single-electron current by rotating a non-magnetic conducting rod with a small tunnel junction immerse in a uniform magnetic field perpendicular to the plane of motion. I show first, by using a thermodynamic approach, the conditions needed to pump electrons around the mechanical device in the Coulomb blockade regime. I then use a density matrix approach to describe the dynamics of the single-charge transport including many-body effects. The theory shows that it is possible to have single-electron tunneling (SET) oscillations at low temperatures by satisfying conditions similar to the Coulomb blockade systems.

id: 1112.1943
title: Quantum interference between two single photons of different microwave frequencies
authors: Fran?ois Nguyen, Eva Zakka-Bajjani, Raymond W. Simmonds, Jos¨¦ Aumentado
comments: 6 pages and 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1943
abstract: We have measured quantum interference between two single microwave photons trapped in a superconducting resonator, whose frequencies are initially about 6 GHz apart. We accomplish this by use of a parametric frequency conversion process that mixes the mode currents of two cavity harmonics through a superconducting quantum interference device, and demonstrate that a two-photon entanglement operation can be performed with high fidelity.

id: 1112.1985
title: Inversion of Tsallis' q-Fourier Transform and the complex-plane generalization
authors: A. Plastino, M.C.Rocca
comments: 23 pages, no figures
journal: Physica A: 391, 4740-4747, 2012
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1985
abstract: We introduce a complex q-Fourier transform as a generalization of the (real) one analyzed in [Milan J. Math. {\bf 76} (2008) 307]. By recourse to tempered ultradistributions we show that this complex plane-generalization overcomes all troubles that afflict its real counterpart.

id: 1112.1992
title: Quantum diffusion in two-dimensional random systems with particle-hole symmetry
authors: K. Ziegler
comments: 9 pages, no figures, extended version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 335001
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.1992
abstract: We study the scattering dynamics of an $n$-component spinor wavefunction in a random environment on a two-dimensional lattice. In the presence of particle-hole symmetry we find diffusion on large scales. The latter is described by a non-interacting Grassmann field, indicating a special kind of asymptotic freedom in $d=2$.

id: 1112.2033
title: Two-photon emission from thin superconducting rings irradiated by coherent microwave fields
authors: A.I. Agafonov
comments: 4 pages,2 figures,1 table
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2033
abstract: Superconducting current instability in thin rings, irradiated by a coherent microwave electromagnetic field, is studied. On the regular circular motion of the Cooper pairs in the supercurrent states the field imposes coherent oscillations of the condensate as a whole. The oscillating condensate should emit photons with the energies determined mainly by the discrete values of the superconducting ring energy. For the first time the probability of the supercurrent decay accompanied by the two- photon emission, is derived. The ring thickness is less than both the field skin-depth and the London penetration depth. Numerical results for the energy-angular distributions of the photons, as well as the waiting time of the stimulated two-photon transition depending on both the ring sizes and fluxoid number in the initial current state, are presented.

id: 1112.2043
title: Characterization and Predictive Modeling of Epitaxial Silicon-Germanium Thermistor Layers
authors: B. Gunnar Malm, Mohammadreza Kolahdouz, Fredrik Forsberg, Frank Niklaus
comments: 
journal: Proc. of SISPAD, (2012), 173 - 176
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2043
abstract: The thermal coefficient of resistance (TCR) for epitaxial silicon-germanium (SiGe) layers has been analyzed by experiment and simulation. Predictive simulation using drift-diffusion formalism and self-consistent quantum-mechanical solutions yielded similar results, TCR around 2%/K at 300 K. This modeling approach can be used for different, graded and constant, SiGe profiles,. It is also capable of predicting the influence of background auto-doping on the TCR of the detectors

id: 1112.2209
title: About dual two-dimensional oscillator and Coulomb-like theories on a plane
authors: G. V. Grigoryan, R. P. Grigoryan, I. V. Tyutin
comments: 44 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2209
abstract: We present a mathematically rigorous quantum-mechanical treatment of a two-dimensional nonrelativistic quantum dual theories (with oscillator and Coulomb like potentials) on a plane and compare their spectra and the sets of eigenfunctions. All self-adjoint Schrodinger operators for these theories are constructed and rigorous solutions of the corresponding spectral problems are presented. The first part of the problem is solved by using a method of specifying s.a. extensions by (asymptotic) s.a. boundary conditions. Solving spectral problems, we follow the Krein's method of guiding functionals. We show, that there is one to one correspondence between the spectral points of dual theories in the planes energy-coupling constants not only for discrete, but also for continuous spectra.

id: 1112.2215
title: Quantum Entanglement and Detection of Topological Order in Numerics
authors: Tarun Grover
comments: 4 pages+references, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2215
abstract: "Topological ordered" phases such as gapped quantum spin-liquids and fractional quantum Hall states possess ground state degeneracy on a torus. We show that the topological nature of this degeneracy has interesting consequences for the entanglement structure of the degenerate ground states. This leads to a simple method for detecting topological order, which is ready-made for numerical schemes such as density matrix renormalization group. The method is valid for phases that do or do not possess edge states alike. We demonstrate it by calculating the entanglement spectrum and the topological entanglement entropy for a chiral spin-liquid state on a 18 site system.

id: 1112.2225
title: S-Matrix for AdS from General Boundary QFT
authors: Daniele Colosi, Max Dohse, Robert Oeckl
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures, Proceedings of LOOPS'11 Madrid, to appear in IOP Journal of Physics: Conference Series (JPCS)
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 360 (2012) 012012
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2225
abstract: The General Boundary Formulation (GBF) is a new framework for studying quantum theories. After concise overviews of the GBF and Schr\"odinger-Feynman quantization we apply the GBF to resolve a well known problem on Anti-deSitter spacetime where due to the lack of temporally asymptotic free states the usual S-matrix cannot be defined. We construct a different type of S-matrix plus propagators for free and interacting real Klein-Gordon theory.

id: 1112.2333
title: Breaking Pseudo-Rotational Symmetry through ${\bf H}^2_+$ Metric Deformation in the Eckart Potential Problem
authors: Nehemias Leija-Martinez, David Edwin Alvarez-Castillo, Mariana Kirchbach
comments: misprints are corrected
journal: SIGMA 7 (2011), 113, 11 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2333
abstract: The peculiarity of the Eckart potential problem on ${\bf H}^2_+$ (the upper sheet of the two-sheeted two-dimensional hyperboloid), to preserve the $(2l+1)$-fold degeneracy of the states typical for the geodesic motion there, is usually explained in casting the respective Hamiltonian in terms of the Casimir invariant of an so(2,1) algebra, referred to as potential algebra. In general, there are many possible similarity transformations of the symmetry algebras of the free motions on curved surfaces towards potential algebras, which are not all necessarily unitary. In the literature, a transformation of the symmetry algebra of the geodesic motion on ${\bf H}^2_+$ towards the potential algebra of Eckart's Hamiltonian has been constructed for the prime purpose to prove that the Eckart interaction belongs to the class of Natanzon potentials. We here take a different path and search for a transformation which connects the $(2l+1)$ dimensional representation space of the pseudo-rotational so(2,1) algebra, spanned by the rank-$l$ pseudo-spherical harmonics, to the representation space of equal dimension of the potential algebra and find a transformation of the scaling type. Our case is that in so doing one is producing a deformed isometry copy to ${\bf H}^2_+$ such that the free motion on the copy is equivalent to a motion on ${\bf H}^2_+$, perturbed by a $\coth$ interaction. In this way, we link the so(2,1) potential algebra concept of the Eckart Hamiltonian to a subtle type of pseudo-rotational symmetry breaking through ${\bf H}^2_+$ metric deformation.

id: 1112.2378
title: Clifford Algebras in Symplectic Geometry and Quantum Mechanics
authors: Ernst Binz, Maurice A. de Gosson, Basil J. Hiley
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2378
abstract: The necessary appearance of Clifford algebras in the quantum description of fermions has prompted us to re-examine the fundamental role played by the quaternion Clifford algebra, C(0,2). This algebra is essentially the geometric algebra describing the rotational properties of space. Hidden within this algebra are symplectic structures with Heisenberg algebras at their core. This algebra also enables us to define a Poisson algebra of all homogeneous quadratic polynomials on a two-dimensional sub-space, Fa of the Euclidean three-space. This enables us to construct a Poisson Clifford algebra, H(F), of a finite dimensional phase space which will carry the dynamics. The quantum dynamics appears as a realization of H(F) in terms of a Clifford algebra consisting of Hermitian operators.

id: 1112.2407
title: Periodically modulated quantum nonlinear oscillators
authors: M. I. Dykman
comments: A chapter for the book "Fluctuating Nonlinear Oscillators. From nanomechanics to quantum superconducting circuits", ed. M. I. Dykman, to be published by Oxford University Press, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2407
abstract: This book chapter describes the dynamics of a modulated oscillator for resonant and nonresonant modulation. Two types of resonant modulation are considered: additive, with frequency close to the oscillator eigenfrequency, and parametric, with frequency close to twice the eigenfrequency. It is shown that relaxation of the oscillator is accompanied by quantum noise, which leads to a finite-width distribution over quantum states even for T=0. The quantum noise also leads to switching between coexisting vibrational states via transitions over the barrier in phase space. The switching mechanism, quantum activation, has no analog in thermal equilibrium systems. The switching rates display characteristic scaling near bifurcation points. The power and absorption/amplification spectra of modulated oscillators are studied, including their fine structure. Nonresonant modulation can lead to cooling, heating, or self-sustained vibrations of an oscillator. The relation between the previously discussed direct nonresonant excitation of the oscillator and the excitation mechanism studied in optomechanics is analyzed.

id: 1112.2495
title: On Weak Odd Domination and Graph-based Quantum Secret Sharing
authors: Sylvain Gravier, J¨¦r?me Javelle, Mehdi Mhalla, Simon Perdrix
comments: Subsumes arXiv:1109.6181: Optimal accessing and non-accessing structures for graph protocols
journal: 
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2495
abstract: A weak odd dominated (WOD) set in a graph is a subset B of vertices for which there exists a distinct set of vertices C such that every vertex in B has an odd number of neighbors in C. We point out the connections of weak odd domination with odd domination, [sigma,rho]-domination, and perfect codes. We introduce bounds on \kappa(G), the maximum size of WOD sets of a graph G, and on \kappa'(G), the minimum size of non WOD sets of G. Moreover, we prove that the corresponding decision problems are NP-complete. The study of weak odd domination is mainly motivated by the design of graph-based quantum secret sharing protocols: a graph G of order n corresponds to a secret sharing protocol which threshold is \kappa_Q(G) = max(\kappa(G), n-\kappa'(G)). These graph-based protocols are very promising in terms of physical implementation, however all such graph-based protocols studied in the literature have quasi-unanimity thresholds (i.e. \kappa_Q(G)=n-o(n) where n is the order of the graph G underlying the protocol). In this paper, we show using probabilistic methods, the existence of graphs with smaller \kappa_Q (i.e. \kappa_Q(G)< 0.811n where n is the order of G). We also prove that deciding for a given graph G whether \kappa_Q(G)< k is NP-complete, which means that one cannot efficiently double check that a graph randomly generated has actually a \kappa_Q smaller than 0.811n.

id: 1112.2523
title: Functional Lagrange formalism for time-non-local Lagrangians
authors: Luca Ferialdi, Angelo Bassi
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: EPL 98 (2012) 30009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2523
abstract: We develop a time-non-local (TNL) formalism based on variational calculus, which allows for the analysis of TNL Lagrangians. We derive the generalized Euler-Lagrange equations starting from the Hamilton's principle and, by defining a generalized momentum, we introduce the corresponding Hamiltonian formalism. We apply the formalism to second order TNL Lagrangians and we show that it reproduces standard results in the time-local limit. An example will show how the formalism works, and will provide an interesting insight on the non-standard features of TNL equations.

id: 1112.2551
title: Transport in a one-dimensional isotropic Heisenberg model at high temperature
authors: Marko Znidaric
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Stat. Mech. 2011, P12008 (2011)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2551
abstract: Magnetization transport in a one-dimensional isotropic spin 1/2 Heisenberg model is studied. It is shown that in a nonequilibrium steady state at high temperature and constant small driving the magnetization current depends on the system length L as 1/L^{0.5}, meaning that the diffusion constant diverges as L^{0.5}. Spectral properties of a superoperator governing the relaxation towards a nonequilibrium steady state are also discussed.

id: 1112.2621
title: Measurements of Quasiparticle Tunneling Dynamics in a Bandgap-Engineered Transmon Qubit
authors: L. Sun, L. DiCarlo, M. D. Reed, G. Catelani, Lev S. Bishop, D. I. Schuster, B. R. Johnson, Ge A. Yang, L. Frunzio, L. I. Glazman, M. H. Devoret, R. J. Schoelkopf
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 230509 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2621
abstract: We have engineered the bandgap profile of transmon qubits by combining oxygen-doped Al for tunnel junction electrodes and clean Al as quasiparticle traps to investigate energy relaxation due to quasiparticle tunneling. The relaxation time $T_1$ of the qubits is shown to be insensitive to this bandgap engineering. Operating at relatively low $E_J/E_C$ makes the transmon transition frequency distinctly dependent on the charge parity, allowing us to detect the quasiparticles tunneling across the qubit junction. Quasiparticle kinetics have been studied by monitoring the frequency switching due to even/odd parity change in real time. It shows the switching time is faster than 10 $\mu$s, indicating quasiparticle-induced relaxation has to be reduced to achieve $T_1$ much longer than 100 $\mu$s.

id: 1112.2636
title: High pressure ionic and molecular crystals of ammonia monohydrate within density functional theory
authors: Gareth I. G. Griffiths, Alston J. Misquitta, A. Dominic Fortes, Chris J. Pickard, Richard J. Needs
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2636
abstract: A combination of first-principles density functional theory calculations and a search over structures predicts the stability of a proton-transfer modification of ammonia monohydrate with space group P4/nmm. The phase diagram is calculated with the PBE density functional, and the effects of a semi-empirical dispersion correction, zero point motion, and finite temperature are investigated. Comparison with MP2 and coupled cluster calculations shows that the PBE functional over-stabilizes proton transfer phases because too much electronic charge moves with the proton. This over-binding is partially corrected by using the PBE0 hybrid exchange-correlation functional, which increases the enthalpy of P4/nmm by about 0.6 eV per formula unit relative to phase I of ammonia monohydrate (AMH-I) and shifts the transition to the proton transfer phase from the PBE pressure of 2.8 GPa to about 10 GPa. This is consistent with experiment as proton transfer phases have not been observed at pressures up to ~9 GPa, while higher pressures have not yet been explored experimentally.

id: 1112.2644
title: Scattering along a complex loop in a solvable PT-symmetric model
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 15 pp., 3 figures
journal: Bollettino di matematica pura ed applicata, vol. IV, pg. 83-94, 2011
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2644
abstract: A non-unitary version of quantum scattering is studied via an exactly solvable toy model. The model is merely asymptotically local since the smooth path of the coordinate is admitted complex in the non-asymptotic domain. At any real angular-momentum-like parameter the reflection R and transmission T are shown to change with the winding number (i.e., topology) of the path. The points of unitarity appear related to the points of existence of quantum-knot bound states.

id: 1112.2648
title: Electronic Structure of Superheavy Atoms. Revisited
authors: D. M. Gitman, A. D. Levin, I. V. Tyutin, B. L. Voronov
comments: 4 pages 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2648
abstract: The electronic structure of an atom with Z <= 137 can be described by the Dirac equation with the Coulomb field of a point charge Ze. It was believed that the Dirac equation with Z > 137 is inconsistent and physically meaningless because the formula for the lower energy level of the Dirac Hamiltonian formally gives imaginary eigenvalues. But a strict mathematical consideration shows that difficulties with the electronic spectrum for Z > 137 do not arise if the Dirac Hamiltonian is correctly defined as a self-adjoint operator, see [1]. In this article, we brie y summarize the main physical results of that consideration in a form suitable for physicists with some additional new details and numerical calculations of the electronic spectra. [1] B.L. Voronov, D.M. Gitman, and I.V. Tyutin, Theor. Math. Phys. 150(1) (2007) 34

id: 1112.2715
title: Intrinsic phonon effects on analog quantum simulators with ultracold trapped ions
authors: C.-C. Joseph Wang, J. K. Freericks
comments: 21 pages, 11 figures, final version accepted by Physical Review A
journal: Physical Review A 86, 032329 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2715
abstract: Linear Paul traps have been used recently to simulate the transverse field Ising model with long-range spin-spin couplings. We study the intrinsic effects of phonon creation (from the initial phonon ground state) on the spin-state probability and spin entanglement for such quantum spin simulators. While it has often been assumed that phonon effects are benign because they play no role in the pure Ising model, they can play a significant role when a transverse field is added to the model. We use a many-body factorization of the quantum time-evolution operator of the system, adiabatic perturbation theory and exact numerical integration of the Schr\"odinger equation in a truncated spin-phonon Hilbert space followed by a tracing out of the phonon degrees of freedom to study this problem. We find that moderate phonon creation often makes the probabilities of different spin states behave differently from the static spin Hamiltonian. In circumstances in which phonon creation is minor, the spin dynamics state probabilities converge to the static spin Hamiltonian prediction at the cost of reducing the spin entanglement. We show how phonon creation can severely impede the observation of kink transitions in frustrated spin systems when the number of ions increases. Many of our results also have implications for quantum simulation in a Penning trap.

id: 1112.2766
title: High accuracy measure of atomic polarizability in an optical lattice clock
authors: J. A. Sherman, N. D. Lemke, N. Hinkley, M. Pizzocaro, R. W. Fox, A. D. Ludlow, C. W. Oates
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 153002 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2766
abstract: Despite being a canonical example of quantum mechanical perturbation theory, as well as one of the earliest observed spectroscopic shifts, the Stark effect contributes the largest source of uncertainty in a modern optical atomic clock through blackbody radiation. By employing an ultracold, trapped atomic ensemble and high stability optical clock, we characterize the quadratic Stark effect with unprecedented precision. We report the ytterbium optical clock's sensitivity to electric fields (such as blackbody radiation) as the differential static polarizability of the ground and excited clock levels: 36.2612(7) kHz (kV/cm)^{-2}. The clock's fractional uncertainty due to room temperature blackbody radiation is reduced an order of magnitude to 3 \times 10^{-17}.

id: 1112.2799
title: Critical temperature of a Rashba spin-orbit coupled Bose gas in harmonic traps
authors: Hui Hu, Xia-Ji Liu
comments: 9 pages and 8 figures; published version in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013619 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2799
abstract: We investigate theoretically Bose-Einstein condensation of an ideal, trapped Bose gas in the presence of Rashba spin-orbit coupling. Analytic results for the critical temperature and condensate fraction are derived, based on a semi-classical approximation to the single-particle energy spectrum and density of states, and are compared with exact results obtained by explicitly summing discrete energy levels for small number of particles. We find a significant decrease of the critical temperature and of the condensate fraction due to a finite spin-orbit coupling. For large coupling strength and finite number of particles $N$, the critical temperature scales as $N^{2/5}$ and $N^{2/3}$ in three and two dimensions, respectively, contrasted to the predictions of $N^{1/3}$ and $N^{1/2}$ in the absence of spin-orbit coupling. Finite size corrections in three dimensions are also discussed.

id: 1112.2814
title: Mie plasmons: modes volumes, quality factors and coupling strengths (Purcell factor) to a dipolar emitter
authors: G. Colas des Francs, S. Derom, R. Vincent, A. Bouhelier, A. Dereux
comments: (in press) International Journal of Optics (2011)
journal: International Journal of Optics 2012, 175162 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2814
abstract: Using either quasi-static approximation or exact Mie expansion, we characterize the localized surface plasmons supported by a metallic spherical nanoparticle. We estimate the quality factor $Q_n$ and define the effective volume $V_n$ of the $n^{th}$ mode in a such a way that coupling strength with a neighbouring dipolar emitter is proportional to the ratio $Q_n/V_n$ (Purcell factor). The role of Joule losses, far-field scattering and mode confinement in the coupling mechanism are introduced and discussed with simple physical understanding, with particular attention paid to energy conservation.

id: 1112.2905
title: Creation of particle-hole superposition states in graphene at multiphoton resonant excitation by laser radiation
authors: H. K. Avetissian, A. K. Avetissian, G. F. Mkrtchian, Kh. V. Sedrakian
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. B
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2905
abstract: Nonlinear dynamics of establishment of electron-hole coherent superpositions states in graphene by multiphoton resonant excitation of interband transitions in laser fields is considered. The single-particle time dependent density matrix for such a quantized system is calculated in the multiphoton resonant approximation. The dependence of Rabi oscillations of Fermi-Dirac sea in graphene on the time, momentum, and photon number at multiphoton laser-excitation is analyzed.

id: 1112.2924
title: The Casimir Effect in Minimal Length Theories based on a Generalized Uncertainity Principle
authors: A. M. Frassino, O. Panella
comments: 19 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. D 85, 045030 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.2924
abstract: We study the corrections to the Casimir effect in the classical geometry of two parallel metallic plates, separated by a distance $a$, due to the presence of a minimal length ($\hbar\sqrt{(\beta)}$) arising from quantum mechanical models based on a Generalized Uncertainty Principle (GUP). The approach for the quantization of the electromagnetic field is based on projecting onto the maximally localized states of a few specific GUP models and was previously developed to study the Casimir-Polder effect. For each model we compute the lowest order correction in the minimal length to the Casimir energy and find that it scales with the fifth power of the distance between the plates $a^{-5}$ as opposed to the well known QED result which scales as $a^{-3}$ and, contrary to previous claims, we find that it is always attractive. The various GUP models can be in principle differentiated by the strength of the correction to the Casimir energy as every model is characterized by a specific multiplicative numerical constant.

id: 1112.3009
title: The Basis of the Second Law of Thermodynamics in Quantum Field Theory
authors: D. Snoke, G. Liu, S. Girvin
comments: 30 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3009
abstract: The result that closed systems evolve toward equilibrium is derived entirely on the basis of quantum field theory for a model system, without invoking any of the common extra-mathematical notions of particle trajectories, collapse of the wave function, measurement, or intrinsically stochastic processes. The equivalent of the Stosszahlansatz of classical statistical mechanics is found, and has important differences from the classical version. A novel result of the calculation is that interacting many-body systems in the infinite volume limit evolve toward diagonal states (states with loss of all phase information) on the the time scale of the interaction time. The connection with the onset of off-diagonal phase coherence in Bose condensates is discussed.

id: 1112.3014
title: Single charge sensing and transport in double quantum dots fabricated from commercially grown Si/SiGe heterostructures
authors: C. Payette, K. Wang, P. J. Koppinen, Y. Dovzhenko, J. C. Sturm, J. R. Petta
comments: Related papers at this http URL
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 100, 043508 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3014
abstract: We perform quantum Hall measurements on three types of commercially available modulation doped Si/SiGe heterostructures to determine their suitability for depletion gate defined quantum dot devices. By adjusting the growth parameters, we are able to achieve electron gases with charge densities 1-3 X 10^{11}/cm^2 and mobilities in excess of 100,000 cm^2/Vs. Double quantum dot devices fabricated on these heterostructures show clear evidence of single charge transitions as measured in dc transport and charge sensing and exhibit electron temperatures of 100 mK in the single quantum dot regime.

id: 1112.3158
title: Dynamics of Thermal Effects in the Spin-Wave Theory of Quantum Antiferromagnets
authors: ?ngel Rivas, Miguel A. Martin-Delgado
comments: Revtex4 file, color figures. Published version
journal: Ann. Phys. (N.Y.) 331, 9 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3158
abstract: We derive a master equation that allows us to study non-equilibrium dynamics of a quantum antiferromagnet. By resorting to spin-wave theory, we obtain a closed analytic form for the magnon decay rates. These turn out to be closely related to form factors, which are experimentally accessible by means of neutron and Raman scattering. Furthermore, we compute the time evolution of the staggered magnetization showing that, for moderate temperatures, the magnetic order is not spoiled even if the coupling is fully isotropic.

id: 1112.3170
title: Absorption imaging of a quasi 2D gas: a multiple scattering analysis
authors: L. Chomaz, L. Corman, T. Yefsah, R. Desbuquois, J. Dalibard
comments: 22 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3170
abstract: Absorption imaging with quasi-resonant laser light is a commonly used technique to probe ultra-cold atomic gases in various geometries. Here we investigate some non-trivial aspects of this method when it is applied to in situ diagnosis of a quasi two-dimensional gas. Using Monte Carlo simulations we study the modification of the absorption cross-section of a photon when it undergoes multiple scattering in the gas. We determine the variations of the optical density with various parameters, such as the detuning of the light from the atomic resonance and the thickness of the gas. We compare our results to the known three-dimensional result (Beer-Lambert law) and outline the specific features of the two-dimensional case.

id: 1112.3211
title: Entangled photons from the polariton vacuum in a switchable optical cavity
authors: Adrian Auer, Guido Burkard
comments: 9+ pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3211
abstract: We study theoretically the entanglement of two-photon states in the ground state of the intersubband cavity system, the so-called polariton vacuum. The system consists of a sequence of doped quantum wells located inside a microcavity and the photons can interact with intersubband excitations inside the quantum wells. Using an explicit solution for the ground state of the system, operated in the ultrastrong coupling regime, a post-selection is introduced, where only certain two-photon states are considered and analyzed for mode entanglement. We find that a fast quench of the coupling creates entangled photons and that the degree of entanglement depends on the absolute values of the in-plane wave vectors of the photons. Maximally entangled states can be generated by choosing the appropriate modes in the post-selection.

id: 1112.3220
title: Three fluid hydrodynamics of spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Gergely Szirmai, Peter Szepfalusy
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053603 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3220
abstract: We study excitations of the spin-1 Bose gas at finite temperatures and in the presence of a not so strong magnetic field, or equivalently, when the gas sample is partially polarized. Motivated by the success of two-fluid hydrodynamics of scalar superfluids we develop a three-fluid hydrodynamic description to treat the low frequency and long wavelength excitations of the spin-1 Bose gas. We derive the coupled linear hydrodynamic equations of the three sounds and evaluate them numerically in a self-consistent mean field approximation valid for the dilute gas at the intermediate and critical temperature regions. In this latter region we identify the critical mode.

id: 1112.3246
title: The deformation-stability fundamental length and deviations from c
authors: R. Vilela Mendes
comments: 12 pages Latex
journal: Physics Letters A 376 (2012) 1823-1826
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3246
abstract: The existence of a fundamental length (or fundamental time) has been conjectured in many contexts. However, the "stability of physical theories principle" seems to be the one that provides, through the tools of algebraic deformation theory, an unambiguous derivation of the stable structures that Nature might have chosen for its algebraic framework. It is well-known that $1/c$ and $\hbar $ are the deformation parameters that stabilize the Galilean and the Poisson algebra. When the stability principle is applied to the Poincar\'{e}-Heisenberg algebra, two deformation parameters emerge which define two length (or time) scales. In addition there are, for each of them, a plus or minus sign possibility in the relevant commutators. One of the deformation length scales, related to non-commutativity of momenta, is probably related to the Planck length scale but the other might be much larger. In this paper this is used as a working hypothesis to compute deviations from $c$ in speed measurements of massless wave packets.

id: 1112.3247
title: The Language of Two-by-two Matrices spoken by Optical Devices
authors: Y. S. Kim
comments: LaTex 15 pages, 2 figures, presented at the 19th International Conference on Composites or Nano Engineering, Shanghai (China 2011), to be published in the proceedings
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3247
abstract: With its three independent parameters, the $ABCD$ matrix serves as the beam transfer matrix in optics. If it is transformed to an equi-diagonal form, the matrix has only two independent parameters determined by optical devices. It is shown that this two-parameter mathematical device contains enough information to describe the basic space-time symmetry of elementary particles. If its trace is smaller than two, this matrix can represent the internal space-time symmetry of massive particles. If equal to two, the matrix is of massless particles. If the trace is greater than two, this matrix describes imaginary-mass particles. This matrix speaks Einstein's language for space-time structure of elementary particles. As for the optical devices, the laser cavity and the multilayer system are discussed as illustrative physical examples.

id: 1112.3325
title: Resonant Matter Wave Amplification in Mean Field Theory
authors: Tri Cao Doan, Yuping Huang, Steve F. Wolf, Michael G. Moore
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3325
abstract: We develop a Green's function based mean-field theory for coherent mixing of matter- and light-waves. To demonstrate the utility of this approach, we analyse a co-propagating Raman matter-wave amplifier. We find that for a given laser intensity, a significantly faster amplification process can be achieved employing resonant rather than off-resonance driving. The ratio of the matter-wave gain to atom loss-rate due to spontaneous emission is given by the optical depth of the sample, and is the same both on- and off-resonance. Furthermore, we show that for short-times, the single-mode approximation for the matter-waves gives exact agreement with the full spatial dynamics. For long times, the off-resonant case shows suppressed amplification due to a spatially inhomogenous AC Stark shift associated with laser depletion. This suppression is absent on-resonance, where the AC Stark shift is absent.

id: 1112.3331
title: Spin-liquid phase in spin-1/2 square J_1-J_2 Heisenberg model: A tensor product state approach
authors: Ling Wang, Zheng-Cheng Gu, Frank Verstraete, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures, spin-spin and dimer-dimer correlation functions added, missing references added
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3331
abstract: The ground state phase of spin-1/2 J_1-J_2 antiferromagnetic Heisenberg model on square lattice in the maximally frustrated regime (J_2 ~ 0.5J_1) has been debated for decades. Here we study this model by using a recently proposed novel numerical method - the cluster update algorithm for tensor product states (TPSs). The ground state energies at finite sizes and in the thermodynamic limit (with finite size scaling) are in good agreement with the state of art exact diagonalization study, and the energy differences between these two studies are of the order of 10^{-3}J_1 per site. At the largest bond dimension available D (D=9), we find a paramagnetic ground state without any valence bond solid order in the thermodynamic limit in the range of 0.5 < J_2/J_1 < 0.6, which implies the emergence of a spin-liquid phase. Furthermore, we investigate the topologically ordered nature of such a spin-liquid phase by measuring a nonzero topological entanglement entropy.

id: 1112.3339
title: Quantum Fermi Liquid Decription of (Quasi)-One-Dimensional Electronic Systems
authors: Alla Dovlatova, Dmitri Yerchuck, Felix Borovik
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3339
abstract: The concept of quantum Fermi liquid for description of (quasi)-1D electronic systems is recovered. The model of (quasi)-1D quantum Fermi liquid is developed on the example of trans-polyacetylene and it is the generalization of well-known model of organic (quasi)-1D conductors, elaborated by Su, Schrieffer and Heeger (SSH-model). It is shown, that spin-charge separation effect can be realized in (quasi)-1D quantum Fermi liquids. It has topological soliton origin in distinction from spinon-holon spin-charge separation effect in Tomonaga-Luttinger liquids and electronic systems like them. The model allows to extend the limits of the applicability of SSH-model to the electron-electron correlated (quasi)-1D-systems without restriction on electron-electron interaction force. The (quasi)-1D- systems with strong electron-phonon interaction and/or strong electron-photon interaction can be also described within the framework of given 1D quantum Fermi liquid model. Practical significance of the model proposed consists in the clarification of the nature of charge and spin carriers and in the clarification of the origin of mechanisms of quasiparticles' interaction in the (quasi)-1D-systems, which are the objects of nanoelectronics, spintronics and the other modern nanotechnology branches.

id: 1112.3347
title: Fractionalization in spontaneous integer quantum Hall systems
authors: Rodrigo A. Muniz, Armin Rahmani, Ivar Martin
comments: 4+ pages, 3 figures, 6 pages of supplemental material
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3347
abstract: It is widely believed that integer quantum Hall systems do not have fractional excitations. Here we show the converse to be true for a class of systems where integer quantum Hall effect emerges spontaneously due to the interplay of itinerant electrons and noncoplanar magnetic ordering. We show that magnetic $Z_2$ vortices in such systems, whose topological stability is guaranteed by the structure of the order parameter, indeed carry fractional charge.

id: 1112.3355
title: Observing complex bound states in the spin-1/2 Heisenberg XXZ chain using local quantum quenches
authors: Martin Ganahl, Elias Rabel, Fabian H. L. Essler, Hans Gerd Evertz
comments: 4+ pages, 5 figures. (Added affiliations)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 077206 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3355
abstract: We consider the non-equilibrium evolution in the spin-1/2 XXZ Heisenberg chain for fixed magnetization after a local quantum quench. This model is equivalent to interacting spinless fermions. Initially an infinite magnetic field is applied to n consecutive sites and the ground state is calculated. At time t=0 the field is switched off and the time evolution of observables such as the z-component of spin is computed using the Time Evolving Block Decimation (TEBD) algorithm. We find that the observables exhibit strong signatures of linearly propagating spinon and bound state excitations. These persist even when integrability-breaking perturbations are included. Since bound states ("strings") are notoriously difficult to observe using conventional probes such as inelastic neutron scattering, we conclude that local quantum quenches are an ideal setting for studying their properties. We comment on implications of our results for cold atom experiments.

id: 1112.3362
title: Suppression of extraneous thermal noise in cavity optomechanics
authors: Yi Zhao, Dalziel J. Wilson, Kang-Kuen Ni, H. Jeff Kimble
comments: 27 pages, 14 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20 Issue 4, pp.3586-3612 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3362
abstract: Extraneous thermal motion can limit displacement sensitivity and radiation pressure effects, such as optical cooling, in a cavity-optomechanical system. Here we present an active noise suppression scheme and its experimental implementation. The main challenge is to selectively sense and suppress extraneous thermal noise without affecting motion of the oscillator. Our solution is to monitor two modes of the optical cavity, each with different sensitivity to the oscillator's motion but similar sensitivity to the extraneous thermal motion. This information is used to imprint "anti-noise" onto the frequency of the incident laser field. In our system, based on a nano-mechanical membrane coupled to a Fabry-P\'{e}rot cavity, simulation and experiment demonstrate that extraneous thermal noise can be selectively suppressed and that the associated limit on optical cooling can be reduced.

id: 1112.3369
title: A classical, elementary approach to the foundations of Quantum Mechanics
authors: David Rodriguez
comments: The material in this paper should be revised and updated, and there are inaccuracies (the paper warned of this from v1.). The author is in any case still convinced that this is a necessary research line, and will continue trying to push it forward, more seriously, as soon as he gets a suitable position for it
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3369
abstract: Elementary particles are found in two different situations: (i) bound to metastable states of matter, for which angular momentum is quantized, and (ii) free, for which, due to their high energy-momentum and leaving aside inner a.m. or spin, the $h$-quantization step is completely harmless. Perhaps Quantum Mechanics can be seen just as the simplest mathematical formalism where angular momentum (the magnitude of each of its three orthogonal projections) is by construction quantized: all possible values are taken from a discrete set. Indeed: (i) This idea finds support in very reasonable, completely classical physical arguments, if we place ourselves in the framework of Stochastic Electrodynamics (SED): there, all sustained periodic movement of a charge must satisfy a power balance that restricts the value of the average angular momentum, on each of its projections. (ii) It gives a natural explanation of the concept of "photon", as a constraint on the observable spectrum of energy-momentum exchanges between metastable physical states, in particular also for its discreteness. QM would be, in this picture, a semi-static theory, transparent to all the (micro)-dynamics taking place between apparently "discrete" events (transitions in the state of the system). For instance, (the magnitude of the projections of) quantum angular momentum would only reflect average values over a (classical) cyclic trajectory, a fact that we regard as almost obvious given the particularity of the corresponding addition rules in QM.

id: 1112.3377
title: Light with orbital angular momentum interacting with trapped ions
authors: Christian Tom¨¢s Schmiegelow, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures, to appear in EPJD Topical issue on High Dimensional Quantum Entanglement
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3377
abstract: We study the interaction of a light beams carrying angular momentum with a single, trapped and well localized ion. We provide a detailed calculation of selection rules and excitation probabilities for quadrupole transitions. The results show the dependencies on the angular momentum and polarization of the laser beam as well as the direction of the quantization magnetic field. In order to observe optimally the specific effects, focusing the angular momentum beam close to the diffraction limit is required. We discuss a protocol for examining experimentally the effects on the S$_{1/2}$ to D$_{5/2}$ transition using a $^{40}$Ca$^+$ ion. Various applications and advantages are expected when using light carrying angular momentum: In quantum information processing, where qubit states of ion crystals are controlled, parasitic light shifts could be avoided as the ion is excited in the dark zone of the beam at zero electric field amplitude. Such interactions also open the door to high dimensional entanglement between light and matter. In spectroscopy one might access transitions which have escaped excitation so far due to vanishing transition dipole moments.

id: 1112.3412
title: Boson gas in a periodic array of tubes
authors: P. Salas, F. J. Sevilla, M. A. Sol¨ªs
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures, submitted
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3412
abstract: We report the thermodynamic properties of an ideal boson gas confined in an infinite periodic array of channels modeled by two, mutually perpendicular, Kronig-Penney delta-potentials. The particle's motion is hindered in the x-y directions, allowing tunneling of particles through the walls, while no confinement along the z direction is considered. It is shown that there exists a finite Bose- Einstein condensation (BEC) critical temperature Tc that decreases monotonically from the 3D ideal boson gas (IBG) value $T_{0}$ as the strength of confinement $P_{0}$ is increased while keeping the channel's cross section, $a_{x}a_{y}$ constant. In contrast, Tc is a non-monotonic function of the cross-section area for fixed $P_{0}$. In addition to the BEC cusp, the specific heat exhibits a set of maxima and minima. The minimum located at the highest temperature is a clear signal of the confinement effect which occurs when the boson wavelength is twice the cross-section side size. This confinement is amplified when the wall strength is increased until a dimensional crossover from 3D to 1D is produced. Some of these features in the specific heat obtained from this simple model can be related, qualitatively, to at least two different experimental situations: $^4$He adsorbed within the interstitial channels of a bundle of carbon nanotubes and superconductor-multistrand-wires Nb$_{3}$Sn.

id: 1112.3414
title: Frame dragging with optical vortices
authors: J. Strohaber
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3414
abstract: General Relativistic calculations in the linear regime have been made for electromagnetic beams of radiation known as optical vortices. These exotic beams of light carry a physical quantity known as optical orbital angular momentum (OAM). It is found that when a massive spinning neutral particle is placed along the optical axis, a phenomenon known as inertial frame dragging occurs. Our results are compared with those found previously for a ring laser and an order of magnitude estimate of the laser intensity needed for a precession frequency of 1 Hz is given for these "steady" beams of light.

id: 1112.3419
title: Wigner crystal induced by dipole-dipole interaction in one-dimensional optical lattices
authors: Zhihao Xu, Shu Chen
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 033606 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3419
abstract: We demonstrate that the static structure factor, momentum distribution and density distribution provide clear signatures of the emergence of Wigner crystal for the fermionic dipolar gas with strongly repulsive dipole-dipole interactions trapped in one-dimensional optical lattices. Our numerical evidences are based on the exact diagonalization of the microscopic effective lattice Hamiltonian of few particles interacting with long-range interactions. As a comparison, we also study the system with only nearest-neighbor interactions, which displays quite different behaviors from the dipolar system in the regime of strong repulsion.

id: 1112.3473
title: A geometrical crossover in excited states of two-electron quantum dots in a magnetic field
authors: R. G. Nazmitdinov, N. S. Simonovic, A. R. Plastino, A. V. Chizhov
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 393 (2012) 012009
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3473
abstract: We use the entanglement measure to study the evolution of quantum correlations in two-electron axially-symmetric parabolic quantum dots under a perpendicular magnetic field. We found that the entanglement indicates on the shape transition in the density distribution of two electrons in the lowest state with zero angular momentum projection at the specific value of the applied magnetic field.

id: 1112.3584
title: 1/f noise of Josephson-junction-embedded microwave resonators at single photon energies and millikelvin temperatures
authors: K. W. Murch, S. J. Weber, E. M. Levenson-Falk, R. Vijay, I. Siddiqi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3584
abstract: We present measurements of 1/f frequency noise in both linear and Josephson-junction-embedded superconducting aluminum resonators in the low power, low temperature regime - typical operating conditions for superconducting qubits. The addition of the Josephson junction does not result in additional frequency noise, thereby placing an upper limit for fractional critical current fluctuations of $10^{-8}$ (Hz$^{-1/2}$) at 1 Hz for sub-micron, shadow evaporated junctions. These values imply a minimum dephasing time for a superconducting qubit due to critical current noise of 40 -- 1400 $\mu$s depending on qubit architecture. Occasionally, at temperatures above 50 mK, we observe the activation of individual fluctuators which increase the level of noise significantly and exhibit Lorentzian spectra.

id: 1112.3733
title: Surface effects in a semiconductor photonic nanowire and spectral stability of an embedded single quantum dot
authors: Inah Yeo, Nitin S. Malik, Mathieu Munsch, Emmanuel Dupuy, Jo?l Bleuse, Yann-Michel Niquet, Jean-Michel G¨¦rard, Julien Claudon, ?douard Wagner, Signe Seidelin, Alexia Auff¨¨ves, Jean-Philippe Poizat, Gilles Nogues
comments: 
journal: Applied Physics Letters 99 (2011) 233106
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3733
abstract: We evidence the influence of surface effects for InAs quantum dots embedded into GaAs photonic nanowires used as efficient single photon sources. We observe a continuous temporal drift of the emission energy that is an obstacle to resonant quantum optics experiments at the single photon level. We attribute the drift to the sticking of oxygen molecules onto the wire, which modifies the surface charge and hence the electric field seen by the quantum dot. The influence of temperature and excitation laser power on this phenomenon is studied. Most importantly, we demonstrate a proper treatment of the nanowire surface to suppress the drift.

id: 1112.3748
title: On the 100th anniversary of the Sackur-Tetrode equation
authors: W. Grimus
comments: 17 pages, no figures, some clarifications added and misprints corrected
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3748
abstract: In 1912, Otto Sackur and Hugo Tetrode independently put forward an equation for the absolute entropy of a monoatomic ideal gas and published it in "Annalen der Physik." The grand achievement in the derivation of this equation was the discretization of phase space for massive particles, expressed as \delta q \delta p = h, where q and p are conjugate variables and h is Planck's constant. Due to the dependence of the absolute entropy on Planck's constant, Sackur and Tetrode were able to devise a test of their equation by applying it to the monoatomic vapor of mercury; from the satisfactory numerical comparison of h obtained from thermodynamic data on mercury with Planck's value from black-body radiation, they inferred the correctness of their equation. In this review we highlight this almost forgotten episode of physics, discuss the arguments leading to the derivation of the Sackur--Tetrode equation and outline the method how this equation was tested with thermodynamic data.

id: 1112.3767
title: New QES Hermitian as well as non-Hermitian PT invariant Potentials
authors: Avinash Khare, Bhabani Prasad Mandal
comments: Revtex, 9 pages, Talk delivered by B. P. Mandal in the International conference on "Non-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics" held at BARC, Mumbai, India during January 13-16, 2009
journal: Pramana: Journal of Physics, Vol. 73, pages 387-395, 2009
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3767
abstract: We start with quasi-exactly solvable (QES) Hermitian (and hence real) as well as complex PT-invariant, double sinh-Gordon potential and show that even after adding perturbation terms, the resulting potentials, in both cases, are still QES potentials. Further, by using anti-isospectral transformations, we obtain Hermitian as well as PT-invariant complex QES periodic potentials. We study in detail the various properties of the corresponding Bender-Dunne polynomials.

id: 1112.3855
title: Dissipationless dynamics of randomly coupled spins at high temperatures
authors: Lara Faoro, Lev Ioffe, Alexei Kitaev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3855
abstract: We develop a technique to compute the high-frequency asymptotics of spin correlators in weakly interacting disordered spin systems. We show that the dynamical spin correlator decreases exponentially at high frequencies, $< SS>_{\omega}\sim\exp(-\tau_{*}\omega)$ and compute the characteristic time $\tau^{*}$ of this dependence. In a typical random configuration, some fraction of spins form strongly coupled pairs, which behave as two-level systems. Their switching dynamics is driven by the high-frequency noise from the surrounding spins, resulting in low-frequency $1/f$ noise in the magnetic susceptibility and other physical quantities. We discuss application of these results to the problem of susceptibility and flux noise in superconducting circuits at mK temperatures.

id: 1112.3858
title: Influence of static electric fields on an optical ion trap
authors: Christian Schneider, Martin Enderlein, Thomas Huber, Stephan D¨¹rr, Tobias Schaetz
comments: 16 pages, 16 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3858
abstract: We recently reported on a proof-of-principle experiment demonstrating optical trapping of an ion in a single-beam dipole trap superimposed by a static electric potential [Nat. Photonics 4, 772--775 (2010)]. Here, we first discuss the experimental procedures focussing on the influence and consequences of the static electric potential. These potentials can easily prevent successful optical trapping, if their configuration is not chosen carefully. Afterwards, we analyse the dipole trap experiments with different analytic models, in which different approximations are applied. According to these models the experimental results agree with recoil heating as the relevant heating effect. In addition, a Monte-Carlo simulation has been developed to refine the analysis. It reveals a large impact of the static electric potential on the dipole trap experiments in general. While it supports the results of the analytic models for the parameters used in the experiments, the analytic models cease their validity for significantly different parameters. Finally, we propose technical improvements for future realizations of experiments with optically trapped ions.

id: 1112.3909
title: Phononic pairing glue in cuprates and related high-temperature superconductors
authors: A. S. Alexandrov
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, invited paper at the symposium on "Recent progress in new superconductors and related multifunctional materials" of EMRS Fall Meeting at Warsaw, September 19 - 23, 2011
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3909
abstract: Along with some other researches we have realised that the true origin of high-temperature superconductivity should be found in the strong Coulomb repulsion combined with a significant electronphonon interaction. Both interactions are strong (on the order of 1 eV) compared with the low Fermi energy of doped carries which makes the conventional BCS-Eliashberg theory inapplicable in cuprates and related doped insulators. Based on our recent analytical and numerical results I argue that high-temperature superconductivity from repulsion is impossible for any strength of the Coulomb interaction. Major steps of our alternative polaronic theory are outlined starting from the generic Hamiltonian with the unscreened (bare) Coulomb and electron-phonon interactions accounting for critical temperatures of high-temperature superconductors without any adjustable parameters.

id: 1112.3942
title: Tunable exciton interactions in optical lattices with polar molecules
authors: Ping Xiang, Marina Litinskaya, Roman V. Krems
comments: Some typos have been corrected in this version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 061401(R) (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.3942
abstract: Rotational excitation of polar molecules trapped in an optical lattice gives rise to rotational excitons. Here we show that non-linear interactions of such excitons can be controlled by an electric field. The exciton--exciton interactions can be tuned to induce exciton pairing, leading to the formation of biexcitons. Tunable non-linear interactions between excitons can be used for many applications ranging from the controlled preparation of entangled quasiparticles to the study of polaron interactions and the effects of non-linear interactions on quantum energy transport in molecular aggregates.

id: 1112.4025
title: Voltage controlled exchange energies of a two electron silicon double quantum dot with and without charge defects in the dielectric
authors: Rajib Rahman, Erik Nielsen, Richard P. Muller, Malcolm S. Carroll
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review B 85, 125423 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4025
abstract: Quantum dots are artificial atoms used for a multitude of purposes. Charge defects are commonly present and can significantly perturb the designed energy spectrum and purpose of the dots. Voltage controlled exchange energy in silicon double quantum dots (DQD) represents a system that is very sensitive to charge position and is of interest for quantum computing. We calculate the energy spectrum of the silicon double quantum dot system using a full configuration interaction that uses tight binding single particle wavefunctions. This approach allows us to analyze atomic scale charge perturbations of the DQD while accounting for the details of the complex momentum space physics of silicon (i.e., valley and valley-orbit physics). We analyze how the energy levels and exchange curves for a DQD are affected by nearby charge defects at various positions relative to the dot, which are consistent with defects expected in the metal-oxide-semiconductor system.

id: 1112.4034
title: Searching for confined modes in graphene channels: the variable phase method
authors: D. A. Stone, C. A. Downing, M. E. Portnoi
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. V2: abstract expanded, 13 references added, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 075464 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4034
abstract: Using the variable phase method, we reformulate the Dirac equation governing the charge carriers in graphene into a nonlinear first-order differential equation from which we can treat both confined-state problems in electron waveguides and above-barrier scattering problems for arbitrary-shaped potential barriers and wells, decaying at large distances. We show that this method agrees with a known analytic result for a hyperbolic secant potential and go on to investigate the nature of more experimentally realizable electron waveguides, showing that, when the Fermi energy is set at the Dirac point, truly confined states are supported in pristine graphene. In contrast to exponentially-decaying potentials, we discover that the threshold potential strength at which the first confined state appears is vanishingly small for potentials decaying at large distances as a power law, but nonetheless further confined states are formed when the strength and spread of the potential reach a certain threshold.

id: 1112.4056
title: How do wave packets spread? Time evolution on Ehrenfest time scales
authors: Roman Schubert, Raul O. Vallejos, Fabricio Toscano
comments: 30 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4056
abstract: We derive an extension of the standard time dependent WKB theory which can be applied to propagate coherent states and other strongly localised states for long times. It allows in particular to give a uniform description of the transformation from a localised coherent state to a delocalised Lagrangian state which takes place at the Ehrenfest time. The main new ingredient is a metaplectic operator which is used to modify the initial state in a way that standard time dependent WKB can then be applied for the propagation. We give a detailed analysis of the phase space geometry underlying this construction and use this to determine the range of validity of the new method. Several examples are used to illustrate and test the scheme and two applications are discussed: (i) For scattering of a wave packet on a barrier near the critical energy we can derive uniform approximations for the transition from reflection to transmission. (ii) A wave packet propagated along a hyperbolic trajectory becomes a Lagrangian state associated with the unstable manifold at the Ehrenfest time, this is illustrated with the kicked harmonic oscillator.

id: 1112.4086
title: Viscosity of an ideal relativistic quantum fluid: A perturbative study
authors: Giorgio Torrieri
comments: Accepted for publication, Phys.Rev.D. Discussion slightly clarified and extended, references added, error in calculation fixed. COnclusions unchanged
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4086
abstract: We show that a quantized ideal fluid will generally exhibit a small but non-zero viscosity due to the backreaction of quantum soundwaves on the background. We use an effective field theory expansion to estimate this viscosity to first order in perturbation theory. We discuss our results, and whether this estimate can be used to obtain a more model-independent estimate of the "quantum bound" on the viscosity of physical systems

id: 1112.4097
title: Product vacua with boundary states
authors: Sven Bachmann, Bruno Nachtergaele
comments: New section on SO(2J+1)-invariant models
journal: Phys. Rev. B, 86, 035149 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4097
abstract: We introduce a family of quantum spin chains with nearest-neighbor interactions that can serve to clarify and refine the classification of gapped quantum phases of such systems. The gapped ground states of these models can be described as a product vacuum with a finite number of particles bound to the edges. The numbers of particles, n_L and n_R, that can bind to the left and right edges of the finite chains serve as indices of the particular phase a model belongs to. All these ground states, which we call Product Vacua with Boundary States (PVBS) can be described as Matrix Product States (MPS). We present a curve of gapped Hamiltonians connecting the AKLT model to its representative PVBS model, which has indices n_L=n_R=1. We also present examples with n_L=n_R=J, for any integer J\geq 1, that are related to a recently introduced class of SO(2J+1)-invariant quantum spin chains.

id: 1112.4101
title: Exploring corner transfer matrices and corner tensors for the classical simulation of quantum lattice systems
authors: Roman Orus
comments: 25 pages, 32 figures, 2 tables. Revised version. Technical details on some of the algorithms have been moved to appendices. To appear in PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 205117 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4101
abstract: In this paper we explore the practical use of the corner transfer matrix and its higher-dimensional generalization, the corner tensor, to develop tensor network algorithms for the classical simulation of quantum lattice systems of infinite size. This exploration is done mainly in one and two spatial dimensions (1d and 2d). We describe a number of numerical algorithms based on corner matri- ces and tensors to approximate different ground state properties of these systems. The proposed methods make also use of matrix product operators and projected entangled pair operators, and naturally preserve spatial symmetries of the system such as translation invariance. In order to assess the validity of our algorithms, we provide preliminary benchmarking calculations for the spin-1/2 quantum Ising model in a transverse field in both 1d and 2d. Our methods are a plausible alternative to other well-established tensor network approaches such as iDMRG and iTEBD in 1d, and iPEPS and TERG in 2d. The computational complexity of the proposed algorithms is also considered and, in 2d, important differences are found depending on the chosen simulation scheme. We also discuss further possibilities, such as 3d quantum lattice systems, periodic boundary conditions, and real time evolution. This discussion leads us to reinterpret the standard iTEBD and iPEPS algorithms in terms of corner transfer matrices and corner tensors. Our paper also offers a perspective on many properties of the corner transfer matrix and its higher-dimensional generalizations in the light of novel tensor network methods.

id: 1112.4115
title: Ultralow-power local laser control of the dimer density in alkali-metal vapors through photodesorption
authors: Pankaj K. Jha, Konstantin E. Dorfman, Zhenhuan Yi, Luqi Yuan, Vladimir A. Sautenkov, Yuri V. Rostovtsev, George R. Welch, Aleksei M. Zheltikov, Marlan O. Scully
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 101, 091107 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4115
abstract: Ultralow-power diode-laser radiation is employed to induce photodesorption of cesium from a partially transparent thin-film cesium adsorbate on a solid surface. Using resonant Raman spectroscopy, we demonstrate that this photodesorption process enables an accurate local optical control of the density of dimer molecules in alkali-metal vapors.

id: 1112.4127
title: Ground state factorization of heterogeneous spin models in magnetic fields
authors: J. Abouie, M. Rezai, A. Langari
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures, 1 table, Accepted in Progress of Theoretical Physics
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 127 (2012), 315-330
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4127
abstract: The exact factorized ground state of a heterogeneous (ferrimagnetic) spin model which is composed of two spins ($\rho, \sigma$) has been presented in detail. The Hamiltonian is not necessarily translational invariant and the exchange couplings can be competing antiferromagnetic and ferromagnetic arbitrarily between different sub-lattices to build many practical models such as dimerized and tetramerized materials and ladder compounds. The condition to get a factorized ground state is investigated for non-frustrated spin models in the presence of a uniform and a staggered magnetic field. According to the lattice model structure we have categorized the spin models in two different classes and obtained their factorization conditions. The first class contains models in which their lattice structures do not provide a single uniform magnetic field to suppress the quantum correlations. Some of these models may have a factorized ground state in the presence of a uniform and a staggered magnetic field. However, in the second class there are several spin models in which their ground state could be factorized whether a staggered field is applied to the system or not. For the latter case, in the absence of a staggered field the factorizing uniform field is unique. However, the degrees of freedom for obtaining the factorization conditions are increased by adding a staggered magnetic field.

id: 1112.4144
title: Theory of attosecond delays in laser-assisted photoionization
authors: J. M. Dahlstr?m, D. Gu¨¦not, K. Kl¨¹nder, M. Gisselbrecht, J. Mauritsson, A. L'Huillier, A. Maquet, R. Ta?eb
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures, special issue 'Attosecond spectroscopy' Chem. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4144
abstract: We study the temporal aspects of laser-assisted extreme ultraviolet (XUV) photoionization using attosecond pulses of harmonic radiation. The aim of this paper is to establish the general form of the phase of the relevant transition amplitudes and to make the connection with the time-delays that have been recently measured in experiments. We find that the overall phase contains two distinct types of contributions: one is expressed in terms of the phase-shifts of the photoelectron continuum wavefunction while the other is linked to continuum--continuum transitions induced by the infrared (IR) laser probe. Our formalism applies to both kinds of measurements reported so far, namely the ones using attosecond pulse trains of XUV harmonics and the others based on the use of isolated attosecond pulses (streaking). The connection between the phases and the time-delays is established with the help of finite difference approximations to the energy derivatives of the phases. This makes clear that the observed time-delays is a sum of two components: a one-photon Wigner-like delay and an universal delay that originates from the probing process itself.

id: 1112.4170
title: Atomic Rydberg Reservoirs for Polar Molecules
authors: Bo Zhao, Alexander Gl?tzle, Guido Pupillo, Peter Zoller
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 193007 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4170
abstract: We discuss laser dressed dipolar and Van der Waals interactions between atoms and polar molecules, so that a cold atomic gas with laser admixed Rydberg levels acts as a designed reservoir for both elastic and inelastic collisional processes. The elastic scattering channel is characterized by large elastic scattering cross sections and repulsive shields to protect from close encounter collisions. In addition, we discuss a dissipative (inelastic) collision where a spontaneously emitted photon carries away (kinetic) energy of the collision partners, thus providing a significant energy loss in a single collision. This leads to the scenario of rapid thermalization and cooling of a molecule in the mK down to the \mu K regime by cold atoms.

id: 1112.4172
title: Surface plasmon resonance under conditions of electromagnetically induced transparency
authors: Chunguang Du
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4172
abstract: A scheme for a surface plasmon resonance system under conditions of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) is proposed. The system is composed of three layers: a prism, a thin metal film, and a hybrid dielectric consisting of EIT atoms and a background substance. A probe and a coupling laser beam are input. Corresponding analytical formulas are derived for the cases when one or both of the laser beams excite surface plasmon polaritons at the metal/dielectric interface. Under resonance conditions, an extremely sharp dip appears in the reflectivity-frequency spectrum of the probe field, revealing new properties of two-dimensional EIT. The reflectivity is extremely sensitive to shifts in the laser frequencies and atomic levels, and to variations of permittivity of the substrate. This EIT-SPR system may to be used for novel magnetometers and biosensors.

id: 1112.4199
title: Direct observation of quantum phonon fluctuations in a one dimensional Bose gas
authors: Julien Armijo
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures (Supplementary material 3 pages, 3 figures)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 225306 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4199
abstract: We report the first direct observation of collective quantum fluctuations in a continuous field. Shot-to-shot atom number fluctuations in small sub-volumes of a weakly interacting ultracold atomic 1D cloud are studied using \textit{in situ} absorption imaging and statistical analysis of the density profiles. In the cloud centers, well in the \textit{quantum quasicondensate} regime, the ratio of chemical potential to thermal energy is $\mu/ k_B T\simeq4$, and, owing to high resolution, up to 20% of the microscopically observed fluctuations are quantum phonons. Within a non-local analysis at variable observation length, we observe a clear deviation from a classical field prediction, which reveals the emergence of dominant quantum fluctuations at short length scales, as the thermodynamic limit breaks down.

id: 1112.4257
title: d-wave Superfluid with Gapless Edges in a Cold Atom Trap
authors: Anne-Louise Gadsbolle, H. Francis Song, Karyn Le Hur
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 051603(R) (2012)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4257
abstract: We consider a strongly repulsive fermionic gas in a two-dimensional optical lattice confined by a harmonic trapping potential. To address the strongly repulsive regime, we consider the $t-J$ Hamiltonian. The presence of the harmonic trapping potential enables the stabilization of coexisting and competing phases. In particular, at low temperatures, this allows the realization of a d-wave superfluid region surrounded by purely (gapless) normal edges. Solving the Bogoliubov-de Gennes equations and comparing with the local density approximation, we show that the proximity to the Mott insulator is revealed by a downturn of the Fermi liquid order parameter at the center of the trap where the d-wave gap has a maximum. The density profile evolves linearly with distance.

id: 1112.4273
title: Dynamical phases and intermittency of the dissipative quantum Ising model
authors: Cenap Ates, Beatriz Olmos, Juan P. Garrahan, Igor Lesanovsky
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 043620 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4273
abstract: We employ the concept of a dynamical, activity order parameter to study the Ising model in a transverse magnetic field coupled to a Markovian bath. For a certain range of values of the spin-spin coupling, magnetic field and dissipation rate, we identify a first order dynamical phase transition between active and inactive {\em dynamical phases}. We demonstrate that dynamical phase-coexistence becomes manifest in an intermittent behavior of the bath quanta emission. Moreover, we establish the connection between the dynamical order parameter that quantifies the activity, and the longitudinal magnetization that serves as static order parameter. The system we consider can be implemented in current experiments with Rydberg atoms and trapped ions.

id: 1112.4316
title: On subgroup adapted bases for representations of the symmetric group
authors: Robert de Mello Koch, Norman Ives, Michael Stephanou
comments: 25 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4316
abstract: The split basis of an irreducible representation of the symmetric group, $S_{n+m}$, is the basis which is adapted to direct product subgroups of the form $S_{n} \times S_{m}$. In this article we have calculated symmetric group subduction coefficients relating the standard Young-Yamanouchi basis for the symmetric group to the split basis by means of a novel version of the Schur-Weyl duality. We have also directly obtained matrix representations in the split basis using these techniques. The advantages of this approach are that we obtain analytical expressions for the subduction coefficients and matrix representations and directly resolve issues of multiplicity in the subduction of $S_{n} \times S_{m}$ irreducible representations from $S_{n+m}$ irreducible representations. Our method is applicable to $S_{n+m}$ irreducible representations labelled by Young diagrams with large row length differences. We provide evidence for a systematic expansion in the inverse row length difference and tools to compute the leading contribution, which is exact when row length differences are infinite.

id: 1112.4353
title: A holographic map of action onto entropy
authors: D. Acosta, P. Fernandez de Cordoba, J. M. Isidro, J. L. G. Santander
comments: 12 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1107.1898
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4353
abstract: We propose a holographic correspondence between the action integral I describing the mechanics of a finite number of degrees of freedom in the bulk, and the entropy S of the boundary (a holographic screen) enclosing that same volume. The action integral must be measured in units of (i times) Planck's constant, while the entropy must be measured in units of Boltzmann's constant. In this way we are led to an intriguing relation between the second law of thermodynamics and the uncertainty principle of quantum mechanics.

id: 1112.4362
title: Experimental test of the time stability of the half-life of alpha-decay Po-214 nuclei
authors: E. N. Alexeyev, Ju. M. Gavriljuk, A. M. Gangapshev, A. M. Gezhaev, V. V. Kazalov, V. V. Kuzminov, S. I. Panasenko, S. S. Ratkevich, S. P. Yakimenko
comments: Proceedings for XV-th International School "Particles and Cosmology" May 26 - June 2, 2011 Troitsk, Moscow Region, Russian Federation, 6 pages, 11 figure
journal: Astropart Phys 46 (2013) 23-28
subjects: Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4362
abstract: A method and results of an experimental test of the time stability of the half-life of alpha-decay Po-214 nuclei are presented. Two underground installations aimed at monitoring the time stability have been constructed. Time of measurement exceeds 1038 days for one set up and 562 days for the other. It was found that amplitude of possible annual variation of Po-214 half-life does not exceed 0.2% of the mean value. The limit on the deviation of the decay curve from exponent at 0.034\times T_{1/2}<t< 0.1\times T_{1/2} range has been found.

id: 1112.4437
title: About spin electromagnetic wave-particle with ring singularity
authors: Alexander A. Chernitskii
comments: The article for proceedings of the XIV Workshop on high energy spin physics (DSPIN-11), Dubna, Russia, September 20-24, 2011. 4 pages
journal: XIV Advanced Research Workshop on High Energy Spin Physics (DSPIN-11) Proceedings, JINR, Dubna, 2012, pp. 395-398
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4437
abstract: An axisymmetric space-localized solution of nonlinear electrodynamics is considered as massive charged particle with spin and magnetic moment. The appropriate solution for nonlinear electrodynamics with ring singularity is investigated. In view of this problem the system of toroidal waves in linear electrodynamics is considered. The problem with boundary conditions on the singular ring of the toroidal coordinate system is investigated. The boundary conditions are taken taking into account the conformity between the toroidal and cylindrical waves on the ring. In this case the singular ring looks like convolute axis of cylindrical system. The appropriate system of wave modes are obtained in an integral form with the help of source function.

id: 1112.4454
title: Evolutionary Hessian Learning: Forced Optimal Covariance Adaptive Learning (FOCAL)
authors: Ofer M. Shir, Jonathan Roslund, Darrell Whitley, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Numerical Analysis (cs.NA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4454
abstract: The Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy (CMA-ES) has been the most successful Evolution Strategy at exploiting covariance information; it uses a form of Principle Component Analysis which, under certain conditions, is suggested to converge to the correct covariance matrix, formulated as the inverse of the mathematically well-defined Hessian matrix. However, in practice, there exist conditions where CMA-ES converges to the global optimum (accomplishing its primary goal) while it does not learn the true covariance matrix (missing an auxiliary objective), likely due to step-size deficiency. These circumstances can involve high-dimensional landscapes with large condition numbers. This paper introduces a novel technique entitled Forced Optimal Covariance Adaptive Learning (FOCAL), with the explicit goal of determining the Hessian at the global basin of attraction. It begins by introducing theoretical foundations to the inverse relationship between the learned covariance and the Hessian matrices. FOCAL is then introduced and demonstrated to retrieve the Hessian matrix with high fidelity on both model landscapes and experimental Quantum Control systems, which are observed to possess a non-separable, non-quadratic search landscape. The recovered Hessian forms are corroborated by physical knowledge of the systems. This study constitutes an example for Natural Computing successfully serving other branches of natural sciences, and introducing at the same time a powerful generic method for any high-dimensional continuous search seeking landscape information.

id: 1112.4457
title: Condensation dynamics in a quantum-quenched Bose gas
authors: Robert P. Smith, Scott Beattie, Stuart Moulder, Robert L. D. Campbell, Zoran Hadzibabic
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 105301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4457
abstract: By quenching the strength of interactions in a partially condensed Bose gas we create a "super-saturated" vapor which has more thermal atoms than it can contain in equilibrium. Subsequently, the number of condensed atoms ($N_0$) grows even though the temperature ($T$) rises and the total atom number decays. We show that the non-equilibrium evolution of the system is isoenergetic and for small initial $N_0$ observe a clear separation between $T$ and $N_0$ dynamics, thus explicitly demonstrating the theoretically expected "two-step" picture of condensate growth. For increasing initial $N_0$ values we observe a crossover to classical relaxation dynamics. The size of the observed quench-induced effects can be explained using a simple equation of state for an interacting harmonically-trapped atomic gas.

id: 1112.4474
title: Entanglement scaling in two-dimensional gapless systems
authors: Hyejin Ju, Ann B. Kallin, Paul Fendley, Matthew B. Hastings, Roger G. Melko
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 165121 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4474
abstract: We numerically determine subleading scaling terms in the ground-state entanglement entropy of several two-dimensional (2D) gapless systems, including a Heisenberg model with N\'eel order, a free Dirac fermion in the {\pi}-flux phase, and the nearest-neighbor resonating-valence-bond wavefunction. For these models, we show that the entanglement entropy between cylindrical regions of length x and L - x, extending around a torus of length L, depends upon the dimensionless ratio x/L. This can be well-approximated on finite-size lattices by a function ln(sin({\pi}x/L)), akin to the familiar chord-length dependence in one dimension. We provide evidence, however, that the precise form of this bulk-dependent contribution is a more general function in the 2D thermodynamic limit.

id: 1112.4543
title: Functional Integration and High Energy Scattering of Particles with Anomalous Magnetic Moments in Quantum Field Theory
authors: Nguyen Suan Han, Nguyen Nhu Xuan, Le Thi Hai Yen
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4543
abstract: The functional integration method is used for studying the scattering of a scalar pion on nucleon with the anomalous magnetic moment in the framework of nonrenomalizable quantum field theory. In the asymptotic region s {\to} {\infty}, |t| << s the representation of eikonal type for the amplitude of pion-nucleon scattering is obtained. The anomalous magnetic moment leads to additional terms in the amplitude which describe the spin flips in the scattering process. It is shown that the renormalization problem does not arise in the asymptotic s {\to} {\infty} since the unrenomalized divergences disappear in this approximation. Coulomb interference is considered as an application.

id: 1112.4544
title: Orthogonality Catastrophe in Quantum Sticking
authors: Dennis P. Clougherty, Yanting Zhang
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 120401 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4544
abstract: The probability that a particle will stick to a surface is fundamental to a variety of processes in surface science, including catalysis, epitaxial growth, and corrosion. At ultralow energies, how particles scatter or stick to a surface affects the performance of atomic clocks, matter-wave interferometers, atom chips and other quantum information processing devices. In this energy regime, the sticking probability is influenced by a distinctly quantum mechanical effect: quantum reflection, a result of matter wave coherence, suppresses the probability of finding the particle near the surface and reduces the sticking probability. We find that another quantum effect can occur, further shaping the sticking probability: the orthogonality catastrophe, a result of the change in the quantum ground state of the surface in the presence of a particle, can dramatically alter the probability for quantum sticking and create a superreflective surface at low energies.

id: 1112.4579
title: Limit Theorems for Quantum Walks on the Union of Planes
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: 22 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4579
abstract: We extend the construction given by [Chisaki et.al, arXiv:1009.1306v1] from lines to planes, and obtain the associated limit theorems for quantum walks on such a graph.

id: 1112.4734
title: Exceptional Point Dynamics in Photonic Honeycomb Lattices with PT Symmetry
authors: Hamidreza Ramezani, Tsampikos Kottos, Vassilios Kovanis, Demetrios N. Christodoulides
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: PRA 85, 013818 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4734
abstract: We theoretically investigate the flow of electromagnetic waves in complex honeycomb photonic lattices with local PT symmetries. Such PT structure is introduced via a judicious arrangement of gain or loss across the honeycomb lattice, characterized by a gain/loss parameter \gamma. We found a new class of conical diffraction phenomena where the formed cone is brighter and travels along the lattice with a transverse speed proportional to Sqrt (\gamma).

id: 1112.4754
title: Non-exponential one-body loss in a Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: S. Knoop, J. S. Borbely, R. van Rooij, W. Vassen
comments: The intuitive explanation of the atomic transfer effect has been corrected
journal: Physical Review A 85, 025602 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4754
abstract: We have studied the decay of a Bose-Einstein condensate of metastable helium atoms in an optical dipole trap. In the regime where two- and three-body losses can be neglected we show that the Bose-Einstein condensate and the thermal cloud show fundamentally different decay characteristics. The total number of atoms decays exponentially with time constant tau; however, the thermal cloud decays exponentially with time constant (4/3)tau and the condensate decays much faster, and non-exponentially. We show that this behaviour, which should be present for all BECs in thermal equilibrium with a considerable thermal fraction, is due to a transfer of atoms from the condensate to the thermal cloud during its decay.

id: 1112.4788
title: Entropic Inequalities and Marginal Problems
authors: Tobias Fritz, Rafael Chaves
comments: 26 pages, 3 figures
journal: IEEE Trans. on Information Theory, vol. 59, pages 803 - 817 (2013)
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Probability (math.PR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4788
abstract: A marginal problem asks whether a given family of marginal distributions for some set of random variables arises from some joint distribution of these variables. Here we point out that the existence of such a joint distribution imposes non-trivial conditions already on the level of Shannon entropies of the given marginals. These entropic inequalities are necessary (but not sufficient) criteria for the existence of a joint distribution. For every marginal problem, a list of such Shannon-type entropic inequalities can be calculated by Fourier-Motzkin elimination, and we offer a software interface to a Fourier-Motzkin solver for doing so. For the case that the hypergraph of given marginals is a cycle graph, we provide a complete analytic solution to the problem of classifying all relevant entropic inequalities, and use this result to bound the decay of correlations in stochastic processes. Furthermore, we show that Shannon-type inequalities for differential entropies are not relevant for continuous-variable marginal problems; non-Shannon-type inequalities are, both in the discrete and in the continuous case. In contrast to other approaches, our general framework easily adapts to situations where one has additional (conditional) independence requirements on the joint distribution, as in the case of graphical models. We end with a list of open problems. A complementary article discusses applications to quantum nonlocality and contextuality.

id: 1112.4833
title: Quantum Computation of Scattering in Scalar Quantum Field Theories
authors: Stephen P. Jordan, Keith S. M. Lee, John Preskill
comments: 63 pages. Expansion of arXiv:1111.3633 with additional material
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 14, 1014-1080 (2014)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4833
abstract: Quantum field theory provides the framework for the most fundamental physical theories to be confirmed experimentally, and has enabled predictions of unprecedented precision. However, calculations of physical observables often require great computational complexity and can generally be performed only when the interaction strength is weak. A full understanding of the foundations and rich consequences of quantum field theory remains an outstanding challenge. We develop a quantum algorithm to compute relativistic scattering amplitudes in massive phi-fourth theory in spacetime of four and fewer dimensions. The algorithm runs in a time that is polynomial in the number of particles, their energy, and the desired precision, and applies at both weak and strong coupling. Thus, it offers exponential speedup over existing classical methods at high precision or strong coupling.

id: 1112.4966
title: Towards a black body for near-field thermal radiation
authors: S.-A. Biehs, M. Tschikin, P. Ben-Abdallah
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 104301 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.4966
abstract: We study the near-field heat exchange between hyperbolic materials and demonstrate that these media are able to support broadband frustrated modes which transport heat by photon tunnelling with a high efficiency close to the theoretical limit. We predict that hyperbolic materials can be designed to be perfect thermal emitters at nanoscale and derive the near-field analog of the blackbody limit.

id: 1112.5013
title: Entangling many-body bound states with propagative modes in Bose-Hubbard systems
authors: Mario Collura, Helge Aufderheide, Guillaume Roux, Dragi Karevski
comments: 12 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 013615 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5013
abstract: The quantum evolution of a cloud of bosons initially localized on part of a one dimensional optical lattice and suddenly subjected to a linear ramp is studied, realizing a quantum analog of the "Galileo ramp" experiment. The main remarkable effects of this realistic setup are revealed using analytical and numerical methods. Only part of the particles are ejected for a high enough ramp, while the others remain self-trapped. Then, the trapped density profile displays rich dynamics with Josephson-like oscillations around a plateau. This setup, by coupling bound states to propagative modes, creates two diverging condensates for which the entanglement is computed and related to the equilibrium one. Further, we address the role of integrability on the entanglement and on the damping and thermalization of simple observables.

id: 1112.5040
title: An extension of Bogoliubov theory for a many-body system with a time scale hierarchy: the quantum mechanics of second Josephson oscillations
authors: M. P. Strzys, J. R. Anglin
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053610 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5040
abstract: Adiabatic approximations are a powerful tool for simplifying nonlinear quantum dynamics, and are applicable whenever a system exhibits a hierarchy of time scales. Current interest in small nonlinear quantum systems, such as few-mode Bose-Hubbard models, warrants further development of adiabatic methods in the particular context of these models. Here we extend our recent work on a simple four-mode Bose-Hubbard model with two distinct dynamical time scales, in which we showed that among the perturbations around excited stationary states of the system is a slow collective excitation that is not present in the Bogoliubov spectrum. We characterized this mode as a resonant energy exchange with its frequency shifted by nonlinear effects, and referred to it as a second Josephson oscillation, in analogy with the second sound mode of liquid helium II. We now generalize our previous theory beyond the mean field regime, and construct a general Bogoliubov free quasiparticle theory that explicitly respects the system's adiabatic invariant as well the exact conservation of particles. We compare this theory to the numerically exact quantum energy spectrum with up to forty particles, and find good agreement over a significant range of parameter space.

id: 1112.5166
title: Entanglement Entropy of Systems with Spontaneously Broken Continuous Symmetry
authors: Max A. Metlitski, Tarun Grover
comments: 39 pages, 1 figure. v2: added section III with a new derivation of the main result and an exact calculation of the full entanglement spectrum
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5166
abstract: We study entanglement properties of systems with spontaneously broken continuous symmetry. We find that in addition to the expected area law behavior, the entanglement entropy contains a subleading contribution which diverges logarithmically with the subsystem size in agreement with the Monte Carlo simulations of A. Kallin et. al. (Phys. Rev. B 84, 165134 (2011)). The coefficient of the logarithm is a universal number given simply by $N_G (d-1)/2$, where $N_G$ is the number of Goldstone modes and $d$ is the spatial dimension. This term is present even when the subsystem boundary is straight and contains no corners, and its origin lies in the interplay of Goldstone modes and restoration of symmetry in a finite volume. We also compute the "low-energy" part of the entanglement spectrum and show that it has the same characteristic "tower of states" form as the physical low-energy spectrum obtained when a system with spontaneously broken continuous symmetry is placed in a finite volume.

id: 1112.5183
title: Dirac equation in a de Sitter expansion for massive neutrinos from modern Kaluza-Klein theory
authors: Pablo Alejandro S¨¢nchez, Mariano Anabitarte, Mauricio Bellini
comments: Version with some corrections included in the erratum
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5183
abstract: Using the modern Kaluza-Klein theory of gravity (or the Induced Matter theory), we study the Dirac equation for massive neutrinos on a de Sitter background metric from a 5D Riemann-flat (and hence Ricci-flat) extended de Sitter metric, on which is defined the vacuum for test massless 1/2-neutral fields minimally coupled to gravity and free of any other interactions. We obtain that the effective 4D masses of the neutrinos can only take three possible values, which are related to the (static) foliation of the fifth and noncompact extra dimension.

id: 1112.5321
title: Salpeter equation and causality
authors: Piotr Kosinski
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures
journal: Prog. Theor. Phys. 128 (2012), 1-14
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5321
abstract: Acausal behavior of solutions to free Salpeter equation is considered . It is shown that the formal properties of solutions suggest the acausal propagation of quantum phenomena. On the other hand the same properties of solutions describing macroscopic phenomena can be explained without appealing to the notion of acausality.

id: 1112.5342
title: Entanglement Entropy of 3-d Conformal Gauge Theories with Many Flavors
authors: Igor R. Klebanov, Silviu S. Pufu, Subir Sachdev, Benjamin R. Safdi
comments: 31 pages, 2 figures; v2 refs added, minor changes
journal: JHEP 1205 (2012) 036
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5342
abstract: Three-dimensional conformal field theories (CFTs) of deconfined gauge fields coupled to gapless flavors of fermionic and bosonic matter describe quantum critical points of condensed matter systems in two spatial dimensions. An important characteristic of these CFTs is the finite part of the entanglement entropy across a circle. The negative of this quantity is equal to the finite part of the free energy of the Euclidean CFT on the three-sphere, and it has been proposed to satisfy the so called F-theorem, which states that it decreases under RG flow and is stationary at RG fixed points. We calculate the three-sphere free energy of non-supersymmetric gauge theory with a large number N_F of bosonic and/or fermionic flavors to the first subleading order in 1/N_F. We also calculate the exact free energies of the analogous chiral and non-chiral {\cal N} = 2 supersymmetric theories using localization, and find agreement with the 1/N_F expansion. We analyze some RG flows of supersymmetric theories, providing further evidence for the F-theorem.

id: 1112.5364
title: Supersymmetric isospectral formalism for the calculation of near-zero energy states: application to the very weakly bound ${^4}$He trimer excited state
authors: Sudip Kumar Haldar, Barnali Chakrabarti, Tapan Kumar Das
comments: accepted
journal: Few-Body Systems 53, 283 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5364
abstract: We propose a novel mathematical approach for the calculation of near-zero energy states by solving potentials which are isospectral with the original one. For any potential, families of strictly isospectral potentials (with very different shape) having desirable and adjustable features are generated by supersymmetric isospectral formalism. The near-zero energy Efimov state in the original potential is effectively trapped in the deep well of the isospectral family and facilitates more accurate calculation of the Efimov state. Application to the first excited state in 4He trimer is presented.

id: 1112.5424
title: Quantum Control Experiments as a Testbed for Evolutionary Multi-Objective Algorithms
authors: Ofer M. Shir, Jonathan Roslund, Zaki Leghtas, Herschel Rabitz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5424
abstract: Experimental multi-objective Quantum Control is an emerging topic within the broad physics and chemistry applications domain of controlling quantum phenomena. This realm offers cutting edge ultrafast laser laboratory applications, which pose multiple objectives, noise, and possibly constraints on the high-dimensional search. In this study we introduce the topic of Multi-Observable Quantum Control (MOQC), and consider specific systems to be Pareto optimized subject to uncertainty, either experimentally or by means of simulated systems. The latter include a family of mathematical test-functions with a practical link to MOQC experiments, which are introduced here for the first time. We investigate the behavior of the multi-objective version of the Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy (MO-CMA-ES) and assess its performance on computer simulations as well as on laboratory closed-loop experiments. Overall, we propose a comprehensive study on experimental evolutionary Pareto optimization in high-dimensional continuous domains, draw some practical conclusions concerning the impact of fitness disturbance on algorithmic behavior, and raise several theoretical issues in the broad evolutionary multi-objective context.

id: 1112.5462
title: Quantum Hall transport as a probe of capacitance profile at graphene edges
authors: I. J. Vera-Marun, P. J. Zomer, A. Veligura, M. H. D. Guimar?es, L. Visser, N. Tombros, H. J. van Elferen, U. Zeitler, B. J. van Wees
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 102, 013106 (2013)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5462
abstract: The quantum Hall effect is a remarkable manifestation of quantized transport in a two-dimensional electron gas. Given its technological relevance, it is important to understand its development in realistic nanoscale devices. In this work we present how the appearance of different edge channels in a field-effect device is influenced by the inhomogeneous capacitance profile existing near the sample edges, a condition of particular relevance for graphene. We apply this practical idea to experiments on high quality graphene, demonstrating the potential of quantum Hall transport as a spatially resolved probe of density profiles near the edge of this two-dimensional electron gas.

id: 1112.5494
title: Dynamical revival of phase coherence in a many-boson system
authors: Shi-Jie Yang, Sumin Nie
comments: 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 82,061607(R)(2010)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5494
abstract: We study the quantum dynamics of cold Bose atoms in a double well. It is shown that self-trapping, as well as population oscillations are common phenomena associated to nonlinear interactions. For larger $U/t$, multi-particle tunneling is damped and the quantum dynamics is dominated by the single-particle tunneling. The many-body system can be effectively described in a truncated Fock space. It exhibits coherence-decoherence oscillations in the temporal evolution. We predict a novel phenomenon of dynamical revival and collapse of matter wave fields in optical lattices in regimes near the superfluid-Mott insulator phase boundary.

id: 1112.5499
title: Two-Dimensional Superfluid Flows in Inhomogeneous Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Zhenya Yan, V. V. Konotop, A. V. Yulin, W. M. Liu
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. E
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 016601 (2012)
subjects: Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5499
abstract: We report a novel algorithm of constructing linear and nonlinear potentials in the two-dimensional Gross-Pitaevskii equation subject to given boundary conditions, which allow for exact analytic solutions. The obtained solutions represent superfluid flows in inhomogeneous Bose-Einstein condensates. The method is based on the combination of the similarity reduction of the two-dimensional Gross-Pitaevskii equation to the one-dimensional nonlinear Schrodinger equation, the latter allowing for exact solutions, with the conformal mapping of the given domain, where the flow is considered, to a half-space. The stability of the obtained flows is addressed. A number of stable and physically relevant examples are described.

id: 1112.5516
title: Crystal, Superfluids, Supersolid and Hetero-Structure in System of Two-Component Strongly-Correlated Bosons in a Cubic Optical Lattice
authors: Ikuo Ichinose, Takumi Ishima, Naohiro Kobayashi, Yoshihito Kuno
comments: 20 pages, 26 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5516
abstract: In the present paper, we study finite-temperature phase structure of two-component hard-core bosons in a cubic optical lattice. The system that we study in the present paper is an effective model for the Bose-Hubbard model with strong on-site repulsions and is called bosonic t-J model. This model is a bosonic counterpart of the t-J model for the strongly-correlated electron systems like the high-temperature superconducting materials. We study the model by means of path-integral methods and Monte-Carlo simulations. We found that this system has a very rich phase structure including checkerboard-type "insulating" state, superfluid, phase-separated state, inhomogeneous cloudlet state, etc. We are also interested in the possible supersolid phase with both the checkerboard order and superfluidity and found that additional nearest-neighbor inter-species attractive force induces the supersolid state. In the supersolid state, paired superfluid appears in addition to the superfluid of single atom. This result gives important insight into mechanism of the high-temperature superconductivity of the cuprate.

id: 1112.5556
title: Novel Attractive Force Between Ions in Quantum Plasmas
authors: Padma Kant Shukla, Bengt Eliasson
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 165007 (2012)
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5556
abstract: We report new attractive force between ions that are shielded by degenerate electrons in quantum plasmas. Specifically, we show that the electric potential around an isolated ion has a hard core negative part that resembles the Lennard-Jones (LJ)-type potential. Physically, the new electric potential is attributed to the consideration of the quantum statistical pressure, the quantum Bohm potential, as well as the electron exchange and electron correlations due to electron-1/2 spin within the framework of the quantum hydrodynamical description of quantum plasmas. The shape of the attractive potential is determined by the ratio between the Bohr radius and the Wigner-Seitz radius of degenerate electrons. The existence of the hard core negative potential will be responsible for the attraction of ions forming lattices and atoms/molecules, as well as for critical points and phase transitions in quantum plasmas at nanoscales.

id: 1112.5558
title: Relativistic X-Ray Free Electron Lasers in the Quantum Regime
authors: Bengt Eliasson, Padma Kant Shukla
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5558
abstract: We present a nonlinear theory for relativistic X-ray free electron lasers in the quantum regime, using a collective Klein-Gordon (KG) equation (for relativistic electrons), which is coupled with the Maxwell-Poisson equations for the electromagnetic and electrostatic fields. In our model, an intense electromagnetic wave is used as a wiggler which interacts with a relativistic electron beam to produce coherent tunable radiation. The KG-Maxwell-Poisson model is used to derive a general nonlinear dispersion relation for parametric instabilities in three-space-dimensions, including an arbitrarily large amplitude electromagnetic wiggler field. The nonlinear dispersion relation reveals the importance of quantum recoil effects and oblique scattering of the radiation that can be tuned by varying the beam energy.

id: 1112.5618
title: Relativistic Hall Effect
authors: Konstantin Y. Bliokh, Franco Nori
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 120403 (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5618
abstract: We consider the relativistic deformation of quantum waves and mechanical bodies carrying intrinsic angular momentum (AM). When observed in a moving reference frame, the centroid of the object undergoes an AM-dependent transverse shift. This is the relativistic analogue of the spin Hall effect, which occurs in free space without any external fields. Remarkably, the shifts of the geometric and energy centroids differ by a factor of 2, and both centroids are crucial for the correct Lorentz transformations of the AM tensor. We examine manifestations of the relativistic Hall effect in quantum vortices, and mechanical flywheels, and also discuss various fundamental aspects of this phenomenon. The perfect agreement of quantum and relativistic approaches allows applications at strikingly different scales: from elementary spinning particles, through classical light, to rotating black-holes.

id: 1112.5619
title: Controversies and Progress in the Problem of Dynamical Fluctuation-Electromagnetic Interactions
authors: A. A. Kyasov, G. V. Dedkov
comments: 46 pages, 5 figures; extended variant submitted to Progress in Surface Science
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5619
abstract: A review is given of the key works relevant to the problem of dynamical fluctuation-electromagnetic interaction, a problem of topical interest over a period of several decades. We discuss controversies and present day progress in this problem considering two basic geometrical configurations: a small particle moving above a plate, and two parallel plates in relative motion.

id: 1112.5662
title: Clustered Wigner crystal phases of cold polar molecules in arrays of one-dimensional tubes
authors: Michael Knap, Erez Berg, Martin Ganahl, Eugene Demler
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures; extended discussion on the experimental implications; details on the Luttinger liquid analysis are provided
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 064501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5662
abstract: We analyze theoretically polar molecules confined in planar arrays of one dimensional tubes. In the classical limit, if the number of tubes is finite, new types of "clustered Wigner crystals" with increasingly many molecules per unit cell can be stabilized by tuning the in-plane angle between the dipolar moments and the tube direction. Quantum mechanically, these phases melt into distinct "clustered Luttinger liquids." We calculate the phase diagram of the system and study the quantum melting of the clustered phases. We find that the requirements for exploring these phases are reachable in current experiments and discuss possible experimental signatures.

id: 1112.5773
title: The Reconstruction Problem and Weak Quantum Values
authors: Maurice de Gosson, Serge de Gosson
comments: To appear in J.Phys.: Math. Theor
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5773
abstract: Quantum Mechanical weak values are an interference effect measured by the cross-Wigner transform W({\phi},{\psi}) of the post-and preselected states, leading to a complex quasi-distribution {\rho}_{{\phi},{\psi}}(x,p) on phase space. We show that the knowledge of {\rho}_{{\phi},{\psi}}(z) and of one of the two functions {\phi},{\psi} unambiguously determines the other, thus generalizing a recent reconstruction result of Lundeen and his collaborators.

id: 1112.5798
title: Validity of nonequilibrium work relations for the rapidly expanding quantum piston
authors: H. T. Quan, Christopher Jarzynski
comments: 16 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5798
abstract: Recent work by Teifel and Mahler [Eur. Phys. J. B 75, 275 (2010)] raises legitimate concerns regarding the validity of quantum nonequilibrium work relations in processes involving moving hard walls. We study this issue in the context of the rapidly expanding one-dimensional quantum piston. Utilizing exact solutions of the time-dependent Schrodinger equation, we ?nd that the evolution of the wave function can be decomposed into static and dynamic components, which have simple semiclassical interpretations in terms of particle-piston collisions. We show that nonequilibrium work relations remains valid at any ?nite piston speed, provided both components are included, and we study explicitly the work distribution for this model system.

id: 1112.5825
title: Sympathetic and swap cooling of trapped ions by cold atoms in a MOT
authors: K. Ravi, Seunghyun Lee, Arijit Sharma, G. Werth, S. A. Rangwala
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: Nat. Commun. 3:1126 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5825
abstract: A mixed system of cooled and trapped, ions and atoms, paves the way for ion assisted cold chemistry and novel many body studies. Due to the different individual trapping mechanisms, trapped atoms are significantly colder than trapped ions, therefore in the combined system, the strong binary ion$-$atom interaction results in heat flow from ions to atoms. Conversely, trapped ions can also get collisionally heated by the cold atoms, making the resulting equilibrium between ions and atoms intriguing. Here we experimentally demonstrate, Rubidium ions (Rb$^+$) cool in contact with magneto-optically trapped (MOT) Rb atoms, contrary to the general expectation of ion heating for equal ion and atom masses. The cooling mechanism is explained theoretically and substantiated with numerical simulations. The importance of resonant charge exchange (RCx) collisions, which allows swap cooling of ions with atoms, wherein a single glancing collision event brings a fast ion to rest, is discussed.

id: 1112.5829
title: Expressions of the Green function in terms of reflection coefficients
authors: Toru Miyazawa
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 10871-10890
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5829
abstract: We study the one-dimensional Schr\"odinger equation and derive exact expressions for the Green function in terms of reflection coefficients which are defined for semi-infinite intervals. We also discuss the relation between our results and the WKB approximation.

id: 1112.5835
title: High-energy asymptotic expansion of the Green function for one-dimensional Fokker-Planck and Schr?dinger equations
authors: Toru Miyazawa
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) 8683-8707
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5835
abstract: A new formalism is presented for high-energy analysis of the Green function for Fokker-Planck and Schr\"odinger equations in one dimension. Formulas for the asymptotic expansion in powers of the inverse wave number are derived, and conditions for the validity of the expansion are studied through the analysis of the remainder term. The short-time expansion of the Green function is also discussed.

id: 1112.5837
title: Low-energy asymptotic expansion of the Green function for one-dimensional Fokker-Planck and Schr?dinger equations
authors: Toru Miyazawa
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 41 (2008) 315304; Corrigendum: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010) 049801
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5837
abstract: We consider Schr\"odinger equations and Fokker-Planck equations in one dimension, and study the low-energy asymptotic behavior of the Green function using a new method. In this method, the coefficient of the expansion in powers of the wave number can be systematically calculated to arbitrary order, and the behavior of the remainder term can be analyzed on the basis of an expression in terms of transmission and reflection coefficients.

id: 1112.5838
title: Low-energy expansion formula for one-dimensional Fokker-Planck and Schr?dinger equations with periodic potentials
authors: Toru Miyazawa
comments: 
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 445305
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5838
abstract: We study the low-energy behavior of the Green function for one-dimensional Fokker-Planck and Schr\"odinger equations with periodic potentials. We derive a formula for the power series expansion of reflection coefficients in terms of the wave number, and apply it to the low-energy expansion of the Green function.

id: 1112.5846
title: Low-energy expansion formula for one-dimensional Fokker-Planck and Schr?dinger equations with asymptotically periodic potentials
authors: Toru Miyazawa
comments: author-created, un-copyedited version of an article accepted for publication in Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 035302
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5846
abstract: We consider one-dimensional Fokker-Planck and Schr\"odinger equations with a potential which approaches a periodic function at spatial infinity. We extend the low-energy expansion method, which was introduced in previous papers, to be applicable to such asymptotically periodic cases. Using this method, we study the low-energy behavior of the Green function.

id: 1112.5863
title: Effect of Strong Electron Correlation on the Efficiency of Photosynthetic Light Harvesting
authors: David A. Mazziotti
comments: 
journal: D. A. Mazziotti, J. Chem. Phys. 137, 074117 (2012)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5863
abstract: Research into the efficiency of photosynthetic light harvesting has focused on two factors: (1) entanglement of chromophores, and (2) environmental noise. While chromophores are conjugated $\pi$-bonding molecules with strongly correlated electrons, previous models have treated this correlation implicitly without a mathematical variable to gauge correlation-enhanced efficiency. Here we generalize the single-electron/exciton models to a multi-electron/exciton model that explicitly shows the effects of enhanced electron correlation within chromophores on the efficiency of energy transfer. The model provides more detailed insight into the interplay of electron correlation within chromophores and electron entanglement between chromophores. Exploiting this interplay is assisting in the design of new energy-efficient materials, which are just beginning to emerge.

id: 1112.5932
title: One-photon double ionization of helium: a heuristic formula for the cross section
authors: Morten F?rre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5932
abstract: Without a formal derivation, we propose a formula for the total and single-differential cross in the problem of one-photon double ionization of an atom. The formula is benchmarked against accurate experimental data for the total cross section of helium. Furthermore, a direct comparison with ab initio calculations for the double ionization of Li+ suggests that the framework is valid for the entire helium isoelectronic sequence. To this end, we introduce a formula for the double ionization of lithium, as well as for the triple ionization of lithium and beryllium.

id: 1112.5979
title: Energy Spectra of Superfluid Turbulence in $^3$He
authors: Laurent Bou¨¦, Victor L'vov, Anna Pomyalov, Itamar Procaccia
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 104502 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5979
abstract: In superfluid $^3$He turbulence is carried predominantly by the superfluid component. To explore the statistical properties of this quantum turbulence and its differences from the classical counterpart we adopt the time-honored approach of shell models. Using this approach we provide numerical simulations of a Sabra-shell model that allows us to uncover the nature of the energy spectrum in the relevant hydrodynamic regimes. These results are in qualitative agreement with analytical expressions for the superfluid turbulent energy spectra that were found using a differential approximation for the energy flux.

id: 1112.6039
title: Comment on: "Does an atom interferometer test the gravitational redshift at the Compton frequency?"
authors: Michael A. Hohensee, Steven Chu, Achim Peters, Holger Mueller
comments: To appear in Classical and Quantum Gravity
journal: Class. Quant, Grav., 29, 048001 (2012)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6039
abstract: We show that Wolf et al.'s 2011 analysis in Class. Quant. Grav. v28, 145017 does not support their conclusions, in particular that there is "no redshift effect" in atom interferometers except in inconsistent dual Lagrangian formalisms. Wolf et al. misapply both Schiff's conjecture and the results of their own analysis when they conclude that atom interferometers are tests of the weak equivalence principle which only become redshift tests if Schiff's conjecture is invalid. Atom interferometers are direct redshift tests in any formalism.

id: 1112.6109
title: Manipulating Edge Majorana Fermions in Vortex State
authors: Qi-Feng Liang, Zhi Wang, Xiao Hu
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6109
abstract: A vortex in a model spinless px+ipy superconductor induces two Majorana fermions (MFs), one in the core and the other at the sample edge. In the present work, we show that edge MF can be generated, fused, transported, and braided easily by tuning gate voltages at point-like constriction junctions. Solving the time-dependent Bogoliubov-de Gennes equation, we demonstrate that the braiding of edge MFs obeys the non-Abelian statistics. The present setup is therefore a promising implementation for topological quantum computation, and has the advantage of easy manipulation and simple device structure.

id: 1112.6136
title: Controlled manipulation of light by cooperative response of atoms in an optical lattice
authors: Stewart D. Jenkins, Janne Ruostekoski
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 031602(R) (2012)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6136
abstract: We show that a cooperative atom response in an optical lattice to resonant incident light can be employed for precise control and manipulation of light on a subwavelength scale. Specific collective excitation modes of the system that result from strong light-mediated dipole-dipole interactions can be addressed by tailoring the spatial phase-profile of the incident light. We demonstrate how the collective response can be used to produce optical excitations at well-isolated sites on the lattice.

id: 1112.6141
title: Thermodynamics of Dipolar Chain Systems
authors: J. R. Armstrong, N. T. Zinner, D. V. Fedorov, A. S. Jensen
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures, final version
journal: Few-Body Systems, Volume 54, Issue 5-6, pp. 605-618 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6141
abstract: The thermodynamics of a quantum system of layers containing perpendicularly oriented dipolar molecules is studied within an oscillator approximation for both bosonic and fermionic species. The system is assumed to be built from chains with one molecule in each layer. We consider the effects of the intralayer repulsion and quantum statistical requirements in systems with more than one chain. Specifically, we consider the case of two chains and solve the problem analytically within the harmonic Hamiltonian approach which is accurate for large dipole moments. The case of three chains is calculated numerically. Our findings indicate that thermodynamic observables, such as the heat capacity, can be used to probe the signatures of the intralayer interaction between chains. This should be relevant for near future experiments on polar molecules with strong dipole moments.

id: 1112.6216
title: Quantum Electrodynamics with Anharmonic Waves
authors: F. J. Himpsel
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6216
abstract: This is the second step of a program to use anharmonic plane waves as basis set in non-perturbative quantum field theory. The general framework developed previously is applied to quantum electrodynamics. To test the compatibility with standard quantum electrodynamics, the Feynman rules are generalized to anharmonic waves by expanding the field operators into anharmonic plane waves. A sum rule for the Fourier coefficients of anharmonic waves ensures that the generalized Feynman rules are equivalent to the standard rules after summing over all harmonics. It is possible to construct diagrams for the generation of harmonics. They are of O(alpha^2) for photons and of O(alpha) for electrons. To tackle intrinsically non-perturbative phenomena it is proposed to insert anharmonic field operators into the Dyson-Schwinger equations while retaining only the lowest harmonics.

id: 1112.6300
title: On the geometry of quantum indistinguishability
authors: A.F. Reyes-Lega
comments: 24 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 325308 (20pp)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6300
abstract: An algebraic approach to the study of quantum mechanics on configuration spaces with a finite fundamental group is presented. It uses, in an essential way, the Gelfand-Naimark and Serre-Swan equivalences and thus allows one to represent geometric properties of such systems in algebraic terms. As an application, the problem of quantum indistinguishability is reformulated in the light of the proposed approach. Previous attempts aiming at a proof of the spin-statistics theorem in non-relativistic quantum mechanics are explicitly recast in the global language inherent to the presented techniques. This leads to a critical discussion of single-valuedness of wave functions for systems of indistinguishable particles. Potential applications of the methods presented in this paper to problems related to quantization, geometric phases and phase transitions in spin systems are proposed.

id: 1112.6352
title: Reduced density matrix and entanglement entropy of permutationally invariant quantum many-body systems
authors: V. Popkov, Mario Salerno
comments: Festschrift in honor of the 60th birthday of Professor Vladimir Korepin (11 pages, 5 figures)
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6352
abstract: In this paper we discuss the properties of the reduced density matrix of quantum many body systems with permutational symmetry and present basic quantification of the entanglement in terms of the von Neumann (VNE), Renyi and Tsallis entropies. In particular, we show, on the specific example of the spin $1/2$ Heisenberg model, how the RDM acquires a block diagonal form with respect to the quantum number $k$ fixing the polarization in the subsystem conservation of $S_{z}$ and with respect to the irreducible representations of the $\mathbf{S_{n}}$ group. Analytical expression for the RDM elements and for the RDM spectrum are derived for states of arbitrary permutational symmetry and for arbitrary polarizations. The temperature dependence and scaling of the VNE across a finite temperature phase transition is discussed and the RDM moments and the R\'{e}nyi and Tsallis entropies calculated both for symmetric ground states of the Heisenberg chain and for maximally mixed states.

id: 1112.6358
title: Efimov Trimers near the Zero-crossing of a Feshbach Resonance
authors: N. T. Zinner
comments: 8 pages, no figures, final version
journal: Few-Body Systems, Volume 54, Issue 5-6, pp. 597-603 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6358
abstract: Near a Feshbach resonance, the two-body scattering length can assume any value. When it approaches zero, the next-order term given by the effective range is known to diverge. We consider the question of whether this divergence (and the vanishing of the scattering length) is accompanied by an anomalous solution of the three-boson Schr\"odinger equation similar to the one found at infinite scattering length by Efimov. Within a simple zero-range model, we find no such solutions, and conclude that higher-order terms do not support Efimov physics.

id: 1112.6375
title: Aharonov-Bohm magnetism and Landau diamagnetism in semimetals
authors: Eugene B. Kolomeisky, Joseph P. Straley
comments: 4.1 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6375
abstract: We compute the magnetic response of hollow semimetal cylinders and rings to the presence of an axial Aharonov-Bohm magnetic flux, in the absence of interactions. We predict nullification of the Aharonov-Bohm effect for a class of dispersion laws that includes "non-relativistic" dispersion and demonstrate that at zero flux the ground-state of a very short "armchair" graphene tube will exhibit a ferromagnetic broken symmetry. We also compute the diamagnetic response of bulk semimetals to the presence of a uniform magnetic field, specifically predicting that the susceptibility has a logarithmic dependence on the size of the sample.

id: 1112.6402
title: The cylindrical ¦Ä-potential and the Dirac equation
authors: M. Loewe, F. Marquez, R. Zamora
comments: 11 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 465303
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6402
abstract: In this article we discuss the Dirac equation in the presence of an attractive cylindrical \delta-shell potential V(\rho)=-a\delta(\rho-\rho_0), where \rho is the radial coordinate and a>0. We present a detailed discussion on the boundary conditions the wave function has to satisfy when crossing the support of the potential, proceeding then to explore the dependence of the ground state on the parameter a, analyzing the occurrence of supercritical effects. We also apply the Foldy-Wouthuysen transformation, discussing the non-relativistic limit of this problem.

id: 1112.6409
title: Algebraic Determination of Spectral Characteristics of Rovibrational States of Diatomic Molecules. I. Diagram Technique for Determination of Vibrational Dependences of Matrix Elements
authors: S. A. Astashkevich
comments: 17 pages, 1 table, and 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6409
abstract: Explicit algebraic expressions for the expansion of the vibrational matrix elements in series of matrix elements on the wave functions of the ground vibrational state have been obtained for arbitrary sufficiently differentiable functions of the internuclear distance, arbitrary values v and v', and the potential curves whose ladder operators can be constructed. A diagram technique have been developed for it that consists in: 1) the numeration of the matrix elements by points of the 2D diagram with coordinates (l, k), 2) the drawing arrows between points of this diagram corresponding to the action of the annihilation operators on the wave functions; 3) total taking into account of all possible path vectors formed by the continuous sequences of arrows from point (v, v) towards points (0, k). The only requirement is that the action of the operator on the wave functions should give the wave functions of the Schr\"odinger equation with the potential curve having the same parameter values. All necessary data for algebraic calculations of the vibrational dependence of matrix elements for the harmonic oscillator and the Morse potential have been given. Obtained expressions can be used to determine the absolute values and vibrational dependences of various spectroscopic characteristics of both ground and electronically excited states of diatomic molecules.

id: 1112.6423
title: Algebraic Determination of Spectral Characteristics of Rovibrational States of Diatomic Molecules. II. Analysis of the Vibration-Rotation Interaction by Means of the Factorization Method
authors: S. A. Astashkevich
comments: 19 pages, 1 tables
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6423
abstract: An algebraic model taking into account the influence of the molecular rotation on the wave functions of vibrational-rotational states of the diatomic molecule using the formalism of the ladder operators and an expansion in a small parameter characterizing the vibrational-rotational interaction have been proposed for the potentials whose the creation and annihilation operators can be constructed. Expressions for the expansion of the wave function of the vibrational-rotational states in a set of wave functions of the rotationless vibrational states have been obtained of the second order in the parameter. Using these expressions and the formulas obtained in our previous paper the algebraic expressions for the expansion of the dependences of matrix elements in a set of matrix elements on the wave functions of the rotationless ground vibrational states have been obtained for arbitrary functions of internuclear distance and arbitrary values of the vibrational and rotational quantum numbers of the combined states. The cases of the harmonic oscillator and the Morse potential were analyzed. The explicit algebraic formulas for the vibrational dependences of the first five Herman-Wallis coefficients have been derived for arbitrary values of the vibrational quantum numbers of the combining states. The possibility of taking into account the influence of non-adiabatic effects on the vibrational and rotational dependences of matrix elements is considered.

id: 1112.5950
title: Fractionalization of itinerant anyons in one dimensional chains
authors: Didier Poilblanc, Matthias Troyer, Eddy Ardonne, Parsa Bonderson
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 207201 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5950
abstract: We construct models of interacting itinerant non-Abelian anyons moving along one-dimensional chains, focusing in particular on itinerant Ising anyon chains, and derive effective anyonic t-J models for the low energy sectors. Solving these models by exact diagonalization, we find a fractionalization of the anyons into charge and (non-Abelian) anyonic degrees of freedom -- a generalization of spin-charge separation of electrons which occurs in Luttinger liquids. A detailed description of the excitation spectrum by combining spectra for charge and anyonic sectors requires a subtle coupling between charge and anyonic excitations at the microscopic level (which we also find to be present in Luttinger liquids), despite the macroscopic fractionalization.

id: 1112.6150
title: Deuteron-equivalent and phase-equivalent interactions within light nuclei
authors: A. M. Shirokov, V. A. Kulikov, A. I. Mazur, J. P. Vary, P. Maris
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. C 85, 034004 (2012)
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6150
abstract: Background: Phase-equivalent transformations (PETs) are well-known in quantum scattering and inverse scattering theory. PETs do not affect scattering phase shifts and bound state energies of two-body system but are conventionally supposed to modify two-body bound state observables such as the rms radius and electromagnetic moments. Purpose: In order to preserve all bound state observables, we propose a new particular case of PETs, a deuteron-equivalent transformation (DET-PET), which leaves unchanged not only scattering phase shifts and bound state (deuteron) binding energy but also the bound state wave function. Methods: The construction of DET-PET is discussed; equations defining the simplest DET-PETs are derived. We apply these simplest DET-PETs to the JISP16 $NN$ interaction and use the transformed $NN$ interactions in calculations of $^3$H and $^4$He binding energies in the No-core Full Configuration (NCFC) approach based on extrapolations of the No-core Shell Model (NCSM) basis space results to the infinite basis space. Results: We demonstrate the DET-PET modification of the $np$ scattering wave functions and study the DET-PET manifestation in the binding energies of $^3$H and $^4$He nuclei and their correlation (Tjon line). Conclusions: It is shown that some DET-PETs generate modifications of the central component while the others modify the tensor component of the $NN$ interaction. DET-PETs are able to modify significantly the $np$ scattering wave functions and hence the off-shell properties of the $NN$ interaction. DET-PETs give rise to significant changes in the binding energies of $^3$H (in the range of approximately 1.5 MeV) and $^4$He (in the range of more than 9 MeV) and are able to modify the correlation patterns of binding energies of these nuclei.

id: 1112.6200
title: Quantum Signatures of the Optomechanical Instability
authors: Jiang Qian, A. A. Clerk, K. Hammerer, Florian Marquardt
comments: 6 pages including 1 appendix. 6 Figures. Corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 253601, 2012
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.6200
abstract: In the past few years, coupling strengths between light and mechanical motion in optomechanical setups have improved by orders of magnitude. Here we show that, in the standard setup under continuous laser illumination, the steady state of the mechanical oscillator can develop a non-classical, strongly negative Wigner density if the optomechanical coupling is large at the single-photon level. Because of its robustness, such a Wigner density can be mapped using optical homodyne tomography. These features are observed near the onset of the instability towards self-induced oscillations. We show that there are also distinct signatures in the photon-photon correlation function $g^{(2)}(t)$ in that regime, including oscillations decaying on a time scale not only much longer than the optical cavity decay time, but even longer than the \emph{mechanical} decay time.

id: 1112.5801
title: Precanonical Quantization and the Schr?dinger Wave Functional Revisited
authors: I.V. Kanatchikov
comments: 13 pages. v2: few linguistic improvements, ref. 15 updated
journal: Adv. Theor. Math. Phys. 18 (2014) 1249-1265
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5801
abstract: We address the long-standing issue of the relation between the Schr\"odinger functional representation in quantum field theory and the approach of precanonical field quantization which requires neither a distinguished time variable nor infinite-dimensional spaces of field configurations. The functional Schr\"odinger equation is derived in the limiting case \varkappa \rightarrow \delta(0) from the Dirac-like covariant generalization of the Schr\"odinger equation within the precanonical quantization approach, where the constant \varkappa of the dimension of the inverse spatial volume naturally appears on dimensional grounds. An explicit expression of the Schr\"odinger wave functional as a continuous product of precanonical wave functions on the finite-dimensional covariant configuration space of the field and space-time variables is obtained.

