id: 1201.4780
title: Quantum walks: a comprehensive review
authors: Salvador E. Venegas-Andraca
comments: Paper accepted for publication in Quantum Information Processing Journal
journal: Quantum Information Processing vol. 11(5), pp. 1015-1106 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4780
abstract: Quantum walks, the quantum mechanical counterpart of classical random walks, is an advanced tool for building quantum algorithms that has been recently shown to constitute a universal model of quantum computation. Quantum walks is now a solid field of research of quantum computation full of exciting open problems for physicists, computer scientists, mathematicians and engineers. In this paper we review theoretical advances on the foundations of both discrete- and continuous-time quantum walks, together with the role that randomness plays in quantum walks, the connections between the mathematical models of coined discrete quantum walks and continuous quantum walks, the quantumness of quantum walks, a summary of papers published on discrete quantum walks and entanglement as well as a succinct review of experimental proposals and realizations of discrete-time quantum walks. Furthermore, we have reviewed several algorithms based on both discrete- and continuous-time quantum walks as well as a most important result: the computational universality of both continuous- and discrete- time quantum walks.

id: 1201.4839
title: Asymptotic behavior of quantum walks with spatio-temporal coin fluctuations
authors: Andre Ahlbrecht, Christopher Cedzich, Robert Matjeschk, Volkher B. Scholz, Albert H. Werner, Reinhard F. Werner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4839
abstract: Quantum walks subject to decoherence generically suffer the loss of their genuine quantum feature, a quadratically faster spreading compared to classical random walks. This intuitive statement has been verified analytically for certain models and is also supported by numerical studies of a variety of examples. In this paper we analyze the long-time behavior of a particular class of decoherent quantum walks, which, to the best of our knowledge, was only studied at the level of numerical simulations before. We consider a local coin operation which is randomly and independently chosen for each time step and each lattice site and prove that, under rather mild conditions, this leads to classical behavior: With the same scaling as needed for a classical diffusion the position distribution converges to a Gaussian, which is independent of the initial state. Our method is based on non-degenerate perturbation theory and yields an explicit expression for the covariance matrix of the asymptotic Gaussian in terms of the randomness parameters.

id: 1201.6413
title: Limit Theorems for Decoherent Two Dimensional Quantum Walks
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0207137 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6413
abstract: In this paper we consider the model with decoherence operators introduced by [Brun,T.A, et.al, Phys.Rev.A 67 (2003) 032304] which has recently been considered in the two-dimensional setting by [Ampadu,C., Brun-Type Formalism for Decoherence in Two Dimensional Quantum Walks, Communication in Theoretical Physics To Appear, arXiv:1104.2061 (2011)] to obtain the limit of the decoherent quantum walk.

id: 1201.0319
title: Theory of dissipative chaotic atomic transport in an optical lattice
authors: V. Yu. Argonov, S. V. Prants
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 043413 (2008)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0319
abstract: We study dissipative transport of spontaneously emitting atoms in a 1D standing-wave laser field in the regimes where the underlying deterministic Hamiltonian dynamics is regular and chaotic. A Monte Carlo stochastic wavefunction method is applied to simulate semiclassically the atomic dynamics with coupled internal and translational degrees of freedom. It is shown in numerical experiments and confirmed analytically that chaotic atomic transport can take the form either of ballistic motion or a random walking with specific statistical properties. The character of spatial and momentum diffusion in the ballistic atomic transport is shown to change abruptly in the atom-laser detuning regime where the Hamiltonian dynamics is irregular in the sense of dynamical chaos. We find a clear correlation between the behavior of the momentum diffusion coefficient and Hamiltonian chaos probability which is a manifestation of chaoticity of the fundamental atom-light interaction in the diffusive-like dissipative atomic transport. We propose to measure a linear extent of atomic clouds in a 1D optical lattice and predict that, beginning with those values of the mean cloud's momentum for which the probability of Hamiltonian chaos is close to 1, the linear extent of the corresponding clouds should increase sharply. A sensitive dependence of statistical characteristics of dissipative transport on the values of the detuning allows to manipulate the atomic transport by changing the laser frequency.

id: 1201.4759
title: Dynamical Localization for d-Dimensional Random Quantum Walks
authors: Alain Joye
comments: Typos, errors and omissions corrected. Invited paper to appear in Quantum Information Processing, Special Issue on Quantum Walks
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4759
abstract: We consider a d-dimensional random quantum walk with site-dependent random coin operators. The corresponding transition coefficients are characterized by deterministic amplitudes times independent identically distributed site-dependent random phases. When the deterministic transition amplitudes are close enough to those of a quantum walk which forbids propagation, we prove that dynamical localization holds for almost all random phases. This instance of Anderson localization implies that all quantum mechanical moments of the position operator are uniformly bounded in time and that spectral localization holds, almost surely.

id: 1201.5188
title: Spacetime rotation-induced Landau quantization
authors: Kohkichi Konno, Rohta Takahashi
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. D 85, 061502(R) (2012)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5188
abstract: We investigate non-inertial and gravitational effects on quantum states in electromagnetic fields and present the analytic solution for energy eigenstates for the Schr\"odinger equation including non-inertial, gravitational and electromagnetic effects. We find that in addition to the Landau quantization the rotation of spacetime itself leads to the additional quantization, and that the energy levels for an electron are different from those for a proton at the level of gravitational corrections.

