id: 1201.0011
title: Partial decode-forward for quantum relay channels
authors: Ivan Savov, Mark M. Wilde, Mai Vu
comments: 7 pages, submission to the 2012 International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2012), Boston, MA, USA
journal: Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2012), pages 731-735, Cambridge, MA, USA
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0011
abstract: A relay channel is one in which a Source and Destination use an intermediate Relay station in order to improve communication rates. We propose the study of relay channels with classical inputs and quantum outputs and prove that a "partial decode and forward" strategy is achievable. We divide the channel uses into many blocks and build codes in a randomized, block-Markov manner within each block. The Relay performs a standard Holevo-Schumacher-Westmoreland quantum measurement on each block in order to decode part of the Source's message and then forwards this partial message in the next block. The Destination performs a novel "sliding-window" quantum measurement on two adjacent blocks in order to decode the Source's message. This strategy achieves non-trivial rates for classical communication over a quantum relay channel.

id: 1201.0051
title: Analyzing the correlations for spin-1/2 particles and singlet pairs
authors: Edson de Faria, Charles Tresser
comments: 8 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0051
abstract: We revisit the computation of correlations of spin projections onto unit vectors for spin-1/2 particles in Quantum Mechanics. We then choose one of the Boole inequalities that, as we recall, must be obeyed by collections of sequences of normalized spin-1/2 projections onto unit vectors that belong to, say, the plane that is orthogonal to the classical trajectory or to the three dimensional space. Next we define the concept of being a-p for i-indexed sequences of spin-1/2 particles: it turns out that a sequence of spin-1/2 particles is a-p if and only if the particles behave as if they had indeed been prepared (in the usual sense) to have definite spins +1 or -1 along the axis a, the sequence of signs being pre-determined. The a-p property is formulated in a way abstract enough to let one generalize it and we define the concept of being a-p and b-p. However, using our chosen Boole inequality we prove that no particle sequence can be both a-p and b-p when a and b are not co-linear. We next consider two modifications of Quantum Mechanics: - The first one by assuming both Weak Realism, the weakest form of Realism needed to develop any main theorem in Bell's Theory, and Locality. - The second one by assuming Weak Realism and an hypothesis that turns out to be none else than (relativistic) Causality extended to cover as well the observable values that make sense only if one assumes Weak Realism. In both cases we arrive at the conclusion that in the EPRB setting where successive pairs of spin-1/2 particles are prepared in the so-called singlet state, one of these particles sequences is both a-p and b-p and a and b are the opposite of the vectors respectively used to project the spin of the other particle and to get the Realism-based alternate value for a projection. Thus the usual discussions of Bell's inequalities under such hypotheses do not even make physical sense.

id: 1201.0053
title: Entanglement detection and lower bound of convex-roof extension of negativity
authors: Ming Li, Tong-Jiang Yan, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A 45, Math. Theor. (2012) 035301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0053
abstract: We present a set of inequalities based on mean values of quantum mechanical observables nonlinear entanglement witnesses for bipartite quantum systems. These inequalities give rise to sufficient and necessary conditions for separability of all bipartite pure states and even some mixed states. In terms of these mean values of quantum mechanical observables a measurable lower bound of the convex-roof extension of the negativity is derived.

id: 1201.0055
title: New Approach to Continuum Path Integrals for Particles and Fields
authors: Takayasu Sekihara
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0055
abstract: An approach to approximate evaluation of the continuum Feynman path integrals is developed for the study of quantum fluctuations of particles and fields in Euclidean time-space. The paths are described by sum of Gauss functions and are weighted with exp(-S) by the Metropolis method. The weighted smooth paths reproduce properties of the ground state of the harmonic oscillator in one dimension with more than about 90 % accuracy, and the accuracy gets higher by using smaller width of the Gauss functions. Our approach is applied to quantum field theories and quantum fluctuations of U(1) and SU(2) gauge fields in four dimensions respectively provide the Coulomb force and confining linear potential at qualitative levels via the Wilson loops. Distributions of large values of gauge fields are found to be suppressed at least exponentially.

id: 1201.0064
title: Non-equilibrium phonon dynamics in trapped ion systems
authors: T. Dutta, M. Mukherjee, K. Sengupta
comments: The submission contains 5 pages and 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0064
abstract: We propose a concrete experiment to probe the non-equilibrium local dynamics of the one-dimensional Bose-Hubbard model using a trapped ion system consisting of a linear chain of few Ba^+ ions prepared in a state of transverse motional mode which corresponds to a fixed number of phonons per ion. These phonons are well-known to be described by an effective Bose-Hubbard model. We propose a protocol which leads to a sudden local sign reversal of the on-site interaction strength of this Hubbard model at one of the sites and demonstrate that the subsequent non-equilibrium dynamics of the model can be experimentally probed by measuring the time-dependent phonon number in a specific motional state of the Ba+ ions. We back our experimental proposal with exact numerical calculation of the dynamics of a Bose-Hubbard model subsequent to a local quench.

id: 1201.0112
title: An alternative approach to Schr?dinger equations with a spatially varying mass
authors: M. ?apak, B. G?n¨¹l
comments: 8 pages
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52 122103 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0112
abstract: Extending the point canonical transformation approach in a manner distinct from the previous ones, we propose a unified approach of generating potentials of all classes having non-constant masses.

id: 1201.0150
title: What is the limit $\hbar \to 0$ of quantum theory ?
authors: U. Klein
comments: 12 pages, no figures
journal: Am.J.Phys. vol.80, 1009 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0150
abstract: An analysis is made of the relation between quantum theory and classical mechanics, in the context of the limit $\hbar \to 0$. Several ways in which this limit may be performed are considered. It is shown that Schr\"odinger's equation for a single particle moving in an external potential $V$ does not, except in special cases, lead, in this limit, to Newton's equation of motion for the particle. This shows that classical mechanics cannot be regarded as emerging from quantum mechanics-at least in this sense-upon straightforward application of the limit $\hbar \to 0$.

id: 1201.0172
title: Analytic structure and power-series expansion of the Jost function for the two-dimensional problem
authors: S. A. Rakityansky, N. Elander
comments: 42 pages, 9 figures, submitted to J.Phys.A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0172
abstract: For a two-dimensional quantum mechanical problem, we obtain a generalized power-series expansion of the S-matrix that can be done near an arbitrary point on the Riemann surface of the energy, similarly to the standard effective range expansion. In order to do this, we consider the Jost-function and analytically factorize its momentum dependence that causes the Jost function to be a multi-valued function. The remaining single-valued function of the energy is then expanded in the power-series near an arbitrary point in the complex energy plane. A systematic and accurate procedure has been developed for calculating the expansion coefficients. This makes it possible to obtain a semi-analytic expression for the Jost-function (and therefore for the S-matrix) near an arbitrary point on the Riemann surface and use it, for example, to locate the spectral points (bound and resonant states) as the S-matrix poles. The method is applied to a model simlar to those used in the theory of quantum dots.

id: 1201.0195
title: Testing Born's Rule in Quantum Mechanics for Three Mutually Exclusive Events
authors: Immo S?llner, Benjamin Gsch?sser, Patrick Mai, Benedikt Pressl, Zolt¨¢n V?r?s, Gregor Weihs
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in Found. Phys
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0195
abstract: We present a new experimental approach using a three-path interferometer and find a tighter empirical upper bound on possible violations of Born's Rule. A deviation from Born's rule would result in multi-order interference. Among the potential systematic errors that could lead to an apparent violation we specifically study the nonlinear response of our detectors and present ways to calibrate this error in order to obtain an even better bound.

id: 1201.0200
title: Gaussian matrix-product states for coding in bosonic communication channels
authors: Joachim Sch?fer, Evgueni Karpov, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures. v2: Refs. modified, typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012322 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0200
abstract: The communication capacity of Gaussian bosonic channels with memory has recently attracted much interest. Here, we investigate a method to prepare the multimode entangled input symbol states for encoding classical information into these channels. In particular, we study the usefulness of a Gaussian matrix product state (GMPS) as an input symbol state, which can be sequentially generated although it remains heavily entangled for an arbitrary number of modes. We show that the GMPS can achieve more than 99.9% of the Gaussian capacity for Gaussian bosonic memory channels with a Markovian or non-Markovian correlated noise model in a large range of noise correlation strengths. Furthermore, we present a noise class for which the GMPS is the exact optimal input symbol state of the corresponding channel. Since GMPS are ground states of particular quadratic Hamiltonians, our results suggest a possible link between the theory of quantum communication channels and quantum many-body physics.

id: 1201.0243
title: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Steering in Quantum Phase Transition
authors: Chunfeng Wu, Jing-Ling Chen, Dong-Ling Deng, Hong-Yi Su, X. X. Yi, C. H. Oh
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0243
abstract: We investigate the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) steering and its criticality in quantum phase transition. It is found that the EPR steerability function of the ground state of XY spin chain exhibits nonanalytic feature in the vicinity of a quantum phase transition by showing that its derivative with respect to anisotropy parameter diverges at the critical point. We then verify the universality of the critical phenomena of the EPR steerability function in the system. We also use two-qubit EPR-steering inequality to explore the relation between EPR steering and quantum phase transition.

id: 1201.0247
title: Nonclassical properties of a particle in a finite range trap: the f-deformed quantum oscillator approach
authors: M. Davoudi Darareh, M. Bagheri Harouni
comments: 
journal: Phys. Lett. A 374, 4099 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0247
abstract: A particle bounded in a potential with finite range is described by using an $f$-deformed quantum oscillator approach. Finite range of this potential can be considered as a controllable deformation parameter. The non-classical quantum statistical properties of this deformed oscillator can be manipulated by nonlinearities associated to the finite range.

id: 1201.0248
title: Generation of three-dimensional entangled states between a single atom and a Bose-Einstein Condensate via adiabatic passage
authors: Li-Bo Chen, Peng Shi, Chun-Hong Zheng, Yong-Jian Gu
comments: 
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20, Issue 13, pp. 14547-14555 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0248
abstract: We propose a robust scheme to prepare three-dimensional entanglement states between a single atom and a Bose-Einstein Condensate (BEC) via stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) techniques. The atomic spontaneous radiation, the cavity decay, and the fiber loss are efficiently suppressed by the engineering adiabatic passage. Our scheme is also robust to the variation of atom number in the BEC.

id: 1201.0255
title: Quantum Counterfactuals and Locality
authors: Robert B. Griffiths
comments: 8 pages, 1 PSTricks figure
journal: Found. Phys. 42 (2012) pp. 674-684
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0255
abstract: Stapp's counterfactual argument for quantum nonlocality based upon a Hardy entangled state is shown to be flawed. While he has correctly analyzed a particular framework using the method of consistent histories, there are alternative frameworks which do not support his argument. The framework dependence of quantum counterfactual arguments, with analogs in classical counterfactuals, vitiates the claim that nonlocal (superluminal) influences exist in the quantum world. Instead it shows that counterfactual arguments are of limited use for analyzing these questions.

id: 1201.0298
title: Classical Rotons in Cold Atomic Traps
authors: H. Ter?as, J. T. Mendon?a, V. Guerra
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 053630 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0298
abstract: We predict the emergence of a roton minimum in the dispersion relation of elementary excitations in cold atomic gases in the presence of diffusive light. In large magneto-topical traps, multiple-scattering of light is responsible for the collective behavior of the system, which is associated to an effective Coulomb-like interaction between the atoms. In optically thick clouds, the re-scattered light undergoes diffusive propagation, which is responsible for a stochastic short-range force acting on the atoms. We show that the dynamical competition between these two forces results on a new polariton mode, which exhibits a roton minimum. Making use of Feynman's formula for the static structure factor, we show that the roton minimum is related to the appearance of long-range order in the system.

id: 1201.0302
title: A Classical Spin on Quantized Angular Momentum
authors: Dallin S. Durfee, James L. Archibald
comments: 4 pages, submitted to American Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0302
abstract: We present an intuition-building activity for the quantum description of angular momentum. Using concepts of orthogonality in space and linear independence, we can logically deduce the relationships between the three spatially orthogonal basis sets of the spin-1/2 system. Rather than a mathematically rigorous derivation, the relationships are found by enforcing properties we expect the basis states to have. The process highlights the correspondence of quantized spin state properties with classical notions of orthogonality, illustrating differences and connections between geometrical space and Hilbert space and dispelling misconceptions often held by students.

id: 1201.0324
title: Group-theoretical approach to study atomic motion in a laser field
authors: S. V. Prants
comments: 
journal: 2011 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 265101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0324
abstract: Group-theoretical approach is applied to study behavior of lossless two-level atoms in a standing-wave laser field. Due to the recoil effect, the internal and external atomic degrees of freedom become coupled. The internal dynamics is described quantum mechanically in terms of the SU(2) group parameters. The evolution operator is found in an explicit way after solving a single ODE for one of the group parameters. The translational motion in a standing wave is governed by the classical Hamilton equations which are coupled to the SU(2) group equations. It is shown that the full set of equations may be chaotic in some ranges of the control parameters and initial conditions. It means physically that there are regimes of motion with chaotic center-of-mass motion and irregular internal dynamics. It is established that the chaotic regime is specified by the character of oscillations of the group parameter characterizing the mean interaction energy between the atom and the laser field. It is shown that the effect of chaotic walking can be observed in a real experiment with cold atoms crossing a standing-wave laser field.

id: 1201.0326
title: Matter-wave chaos with a cold atom in a standing-wave laser field
authors: S. V. Prants
comments: 
journal: Chaos, Solitons & Fractals Volume 43, Issues 1-12, Pages 1-7 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0326
abstract: Coherent motion of cold atoms in a standing-wave field is interpreted as a propagation in two optical potentials. It is shown that the wave-packet dynamics can be either regular or chaotic with transitions between these potentials after passing field nodes. Manifestations of de Broglie-wave chaos are found in the behavior of the momentum and position probabilities and the Wigner function. The probability of those transitions depends on the ratio of the squared detuning to the Doppler shift and is large in that range of the parameters where the classical motion is shown to be chaotic.

id: 1201.0367
title: Spectral properties of high-gain parametric down-conversion
authors: Kirill Yu. Spasibko, Timur Sh. Iskhakov, Maria V. Chekhova
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Optics Express 20, 7507-7515 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0367
abstract: High-gain parametric down-conversion (PDC) is a source of bright squeezed vacuum, which is a macroscopic nonclassical state of light and a promising candidate for quantum information applications. Here we study its properties, such as the intensity spectral width and the spectral width of pairwise correlations.

id: 1201.0374
title: Minimal proofs of state-independent contextuality
authors: Adan Cabello
comments: REVTeX4, 2 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0374
abstract: It has been recently shown that state-independent contextuality (SIC) is a fundamental resource linked with a type of nonlocality which cannot be improved by nonsignaling resources. Therefore, it is of fundamental importance to identify the simplest sets of quantum observables needed to prove SIC. We show that d+10 rank-1 projectors are sufficient to prove SIC for any physical system in dimension d>2. This result outperforms both the best Kochen-Specker proofs and the results presented by Yu and Oh in arXiv:1112.5513v1.

id: 1201.0387
title: Optimal minimum-cost quantum measurements for imperfect detection
authors: Erika Andersson
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0387
abstract: Knowledge of optimal quantum measurements is important for a wide range of situations, including quantum communication and quantum metrology. Quantum measurements are usually optimised with an ideal experimental realisation in mind. Real devices and detectors are, however, imperfect. This has to be taken into account when optimising quantum measurements. In this paper, we derive the optimal minimum-cost and minimum-error measurements for a general model of imperfect detection.

id: 1201.0390
title: The Ising ferromagnet as a self-correcting physical memory: a Monte-Carlo study
authors: Francesca Valery Day, Sean Barrett
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures. See this http URL and this http URL for videos of the evolving lattice
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0390
abstract: The advent of quantum computing has heralded a renewed interest in physical memories - physically realizable structures that offer reliable data storage with error correction only at the point of access. Here, we examine a model of a classical physical memory, capable of storing a classical bit, based on the ferromagnetic Ising model on 1- and 2-dimensional square lattices. We make use of Monte-Carlo simulations as well as analytic solutions in the high temperature limit. At high temperatures, both 1- and 2-D Ising models behave like a non-interacting model, albeit with a reduced effective number of spins and a reduced effective spin-flip rate. In agreement with general arguments, we confirm numerically that (i) the information storage time is independent of system size in 1D, (ii) in two dimensions, at temperatures below the Onsager phase transition temperature T, the information storage time increases exponentially with system size. Interestingly, some benefit in increasing system size is found even above T, although the increase in lifetime is not exponential.

id: 1201.0399
title: Decoherence Control and Purification of Two-dimensional Quantum Density Matrices under Lindblad Dissipation
authors: Patrick Rooney, Anthony Bloch, Chitra Rangan
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0399
abstract: Control of quantum dissipative systems can be challenging because control variables are typically part of the system Hamiltonian, which can only generate motion along unitary orbits of the system. To transit between orbits, one must harness the dissipation super-operator. To separate the inter-orbit dynamics from the Hamiltonian dynamics for a generic two-dimensional system, we project the Lindblad master equation onto the set of spectra of the density matrix, and we interpret the location along the orbit to be a new control variable. The resulting differential equation allows us to analyze the controllability of a general two-dimensional Lindblad system, particularly systems where the dissipative term has an anti-symmetric part. We extend this to categorize the possible purifiable systems in two dimensions.

id: 1201.0453
title: Quantum uncertainty relation saturated by the eigenstates of the harmonic oscillator
authors: A. Mandilara, N. J. Cerf
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 030102(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0453
abstract: We re-derive the Schr\"{o}dinger-Robertson uncertainty principle for the position and momentum of a quantum particle. Our derivation does not directly employ commutation relations, but works by reduction to an eigenvalue problem related to the harmonic oscillator, which can then be further exploited to find a larger class of constrained uncertainty relations. We derive an uncertainty relation under the constraint of a fixed degree of Gaussianity and prove that, remarkably, it is saturated by all eigenstates of the harmonic oscillator. This goes beyond the common knowledge that the (Gaussian) ground state of the harmonic oscillator saturates the uncertainty relation.

id: 1201.0465
title: Radon Transform in Finite Dimensional Hilbert Space
authors: M. Revzen
comments: 8pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0465
abstract: Novel analysis of ?nite dimensional Hilbert space is outlined. The approach bypasses general, inherent, di?culties present in handling angular variables in ?nite dimensional problems: The ?nite dimensional, d, Hilbert space operators are underpinned with ?nite geometry which provide intuitive perspective to the physical operators. The analysis emphasizes a central role for projectors of mutual unbiased bases (MUB) states, extending thereby their use in ?nite dimensional quantum mechanics studies. Interrelation among the Hilbert space operators revealed via their (?nite) dual a?ne plane geometry (DAPG) underpinning are displayed and utilized in formulating the ?nite dimensional ubiquitous Radon transformation and its inverse illustrating phase space-like physics encoded in lines and points of the geometry. The ?nite geometry required for our study is outlined.

id: 1201.0474
title: Formulae for partial widths derived from the Lindblad equation
authors: S?lve Selst?
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0474
abstract: A method for calculating partial widths of auto-ionizing states is proposed. It combines either a complex absorbing potential or exterior complex scaling with the Lindblad equation. The corresponding classical rate equations are reproduced, and the trace conservation inherent in the Lindblad equation ensures that the partial widths sums up to the total width of the initial auto-ionizing state.

id: 1201.0477
title: Interplay of quantum stochastic and dynamical maps to discern Markovian and non-Markovian transitions
authors: A. R. Usha Devi, A. K. Rajagopal, Sudha, R. W. Rendell
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, considerably extended version of arXiv:1104.4566
journal: Journal of Quantum Information Science, Vol 2, 47-54 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0477
abstract: It is known that the dynamical evolution of a system, from an initial tensor product state of system and environment, to any two later times, t1,t2 (t2>t1), are both completely positive (CP) but in the intermediate times between t1 and t2 it need not be CP. This reveals the key to the Markov (if CP) and nonMarkov (if it is not CP) avataras of the intermediate dynamics. This is brought out here in terms of the quantum stochastic map A and the associated dynamical map B -- without resorting to master equation approaches. We investigate these features with four examples which have entirely different physical origins (i) a two qubit Werner state map with time dependent noise parameter (ii) Phenomenological model of a recent optical experiment (Nature Physics, 7, 931 (2011)) on the open system evolution of photon polarization. (iii) Hamiltonian dynamics of a qubit coupled to a bath of $N$ qubits and (iv) two qubit unitary dynamics of Jordan et. al. (Phys. Rev. A 70, 052110 (2004)) with initial product states of qubits. In all these models, it is shown that the positivity/negativity of the eigenvalues of intermediate time dynamical B map determines the Markov/non-Markov nature of the dynamics.

id: 1201.0487
title: Relativity of mixed entangled states
authors: Shahpoor Moradi
comments: 12 pages,3 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 11, No. 11&12 (2011) 0957-0967
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0487
abstract: We obtain the necessary and sufficient separability and distillability conditions of mixtures of a maximally entangled state and the completely separable state in relativistic setting. In an inertial frame we study the entanglement under Wigner rotations induced by Lorentz transformations. We also investigate the mixed state entanglement of scalar and Dirac fields as seen by two relatively accelerated observers. For scalar field we show that in infinite acceleration limit the state has no longer distillable entanglement. For dirac field the entanglement in the infinite acceleration limit is finite. In both cases we show that there are states that will change from entangled into separable for a certain value of velocity or acceleration. We conclude that distillability is a relative concept, depending on the frame in which it is observed.

id: 1201.0489
title: Distillability of entanglement in accelerated frames
authors: Shahpoor Moradi
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 79, 064301 (2009)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0489
abstract: We study the entanglement distillability of bipartite mixed states of two modes of a free Dirac field as seen by two relatively accelerated parties. It is shown that there are states that will change from distillable into separable for a certain value of acceleration. We exemplify these criteria in the context of Werner states.

id: 1201.0492
title: Relativistic quantum nonlocality for the three-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state
authors: Shahpoor Moradi
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 77, 024101 (2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0492
abstract: Lorentz transformation of three-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state is studied. Also we obtain the relativistic spin joint measurement for the transformed state. Using these results it is shown that Bell's inequality is maximally violated for three-qubit GHZ state in relativistic regime. For ultrarelativistic particles we obtain the critical value for boost speed which Bell's inequality is not violated for velocities smaller than this value. We also show that in ultrarelativistic limit Bell's inequality is maximally violated for GHZ state.

id: 1201.0502
title: Testing quantum nonlocality for three coupled quantum dots within optical microcavity QED
authors: Shahpoor Moradi, Sassan Moradi
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures
journal: Optics Communications, Volume 283, Issue 21, 1 November (2010), Pages 4401-4404
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0502
abstract: Bell's inequality in three coupled quantum dots (QDs) within cavity QED, including Forster and exciton-phonon interactions, is investigated theoretically. For an initially entangled state, Bell's inequality is valid for certain times and violated for some other times. It is shown that the system moves from a product state to a entangled state and back again during it's time evolution.

id: 1201.0503
title: Bell's inequality with Dirac particles
authors: Shahpoor Moradi
comments: 7 pages. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0308156 by other authors
journal: JETP Letters, (2009), Vol. 89, No. 1, pp. 50-52
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0503
abstract: We study Bell's inequality using the Bell states constructed from four component Dirac spinors. Spin operator is related to the Pauli-Lubanski pseudo vector which is relativistic invariant operator. By using Lorentz transformation, in both Bell states and spin operator, we obtain an observer independent Bell's inequality, so that it is maximally violated as long as it is violated maximally in the rest frame.

id: 1201.0505
title: Degradation of entanglement in moving frames
authors: Shahpoor Moradi
comments: 6 pages, 1 figures
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys (2009) Vol. 48, Number 10, 2950-2955
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0505
abstract: The distillability of bipartite entangled state as seen by moving observers has been investigated. It is found that the same initial entanglement for a state parameter $\alpha$ and its "normalized partner" $\sqrt{1-\alpha^2}$ will be degraded as seen by moving observer. It is shown that in the ultra relativistic limit, the state does not have distillable entanglement for any $\alpha$.

id: 1201.0507
title: Bell's inequality for a system composed of particles with different spin
authors: Shahpoor Moradi
comments: 9 pages; Commun. Theor. Phys. (2009) Volume 52 Number 1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0507
abstract: For two particles with different spin, we derive the Bell's inequality. The inequality is investigated for two systems combining spin-1 and 1/2; spin-1/2 and 3/2. We show that for these states Bell's inequality is violated.

id: 1201.0508
title: Cosmological Entanglement
authors: Shahpoor Moradi, Mosleh Rasouli
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Int J Theor Phys (2010) Volume 49, Number 10, 2403-2408
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0508
abstract: We investigate the connection between the entanglement generated by expanding universe and the cosmological parameters. We show that the faster the universe expands and the larger the total volume results the higher degree of entanglement.

id: 1201.0512
title: Maximally entangled states and Bell's inequality in relativistic regime
authors: Shahpoor Moradi
comments: 6 pages; Int. J. Quant. Inf Volume 7, Issue 1 (2009)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0512
abstract: In this Letter we show that in relativistic regime maximally entangled state of two spin-1/2 particles not only gives maximal violation of the Bell-CHSH inequality but also gives the largest violation attainable for any pairs of four spin observables that are noncommuting for both systems. Also we extend our results to three spin-1/2 particles. We obtain the largest eigenvalue of Bell operator and show that this value is equal to expectation value of Bell operator on GHZ state.

id: 1201.0517
title: Frame independent nonlocality for three qubit state
authors: Shahpoor Moradi, Mohsen Aghaee
comments: 5 pages; Int. J. Theor. Phys. (2010) Volume 49, Number 3
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0517
abstract: Bell's inequality is investigated for the three qubit GHZ state in relativistic regime. Two different relativistic spin operator are considered. One of them is defined by Lee, and the other is the Pauli-Lubanski pseudovector used by Kim \textit{et al}. It is shown that for both spin operator Bell's inequality is still maximally violated in a Lorentz-boosted frame.

id: 1201.0522
title: Entanglement Generation by Time Varying Refractive Index: Analogy with Cosmological Model
authors: Shahpoor Moradi
comments: 5 pages
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. E, Volume 20, Issue 1, pp. 173-178 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0522
abstract: Generation of entanglement between modes of a electromagnetic fields by sudden change of the refractive index of a medium is considered. We use the analogy between the Fock-space formulation of pair creation caused by the contraction and expansion of the universe on one hand and the pair creation in time-dependent electric fields on the other hand. It is shown that entanglement between photons encodes information concerning the underlying refractive index of a medium.

id: 1201.0541
title: Autangle: A case of Quantum Narcissism?
authors: Rong Zhou, Ryan Orson Behunin, Shih-Yuin Lin, Bei-lok Hu
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0541
abstract: In this paper we ask a common psychological question and provide a physics answer: "Looking into a mirror can one get entangled with one's image?" This is not a frivolous question; rather, it bears on the effect of boundaries on the behavior of quantum entanglement between a harmonic oscillator and a quantum field, a basic problem of interest in proposed mirror-field superposition and related experiments in macroscopic quantum phenomena, as well as atomic fluctuation forces near a conducting surface. The object's internal degree of freedom is modeled by a harmonic oscillator and the presence of a perfectly reflecting mirror enforces the Dirichlet boundary conditions on the quantum field, restricting the latter to a half space. By assuming a bilinear oscillator-field interaction, we derive a coupled set of equations for the oscillator's and the field's Heisenberg operators. The former can be cast in the form of a quantum Langevin equation, where the dissipation and noise kernels respectively correspond to the retarded and Hadamard functions of the free quantum field in half space. We use the linear entropy as measures of entanglement between the oscillator and the quantum field under mirror reflection, then solve the early-time oscillator-field entanglement dynamics and compare it with that between two inertial oscillators in free space. At late times when the combined system is in a stationary state, we obtain exact expressions for the oscillator's covariance matrix and show that the oscillator-field entanglement decreases as the oscillator moves closer to the mirror. We explain this behavior qualitatively with the help of a mirror image and provide an answer to the question raised above. We also compare this situation with the case of two real oscillators and explain the differences.

id: 1201.0549
title: Motion generates entanglement
authors: Nicolai Friis, David Edward Bruschi, Jorma Louko, Ivette Fuentes
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, Ivette Fuentes previously published as Ivette Fuentes-Guridi and Ivette Fuentes-Schuller; v3: minor changes, updated references
journal: Phys. Rev. D 85, 081701(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0549
abstract: We demonstrate entanglement generation between mode pairs of a quantum field in a nonuniformly accelerated cavity in Minkowski space-time. The effect is sensitive to the initial state, the choice of the mode pair and bosonic versus fermionic statistics, and it can be stronger by orders of magnitude than the entanglement degradation between a nonuniformly accelerated cavity and an inertial cavity. Detailed results are obtained for massless scalar and spinor fields in (1+1) dimensions. By the equivalence principle, the results provide a model of entanglement generation by gravitational effects.

id: 1201.0581
title: Electromagnetically Induced Transparency Spectroscopy
authors: Asaf Eliam, Evgeny A. Shapiro, Moshe Shapiro
comments: 17 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0581
abstract: We propose a method based on the Electromagnetically Induced Transparency (EIT) phenomenon for the detection of molecules which exist as a small minority in the presence of a majority of absorbers. The EIT effect we employ effectively eliminates the absorption of the majority species in the spectral region where it overlaps with the absorption of the minority species. The method can also be used to enhance local-modes transitions which overlap spectrally with a background of other local-modes transitions of the same molecule. The general theory is applied to the case of sparse and congested background spectra within the same molecule and to the recording of the spectra of isotopomers (of Chlorine and Methanol) that are in minority relative to other isotopomers which constitute the majority of molecules present.

id: 1201.0613
title: Exploiting non-quantum entanglement to widen applicability of limited-entanglement classical simulations of quantum systems
authors: N. Ratanje, S. Virmani
comments: 4 pages + 4 pages appendix containing computer generated algebraic expressions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0613
abstract: It is known that if the quantum gates in a proposed quantum computer are so noisy that they are incapable of generating entanglement, then the device can be efficiently simulated classically. If the measurements and single particle operations are restricted, then the same statement can be true for generalised non-quantum notions of entanglement. Here we show that this can improve the applicability of limited-entanglement simulation algorithms. In particular, we show that by using a non-quantum notion of separability a classical simulation algorithm of Harrow & Nielsen can efficiently simulate magic state quantum computers with noisy CNOTs (but otherwise ideal) for joint depolarising strengths of 272/489 ~ 56%, in comparison to noise levels of 2/3 ~ 66% required if the algorithm uses quantum notions of separability. This suggests that quantum entanglement may not be the most appropriate notion of entanglement to use when discussing the power of stabilizer based quantum computers.

id: 1201.0615
title: Emergence of classical theories from quantum mechanics
authors: Petr Hajicek
comments: Talk at 5th International Heinz von Foerster Conference, Vienna, November 11th-13th 2011. 10 pages, no figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0615
abstract: Three problems stand in the way of deriving classical theories from quantum mechanics: those of realist interpretation, of classical properties and of quantum measurement. Recently, we have identified some tacit assumptions that lie at the roots of these problems. Thus, a realist interpretation is hindered by the assumption that the only properties of quantum systems are values of observables. If one simply postulates the properties to be objective that are uniquely defined by preparation then all difficulties disappear. As for classical properties, the wrong assumption is that there are arbitrarily sharp classical trajectories. It turns out that fuzzy classical trajectories can be obtained from quantum mechanics by taking the limit of high entropy. Finally, standard quantum mechanics implies that any registration on a quantum system is disturbed by all quantum systems of the same kind existing somewhere in the universe. If one works out systematically how quantum mechanics must be corrected so that there is no such disturbance, one finds a new interpretation of von Neumann's "first kind of dynamics", and so a new way to a solution of the quantum measurement problem. The present paper gives a very short review of this work.

id: 1201.0618
title: The phase of Hidden Momentum in Aharonov-Bohm solenoid effect
authors: Y. Ben-Aryeh
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0618
abstract: It is shown that the phase of the hidden momentum in Aharonov-Bohm (AB) solenoid effect is equal in magnitude to the phase of the electron but with opposite sign. The phase of the hidden momentum is equal to that obtained by the energy of interference calculated in our previous paper (J.Opt.Soc.Am. B 17, 2052 2000).

id: 1201.0637
title: Sub-Rayleigh lithography using high flux loss-resistant entangled states of light
authors: Shamir Rosen, Itai Afek, Yonatan Israel, Oron Ambar, Yaron Silberberg
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0637
abstract: Quantum lithography achieves phase super-resolution using fragile, experimentally challenging entangled states of light. We propose a scalable scheme for creating features narrower than classically achievable, with reduced use of quantum resources and consequently enhanced resistance to loss. The scheme is an implementation of interferometric lithography using a mixture of an SPDC entangled state with intense classical coherent light. We measure coincidences of up to four photons mimicking multiphoton absorption. The results show a narrowing of the interference fringes of up to 30% with respect to the best analogous classical scheme using only 10% of the non-classical light required for creating NOON states.

id: 1201.0643
title: Cavity QED with atomic mirrors
authors: D. E. Chang, L. Jiang, A. V. Gorshkov, H. J. Kimble
comments: 20 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0643
abstract: A promising approach to merge atomic systems with scalable photonics has emerged recently, which consists of trapping cold atoms near tapered nanofibers. Here, we describe a novel technique to achieve strong, coherent coupling between a single atom and photon in such a system. Our approach makes use of collective enhancement effects, which allow a lattice of atoms to form a high-finesse cavity within the fiber. We show that a specially designated "impurity" atom within the cavity can experience strongly enhanced interactions with single photons in the fiber. Under realistic conditions, a "strong coupling" regime can be reached, wherein it becomes feasible to observe vacuum Rabi oscillations between the excited impurity atom and a single cavity quantum. This technique can form the basis for a scalable quantum information network using atom-nanofiber systems.

id: 1201.0663
title: Relativistic Motion Generates Quantum Gates and Entanglement Resonances
authors: David Edward Bruschi, Andrzej Dragan, Antony R. Lee, Ivette Fuentes, Jorma Louko
comments: Ivette Fuentes previously published as Ivette Fuentes-Guridi and Ivette Fuentes-Schuller. Replaced with published version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0663
abstract: We show that the relativistic motion of a quantum system can be used to generate quantum gates. The nonuniform acceleration of a cavity is used to generate well-known two-mode quantum gates in continuous variables. Observable amounts of entanglement between the cavity modes are produced through resonances which appear by repeating periodically any trajectory.

id: 1201.0775
title: On the Origins of Quantum Correlations
authors: Joy Christian
comments: 27 pages; Two footnotes added. With a new appendix describing the EPRB correlation observed by Alice and Bob living on a M\"obius strip. This is the introductory chapter of my forthcoming book on Bell's Theorem and Quantum Entanglement (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0775
abstract: It is well known that quantum correlations are not only more disciplined (and hence stronger) compared to classical correlations, but they are more disciplined in a mathematically very precise sense. This raises an important physical question: What is responsible for making quantum correlations so much more disciplined? Here we explain the observed discipline of quantum correlations by identifying the symmetries of our physical space with those of a parallelized 7-sphere. We substantiate this identification by proving that any quantum correlation can be understood as a classical, local-realistic correlation among a set of points of a parallelized 7-sphere.

id: 1201.0776
title: Quantum Simulation of Spin Models on an Arbitrary Lattice with Trapped Ions
authors: Simcha Korenblit, Dvir Kafri, Wess C. Campbell, Rajibul Islam, Emily E. Edwards, Zhe-Xuan Gong, Guin-Dar Lin, Luming Duan, Jungsang Kim, Kihwan Kim, Chris Monroe
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0776
abstract: A collection of trapped atomic ions represents one of the most attractive platforms for the quantum simulation of interacting spin networks and quantum magnetism. Spin-dependent optical dipole forces applied to an ion crystal create long-range effective spin-spin interactions and allow the simulation of spin Hamiltonians that possess nontrivial phases and dynamics. Here we show how appropriate design of laser fields can provide for arbitrary multidimensional spin-spin interaction graphs even for the case of a linear spatial array of ions. This scheme uses currently existing trap technology and is scalable to levels where classical methods of simulation are intractable.

id: 1201.0841
title: The Minimum-Uncertainty Squeezed States for for Atoms and Photons in a Cavity
authors: Sergey I. Kryuchkov, Sergei K. Suslov, Jose M. Vega-Guzman
comments: 27 pages, no figures, 174 references J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys., Special Issue celebrating the 20th anniversary of quantum state engineering (R. Blatt, A. Lvovsky, and G. Milburn, Guest Editors), May 2013
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0841
abstract: We describe a six-parameter family of the minimum-uncertainty squeezed states for the harmonic oscillator in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics. They are derived by the action of corresponding maximal kinematical invariance group on the standard ground state solution. We show that the product of the variances attains the required minimum value 1/4 only at the instances that one variance is a minimum and the other is a maximum, when the squeezing of one of the variances occurs. The generalized coherent states are explicitly constructed and their Wigner function is studied. The overlap coefficients between the squeezed, or generalized harmonic, and the Fock states are explicitly evaluated in terms of hypergeometric functions. The corresponding photons statistics are discussed and some applications to quantum optics, cavity quantum electrodynamics, and superfocusing in channeling scattering are mentioned. Explicit solutions of the Heisenberg equations for radiation field operators with squeezing are found.

id: 1201.0849
title: Complete Insecurity of Quantum Protocols for Classical Two-Party Computation
authors: Harry Buhrman, Matthias Christandl, Christian Schaffner
comments: v2: 6 pages, 1 figure, text identical to PRL-version (but reasonably formatted)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 160501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0849
abstract: A fundamental task in modern cryptography is the joint computation of a function which has two inputs, one from Alice and one from Bob, such that neither of the two can learn more about the other's input than what is implied by the value of the function. In this Letter, we show that any quantum protocol for the computation of a classical deterministic function that outputs the result to both parties (two-sided computation) and that is secure against a cheating Bob can be completely broken by a cheating Alice. Whereas it is known that quantum protocols for this task cannot be completely secure, our result implies that security for one party implies complete insecurity for the other. Our findings stand in stark contrast to recent protocols for weak coin tossing, and highlight the limits of cryptography within quantum mechanics. We remark that our conclusions remain valid, even if security is only required to be approximate and if the function that is computed for Bob is different from that of Alice.

id: 1201.0861
title: Moments of nonclassicality quasiprobabilities
authors: Saleh Rahimi-Keshari, Thomas Kiesel, Werner Vogel
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 043827 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0861
abstract: A method is introduced for the verification of nonclassicality in terms of moments of nonclassicality quasiprobability distributions. The latter are easily obtained from experimental data and will be denoted as nonclassicality moments. Their relation to normally-ordered moments is derived, which enables us to verify nonclassicality by using well established criteria. Alternatively, nonclassicality criteria are directly formulated in terms of nonclassicality moments. The latter converge in proper limits to the usually used criteria, as is illustrated for squeezing and sub-Poissonian photon statistics. Our theory also yields expectation values of any observable in terms of nonclassicality moments.

id: 1201.0955
title: Coherent states and related quantizations for unbounded motions
authors: V. G. Bagrov, J.-P. Gazeau, D. M. Gitman, A. D. Levin
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0955
abstract: We build coherent states (CS) for unbounded motions along two different procedures. In the first one we adapt the Malkin-Manko construction for quadratic Hamiltonians to the motion of a particle in a linear potential. A generalization to arbitrary potentials is discussed. The second one extends to continuous spectrum previous constructions of action-angle coherent states in view of a consistent energy quantization.

id: 1201.1029
title: Complete population transfer in a three-state quantum system by a train of pairs of coincident pulses
authors: Andon A. Rangelov, Nikolay V. Vitanov
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1029
abstract: A technique for complete population transfer between the two end states $\ket{1}$ and $\ket{3}$ of a three-state quantum system with a train of $N$ pairs of resonant and coincident pump and Stokes pulses is introduced. A simple analytic formula is derived for the ratios of the pulse amplitudes in each pair for which the maximum transient population $P_2(t)$ of the middle state $\ket{2}$ is minimized, $P_2^{\max}=\sin^2(\pi/4N)$. It is remarkable that, even though the pulses are on exact resonance, $P_2(t)$ is damped to negligibly small values even for a small number of pulse pairs. The population dynamics resembles generalized $\pi$-pulses for small $N$ and stimulated Raman adiabatic passage for large $N$ and therefore this technique can be viewed as a bridge between these well-known techniques.

id: 1201.1045
title: Comment on "Fermionic entanglement ambiguity in noninertial frames"
authors: Kamil Bradler, Rocio Jauregui
comments: To appear in Physical Review A. Some of the problems discussed in this comment can also be found in other previously published papers studying the Unruh effect for fermions (in the context of quantum information theory). An extended version of the comment can be found here this http URL
journal: Physical Review A 85, 016301, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1045
abstract: In this comment we show that the ambiguity of entropic quantities calculated in Physical Review A 83, 062323 (2011) for fermionic fields in the context of Unruh effect is not related to the properties of anticommuting fields, as claimed in Physical Review A 83, 062323 (2011), but rather to wrong mathematical manipulations with them and not taking into account a fundamental superselection rule of quantum field theory.

id: 1201.1093
title: On a conjectured property of the von Neumann entropy valid in the commutative case
authors: M. E. Shirokov
comments: 5 pages, an open question is formulated, comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1093
abstract: It is well known that the von Neumann entropy is continuous on a subset of quantum states with bounded energy provided the Hamiltonian $H$ of the system satisfies the condition $\Tr\exp(-cH)<+\infty$ for any $c>0$. In this note we consider the following conjecture: every closed convex subset of quantum states, on which the von Neumann entropy is continuous, consists of states with bounded energy with respect to a particular Hamiltonian $H$ satisfying the above condition. It is shown that the classical analog of this conjecture is valid (i.e. it is valid for the Shannon entropy). It is also shown that this conjecture holds for some types of subsets consisting of non-commuting states, but its validity for all subsets of quantum states remains an open question.

id: 1201.1136
title: Retardation turns the van der Waals attraction into Casimir repulsion already at 3 nm
authors: Mathias Bostr?m, Bo E. Sernelius, Iver Brevik, Barry W. Ninham
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A85, 010701(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1136
abstract: Casimir forces between surfaces immersed in bromobenzene have recently been measured by Munday et al. Attractive Casimir forces were found between gold surfaces. The forces were repulsive between gold and silica surfaces. We show the repulsion is due to retardation effects. The van der Waals interaction is attractive at all separations. The retardation driven repulsion sets in already at around 3 nm. To our knowledge retardation effects have never been found at such a small distance before. Retardation effects are usually associated with large distances.

id: 1201.1150
title: Constrained Adiabatic Trajectory Method (CATM): a global integrator for explicitly time-dependent Hamiltonians
authors: Arnaud Leclerc, Georges Jolicard, David Viennot, John P. Killingbeck
comments: 15 pages, 14 figures
journal: Journal of Chemical Physics, vol. 136, issue 1, 014106 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1150
abstract: The Constrained Adiabatic Trajectory Method (CATM) is reexamined as an integrator for the Schr\"odinger equation. An initial discussion places the CATM in the context of the different integrators used in the literature for time-independent or explicitly time-dependent Hamiltonians. The emphasis is put on adiabatic processes and within this adiabatic framework the interdependence between the CATM, the wave operator, the Floquet and the (t,t') theories is presented in detail. Two points are then more particularly analysed and illustrated by a numerical calculation describing the $H_2^+$ ion submitted to a laser pulse. The first point is the ability of the CATM to dilate the Hamiltonian spectrum and thus to make the perturbative treatment of the equations defining the wave function possible, possibly by using a Krylov subspace approach as a complement. The second point is the ability of the CATM to handle extremely complex time-dependencies, such as those which appear when interaction representations are used to integrate the system.

id: 1201.1159
title: Cascaded Entanglement Enhancement
authors: Zhihui Yan, Xiaojun Jia, Xiaolong Su, Zhiyuan Duan, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1159
abstract: We present a cascaded system consisting of three non-degenerate optical parametric amplifiers (NOPAs) for the generation and the enhancement of quantum entanglement of continuous variables. The entanglement of optical fields produced by the first NOPA is successively enhanced by the second and the third NOPAs from -5.3 $dB$ to -8.1 $dB$ below the quantum noise limit. The dependence of the enhanced entanglement on the physical parameters of the NOPAs and the reachable entanglement limitation for a given cascaded NOPA system are calculated. The calculation results are in good agreement with the experimental measurements.

id: 1201.1163
title: Coherent feedback control of multipartite quantum entanglement for optical fields
authors: Zhihui Yan, Xiaojun Jia, Changde Xie, Kunchi Peng
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 062304 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1163
abstract: Coherent feedback control (CFC) of multipartite optical entangled states produced by a non-degenerate optical parametric amplifier is theoretically studied. The features of the quantum correlations of amplitude and phase quadratures among more than two entangled optical modes can be controlled by tuning the transmissivity of the optical beam splitter in CFC loop. The physical conditions to enhance continuous variable multipartite entanglement of optical fields utilizing CFC loop are obtained. The numeric calculations based on feasible physical parameters of realistic systems provide direct references for the design of experimental devices.

id: 1201.1172
title: Bounds on the distance between a unital quantum channel and the convex hull of unitary channels, with applications to the asymptotic quantum Birkhoff conjecture
authors: Nengkun Yu, Runyao Duan, Quanhua Xu
comments: Revtex4, 13 pages, no figures. Preliminary versions presented at AQIS'2011 and QIP'2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Functional Analysis (math.FA); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1172
abstract: Motivated by the recent resolution of Asymptotic Quantum Birkhoff Conjecture (AQBC), we attempt to estimate the distance between a given unital quantum channel and the convex hull of unitary channels. We provide two lower bounds on this distance by employing techniques from quantum information and operator algebras, respectively. We then show how to apply these results to construct some explicit counterexamples to AQBC. We also point out an interesting connection between the Grothendieck's inequality and AQBC.

id: 1201.1196
title: One-way information reconciliation schemes of quantum key distribution
authors: Li Yang, Zhao Li
comments: 21 pages, 3 figure, 3 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1196
abstract: Information reconciliation(IR) is a basic step of quantum key distribution (QKD). Classical message interaction is necessary in a practical IR scheme, and the communication complexity has become a bottleneck of QKD's development. Here we propose a concatenated method of IR scheme which requires only one time one-way communication to achieve any given error rate level. A QKD scheme with the concatenated IR can work without the special interaction of error rate estimation.

id: 1201.1212
title: Measuring quantumness via anticommutators
authors: Rosario Fazio, Kavan Modi, Saverio Pascazio, Vlatko Vedral, Kazuya Yuasa
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 052132 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1212
abstract: We introduce a method to witness the quantumness of a system. The method relies on the fact that the anticommutator of two classical states is always positive. We show that there is always a nonpositive anticommutator due to any two quantum states. We notice that interference depends on the trace of the anticommutator of two states and it is therefore more natural to detect quantumness by looking at anticommutators of states rather than their commutators.

id: 1201.1240
title: Quantum-electrodynamical approach to the Casimir force problem
authors: Frederic Schuller, Renaud Savalle
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1240
abstract: We derive the Casimir force expression from Maxwell's stress tensor by means of original quantum-electro-dynamical cavity modes. In contrast with similar calculations, our method is straightforward and does not rely on intricate mathematical extrapolation relations.

id: 1201.1256
title: Negative Quasi-Probability as a Resource for Quantum Computation
authors: Victor Veitch, Christopher Ferrie, David Gross, Joseph Emerson
comments: 15 pages v4: This is a major revision. In particular, we have added a new section detailing an explicit extension of the Gottesman-Knill simulation protocol to deal with positively represented states and measurement (even when these are non-stabilizer). This paper also includes significant elaboration on the two main results of the previous version
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 113011 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1256
abstract: A central problem in quantum information is to determine the minimal physical resources that are required for quantum computational speedup and, in particular, for fault-tolerant quantum computation. We establish a remarkable connection between the potential for quantum speed-up and the onset of negative values in a distinguished quasi-probability representation, a discrete analog of the Wigner function for quantum systems of odd dimension. This connection allows us to resolve an open question on the existence of bound states for magic-state distillation: we prove that there exist mixed states outside the convex hull of stabilizer states that cannot be distilled to non-stabilizer target states using stabilizer operations. We also provide an efficient simulation protocol for Clifford circuits that extends to a large class of mixed states, including bound universal states.

id: 1201.1258
title: Photoluminescence from In0.5Ga0.5As/GaP quantum dots coupled to photonic crystal cavities
authors: Kelley Rivoire, Sonia Buckley, Yuncheng Song, Minjoo Larry Lee, Jelena Vuckovic
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1258
abstract: We demonstrate room temperature visible wavelength photoluminescence from In0.5Ga0.5As quantum dots embedded in a GaP membrane. Time-resolved above band photoluminescence measurements of quantum dot emission show a biexpontential decay with lifetimes of ~200 ps. We fabricate photonic crystal cavities which provide enhanced outcoupling of quantum dot emission, allowing the observation of narrow lines indicative of single quantum dot emission. This materials system is compatible with monolithic integration on Si, and is promising for high efficiency detection of single quantum dot emission as well as optoelectronic devices emitting at visible wavelengths.

id: 1201.1335
title: Tripartite Entanglement-Dependence of Tripartite Non-locality in Non-inertial Frame
authors: DaeKil Park
comments: 13 pages,6 figures, V2, 14 pages, 6 figures, will appear in JPHYSA
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1335
abstract: The three-tangle-dependence of $S_{max} = \max <S>$, where $S$ is Svetlichny operator, are explicitly derived when one party moves with an uniform acceleration with respect to other parties in the generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger and maximally slice states. The $\pi$-tangle-dependence of $S_{max}$ are also derived implicitly. From the dependence we conjecture that the multipartite entanglement is not the only physical resource for quantum mechanical multipartite non-locality.

id: 1201.1339
title: One-step implementation of the Fredkin gate via quantum Zeno dynamics
authors: Zhi-Cheng Shi, Yan Xia, Jie Song
comments: 22 pages, 7 figures
journal: Quantum Inf. Comput. 12, 0215-0230 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1339
abstract: We study one-step implementation of the Fredkin gate in a bi-modal cavity under both resonant and large detuning conditions based on quantum Zeno dynamics, which reduces the complexity of experiment operations. The influence of cavity decay and atomic spontaneous emission is discussed by numerical calculation. The results demonstrate that the fidelity and the success probability are robust against cavity decay in both models and they are also insensitive to atomic spontaneous emission in the large detuning model. In addition, the interaction time is rather short in the resonant model compared to the large detuning model.

id: 1201.1364
title: Two-qubit gate operations in superconducting circuits with strong coupling and weak anharmonicity
authors: Xin-You L¨¹, S. Ashhab, Wei Cui, Rebing Wu, Franco Nori
comments: 
journal: New Journal of Physics 14 (2012) 073041
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1364
abstract: We investigate theoretically the implementation of two-qubit gates in a system of two coupled superconducting qubits. In particular, we analyze two-qubit gate operations under the condition that the coupling strength is comparable to or even larger than the anharmonicity of the qubits. By numerically solving the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation, we obtain the dependence of the two-qubit gate fidelity on the system parameters in the case of direct and indirect qubit-qubit coupling. Our numerical results can be used to identify the "safe" parameter regime for experimentally implementing two-qubit gates with high fidelity in these systems.

id: 1201.1389
title: Huygens-Fresnel-Kirchhoff construction for quantum propagators with application to diffraction in space and time
authors: Arseni Goussev
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013626 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1389
abstract: We address the phenomenon of diffraction of non-relativistic matter waves on openings in absorbing screens. To this end, we expand the full quantum propagator, connecting two points on the opposite sides of the screen, in terms of the free particle propagator and spatio-temporal properties of the opening. Our construction, based on the Huygens-Fresnel principle, describes the quantum phenomena of diffraction in space and diffraction in time, as well as the interplay between the two. We illustrate the method by calculating diffraction patterns for localized wave packets passing through various time-dependent openings in one and two spatial dimensions.

id: 1201.1418
title: Fidelity for kicked atoms with gravity near a quantum resonance
authors: R¨¦my Dubertrand, Italo Guarneri, Sandro Wimberger
comments: 18 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 036205 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1418
abstract: Kicked atoms under a constant Stark or gravity field are investigated for experimental setups with cold and ultra cold atoms. The parametric stability of the quantum dynamics is studied using the fidelity. In the case of a quantum resonance, it is shown that the behavior of the fidelity depends on arithmetic properties of the gravity parameter. Close to a quantum resonance, the long time asymptotics of the fidelity is studied by means of a {\em pseudo-classical} approximation first introduced by Fishman {\em et al.} [J. Stat. Phys. {\bf 110}, 911 (2003)]. The long-time decay of fidelity arises from the tunneling out of pseudo-classical stable islands, and a simple ansatz is proposed which satisfactorily reproduces the main features observed in numerical simulations.

id: 1201.1445
title: Entanglement between an auto-ionization system and a neighbor atom
authors: Antonin Luks, Jan Perina Jr, Wieslaw Leonski, Vlasta Perinova
comments: 11 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 012321 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1445
abstract: Entanglement between two electrons belonging to an auto-ionization system and a neighbor two-level atom produced by the dipole-dipole interaction is studied. The entanglement is quantified using the quadratic negativity of a bipartite system including the continuum of states. Suitable conditions for the generation of highly entangled states of two electrons are revealed. Internal structure of the entanglement is elucidated using the spectral density of quadratic negativity.

id: 1201.1510
title: Hilbert Space Quantum Mechanics Is Noncontextual
authors: Robert B. Griffiths
comments: Minor revisions to clarify some points in previus versions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1510
abstract: It is shown that quantum mechanics is noncontextual if quantum properties are represented by subspaces of the quantum Hilbert space (as proposed by von Neumann) rather than by hidden variables. In particular, a measurement using an appropriately constructed apparatus can be shown to reveal the value of an observable A possessed by the measured system before the measurement took place, whatever other compatible ([B,A]=0) observable B may be measured at the same time.

id: 1201.1517
title: Quantum Error Correction with Mixed Ancilla Qubits
authors: Ben Criger, Osama Moussa, Raymond Laflamme
comments: 5 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1517
abstract: Most quantum error correcting codes are predicated on the assumption that there exists a reservoir of qubits in the state $\ket{0}$, which can be used as ancilla qubits to prepare multi-qubit logical states. In this report, we examine the consequences of relaxing this assumption, and propose a method to increase the fidelity produced by a given code when the ancilla qubits are initialized in mixed states, using the same number of qubits, at most doubling the number of gates. The procedure implemented consists of altering the encoding operator to include the inverse of the unitary operation used to correct detected errors after decoding. This augmentation will be especially useful in quantum computing architectures that do not possess projective measurement, such as solid state NMRQIP.

id: 1201.1521
title: On optimal entanglement assisted one-shot classical communication
authors: Brett Hemenway, Carl A. Miller, Yaoyun Shi, Mary Wootters
comments: 5 pages, plus 7 pages of supplementary material. v2 is significantly expanded and contains a new result (Theorem 2)
journal: Physical Review A 87, 062301 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1521
abstract: The one-shot success probability of a noisy classical channel for transmitting one classical bit is the optimal probability with which the bit can be sent via a single use of the channel. Prevedel et al. (PRL 106, 110505 (2011)) recently showed that for a specific channel, this quantity can be increased if the parties using the channel share an entangled quantum state. We completely characterize the optimal entanglement-assisted protocols in terms of the radius of a set of operators associated with the channel. This characterization can be used to construct optimal entanglement-assisted protocols from the given classical channel and to prove the limit of such protocols. As an example, we show that the Prevedel et al. protocol is optimal for two-qubit entanglement. We also prove some simple upper bounds on the improvement that can be obtained from quantum and no-signaling correlations.

id: 1201.1594
title: Quantum frameness for Charge-Parity-Time (CPT) inversion symmetry
authors: Michael Skotiniotis, Ian T. Durham, Borzu Toloui, Barry C. Sanders
comments: Replaced by arXiv:1306.6114 which is substantially different from this version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1594
abstract: We develop a charge-parity-time (CPT) frameness resource theory to circumvent CPT- superselection. We construct and quantify such resources for spins 0, 1/2, and 1 and for Majorana particles, and we show that spin 0 particles only admit classical information processing whereas particles of higher-dimensional spin permit quantum information processing in the presence of CPT-superselection. Our treatment of CPT inversion as indecomposable circumvents the anti-unitarity of certain actions (C and T) by strictly considering the aggregate CPT.

id: 1201.1596
title: On "Law without Law"
authors: David Ritz Finkelstein
comments: 6 pages. Paper in a volume
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1596
abstract: A quantum mechanism for logogenesis is conjectured.

id: 1201.1597
title: Palev Statistics and the Chronon
authors: David Ritz Finkelstein
comments: 14 pages. For the proceedings of IX International Workshop on Lie Theory and its Applications in Physics. Bulgarian Academy of Sciences 2011. Ed. V. K. Dobrev
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1597
abstract: A finite relativistic quantum space-time is constructed. Its unit cell has Palev statistics defined by a spin representation of an orthogonal group. When the Standard Model and general relativity are physically regularized by such space-time quantization, their gauges are fixed by nature; the cell groups remain.

id: 1201.1599
title: Nature as quantum computer
authors: David Ritz Finkelstein
comments: 16 pages. Paper contributed to a memorial volume for Jack Schwartz edited by E. Schonberg
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1599
abstract: Set theory reduces all processes to assembly and disassembly. A similar architecture is proposed for nature as quantum computer. It resolves the classical space-time underlying Feynman diagrams into a quantum network of creation and annihilation processes, reducing kinematics to quantum statistics, and regularizing the Lie algebra of the Einstein diffeomorphism group. The usually separate and singular Lie algebras of kinematics, statistics, and conserved currents merge into one regular statistics Lie algebra.

id: 1201.1636
title: Finite superposition solutions for surface states in a type of photonic superlattices
authors: Qiongtao Xie, Chaohong Lee
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 063802 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1636
abstract: We develop an efficient method to derive a class of surface states in photonic superlattices. In a kind of infinite bichromatic superlattices satisfying some specific conditions, we obtain a finite portion of their in-gap states, which are superpositions of finite numbers of their unstable Bloch waves. By using these unstable in-gap states, we construct exactly several stable surface states near various interfaces in photonic superlattices. We analytically explore the parametric dependence of these exact surface states. Our analysis provides an exact demonstration for the existence of surface states and would be also helpful to understand surface states in other lattice systems.

id: 1201.1688
title: Quantum theory of frequency pulling in the cavity-QED microlaser
authors: Hyun-Gue Hong, Kyungwon An
comments: 13 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1688
abstract: The spectrum of the cavity-QED microlaser/micromaser is expected to show distinctive features of the coherent light-matter interaction, which are obscured in the conventional Schawlow-Townes linewidth theory. However, the spectral studies has been limited to resonant atom-cavity interaction so far. Here we consider the dispersive interaction in the off-resonance case, from which we uncover a quantum frequency pulling effect in the microlaser/micromaser spectrum. We present a quantum theory of the spectrum which introduces the notion of a frequency-pulling distribution associated with the photon number. In contrast to the conventional laser, periodic variation of the mean frequency pulling is observed with increasing pump parameter and it is attributed to the strong atom-cavity coupling. The pulling distribution gives rise to a spectral broadening, which can be dominant over the non-dispersive broadening addressed in the previous works. We also developed a corresponding semiclassical theory and discuss how the introduction of the frequency shift fits in with the extended quantum theory.

id: 1201.1693
title: General framework for estimating the ultimate precision limit in noisy quantum-enhanced metrology
authors: B. M. Escher, R. L. de Matos Filho, L. Davidovich
comments: Published in Nature Physics. This is the revised submitted version. The supplementary material can be found at this http URL
journal: Nature Physics 7, 406-411 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1693
abstract: The estimation of parameters characterizing dynamical processes is central to science and technology. The estimation error changes with the number N of resources employed in the experiment (which could quantify, for instance, the number of probes or the probing energy). Typically, it scales as 1/N^(1/2). Quantum strategies may improve the precision, for noiseless processes, by an extra factor 1/N^(1/2). For noisy processes, it is not known in general if and when this improvement can be achieved. Here we propose a general framework for obtaining attainable and useful lower bounds for the ultimate limit of precision in noisy systems. We apply this bound to lossy optical interferometry and atomic spectroscopy in the presence of dephasing, showing that it captures the main features of the transition from the 1/N to the 1/N^(1/2) behaviour as N increases, independently of the initial state of the probes, and even with use of adaptive feedback.

id: 1201.1696
title: Spectrum of single-photon emission and scattering in cavity optomechanics
authors: Jie-Qiao Liao, H. K. Cheung, C. K. Law
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 025803 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1696
abstract: We present an analytic solution describing the quantum state of a single photon after interacting with a moving mirror in a cavity. This includes situations when the photon is initially stored in a cavity mode as well as when the photon is injected into the cavity. In addition, we obtain the spectrum of the output photon in the resolved-sideband limit, which reveals spectral features of the single-photon strong-coupling regime in this system. We also clarify the conditions under which the phonon sidebands are visible and the photon-state frequency shift can be resolved.

id: 1201.1707
title: An improved formalism for the Grover search algorithm
authors: James M. Chappell, M. A. Lohe, Lorenz von Smekal, Azhar Iqbal, Derek Abbot
comments: 15 pages 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1707
abstract: The Grover search algorithm is one of the two key algorithms in the field of quantum computing, and hence it is of significant interest to describe it in the most efficient mathematical formalism. We show firstly, that Clifford's formalism of geometric algebra, provides a significantly more efficient representation than the conventional Bra-ket notation, and secondly, that the basis defined by the states of maximum and minimum weight in the Grover search space, allows a simple visualization of the Grover search as the precession of a spin-1/2 particle. Using this formalism we efficiently solve the exact search problem, as well as easily representing more general search situations.

id: 1201.1718
title: Coupling of an erbium spin ensemble to a superconducting resonator
authors: Matthias U. Staudt, Io-Chun Hoi, Philip Krantz, Martin Sandberg, Michael Simoen, Pavel Bushev, Nicolas Sangouard, Mikael Afzelius, Vitaly S. Shumeiko, G?ran Johansson, Per Delsing, C. M. Wilson
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 (2012) 124019
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1718
abstract: A quantum coherent interface between optical and microwave photons can be used as a basic building block within a future quantum information network. The interface is envisioned as an ensemble of rare-earth ions coupled to a superconducting resonator, allowing for coherent transfer between optical and microwave photons. Towards this end, we have realized a hybrid device coupling a Er$^{3+}$ doped Y$_2$SiO$_5$ crystal in a superconducting coplanar waveguide cavity. We observe a collective spin coupling of 4 MHz and a spin linewdith of down to 75 MHz.

id: 1201.1732
title: Generalized Dicke States
authors: Stephan Hartmann
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1732
abstract: Quantum master equations are an important tool in quantum optics and quantum information theory. For systems comprising a small to medium number of atoms (or qubits), the non-truncated equations are usually solved numerically. In this paper, we present a group-theoretical superoperator method that helps solving these equations. To do so, we exploit the SU(4)-symmetry of the respective Lindblad operator and construct basis states that generalize the well-known Dicke states. This allows us to solve various problems analytically and to considerably reduce the complexity of problems that can only be solved numerically. Finally, we present three examples that illustrate the proposed method.

id: 1201.1750
title: Femtosecond two-photon photoassociation of hot magnesium atoms: A quantum dynamical study using thermal random phase wavefunctions
authors: Saieswari Amaran, Ronnie Kosloff, Micha? Tomza, Wojciech Skomorowski, Filip Pawlowski, Robert Moszynski, Leonid Rybak, Liat Levin, Zohar Amitay, J. Martin Berglund, Daniel M. Reich, Christiane P. Koch
comments: 
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 139 , 164124 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1750
abstract: Two-photon photoassociation of hot magnesium atoms by femtosecond laser pulses, creating electronically excited magnesium dimer molecules, is studied from first principles, combining \textit{ab initio} quantum chemistry and molecular quantum dynamics. This theoretical framework allows for rationalizing the generation of molecular rovibrational coherence from thermally hot atoms [L. Rybak \textit{et al.}, Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 107}, 273001 (2011)]. Random phase thermal wave functions are employed to model the thermal ensemble of hot colliding atoms. Comparing two different choices of basis functions, random phase wavefunctions built from eigenstates are found to have the fastest convergence for the photoassociation yield. The interaction of the colliding atoms with a femtosecond laser pulse is modeled non-perturbatively to account for strong-field effects.

id: 1201.1811
title: Generalized Coherent States for Polynomial Weyl-Heisenberg Algebras
authors: Maurice Robert Kibler, Mohammed Daoud
comments: From an invited talk given by M.R. Kibler to TIM-11 (Timisoara, Romania, 24-26 November 2011) and to AAMP IX (Prague, Czech Republic, 12-15 December 2011)
journal: Physics Conference TIM-11, Timisoara : Roumanie (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1811
abstract: It is the aim of this paper to show how to construct Perelomov and Barut-Girardello coherent states for a polynomial Weyl-Heisenberg algebra. This algebra depends on r parameters. For some special values of the parameter corresponding to r = 1, the algebra covers the cases of the su(1,1) algebra, the su(2) algebra and the ordinary Weyl-Heisenberg or oscillator algebra. For r arbitrary, the generalized Weyl-Heisenberg algebra admits finite or infinite-dimensional representations depending on the values of the parameters. Coherent states of the Perelomov type are derived in finite and infinite dimensions through a Fock-Bargmann approach based on the use of complex variables. The same approach is applied for deriving coherent states of the Barut-Girardello type in infinite dimension. In contrast, the construction of Barut-Girardello coherent states in finite dimension can be achieved solely at the price to replace complex variables by generalized Grassmann variables. Finally, some preliminary developments are given for the study of Bargmann functions associated with some of the coherent states obtained in this work.

id: 1201.1833
title: Experimental demonstration of a universally valid error-disturbance uncertainty relation in spin-measurements
authors: Jacqueline Erhart, Stephan Sponar, Georg Sulyok, Gerald Badurek, Masanao Ozawa, Yuji Hasegawa
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, Nature Physics (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1833
abstract: The uncertainty principle generally prohibits determination of certain pairs of quantum mechanical observables with arbitrary precision and forms the basis of indeterminacy in quantum mechanics. It was Heisenberg who used the famous gamma-ray microscope thought experiment to illustrate this indeterminacy. A lower bound was set for the product of the measurement error of an observable and the disturbance caused by the measurement. Later on, the uncertainty relation was reformulated in terms of standard deviations, which focuses solely on indeterminacy of predictions and neglects unavoidable recoil in measuring devices. A correct formulation of the error-disturbance relation, taking recoil into account, is essential for a deeper understanding of the uncertainty principle. However, the validity of Heisenberg's original error-disturbance uncertainty relation is justifed only under limited circumstances. Another error-disturbance relation, derived by rigorous and general theoretical treatments of quantum measurements, is supposed to be universally valid. Here, we report a neutron optical experiment that records the error of a spin-component measurement as well as the disturbance caused on another spin-component measurement. The results confirm that both error and disturbance completely obey the new, more general relation but violate the old one in a wide range of an experimental parameter.

id: 1201.1842
title: Experimental determination of Ramsey numbers
authors: Zhengbing Bian, Fabian Chudak, William G. Macready, Lane Clark, Frank Gaitan
comments: manuscript: 5 pages; 1 table, 3 figures; Supplementary Information: 18 pages, 1 table, 13 figures; version to appear in Physical Review Letters
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. vol. 111, 130505 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1842
abstract: Ramsey theory is a highly active research area in mathematics that studies the emergence of order in large disordered structures. Ramsey numbers mark the threshold at which order first appears and are extremely difficult to calculate due to their explosive rate of growth. Recently, an algorithm that can be implemented using adiabatic quantum evolution has been proposed that calculates the two-color Ramsey numbers $R(m,n)$. Here we present results of an experimental implementation of this algorithm and show that it correctly determines the Ramsey numbers R(3,3) and $R(m,2)$ for $4\leq m\leq 8$. The R(8,2) computation used 84 qubits of which 28 were computational qubits. This computation is the largest experimental implementation of a scientifically meaningful adiabatic evolution algorithm that has been done to date.

id: 1201.1878
title: Sub-Heisenberg estimation strategies are ineffective
authors: Vittorio Giovannetti, Lorenzo Maccone
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures, revised version that was published
journal: Vittorio Giovannetti and Lorenzo Maccone, Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 210404 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1878
abstract: In interferometry, sub-Heisenberg strategies claim to achieve a phase estimation error smaller than the inverse of the mean number of photons employed (Heisenberg bound). Here we show that one can achieve a comparable precision without performing any measurement, just using the large prior information that sub-Heisenberg strategies require. For uniform prior (i.e. no prior information), we prove that these strategies cannot achieve more than a fixed gain of about 1.73 over Heisenberg-limited interferometry. Analogous results hold for arbitrary single-mode prior distributions. These results extend also beyond interferometry: the effective error in estimating any parameter is lower bounded by a quantity proportional to the inverse expectation value (above a ground state) of the generator of translations of the parameter.

id: 1201.1932
title: A quantum phase transition in a quantum external field: Superposing two magnetic phases
authors: Marek M. Rams, Michael Zwolak, Bogdan Damski
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, improvements in the discussion of the measurement of the central spin & averaging, expanded discussion of the role of ground state fidelity
journal: Scientific Reports 2, 655 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1932
abstract: We study an Ising chain undergoing a quantum phase transition in a quantum magnetic field. Such a field can be emulated by coupling the chain to a central spin initially in a superposition state. We show that - by adiabatically driving such a system - one can prepare a quantum superposition of any two ground states of the Ising chain. In particular, one can end up with the Ising chain in a superposition of ferromagnetic and paramagnetic phases -- a scenario with no analogue in prior studies of quantum phase transitions. Remarkably, the resulting magnetization of the chain encodes the position of the critical point and universal critical exponents, as well as the ground state fidelity.

id: 1201.1949
title: Dynamics of Geometric Discord and Measurement-Induced Nonlocality at Finite Temperature
authors: Guo-Feng Zhang, Heng Fan, Ai-Ling Ji, Wu-Ming Liu
comments: 1 tex file and two eps figures;Accepted by EPJD
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1949
abstract: By using geometric measure of discord (\texttt{GMOD})[Phys. Rev. Lett, 105, 109502 (2010)] and measurement-induced nonlocality (\texttt{MIN})[Phys. Rev. Lett, 106, 120401 (2011)], we investigate quantum correlation of a pair of two-level systems, each of which is interacting with a reservoir at finite temperature $T$. We show that, for a broad class of states of the system, \texttt{GMOD} and \texttt{MIN} can endure sudden death, and there is no asymptotic decay for \texttt{MIN} while asymptotic decay exists for \texttt{GMOD}. We also give the dynamics of \texttt{GMOD} and \texttt{MIN} with respect to the temperature and illustrate their different characteristics.

id: 1201.1962
title: Accelerating an adiabatic process by nonlinear sweeping
authors: Xingxin Cao, Jun Zhuang, X.-J. Ning, Wenxian Zhang
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1962
abstract: We investigate the acceleration of an adiabatic process with the same survival probability of the ground state by sweeping a parameter nonlinearly, fast in the wide gap region and slow in the narrow gap region, as contrast to the usual linear sweeping. We find the expected acceleration in the Laudau-Zener tunneling model and in the adiabatic quantum computing model for factorizing the number N=21.

id: 1201.2041
title: Monogamy of Measurement Induced Non-Locality
authors: Ajoy Sen, Debasis Sarkar, Amit Bhar
comments: 7 pages, 1 figure, pdflatex
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor., Vol.45, (2012) 405306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2041
abstract: Measurement-Induced NonLocality was introduced by Luo and Fu (Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{106}, 120401,(2011)) as a measure of nonlocality in a bipartite state. In this paper we will discuss monogamy property of measurement-induced nonlocality for some three- and four-qubit classes of states. Unlike discord, we find quite surprising results in this situation. Both the GHZ and W states satisfy monogamy relations in the three-qubit case, however, in general there are violations of monogamy relations in both the GHZ-class and W-class states. In case of four-qubit system, monogamy holds for most of the states in the generic class. Four qubit GHZ does not satisfy monogamy relation, but W-state does. We provide several numerical results including counterexamples regarding monogamy nature of measurement induced nonlocality. We will also extend our results of generalized W-class to n-qubit.

id: 1201.2055
title: A framework for the study of symmetric full-correlation Bell-like inequalities
authors: Jean-Daniel Bancal, Cyril Branciard, Nicolas Brunner, Nicolas Gisin, Yeong-Cherng Liang
comments: 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 125301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2055
abstract: Full-correlation Bell-like inequalities represent an important subclass of Bell-like inequalities that have found applications in both a better understanding of fundamental physics and in quantum information science. Loosely speaking, these are inequalities where only measurement statistics involving all parties play a role. In this paper, we provide a framework for the study of a large family of such inequalities that are symmetrical with respect to arbitrary permutations of the parties. As an illustration of the power of our framework, we derive (i) a new family of Svetlichny inequalities for arbitrary numbers of parties, settings and outcomes, (ii) a new family of two-outcome device-independent entanglement witnesses for genuine n-partite entanglement and (iii) a new family of two-outcome Tsirelson inequalities for arbitrary numbers of parties and settings. We also discuss briefly the application of these new inequalities in the characterization of quantum correlations.

id: 1201.2076
title: QM, non-locality and the vacuum fluctuations: conclusions and new directions
authors: David Rodriguez
comments: The content of this paper would need update; besides, nothing fundamental is added to the rest of my submissions here in arXiv (which will be the ones updated)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2076
abstract: Summary of results and overall conclusions on my works in the field of Bell inequalities and QM's alleged non-locality.

id: 1201.2184
title: Stability of encoded macroscopic quantum superpositions
authors: Florian Fr?wis, Wolfgang D¨¹r
comments: 21 pages, 17 figures, follow-up article of DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.106.110402. V2: extended comparison to error correction codes; correction of several typos and improved presentation
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052329 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2184
abstract: The multipartite Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) state is a paradigmatic example of a highly entangled multipartite states with distinct quantum features. However, the GHZ state is very sensitive to generic decoherence processes, where its quantum features and in particular its entanglement diminish rapidly, thereby hindering possible practical applications e.g. in the context of quantum metrology. In this paper, we discuss GHZ-like quantum states with a block-local structure and show that they exhibit a drastically increased stability against noise for certain choices of block-encoding. We analyze in detail the decay of the interference terms, the entanglement in terms of distillable entanglement and Negativity as well as the notion of macroscopicity as measured by the so-called q-index, and provide general bounds on these quantities. We focus on an encoding where logical qubits are themselves encoded as GHZ states, which leads to so-called concatenated GHZ (C-GHZ) states. We compare the stability of C-GHZ states with other types of encodings, thereby showing the superior stability of the C-GHZ states. Analytic results are complemented by numerical studies, where tensor network techniques are used to investigate the quantum properties of multipartite entangled states under the influence of decoherence.

id: 1201.2196
title: Wigner separability entropy and complexity of quantum dynamics
authors: Giuliano Benenti, Gabriel G. Carlo, Tomaz Prosen
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 051129 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2196
abstract: We propose the Wigner separability entropy as a measure of complexity of a quantum state. This quantity measures the number of terms that effectively contribute to the Schmidt decomposition of the Wigner function with respect to a chosen phase space decomposition. We prove that the Wigner separability entropy is equal to the operator space entanglement entropy, measuring entanglement in the space of operators, and, for pure states, to twice the entropy of entanglement. The quantum to classical correspondence between the Wigner separability entropy and the separability entropy of the classical phase space Liouville density is illustrated by means of numerical simulations of chaotic maps. In this way, the separability entropy emerges as an extremely broad complexity quantifier in both the classical and quantum realms.

id: 1201.2225
title: Ultimate limits to quantum metrology and the meaning of the Heisenberg limit
authors: Marcin Zwierz, Carlos A. P¨¦rez-Delgado, Pieter Kok
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, Published version: some clarifications given on the applicability of the new limit
journal: Physical Review A 85, 042112 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2225
abstract: For the last 20 years, the question of what are the fundamental capabilities of quantum precision measurements has sparked a lively debate throughout the scientific community. Typically, the ultimate limits in quantum metrology are associated with the notion of the Heisenberg limit expressed in terms of the physical resources used in the measurement procedure. Over the years, a variety of different physical resources were introduced, leading to a confusion about the meaning of the Heisenberg limit. Here, we review the mainstream definitions of the relevant resources and introduce the universal resource count, that is, the expectation value of the generator (above its ground state) of translations in the parameter we wish to estimate, that applies to all measurement strategies. This leads to the ultimate formulation of the Heisenberg limit for quantum metrology. We prove that the new limit holds for the generators of translations with an upper-bounded spectrum.

id: 1201.2229
title: Method for classifying multiqubit states via the rank of the coefficient matrix and its application to four-qubit states
authors: Xiangrong Li, Dafa Li
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042332 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2229
abstract: We construct coefficient matrices of size 2^l by 2^{n-l} associated with pure n-qubit states and prove the invariance of the ranks of the coefficient matrices under stochastic local operations and classical communication (SLOCC). The ranks give rise to a simple way of partitioning pure n-qubit states into inequivalent families and distinguishing degenerate families from one another under SLOCC. Moreover, the classification scheme via the ranks of coefficient matrices can be combined with other schemes to build a more refined classification scheme. To exemplify we classify the nine families of four qubits introduced by Verstraete et al. [Phys. Rev. A 65, 052112 (2002)] further into inequivalent subfamilies via the ranks of coefficient matrices, and as a result, we find 28 genuinely entangled families and all the degenerate classes can be distinguished up to permutations of the four qubits. We also discuss the completeness of the classification of four qubits into nine families.

id: 1201.2232
title: Entanglement amplification via local weak measurements
authors: Yukihiro Ota, Sahel Ashhab, Franco Nori
comments: 16 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Phys. A:Math. Theor. 45, 415303 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2232
abstract: We propose a measurement-based method to produce a maximally-entangled state from a partially-entangled pure state. Our goal can be thought of as entanglement distillation from a single copy of a partially-entangled state. The present approach involves local two-outcome weak measurements. We show that application of these local weak measurements leads to a probabilistic amplification of entanglement. In addition, we examine how the probability to find the maximally-entangled state is related to the entanglement of the input state. We also study the application of our method to a mixed initial state. We show that the protocol is successful if the separable part of the mixed initial state fulfils certain conditions.

id: 1201.2234
title: Implementing general measurements on linear optical and solid-state qubits
authors: Yukihiro Ota, Sahel Ashhab, Franco Nori
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 043808 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2234
abstract: We show a systematic construction for implementing general measurements on a single qubit, including both strong (or projection) and weak measurements. We mainly focus on linear optical qubits. The present approach is composed of simple and feasible elements, i.e., beam splitters, wave plates, and polarizing beam splitters. We show how the parameters characterizing the measurement operators are controlled by the linear optical elements. We also propose a method for the implementation of general measurements in solid-state qubits.

id: 1201.2250
title: A Robust Quantum Random Access Memory
authors: Fang-Yu Hong, Yang Xiang, Zhi-Yan Zhu, Li-zhen Jiang, Liang-neng Wu
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 86, 010306(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2250
abstract: A "bucket brigade" architecture for a quantum random memory of $N=2^n$ memory cells needs $n(n+5)/2$ times of quantum manipulation on control circuit nodes per memory call. Here we propose a scheme, in which only average $n/2$ times manipulation is required to accomplish a memory call. This scheme may significantly decrease the time spent on a memory call and the average overall error rate per memory call. A physical implementation scheme for storing an arbitrary state in a selected memory cell followed by reading it out is discussed.

id: 1201.2269
title: Generation of nonclassical microwave states using an artificial atom in 1D open space
authors: Io-Chun Hoi, Tauno Palomaki, G?ran Johansson, Joel Lindkvist, Per Delsing, C. M. Wilson
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 263601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2269
abstract: We have embedded an artificial atom, a superconducting transmon qubit, in a 1D open space and investigated the scattering properties of an incident microwave coherent state. By studying the statistics of the reflected and transmitted fields, we demonstrate that the scattered states can be nonclassical. In particular, by measuring the second-order correlation function, $g^{(2)}$, we show photon antibunching in the reflected field and superbunching in the transmitted field. We also compare the elastically and inelastically scattered fields using both phase-sensitive and phase-insensitive measurements.

id: 1201.2296
title: Casimir-Lifshitz interaction between ZnO and SiO2 nanorods in bromobenzene: retardation effects turn the interaction repulsive at intermediate separations
authors: Mathias Bostr?m, Bo E. Sernelius, Gustavo Baldissera, Clas Persson, Barry W. Ninham
comments: 3.5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review A 85, 044702 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2296
abstract: We consider the interaction between a ZnO nanorod and a SiO2 nanorod in bromobenzene. Using optical data for the interacting objects and ambient we calculate the force - from short-range attractive van der Waals force to intermediate range repulsive Casimir-Lifshitz force to long range entropically driven attraction. The nonretarded van der Waals interaction is attractive at all separations. We demonstrate a retardation driven repulsion at intermediate separations. At short separations (in the nonretarded limit) and at large separations (in the classical limit) the interaction is attractive. These effects can be understood from an analysis of multiple crossings of the dielectric functions of the three media as functions of imaginary frequencies.

id: 1201.2299
title: Phase Space Approach to Solving the Time-independent Schr?dinger Equation
authors: Asaf Shimshovitz, David J. Tannor
comments: 5 figures. Includes supplementary material. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1010.2588
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2299
abstract: We propose a method for solving the time independent Schr\"odinger equation based on the von Neumann (vN) lattice of phase space Gaussians. By incorporating periodic boundary conditions into the vN lattice [F. Dimler et al., New J. Phys. 11, 105052 (2009)] we solve a longstanding problem of convergence of the vN method. This opens the door to tailoring quantum calculations to the underlying classical phase space structure while retaining the accuracy of the Fourier grid basis. The method has the potential to provide enormous numerical savings as the dimensionality increases. In the classical limit the method reaches the remarkable efficiency of 1 basis function per 1 eigenstate. We illustrate the method for a challenging two-dimensional potential where the FGH method breaks down.

id: 1201.2316
title: Modeling of Low and High Frequency Noise by Slow and Fast Fluctuators
authors: Alexander I. Nesterov, Gennady P. Berman
comments: 25 pages, 9 figures; Typos corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052125 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2316
abstract: We study the dynamics of dephasing in a quantum two-level system by modeling both 1/f and high-frequency noise by random telegraph processes. Our approach is based on a so-called spin-fluctuator model in which a noisy environment is modeled by a large number of fluctuators. In the continuous limit we obtain an effective random process (ERP) that is described by a distribution function of the fluctuators. In a simplified model, we reduce the ERP to the two (slow and fast) ensembles of fluctuators. Using this model, we study decoherence in a superconducting flux qubit and we compare our theoretical results with the available experimental data. We demonstrate good agreement of our theoretical predictions with the experiments. Our approach can be applied to many quantum systems, such as biological complexes, semiconductors, superconducting and spin qubits, where the effects of interaction with the environment are essential.

id: 1201.2354
title: Emission of correlated photon pairs from superluminal perturbations in dispersive media
authors: Francesco Dalla Piazza, Francesco Belgiorno, Sergio Luigi Cacciatori, Daniel Faccio
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2354
abstract: We develop a perturbative theory that describes a superluminal refractive perturbation propagating in a dispersive medium and the subsequent excitation of the quantum vacuum zero-point fluctuations. We find a process similar to the anomalous Doppler effect: photons are emitted in correlated pairs and mainly within a Cerenkov-like cone, one on the forward and the other in backward directions. The number of photon pairs emitted from the perturbation increases strongly with the degree of superluminality and under realizable experimental conditions, it can reach up to ~0.01 photons per pulse. Moreover, it is in principle possible to engineer the host medium so as to modify the effective group refractive index. In the presence of "fast light" media, e.g. a with group index smaller than unity, a further ~10x enhancement may be achieved and the photon emission spectrum is characterized by two sharp peaks that, in future experiments would clearly identify the correlated emission of photon pairs.

id: 1201.2382
title: Quantum Mechanics Without Wavefunctions
authors: Jeremy Schiff, Bill Poirier
comments: 11 pages, accepted to appear in Journal of Chemical Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2382
abstract: We present a self-contained formulation of spin-free nonrelativistic quantum mechanics that makes no use of wavefunctions or complex amplitudes of any kind. Quantum states are represented as ensembles of real-valued quantum trajectories, obtained by extremizing an action and satisfying energy conservation. The theory applies for arbitrary configuration spaces and system dimensionalities. Various beneficial ramifications - theoretical, computational, and interpretational - are discussed.

id: 1201.2436
title: Accuracy of Second Order Perturbation theory in the Polaron and Variational Polaron Frames
authors: Chee Kong Lee, Jeremy Moix, Jianshu Cao
comments: 16 pages, 5 figures, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2436
abstract: In the study of open quantum systems, the polaron transformation has recently attracted a renewed interest as it offers the possibility to explore the strong system-bath coupling regime. Despite this interest, a clear and unambiguous analysis of the regimes of validity of the polaron transformation is still lacking. Here we provide such a benchmark, comparing second order perturbation theory results in the original untransformed frame, the polaron frame and the variational extension with numerically exact path integral calculations of the equilibrium reduced density matrix. Equilibrium quantities allow a direct comparison of the three methods without invoking any further approximations as is usually required in deriving master equations. It is found that the second order results in the original frame are accurate for weak system-bath coupling, the full polaron results are accurate in the opposite regime of strong coupling, and the variational method is capable of interpolating between these two extremes. As the bath becomes more non-Markovian (slow bath), all three approaches become less accurate.

id: 1201.2442
title: Phase Transitions in Trajectories of a Superconducting Single-Electron Transistor Coupled to a Resonator
authors: Sam Genway, Juan P. Garrahan, Igor Lesanovsky, Andrew D. Armour
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 051122 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2442
abstract: Recent progress in the study of dynamical phase transitions has been made with a large-deviation approach to study trajectories of stochastic jumps using a thermodynamic formalism. We study this method applied to an open quantum system consisting of a superconducting single-electron transistor, near the Josephson quasiparticle resonance, coupled to a resonator. We find that the dynamical behavior shown in rare trajectories can be rich even when the mean dynamical activity is small and thus the formalism gives insights into the form of fluctuations. The structure of the dynamical phase diagram found from the quantum-jump trajectories of the resonator is studied and we see that sharp transitions in the dynamical activity may be related to the appearance and disappearance of bistabilities in the state of the resonator as system parameters are changed. We also demonstrate that for a fast resonator, the trajectories of quasiparticles are similar to the resonator trajectories.

id: 1201.2477
title: Exploring initial correlations in a Gibbs state by local application of external field
authors: Chikako Uchiyama
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2477
abstract: We demonstrate that local application of a weak external field increases distinguishability between states with and without initial correlations. We consider the case where a two-level system linearly and adiabatically interacts with an infinite number of bosons. We evaluate the trace distance (or, equivalently, the Hilbert-Schmidt distance) between the quantum states which evolve from two kinds of initial states; the correlated Gibbs state and its uncorrelated marginal state. We find that the trace distance increases above its initial value for any and all parameter settings. This indicates that we can explore the existence of initial system-environment correlations with applying a local external field, which causes the breakdown of the contractivity.

id: 1201.2491
title: Positive-P phase space method simulation in superradiant emission from a cascade atomic ensemble
authors: H. H. Jen
comments: To be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013835 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2491
abstract: The superradiant emission properties from an atomic ensemble with cascade level configuration is numerically simulated. The correlated spontaneous emissions (signal then idler fields) are purely stochastic processes which are initiated by quantum fluctuations. We utilize the positive-P phase space method to investigate the dynamics of the atoms and counter-propagating emissions. The light field intensities are calculated, and the signal-idler correlation function is studied for different optical depths of the atomic ensemble. Shorter correlation time scale for a denser atomic ensemble implies a broader spectral window needed to store or retrieve the idler pulse.

id: 1201.2524
title: Restricted numerical shadow and geometry of quantum entanglement
authors: Zbigniew Pucha?a, Jaros?aw Adam Miszczak, Piotr Gawron, Charles F. Dunkl, John A. Holbrook, Karol ?yczkowski
comments: 33 pages, 8 figures, IOP style
journal: J. Phys. A-Math. Theor., Vol. 45 (2012), pp. 415309
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2524
abstract: The restricted numerical range $W_R(A)$ of an operator $A$ acting on a $D$-dimensional Hilbert space is defined as a set of all possible expectation values of this operator among pure states which belong to a certain subset $R$ of the of set of pure quantum states of dimension $D$. One considers for instance the set of real states, or in the case of composite spaces, the set of product states and the set of maximally entangled states. Combining the operator theory with a probabilistic approach we introduce the restricted numerical shadow of $A$ -- a normalized probability distribution on the complex plane supported in $W_R(A)$. Its value at point $z \in {\mathbbm C}$ is equal to the probability that the expectation value $< \psi|A|\psi>$ is equal to $z$, where $|\psi>$ represents a random quantum state in subset $R$ distributed according to the natural measure on this set, induced by the unitarily invariant Fubini--Study measure. Studying restricted shadows of operators of a fixed size $D=N_A N_B$ we analyse the geometry of sets of separable and maximally entangled states of the $N_A \times N_B$ composite quantum system. Investigating trajectories formed by evolving quantum states projected into the plane of the shadow we study the dynamics of quantum entanglement. A similar analysis extended for operators on $D=2^3$ dimensional Hilbert space allows us to investigate the structure of the orbits of $GHZ$ and $W$ quantum states of a three--qubit system.

id: 1201.2584
title: Large 2D Coulomb crystals in a radio frequency surface ion trap
authors: B. Szymanski, R. Dubessy, B. Dubost, S. Guibal, J.-P. Likforman, L. Guidoni
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2584
abstract: We designed and operated a surface ion trap, with an ion-substrate distance of 500\mum, realized with standard printed-circuit-board techniques. The trap has been loaded with up to a few thousand Sr+ ions in the Coulomb-crystal regime. An analytical model of the pseudo-potential allowed us to determine the parameters that drive the trap into anisotropic regimes in which we obtain large (N>150) purely 2D ion Coulomb crystals. These crystals may open a simple and reliable way to experiments on quantum simulations of large 2D systems.

id: 1201.2659
title: Telecommunications-band heralded single photons from a silicon nanophotonic chip
authors: Marcelo Davanco, Jun Rong Ong, Andrea Bahgat Shehata, Alberto Tosi, Imad Agha, Solomon Assefa, Fengnian Xia, William M. J. Green, Shayan Mookherjea, Kartik Srinivasan
comments: 
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 100, 261104 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2659
abstract: We demonstrate heralded single photon generation in a CMOS-compatible silicon nanophotonic device. The strong modal confinement and slow group velocity provided by a coupled resonator optical waveguide (CROW) produced a large four-wave-mixing nonlinearity coefficient gamma_eff ~4100 W^-1 m^-1 at telecommunications wavelengths. Spontaneous four-wave-mixing using a degenerate pump beam at 1549.6 nm created photon pairs at 1529.5 nm and 1570.5 nm with a coincidence-to-accidental ratio exceeding 20. A photon correlation measurement of the signal (1529.5 nm) photons heralded by the detection of the idler (1570.5 nm) photons showed antibunching with g^(2)(0) = 0.19 \pm 0.03. The demonstration of a single photon source within a silicon platform holds promise for future integrated quantum photonic circuits.

id: 1201.2684
title: Environment Assisted Metrology with Spin Qubit
authors: P. Cappellaro, G. Goldstein, J. S. Hodges, L. Jiang, J. R. Maze, A. S. S?rensen, M. D. Lukin
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032336 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2684
abstract: We investigate the sensitivity of a recently proposed method for precision measurement [Phys. Rev. Lett. 106, 140502 (2011)], focusing on an implementation based on solid-state spin systems. The scheme amplifies a quantum sensor response to weak external fields by exploiting its coupling to spin impurities in the environment. We analyze the limits to the sensitivity due to decoherence and propose dynamical decoupling schemes to increase the spin coherence time. The sensitivity is also limited by the environment spin polarization; therefore we discuss strategies to polarize the environment spins and present a method to extend the scheme to the case of zero polarization. The coherence time and polarization determine a figure of merit for the environment's ability to enhance the sensitivity compared to echo-based sensing schemes. This figure of merit can be used to engineer optimized samples for high-sensitivity nanoscale magnetic sensing, such as diamond nanocrystals with controlled impurity density.

id: 1201.2736
title: A measurement scheme for purity based on two two-body gates
authors: Hiromichi Nakazato, Toru Tanaka, Kazuya Yuasa, Giuseppe Florio, Saverio Pascazio
comments: 7pages, 1figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042316 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2736
abstract: A scheme for measuring the purity of a quantum system with a finite number of levels is presented. The method makes use of two square root of SWAP gates and only hinges on measurements performed on a reference system, prepared in a certain pure state and coupled with the target system. Neither tomographic methods, with the complete reconstruction of the state, nor interferometric setups is needed.

id: 1201.2865
title: Entropic Test of Quantum Contextuality
authors: Pawel Kurzynski, Ravishankar Ramanathan, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 020404 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2865
abstract: We study the contextuality of a three-level quantum system using classical conditional entropy of measurement outcomes. First, we analytically construct the minimal configuration of measurements required to reveal contextuality. Next, an entropic contextual inequality is formulated, analogous to the entropic Bell inequalities derived by Braunstein and Caves in [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 61}, 662 (1988)], that must be satisfied by all non-contextual theories. We find optimal measurements for violation of this inequality. The approach is easily extendable to higher dimensional quantum systems and more measurements. Our theoretical findings can be verified in the laboratory with current technology.

id: 1201.2887
title: Preferred States of Decoherence under Intermediate System-Environment Coupling
authors: Wen-ge Wang, Lewei He, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures (including supplementary materials), final version appearing in Phys.Rev.Lett
journal: Phys.Rev.Lett. 108, 070403 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2887
abstract: The notion that decoherence rapidly reduces a superposition state to an incoherent mixture implicitly adopts a special representation, namely, the representation of preferred (pointer) states (PS). For weak or strong system-environment coupling, PS is known to be the energy eigenstates of the system Hamiltonian or the eigenstates of the system-environment interaction Hamiltonian. Via a simple dynamical model that simulates a two-level system interacting with few other degrees of freedom as its environment, it is shown that even for intermediate system-environment coupling, approximate PS may still emerge from the coherent quantum dynamics of the whole system in the absence of any thermal averaging. The found PS can also continuously deform to expected limits for weak or strong system-environment coupling. Computational results are also qualitatively explained. The findings should be useful towards further understandings of decoherence and quantum thermalization processes.

id: 1201.2906
title: Quantum polar codes for arbitrary channels
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Joseph M. Renes
comments: 9 pages, submission to the 2012 International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2012), Boston, MA, USA; v2: minor changes and accepted for conference
journal: Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2012), pages 334-338, Cambridge, MA, USA
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2906
abstract: We construct a new entanglement-assisted quantum polar coding scheme which achieves the symmetric coherent information rate by synthesizing "amplitude" and "phase" channels from a given, arbitrary quantum channel. We first demonstrate the coding scheme for arbitrary quantum channels with qubit inputs, and we show that quantum data can be reliably decoded by O(N) rounds of coherent quantum successive cancellation, followed by N controlled-NOT gates (where N is the number of channel uses). We also find that the entanglement consumption rate of the code vanishes for degradable quantum channels. Finally, we extend the coding scheme to channels with multiple qubit inputs. This gives a near-explicit method for realizing one of the most striking phenomena in quantum information theory: the superactivation effect, whereby two quantum channels which individually have zero quantum capacity can have a non-zero quantum capacity when used together.

id: 1201.2928
title: Tavis-Cummings model beyond the rotating wave approximation: Quasi-degenerate qubits
authors: S. Agarwal, S.M. Hashemi Rafsanjani, J.H. Eberly
comments: 12 Pages, 8 Figures. Comparison to the rotating wave approximation added
journal: Physical Review A 85 (4), 043815 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2928
abstract: The Tavis-Cummings model for more than one qubit interacting with a common oscillator mode is extended beyond the rotating wave approximation (RWA). We explore the parameter regime in which the frequencies of the qubits are much smaller than the oscillator frequency and the coupling strength is allowed to be ultra-strong. The application of the adiabatic approximation, introduced by Irish, et al. (Phys. Rev. B \textbf{72}, 195410 (2005)), for a single qubit system is extended to the multi-qubit case. For a two-qubit system, we identify three-state manifolds of close-lying dressed energy levels and obtain results for the dynamics of intra-manifold transitions that are incompatible with results from the familiar regime of the RWA. We exhibit features of two-qubit dynamics that are different from the single qubit case, including calculations of qubit-qubit entanglement. Both number state and coherent state preparations are considered, and we derive analytical formulas that simplify the interpretation of numerical calculations. Expressions for individual collapse and revival signals of both population and entanglement are derived.

id: 1201.2962
title: Effective renormalized multi-body interactions of harmonically confined ultracold neutral bosons
authors: P.R. Johnson, D. Blume, X. Y. Yin, W.F. Flynn, E. Tiesinga
comments: Updated introduction, correction of a few typos and sign errors
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 053037 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2962
abstract: We calculate the renormalized effective 2-, 3-, and 4-body interactions for N neutral ultracold bosons in the ground state of an isotropic harmonic trap, assuming 2-body interactions modeled with the combination of a zero-range and energy-dependent pseudopotential. We work to third-order in the scattering length a defined at zero collision energy, which is necessary to obtain both the leading-order effective 4-body interaction and consistently include finite-range corrections for realistic 2-body interactions. The leading-order, effective 3- and 4-body interaction energies are U3 = -(0.85576...)(a/l)^2 + 2.7921(1)(a/l)^3 + O[(a/l)^4] and U4 = +(2.43317...)(a/l)^3 + O[(a\l)^4], where w and l are the harmonic oscillator frequency and length, respectively, and energies are in units of hbar*w. The one-standard deviation error 0.0001 for the third-order coefficient in U3 is due to numerical uncertainty in estimating a slowly converging sum; the other two coefficients are either analytically or numerically exact. The effective 3- and 4-body interactions can play an important role in the dynamics of tightly confined and strongly correlated systems. We also performed numerical simulations for a finite-range boson-boson potential, and it was comparison to the zero-range predictions which revealed that finite-range effects must be taken into account for a realistic third-order treatment. In particular, we show that the energy-dependent pseudopotential accurately captures, through third order, the finite-range physics, and in combination with the multi-body effective interactions gives excellent agreement with the numerical simulations, validating our theoretical analysis and predictions.

id: 1201.2990
title: Quantum efficiency of a microwave photon detector based on a current-biased Josephson junction
authors: Amrit Poudel, Robert McDermott, Maxim G. Vavilov
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures, PRB accepted version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 174506 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2990
abstract: We analyze the quantum efficiency of a microwave photon detector based on a current-biased Josephson junction. We consider the Jaynes-Cummings Hamiltonian to describe coupling between the photon field and the junction. We then take into account coupling of the junction and the resonator to the environment. We solve the equation of motion of the density matrix of the resonator-junction system to compute the quantum efficiency of the detector as a function of detection time, bias current, and energy relaxation time. Our results indicate that junctions with modest coherence properties can provide efficient detection of single microwave photons, with quantum efficiency in excess of 80%.

id: 1201.3041
title: Schmidt modes generated in parametric downconversion
authors: Filippo M. Miatto, Henrique Di Lorenzo Pires, Stephen M. Barnett, Martin P. van Exter
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 66, 263 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3041
abstract: This paper presents the general Schmidt decomposition of two-photon fields generated in spontaneous parametric down-conversion (SPDC). It discusses in particular the separation of the radial and azimuthal degrees of freedom, the role of projection in modal analysis, and the benefits of collinear phase mismatch. The paper is written in a review style and presents a wealth of numerical results. It aims at emphasising the physics beyond the mathematics, through discussions and graphical representations of key results.

id: 1201.3072
title: Alternative measures of uncertainty in quantum metrology: Contradictions and limits
authors: Alfredo Luis, Alfonso Rodil
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review A 87, 034101 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3072
abstract: We examine a family of intrinsic performance measures in terms of probability distributions that generalize Hellinger distance and Fisher information. They are applied to quantum metrology to assess the uncertainty in the detection of minute changes of physical quantities. We show that different measures lead to contradictory conclusions, including the possibility of arbitrarily small uncertainty for fixed resources. These intrinsic performances are compared with the averaged error in the corresponding estimation problem after single-shot measurements.

id: 1201.3105
title: Quantum coherent control of highly multipartite continuous-variable entangled states by tailoring parametric interactions
authors: Giuseppe Patera, Carlos Navarrete-Benlloch, Germ¨¢n J. de Valc¨¢rcel, Claude Fabre
comments: 14 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3105
abstract: The generation of continuous-variable multipartite entangled states is important for several protocols of quantum information processing and communication, such as one-way quantum computation or controlled dense coding. In this article we theoretically show that multimode optical parametric oscillators can produce a great variety of such states by an appropriate control of the parametric interaction, what we accomplish by tailoring either the spatio-temporal shape of the pump, or the geometry of the nonlinear medium. Specific examples involving currently available optical parametric oscillators are given, hence showing that our ideas are within reach of present technology.

id: 1201.3111
title: Two-particle quantum transmission
authors: Ron Folman
comments: Invited paper to a SPIE conference (San-Diego, 15-16 of August, 2012)
journal: Proceedings of SPIE, Volume 8518, 85180H, 2012 (Eds. R. E. Meyers, Y. Shih and K. S. Deacon)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3111
abstract: Two-photon interference is a fundamental phenomenon in quantum mechanics and stands at the base of numerous experimental observations. Here another manifestation of this phenomenon is described, taking place at a Y junction. Specifically it is shown how the r^2+t^2 term which is behind previous observations of two-photon interference, may give rise to different states at a beam-splitter and different two-particle transmission coefficients at a Y junction. Different from previous descriptions of quantum transmission based on one-particle physics, the enhanced transmission described here is due to two-particle physics.

id: 1201.3125
title: Transfer of spin squeezing and particle entanglement between atoms and photons in coupled cavities via two-photon exchange
authors: Ali ?. C. Hardal, ?zg¨¹r E. M¨¹stecapl\io?lu
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 29, 1822-1828 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3125
abstract: We examine transfer of particle entanglement and spin squeezing between atomic and photonic subsystems in optical cavities coupled by two-photon exchange. Each cavity contains a single atom, interacting with cavity photons with a two-photon cascade transition. Particle entanglement is characterized by evaluating optimal spin squeezing inequalities, for the cases of initially separable and entangled two-photon states. It is found that particle entanglement is first generated among the photons in separate cavities and then transferred to the atoms. The underlying mechanism is recognized as an inter-cavity two-axis twisting spin squeezing interaction, induced by two-photon exchange, and its optimal combination with the intra-cavity atom-photon coupling. Relative effect of non-local two-photon exchange and local atom-photon interactions of cavity photons on the spin squeezing and entanglement transfer is pointed out.

id: 1201.3151
title: Quantum resonances in selective rotational excitation of molecules with a sequence of ultrashort laser pulses
authors: S. Zhdanovich, C. Bloomquist, J. Flo?, I. Sh. Averbukh, J. W. Hepburn, V. Milner
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3151
abstract: We investigate experimentally the effect of quantum resonance in the rotational excitation of the simplest quantum rotor - a diatomic molecule. By using the techniques of high-resolution femtosecond pulse shaping and rotational state-resolved detection, we measure directly the amount of energy absorbed by molecules interacting with a periodic train of laser pulses, and study its dependence on the train period. We show that the energy transfer is significantly enhanced at quantum resonance, and use this effect for demonstrating selective rotational excitation of two nitrogen isotopologues, $ ^{14}N_2$ and $ ^{15}N_2$. Moreover, by tuning the period of the pulse train in the vicinity of a fractional quantum resonance, we achieve spin-selective rotational excitation of para- and ortho-isomers of $ ^{15}N_2$.

id: 1201.3230
title: Increasing the security of the ping-pong protocol by using many mutually unbiased bases
authors: Piotr Zawadzki, Zbigniew Pucha?a, Jaros?aw Adam Miszczak
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: Quantum Inf. Process., Vol. 12, No. 1 (2013), pp. 569-576
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3230
abstract: In this paper we propose an extended version of the ping-pong protocol and study its security. The proposed protocol incorporates the usage of mutually unbiased bases in the control mode. We show that, by increasing the number of bases, it is possible to improve the security of this protocol. We also provide the upper bounds on eavesdropping average non-detection probability and propose a control mode modification that increases the attack detection probability.

id: 1201.3252
title: Global Quantum Correlation in the Ising model
authors: Steve Campbell, Laura Mazzola, Mauro Paternostro
comments: Published in the International Journal of Quantum Information as part of the special issue devoted to "Quantum Correlations: entanglement and beyond"
journal: IJQI Vol. 9, Issues 7&8 (2011) 1685-1699
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3252
abstract: We study quantum correlations in an isotropic Ising ring under the effects of a transverse magnetic field. After characterizing the behavior of two-spin quantum correlations, we extend our analysis to global properties of the ring, using a figure of merit for quantum correlations that shows enough sensitivity to reveal the drastic changes in the properties of the system at criticality. This opens up the possibility to relate statistical properties of quantum many-body systems to suitably tailored measures of quantum correlations that capture features going far beyond standard quantum entanglement.

id: 1201.3287
title: Photon-Assisted-Tunneling Toolbox for Quantum Simulations in Ion Traps
authors: Alejandro Bermudez, Tobias Schaetz, Diego Porras
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 053049 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3287
abstract: We describe a versatile toolbox for the quantum simulation of many-body lattice models, capable of exploring the combined effects of background Abelian and non-Abelian gauge fields, bond and site disorder, and strong on-site interactions. We show how to control the quantum dynamics of particles trapped in lattice potentials by the photon-assisted tunneling induced by periodic drivings. This scheme is general enough to be applied to either bosons or fermions with the additional advantage of being non-perturbative. It finds an ideal application in microfabricated ion trap arrays, where the quantized vibrational modes of the ions can be described by a quantum lattice model. We present a detailed theoretical proposal for a quantum simulator in that experimental setup, and show that it is possible to explore phases of matter that range from the fractional quantum Hall effect, to exotic strongly-correlated glasses, or flux-lattice models decorated with arbitrary patterns of localized defects.

id: 1201.3340
title: An entropic approach to local realism and noncontextuality
authors: Rafael Chaves, Tobias Fritz
comments: 12 pages, 8 figures, minor mistakes corrected
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032113 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3340
abstract: For any Bell locality scenario (or Kochen-Specker noncontextuality scenario), the joint Shannon entropies of local (or noncontextual) models define a convex cone for which the non-trivial facets are tight entropic Bell (or contextuality) inequalities. In this paper we explore this entropic approach and derive tight entropic inequalities for various scenarios. One advantage of entropic inequalities is that they easily adapt to situations like bilocality scenarios, which have additional independence requirements that are non-linear on the level of probabilities, but linear on the level of entropies. Another advantage is that, despite the nonlinearity, taking detection inefficiencies into account turns out to be very simple. When joint measurements are conducted by a single detector only, the detector efficiency for witnessing quantum contextuality can be arbitrarily low.

id: 1201.3360
title: Selective darkening of degenerate transitions for implementing quantum controlled-NOT gates
authors: P. C. de Groot, S. Ashhab, A. Lupascu, L. DiCarlo, Franco Nori, C. J. P. M. Harmans, J. E. Mooij
comments: 25 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 073038
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3360
abstract: We present a theoretical analysis of the selective darkening method for implementing quantum controlled-NOT (CNOT) gates. This method, which we recently proposed and demonstrated, consists of driving two transversely-coupled quantum bits (qubits) with a driving field that is resonant with one of the two qubits. For specific relative amplitudes and phases of the driving field felt by the two qubits, one of the two transitions in the degenerate pair is darkened, or in other words, becomes forbidden by effective selection rules. At these driving conditions, the evolution of the two-qubit state realizes a CNOT gate. The gate speed is found to be limited only by the coupling energy J, which is the fundamental speed limit for any entangling gate. Numerical simulations show that at gate speeds corresponding to 0.48J and 0.07J, the gate fidelity is 99% and 99.99%, respectively, and increases further for lower gate speeds. In addition, the effect of higher-lying energy levels and weak anharmonicity is studied, as well as the scalability of the method to systems of multiple qubits. We conclude that in all these respects this method is competitive with existing schemes for creating entanglement, with the added advantages of being applicable for qubits operating at fixed frequencies (either by design or for exploitation of coherence sweet-spots) and having the simplicity of microwave-only operation.

id: 1201.3387
title: Trivial Low Energy States for Commuting Hamiltonians, and the Quantum PCP Conjecture
authors: M. B. Hastings
comments: 25 pages, 6 figures, minor clarifications, final version
journal: QIC {\bf 13}, 393-429 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3387
abstract: We consider whether or not Hamiltonians which are sums of commuting projectors have "trivial" ground states which can be constructed by a local quantum circuit of bounded depth and range acting on a product state. While the toric code only has nontrivial ground states, commuting projector Hamiltonians which are sums of two-body interactions have trivial ground states. We define an "interaction complex" for a Hamiltonian, generalizing the interaction graph, and we show that if this complex can be continuously mapped to a 1-complex using a map with bounded diameter of pre-images then the Hamiltonian has a trivial ground state assuming one technical condition on the Hamiltonian (this condition holds for all stabilizer Hamiltonians, and we also prove the result for all Hamiltonians under an assumption on the 1-complex). While this includes cases considered by Ref., it also includes other Hamiltonians whose interaction complexes cannot be coarse-grained into the case of Ref. One motivation for this is the quantum PCP conjecture. Many commonly studied interaction complexes can be mapped to a 1-complex after removing a small fraction of sites. For commuting projector Hamiltonians on such complexes, a trivial ground state for the Hamiltonian with those sites removed is a low energy trivial state for the original Hamiltonian. Such states can act as a classical witness to the existence of a low energy state. While this result applies only to commuting Hamiltonians, it suggests that to prove a quantum PCP conjecture one should consider interaction complexes which cannot be mapped to 1-complexes after removing a small fraction of cells. We define this more precisely below; in a sense this generalizes the idea of an expander graph. Surprisingly, such complexes do exist as will be shown elsewhere, and have useful properties in quantum coding theory.

id: 1201.3389
title: Canonical quantization of the Dirac oscillator field in (1+1) and (3+1) dimensions
authors: C. J. Quimbay, Y. F. P¨¦rez, R. A. Hernandez
comments: 24 pages, 1 figure, types corrected
journal: EJTP 11, No. 31 (2014) 19-42
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3389
abstract: The main goal of this work is to study the Dirac oscillator as a quantum field using the canonical formalism of quantum field theory and to develop the canonical quantization procedure for this system in $(1+1)$ and $(3+1)$ dimensions. This is possible because the Dirac oscillator is characterized by the absence of the Klein paradox and by the completeness of its eigenfunctions. We show that the Dirac oscillator field can be seen as constituted by infinite degrees of freedom which are identified as decoupled quantum linear harmonic oscillators. We observe that while for the free Dirac field the energy quanta of the infinite harmonic oscillators are the relativistic energies of free particles, for the Dirac oscillator field the quanta are the energies of relativistic linear harmonic oscillators.

id: 1201.3395
title: A quantum solution to Gibbs Paradox with few particles
authors: H. Dong, C. Y. Cai, C. P. Sun
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures + Supplementary Material
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3395
abstract: We present a fully quantum solution to the Gibbs paradox (GP) with an illustration based on a gedanken experiment with two particles trapped in an infinite potential well. The well is divided into two cells by a solid wall, which could be removed for mixing the particles. For the initial thermal state with correct two-particle wavefunction according to their quantum statistics, the exact calculations shows the entropy changes are the same for boson, fermion and non-identical particles. With the observation that the initial unmixed state of identical particles in the conventional presentations actually is not of a thermal equilibrium, our analysis reveals the quantum origin of the paradox, and confirm the E. J. Jaynes' observation that entropy increase in Gibbs mixing is only due to the including more observables measuring the entropy. To further show up the subtle role of the quantum mechanism in the GP, we study the different finite size effect on the entropy change and shows the works performed in the mixing process are different for various types of particle.

id: 1201.3421
title: Four Wave Mixing from Fe3+ Spins in Sapphire
authors: Daniel L. Creedon, Karim Benmessai, Warwick P. Bowen, Michael E. Tobar
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3421
abstract: Fe3+ ions in sapphire exhibit an Electron Spin Resonance (ESR) which interacts strongly with high-Q Whispering Gallery (WG) modes at microwave frequencies. We report the first observation of a third-order paramagnetic nonlinear susceptibility in such a resonator at cryogenic temperatures, and the first demonstration of four wave mixing (FWM) using this parametric nonlinearity. This observation of an all-microwave nonlinearity is an enabling step towards a host of quantum measurement and control applications which utilize spins in solids.

id: 1201.3501
title: Casimir Theory of the Relativistic Composite String Revisited, and a Formally Related Problem in Scalar QFT
authors: Iver Brevik
comments: 24 latex pages, one figure. Contribution to the honorary issue of J. Phys. A, on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of Professor Stuart Dowker. The present version, augmented by a section on a related one-dimensional problem in scalar QFT, matches the forthcoming published version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3501
abstract: The main part of this paper is to present an updated review of the Casimir energy at zero and finite temperature for the transverse oscillations of a piecewise uniform closed string. We make use of three different regularizations: the cutoff method, the complex contour integration method, and the zeta-function method. The string model is relativistic, in the sense that the velocity of sound is for each string piece set equal to the velocity of light. In this sense the theory is analogous to the electromagnetic theory in a dielectric medium in which the product of permittivity and permeability is equal to unity (an isorefractive medium). We demonstrate how the formalism works for a two-piece string, and for a 2N-piece string, and show how in the latter case a compact recursion relation serves to facilitate the formalism considerably. The Casimir energy turns out to be negative, and the more so the larger the number of pieces in the string. The two-piece string is quantized in D-dimensional spacetime, in the limit when the ratio between the two tensions is very small. We calculate the free energy and other thermodynamic quantities, demonstrate scaling properties, and comment on the meaning of the Hagedorn critical temperature for the two-piece string. Thereafter, as a novel development we present a scalar field theory for a real field in three-dimensional space in a potential rising linearly with a longitudinal coordinate z in the interval 0<z<1, and which is thereafter held constant on a horizontal plateau. The potential is taken as a rough model of the two-piece string potential under simplifying conditions, when the length ratio between the pieces is replaced formally with the mentioned length parameter z.

id: 1201.3538
title: An efficient quantum circuit analyser on qubits and qudits
authors: T. Loke, J. B. Wang
comments: 
journal: Computer Physics Communications 182 (2011) 2285--2294
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3538
abstract: This paper presents a highly efficient decomposition scheme and its associated Mathematica notebook for the analysis of complicated quantum circuits comprised of single/multiple qubit and qudit quantum gates. In particular, this scheme reduces the evaluation of multiple unitary gate operations with many conditionals to just two matrix additions, regardless of the number of conditionals or gate dimensions. This improves significantly the capability of a quantum circuit analyser implemented in a classical computer. This is also the first efficient quantum circuit analyser to include qudit quantum logic gates.

id: 1201.3576
title: Quantum state transfer through a spin chain in a multi-excitation subspace
authors: Zhao-Ming Wang, Rui-Song Ma, C. Allen Bishop, Yong-Jian Gu
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022330 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3576
abstract: We investigate the quality of quantum state transfer through a uniformly coupled antiferromagnetic spin chain in a multi-excitation subspace. The fidelity of state transfer using multi-excitation channels is found to compare well with communication protocols based on the ground state of a spin chain with ferromagnetic interactions. Our numerical results support the conjecture that the fidelity of state transfer through a multi-excitation subspace only depends on the number of initial excitations present in the chain and is independent of the excitation ordering. Based on these results, we describe a communication scheme which requires little effort for preparation.

id: 1201.3603
title: Unusual Bound States in Quantum Chains
authors: Emerson Sadurni
comments: 19 pages, 5 figures and 5 tables with density plots
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3603
abstract: The existence of bound states in quantum mechanics with no classical counterpart has been a subject of interest for a long time. Cross-wires and cavities connected to infinite leads are typical examples in which open geometries with bulges support bound solutions, in two or more dimensions. Here we find that the role of topology can be even more important than space availability, by showing the existence of bound solutions in one-dimensional systems such as quantum cross-chains and, in general, chains tied in geometries without loops. It is shown that these examples of unusual binding can be solved analitically for energies and eigenvectors. An experimental proposal is given in the form of tight-binding arrays of electromagnetic resonators, as the effects in question are of a wave-like nature.

id: 1201.3615
title: Invariant graphical method for electron-atom scattering coupled-channel equations
authors: J. B. Wang, A. T. Stelbovics
comments: 
journal: Advances in Physical Chemistry 2011, 541375 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3615
abstract: We present application examples of a graphical method for the efficient construction of potential matrix elements in quantum physics or quantum chemistry. The simplicity and power of this method are illustrated through several examples. In particular, a complete set of potential matrix elements for electron-Lithium scattering are derived for the first time using this method, which removes the frozen core approximation adopted by previous studies. This method can be readily adapted to study other many-body quantum systems.

id: 1201.3620
title: Quantum Simulation of Cooperative Jahn-Teller Systems with Linear Ion Crystals
authors: Diego Porras, Peter A. Ivanov, Ferdinand Schmidt-Kaler
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3620
abstract: The Jahn-Teller effect explains distortions and non-degenerate energy levels in molecular and solid-state physics via a coupling of effective spins to collective bosons. Here we propose and theoretically analyze the quantum simulation of a many-body Jahn-Teller model with linear ion crystals subjected to magnetic field gradients. We show that the system undergoes a quantum magnetic structural phase transition which leads to a reordering of particle positions and the formation of a spin-phonon quasi-condensate in mesoscopic ion chains.

id: 1201.3672
title: Bell's Theorem from Moore's Theorem
authors: Chris Fields
comments: 12 pages; to appear in Int. J. General Systems
journal: Int. J. Gen. Syst. 42 (2013) 376-385
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3672
abstract: It is shown that the restrictions of what can be inferred from classically-recorded observational outcomes that are imposed by the no-cloning theorem, the Kochen-Specker theorem and Bell's theorem also follow from restrictions on inferences from observations formulated within classical automata theory. Similarities between the assumptions underlying classical automata theory and those underlying universally-unitary quantum theory are discussed.

id: 1201.3675
title: Dicke and Fano effects in single photon transport
authors: Maritza Ahumada, Natalia Cort¨¦s, M. L. Ladr¨®n de Guevara, P. A. Orellana
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3675
abstract: The single photon transport through a one dimensional array of cavities is studied theoretically. Analytical expressions of the reflection and transmission are given. The transmission shows an energy spectrum with forbidden and allowed bands that depends on the detuning parameter of the system. We show that the allowed miniband is formed due to the indirect coupling between the atoms in each cavity. In addition, the band edges can be controlled by the degree of detuning of the level of the atoms. We discuss the analogy between this phenomenon with the Fano and Dicke effects.

id: 1201.3712
title: Superposed Coherent and Squeezed Light
authors: Fesseha Kassahun
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3712
abstract: We first calculate the mean photon number and quadrature variance of superposed coherent and squeezed light, following a procedure of analysis based on combining the Hamiltonians and using the usual definition for the quadrature variance of superposed light beams. This procedure of analysis leads to physically unjustifiable mean photon number of the coherent light and quadrature variance of the superposed light. We then determine both of these properties employing a procedure of analysis based on superposing the Q functions and applying a slightly modified definition for the quadrature variance of a pair of superposed light beams. We find the expected mean photon number of the coherent light and the quadrature variance of the superposed light. Moreover, the quadrature squeezing of the superposed output light turns out to be equal to that of the superposed cavity light.

id: 1201.3719
title: Gaussian and sinc shaped few-cycle pulse driven ultrafast coherent population transfer in lambda- like atomic systems
authors: Parvendra Kumar, Amarendra K. Sarma
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 85, 043417 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3719
abstract: We report and propose a simple scheme to achieve efficient and fast coherent population transfer (CPT) by utilizing either a nonlinearly chirped Gaussian shaped few-cycle laser pulse or an unchirped sinc-shaped few-cycle laser pulse. The proposed scheme is shown to be fairly robust against the variation of the laser parameters such as temporal pulse width, chirp rates, carrier envelope phases and Rabi frequencies. We find that compared to the so-called stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) technique, our scheme for complete population transfer with few-cycle Gaussian shaped laser pulses requires less pulse area.

id: 1201.3725
title: Two-Qubit Geometric Phase Gate for Quantum Dot Spins using Cavity Polariton Resonance
authors: Shruti Puri, Na Young Kim, Yoshihisa Yamamoto
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3725
abstract: We describe a design to implement a two-qubit geometric phase gate, by which a pair of electrons confined in adjacent quantum dots are entangled. The entanglement is a result of the Coulomb exchange interaction between the optically excited exciton-polaritons and the localized spins. This optical coupling, resembling the electron-electron Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) inter- actions, offers high speed, high fidelity two-qubit gate operation with moderate cavity quality factor Q. The errors due to the finite lifetime of the polaritons can be minimized by optimizing the optical pulse parameters (duration and energy). The proposed design, using electrostatic quantum dots, maximizes entanglement and ensures scalability.

id: 1201.3744
title: Field Test of Classical Symmetric Encryption with Continuous Variable Quantum Key Distribution
authors: Paul Jouguet, S¨¦bastien Kunz-Jacques, Thierry Debuisschert, Simon Fossier, Eleni Diamanti, Romain All¨¦aume, Rosa Tualle-Brouri, Philippe Grangier, Anthony Leverrier, Philippe Pache, Philippe Painchault
comments: 
journal: Opt. Express 20, 14030 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3744
abstract: We report on the design and performance of a point-to-point classical symmetric encryption link with fast key renewal provided by a Continuous Variable Quantum Key Distribution (CVQKD) system. Our system was operational and able to encrypt point-to-point communications during more than six months, from the end of July 2010 until the beginning of February 2011. This field test was the first demonstration of the reliability of a CVQKD system over a long period of time in a server room environment. This strengthens the potential of CVQKD for information technology security infrastructure deployments.

id: 1201.3757
title: From Majorana Fermions to Topological Order
authors: Barbara M. Terhal, Fabian Hassler, David P. DiVincenzo
comments: 4+4 pages, 5 figures. v2 has a new reference and a few new comments. In v3: yet another new reference and Supplementary Material is renamed Appendix. In v4: several typos are corrected, to appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 260504 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3757
abstract: We consider a system consisting of a 2D network of links between Majorana fermions on superconducting islands. We show that the fermionic Hamiltonian modeling this system is topologically-ordered in a region of parameter space. In particular we show that Kitaev's toric code emerges in fourth-order perturbation theory. By using a Jordan-Wigner transformation we can map the model onto a family of signed 2D Ising models in a transverse field where the signs (FM or AFM) are determined by additional gauge bits. Our mapping allows an understanding of the non-perturbative regime and the phase transition to a non-topological phase. We discuss the physics behind a possible implementation of this model and argue how it can be used for topological quantum computation by adiabatic changes in the Hamiltonian.

id: 1201.3763
title: Efficient protocols for deterministic secure quantum communication using GHZ-like states
authors: Anindita Banerjee, Anirban Pathak
comments: 10 pages, no figures, Latex2e
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3763
abstract: Two protocols for deterministic secure quantum communication (DSQC) using GHZ-like states have been proposed. It is shown that one of these protocols can be modified to an equivalent but more efficient protocol of quantum secure direct communication (QSDC). Security and efficiency of the proposed protocols are analyzed in detail and are critically compared with the existing protocols. It is shown that the proposed protocols are highly efficient. It is also shown that all the physical systems where dense coding is possible can be used to design maximally efficient protocol of DSQC and QSDC. Further, it is shown that dense coding is sufficient but not essential for DSQC and QSDC protocols of the present kind. We have shown that there exist a large class of quantum state which can be used to design maximally efficient DSQC and QSDC protocols of the present kind. It is further, observed that maximally efficient QSDC protocols are more efficient than their DSQC counterparts. This additional efficiency arises at the cost of message transmission rate.

id: 1201.3797
title: Two-photon path-entangled states in multi-mode waveguides
authors: Eilon Poem, Yehonatan Gilead, Yaron Silberberg
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 153602 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3797
abstract: We experimentally show that two-photon path-entangled states can be coherently manipulated by multi-mode interference in multi-mode waveguides. By measuring the output two-photon spatial correlation function versus the phase of the input state, we show that multi-mode waveguides perform as nearly-ideal multi-port beam splitters at the quantum level, creating a large variety of entangled and separable multi-path two-photon states.

id: 1201.3799
title: Photon correlations in multi-mode waveguides
authors: Eilon Poem, Yaron Silberberg
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 041805(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3799
abstract: We consider the propagation of classical and non-classical light in multi-mode optical waveguides. We focus on the evolution of the few-photon correlation functions, which, much like the light-intensity distribution in such systems, evolve in a periodic manner, culminating in the 'revival' of the initial correlation pattern at the end of each period. It is found that when the input state possesses non trivial symmetries, the correlation revival period can be longer than that of the intensity, and thus the same intensity pattern can display different correlation patterns. We experimentally demonstrate this effect for classical, pseudo-thermal light, and compare the results with the predictions for non-classical, quantum light.

id: 1201.3830
title: Casimir Friction Force Between Polarizable Media
authors: Johan S. H?ye, Iver Brevik
comments: 13 pages latex, no figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. (2012) 66:149
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3830
abstract: This work is a continuation of our recent series of papers on Casimir friction, for a pair of particles of low relative particle velocity. Each particle is modeled as a simple harmonic oscillator. Our basic method, as before, is the use of quantum mechanical statistical mechanics, involving the Kubo formula, at finite temperature. In this work we begin by analyzing the Casimir friction between two particles polarizable in all spatial directions, this being a generalization of our study in EPL 91, 60003 (2010), which was restricted to a pair of particles with longitudinal polarization only. For simplicity the particles are taken to interact via the electrostatic dipole-dipole interaction. Thereafter, we consider the Casimir friction between one particle and a dielectric half-space, and also the friction between two dielectric half-spaces. Finally, we consider general polarizabilities (beyond the simple one-oscillator form), and show how friction occurs at finite temperature when finite frequency regions of the imaginary parts of polarizabilities overlap.

id: 1201.3846
title: Time-dependent Robin boundary conditions in the dynamical Casimir effect
authors: C. Farina, Hector O. Silva, Andreson L. C. Rego, Danilo T. Alves
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures. To appear in proceedings of Conference on Quantum Field Theory under the Influence of External Conditions
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3846
abstract: Motivated by experiments in which moving boundaries are simulated by time-dependent properties of static systems, we discuss the model of a massless scalar field submitted to a time-dependent Robin boundary condition (BC) at a static mirror in 1+1 dimensions. Using a perturbative approach, we compute the spectral distribution of the created particles and the total particle creation rate, considering a thermal state as the initial field state.

id: 1201.3877
title: Generation of Fock states and qubits in periodically pulsed nonlinear oscillator
authors: T. V. Gevorgyan, A. R. Shahinyan, G. Yu. Kryuchkyan
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3877
abstract: We demonstrate a quantum regime of dissipative nonlinear oscillator where creation of Fock states as well as superpositions of Fock states are realized for time-intervals exceeding the characteristic decoherence time. Preparation of quantum states is conditioned by strong Kerr nonlinearity as well as by excitation of resolved lower oscillatory energy levels with specific train of Gaussian pulses. This provides practical signatures to look for in experiments with cooled nonlinear oscillators.

id: 1201.3892
title: Qubit purification speed-up for three complementary continuous measurements
authors: Rusko Ruskov, Joshua Combes, Klaus M?lmer, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: 19 pages, 4 eps figures, Accepted for publication in Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 370, 5291-5307 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3892
abstract: We consider qubit purification under simultaneous continuous measurement of the three non-commuting qubit operators \sigma_x, \sigma_y, \sigma_z. The purification dynamics is quantified by (i) the average purification rate, and (ii) the mean time of reaching given level of purity, (1-\epsilon). Under ideal measurements (detector efficiency \eta=1), we show in the first case an asymptotic mean purification speed-up of 4 as compared to a standard (classical) single-detector measurement. However by the second measure --- the mean time of first passage T(\epsilon) of the purity --- the corresponding speed-up is only 2. We explain these speed-ups using the isotropy of the qubit evolution that provides an equivalence between the original measurement directions and three simultaneous measurements, one with an axis aligned along the Bloch vector and the other with axes in the two complementary directions. For inefficient detectors, \eta=1-\delta <1 the mean time of first passage T(\delta,\epsilon) increases since qubit purification competes with an isotropic qubit dephasing. In the asymptotic high-purity limit (\epsilon, \delta << 1) we show that the increase possesses a scaling behavior: \Delta T(\delta,\epsilon) is a function only of the ratio {\delta}/{\epsilon}. The increase \Delta T({\delta}/{\epsilon}) is linear for small argument but becomes exponential ~ exp({\delta}/2{\epsilon}) for {\delta}/{\epsilon} large.

id: 1201.3895
title: Quantizations on the circle and coherent states
authors: G. Chadzitaskos, P. Luft, J. Tolar
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures, accepted in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) for the Special issue on coherent states: mathematical and physical aspects
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 244027
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3895
abstract: We present a possible construction of coherent states on the unit circle as configuration space. Our approach is based on Borel quantizations on S^1 including the Aharonov-Bohm type quantum description. The coherent states are constructed by Perelomov's method as group related coherent states generated by Weyl operators on the quantum phase space Z x S^1. Because of the duality of canonical coordinates and momenta, i.e. the angular variable and the integers, this formulation can also be interpreted as coherent states over an infinite periodic chain. For the construction we use the analogy with our quantization and coherent states over a finite periodic chain where the quantum phase space was Z_M x Z_M. The coherent states constructed in this work are shown to satisfy the resolution of unity. To compare them with canonical coherent states, also some of their further properties are studied demonstrating similarities as well as substantial differences.

id: 1201.3902
title: Adiabatic demagnetization and generation of entanglement in spin systems
authors: Gregory B. Furman, Victor M. Meerovich, Vladimir L. Sokolovsky
comments: 9 figures; Physics Letters A 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3902
abstract: We study the entanglement emergence in a dipolar-coupled nuclear spin-1/2 system cooled using the adiabatic demagnetization technique. The unexpected behavior of entanglement for the next- and next-next-neighbor spins is revealed: entangled states of a spin system appear in two distinct temperature and magnetic field regions separated by a zero-concurrence area. The magnetic field dependence of the concurrence can have two maximums which positions are determined by the initial conditions and number of spins in a chain.

id: 1201.3940
title: The elusive Heisenberg limit in quantum enhanced metrology
authors: Rafal Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, Jan Kolodynski, Madalin Guta
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures, presentation imporved, implementation of the semi-definite program finding the precision bounds added
journal: Nature Communications 3, 1063 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3940
abstract: We provide efficient and intuitive tools for deriving bounds on achievable precision in quantum enhanced metrology based on the geometry of quantum channels and semi-definite programming. We show that when decoherence is taken into account, the maximal possible quantum enhancement amounts generically to a constant factor rather than quadratic improvement. We apply these tools to derive bounds for models of decoherence relevant for metrological applications including: dephasing,depolarization, spontaneous emission and photon loss.

id: 1201.3945
title: Gaussian Matrix Product States
authors: Norbert Schuch, Michael M. Wolf, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: This work originally appeared as Sec. VII of quant-ph/0509166, and is published in the Proceedings on the conference on Quantum information and many body quantum systems, edited by M. Ericsson and S. Montangero, pg. 129 (Edizioni della Normale, Pisa, 2008)
journal: Proceedings on the conference on Quantum information and many body quantum systems, pg. 129 (Edizioni della Normale, Pisa, 2008)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3945
abstract: We introduce Gaussian Matrix Product States (GMPS), a generalization of Matrix Product States (MPS) to lattices of harmonic oscillators. Our definition resembles the interpretation of MPS in terms of projected maximally entangled pairs, starting from which we derive several properties of GMPS, often in close analogy to the finite dimensional case: We show how to approximate arbitrary Gaussian states by MPS, we discuss how the entanglement in the bonds can be bounded, we demonstrate how the correlation functions can be computed from the GMPS representation, and that they decay exponentially in one dimension, and finally relate GMPS and ground states of local Hamiltonians.

id: 1201.3966
title: Blind quantum computation protocol in which Alice only makes measurements
authors: Tomoyuki Morimae, Keisuke Fujii
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 050301(R) (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3966
abstract: Blind quantum computation is a new secure quantum computing protocol which enables Alice who does not have sufficient quantum technology to delegate her quantum computation to Bob who has a fully-fledged quantum computer in such a way that Bob cannot learn anything about Alice's input, output, and algorithm. In previous protocols, Alice needs to have a device which generates quantum states, such as single-photon states. Here we propose another type of blind computing protocol where Alice does only measurements, such as the polarization measurements with a threshold detector. In several experimental setups, such as optical systems, the measurement of a state is much easier than the generation of a single-qubit state. Therefore our protocols ease Alice's burden. Furthermore, the security of our protocol is based on the no-signaling principle, which is more fundamental than quantum physics. Finally, our protocols are device independent in the sense that Alice does not need to trust her measurement device in order to guarantee the security.

id: 1201.3979
title: The one-way unlocalizable quantum discord
authors: Zhengjun Xi, Heng Fan, Yongming Li
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures. Minor corrections, references added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3979
abstract: In this paper, we present the concept of the one-way unlocalizable quantum discord and investigate its properties. We provide a polygamy inequality for it in tripartite pure quantum system of arbitrary dimension. Several tradeoff relations between the one-way unlocalizable quantum discord and other correlations are given. If the von Neumann measurement is on a part of the system, we give two expressions of the one-way unlocalizable quantum discord in terms of partial distillable entanglement and quantum disturbance. Finally, we also provide a lower bound for bipartite shareability of quantum correlation beyond entanglement in a tripartite system.

id: 1201.4097
title: Quantum storage of polarization qubits in birefringent and anisotropically absorbing materials
authors: Christoph Clausen, Felix Bussieres, Mikael Afzelius, Nicolas Gisin
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, 1 table, corrected typos and added ref. 35
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 190503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4097
abstract: Storage of quantum information encoded into true single photons is an essential constituent of long-distance quantum communication based on quantum repeaters and of optical quantum information processing. The storage of photonic polarization qubits is, however, complicated by the fact that many materials are birefringent and have polarization-dependent absorption. Here we present and demonstrate a simple scheme that allows compensating for these polarization effects. The scheme is demonstrated using a solid-state quantum memory implemented with an ensemble of rare-earth ions doped into a biaxial yttrium orthosilicate ($Y_2SiO_5$) crystal. Heralded single photons generated from a filtered spontaneous parametric downconversion source are stored, and quantum state tomography of the retrieved polarization state reveals an average fidelity of $97.5 \pm 0.4%$, which is significantly higher than what is achievable with a measure-and-prepare strategy.

id: 1201.4120
title: Enhancing quantum entanglement by photon addition and subtraction
authors: Carlos Navarrete-Benlloch, Ra¨²l Garc¨ªa-Patr¨®n, Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Nicolas J. Cerf
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012328 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4120
abstract: The non-Gaussian operations effected by adding or subtracting a photon on the entangled optical beams emerging from a parametric down-conversion process have been suggested to enhance entanglement. Heralded photon addition or subtraction is, as a matter of fact, at the heart of continuous-variable entanglement distillation. The use of such processes has recently been experimentally demonstrated in the context of the generation of optical coherent-state superpositions or the verification of the canonical commutation relations. Here, we carry out a systematic study of the effect of local photon additions or subtractions on a two-mode squeezed vacuum state, showing that the entanglement generally increases with the number of such operations. This is analytically proven when additions or subtractions are restricted to one mode only, while we observe that the highest entanglement is achieved when these operations are equally shared between the two modes. We also note that adding photons typically provides a stronger entanglement enhancement than subtracting photons, while photon subtraction performs better in terms of energy efficiency. Furthermore, we analyze the interplay between entanglement and non-Gaussianity, showing that it is more subtle than previously expected.

id: 1201.4149
title: Quantum Storage of a Photonic Polarization Qubit in a Solid
authors: Mustafa G¨¹ndo?an, Patrick M. Ledingham, Attaallah Almasi, Matteo Cristiani, Hugues de Riedmatten
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures, 1 table. New reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 190504 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4149
abstract: We report on the quantum storage and retrieval of photonic polarization quantum bits onto and out of a solid state storage device. The qubits are implemented with weak coherent states at the single photon level, and are stored for 500 ns in a praseodymium doped crystal with a storage and retrieval efficiency of 10%, using the atomic frequency comb scheme. We characterize the storage by using quantum state tomography, and find that the average conditional fidelity of the retrieved qubits exceeds 95% for a mean photon number mu=0.4. This is significantly higher than a classical benchmark, taking into account the Poissonian statistics and finite memory efficiency, which proves that our device functions as a quantum storage device for polarization qubits, even if tested with weak coherent states. These results extend the storage capabilities of solid state quantum memories to polarization encoding, which is widely used in quantum information science.

id: 1201.4169
title: On the zig-zag pilot-wave approach for fermions
authors: Ward Struyve
comments: 23 pages, no figures, LaTex
journal: J. Phys. A 45, 195307 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4169
abstract: We consider a pilot-wave approach for the Dirac theory that was recently proposed by Colin and Wiseman. In this approach, the particles perform a zig-zag motion, due to stochastic jumps of their velocity. We respectively discuss the one-particle theory, the many-particle theory and possible extensions to quantum field theory. We also discuss the non-relativistic limit of the one-particle theory. For a single particle, the motion is always luminal, a feature that persists in the non-relativistic limit. For more than one particle the motion is in general subluminal.

id: 1201.4234
title: An Introduction to Quantum Mechanics ... for those who dwell in the macroscopic world
authors: Antonio Barletta
comments: 33 pages, 5 figures Lecture notes of an introductory course on quantum mechanics for engineering PhD students, held at the Faculty of Engineering, Alma Mater Studiorum - Universita' di Bologna (January 2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Physics Education (physics.ed-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4234
abstract: There is a huge number of excellent and comprehensive textbooks on quantum mechanics. They mainly differ for the approach, more or less oriented to the formalism rather than to the phenomenology, as well as for the topics covered. These lectures have been based mainly on the classical textbook by Gasiorowicz (1974). I must confess that the main reason for my choice of Gasiorowicz (1974) is affective, as it was the textbook were I first learned the basic principles of quantum mechanics. Beyond my personal taste, I now recognize that Gasiorowicz (1974) is still a very good textbook on quantum mechanics, with a rigorous theoretical approach accompanied by a wide collection of applications. If the textbook by Gasiorowicz was my main basis, I have taken much also from other textbooks such as Phillips (2003), as well as from the excellent classical textbook by Dirac (1981).

id: 1201.4237
title: Statistical consistency of quantum-classical hybrids
authors: L. L. Salcedo
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: Phys.Rev. A85 (2012) 022127
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4237
abstract: After formulating a no-go theorem for perfect quantum-classical hybrid systems, a new consistency requirement based on standard statistical considerations is noted. It is shown that such requirement is not fulfilled by the mean-field approach, nor by the statistical ensemble approach. Further unusual features of the latter scheme are pointed out.

id: 1201.4251
title: Entanglement and the Interplay between Staggered Fields and Couplings
authors: Jenny Hide, Yoshifumi Nakata, Mio Murao
comments: 10 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042303 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4251
abstract: We investigate how the interplay between a staggered magnetic field and staggered coupling strength affects both ground state and thermal entanglement. Upon analytically calculating thermodynamic quantities and the correlation functions for such a system, we consider both the global Meyer-Wallach measure of entanglement and the concurrence between pairs of spins. We discover two quantum phase transitions present in the model and show that the quantum phase transitions are reflected in the behaviour of the entanglement at zero temperature. We discover that increasing the alternating field and alternating coupling strength can actually increase the amount of entanglement present at both zero temperature and for thermal states of the system.

id: 1201.4281
title: Boundary contributions to the hypervirial theorem
authors: J. G. Esteve, F. Falceto, Pulak Ranjan Giri
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures; to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4281
abstract: It is shown that under certain boundary conditions the virial theorem has to be modified. We analyze the origin of the extra term and compute it in particular examples. The Coulomb and harmonic oscillator with point interaction have been studied in the light of this generalization of the virial theorem.

id: 1201.4303
title: Dynamics of quantum light in integrated nonlinear waveguide arrays and generation of robust continuous variable entanglement
authors: Amit Rai, Dimitris G. Angelakis
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052330 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4303
abstract: We study a class of nonlinear waveguide arrays where the waveguides are endowed with quadratic non- linearity and are coupled through the evanescent overlap of the guided modes. We study both the stimulated and spontaneous process in the array and show the viability of such an array as a platform for generating both bipartite and tripartite continuous variable entanglement on demand. We explicitly address the affect of realistic losses on the entanglement produced, briefly discuss the possible types of nonlinear materials that could be used, and suggest solutions to the possible phase matching issues in the waveguides. The simultaneous generation and manipulation of the light on a single waveguide chip circumvents the usual bandwidth problems associated with the use of external bulky optical elements and makes this avenue promising for further investigation.

id: 1201.4359
title: Exponentially enhanced quantum communication rate by multiplexing continuous-variable teleportation
authors: Andreas Christ, Cosmo Lupo, Christine Silberhorn
comments: 27 pages, 18 figures, Video abstract: this https URL
journal: New J. Phys. 14 083007 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4359
abstract: A major challenge of today's quantum communication systems lies in the transmission of quantum information with high rates over long distances in the presence of unavoidable losses. Thereby the achievable quantum communication rate is fundamentally limited by the amount of energy that can be transmitted per use of the channel. It is hence vital to develop quantum communication protocols that encode quantum information as energy efficiently as possible. To this aim we investigate continuous-variable quantum teleportation as a method of distributing quantum information. We explore the possibility to encode information on multiple optical modes and derive upper and lower bounds on the achievable quantum channel capacities. This analysis enables us to benchmark single-mode versus multi-mode entanglement resources. Our research reveals that multiplexing does not only feature an enhanced energy efficiency, leading to an exponential increase in the achievable quantum communication rates in comparison to single-mode coding, but also yields an improved loss resilience. However, as reliable quantum information transfer is only achieved for entanglement values above a certain threshold, a careful optimization of the number of coding modes is needed to obtain the optimal quantum channel capacity.

id: 1201.4362
title: Calculation of the expectation values of the spin and the magnetic moment of the gamma photons created as a result of the electron-positron annihilation
authors: Mesude Saglam, Ziya Saglam
comments: 9 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4362
abstract: We have calculated the expectation values of the spin and the intrinsic magnetic moment of the gamma photons created as a result of the electron-positron annihilation. We show that, depending on its helicity a gamma photon propagating in z direction with an angular frequency carries a magnetic moment of along the propagation direction. Here the (+) and (-) signs stand for the right hand and left circular helicity respectively. We also show that whatever the helicity is, the spin of each gamma photon is equal to zero (but not !). We argue that in a Stern-Gerlach experiment (SGE) the magnetic moment is an important property but not the spin of the particles. Because of these two symmetric values of the magnetic moment, we expect a splitting of the gamma photon beam into two symmetric subbeams in a (SGE). We believe that the present result will be helpful for understanding the recent attempts on the (SGE) with slow light and the behavior of the dark polaritons and also the atomic spinor polaritons.

id: 1201.4372
title: All-atomic source of squeezed vacuum with full pulse-shape control
authors: Travis Horrom, Irina Novikova, Eugeniy E. Mikhailov
comments: 
journal: Journal of Physics B: Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics, Issue 12, 45, 124015 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4372
abstract: We report on the generation of pulses of a low-frequency squeezed vacuum with noise suppression >2 dB below the standard quantum limit in a hot resonant 87 Rb vapor with polarization self-rotation. We demonstrate the possibility to precisely control the temporal profile of the squeezed noise quadrature by applying a calibrated longitudinal magnetic field, without degrading the maximum amount of squeezing.

id: 1201.4379
title: Correcting detection error in quantum computation and state engineering through data processing
authors: C. Shen, L.-M. Duan
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 053053 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4379
abstract: Quantum error correction in general is experimentally challenging as it requires significant expansion of the size of quantum circuits and accurate performance of quantum gates to fulfill the error threshold requirement. Here we propose a method much simpler for experimental implementation to correct arbitrary detection errors. The method is based on processing of data from repetitive experiments and can correct detection error of any magnitude, as long as the error magnitude is calibrated. The method is illustrated with its application to detection of multipartite entanglement from quantum state engineering.

id: 1201.4390
title: The Operator Tensor Formulation of Quantum Theory
authors: Lucien Hardy
comments: Abstract in preprint is different. 37 pages, many pictures. For a special issue of Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A for the Turing Centenary
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4390
abstract: A typical quantum experiment has a bunch of apparatuses placed so that quantum systems can pass between them. We regard each use of an apparatus, along with some given outcome on the apparatus (a certain detector click or a certain meter reading for example), as an operation. An operation can have zero or more quantum systems inputted into it and zero or more quantum systems outputted from it. We can wire together operations to form circuits. In the standard framework of quantum theory we must foliate the circuit then calculate the probability by evolving a state through it. This approach has three problems. First, we must introduce an arbitrary foliation of the circuit (such foliations are not unique). Second, we have to pad our expressions with identities every time two or more foliation hypersurfaces intersect a given wire. And third, we treat operations corresponding to preparations, transformations, and results in different ways. In this paper we present the operator tensor formulation of quantum theory which solves all these problems. Corresponding to every operation is an operator tensor. The probability for a circuit is given by simply replacing the operations in the circuit with the corresponding operator tensors. Wires between operator tensors correspond to multiplying the tensors in the associated subspace and then taking the partial trace over that subspace. Operator tensors must be physical (namely, they must have positive input transpose and satisfy a certain normalization condition).

id: 1201.4407
title: Memory Attacks on Device-Independent Quantum Cryptography
authors: Jonathan Barrett, Roger Colbeck, Adrian Kent
comments: 6+4 pages. Title updated to match published version. Expanded discussion of countermeasures. We wish to underline (in particular, for the benefit of any readers unfamiliar with the field) that our attacks apply to quantum cryptography in the scenario where the quantum devices used are completely untrusted, and not in the usual scenario in which the device manufacturers are trusted
journal: Physical Review Letters 110, 010503 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4407
abstract: Device-independent quantum cryptographic schemes aim to guarantee security to users based only on the output statistics of any components used, and without the need to verify their internal functionality. Since this would protect users against untrustworthy or incompetent manufacturers, sabotage or device degradation, this idea has excited much interest, and many device-independent schemes have been proposed. Here we identify a critical weakness of device-independent protocols that rely on public communication between secure laboratories. Untrusted devices may record their inputs and outputs and reveal information about them via publicly discussed outputs during later runs. Reusing devices thus compromises the security of a protocol and risks leaking secret data. Possible defences include securely destroying or isolating used devices. However, these are costly and often impractical. We propose other more practical partial defences as well as a new protocol structure for device-independent quantum key distribution that aims to achieve composable security in the case of two parties using a small number of devices to repeatedly share keys with each another (and no other party).

id: 1201.4415
title: Spectroscopy and Thermometry of Drumhead Modes in a Mesoscopic Trapped-Ion Crystal using Entanglement
authors: Brian C. Sawyer, Joseph W. Britton, Adam C. Keith, C.-C. Joseph Wang, James K. Freericks, Hermann Uys, Michael J. Biercuk, John J. Bollinger
comments: 12 pages, 7 figures (includes Supplementary Material)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 213003 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4415
abstract: We demonstrate spectroscopy and thermometry of individual motional modes in a mesoscopic 2D ion array using entanglement-induced decoherence as a method of transduction. Our system is a $\sim$400 $\mu$m-diameter planar crystal of several hundred $^9$Be$^+$ ions exhibiting complex drumhead modes in the confining potential of a Penning trap. Exploiting precise control over the $^9$Be$^+$ valence electron spins, we apply a homogeneous spin-dependent optical dipole force to excite arbitrary transverse modes with an effective wavelength approaching the interparticle spacing ($\sim$20 \nolinebreak$\mu$m). Center-of-mass displacements below 1 nm are detected via entanglement of spin and motional degrees of freedom.

id: 1201.4421
title: Quantum discord and noncontextual hidden variables models
authors: Kazuo Fujikawa
comments: 5 pages (to appear in PRA)
journal: Phys. Rev. A85 (2012) 012114
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4421
abstract: It is shown that theoretically viable noncontextual hidden variables models in $d=2$ lead to conflicting dispersion free expressions in the analysis of the conditional measurement of two non-orthogonal projectors. No satisfactory criterion of the quantum discord, which relies on the analysis of conditional measurement, is formulated in the $d=2$ hidden variables space due to a lack of uniqueness of the dispersion free representation. We also make a speculative comment on a "many-worlds interpretation" of hidden variables models to account for the conditional measurement.

id: 1201.4441
title: Realization of reliable solid-state quantum memory for photonic polarization-qubit
authors: Zong-Quan Zhou, Wei-Bin Lin, Ming Yang, Chuan-Feng Li, Guang-Can Guo
comments: Updated version of PRL paper, Bandwidth:100MHz, Efficiency: 20%@50ns
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 190505 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4441
abstract: Faithfully storing an unknown quantum light state is essential to advanced quantum communication and distributed quantum computation applications. The required quantum memory must have high fidelity to improve the performance of a quantum network. Here we report the reversible transfer of photonic polarization states into collective atomic excitation in a compact solid-state device. The quantum memory is based on an atomic frequency comb (AFC) in rare-earth ion doped crystals. We obtain up to 0.998 process fidelity for the storage and retrieval process of single-photon-level coherent pulse. This reliable quantum memory is a crucial step toward quantum networks based on solid-state devices.

id: 1201.4460
title: On a Formulation of Qubits in Quantum Field Theory
authors: Jacques Calmet, Xavier Calmet
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4460
abstract: Qubits have been designed in the framework of quantum mechanics. Attempts to formulate the problem in the language of quantum field theory have been proposed already. In this short note we refine the meaning of qubits within the framework of quantum field theory. We show that the notion of gauge invariance naturally leads to a generalization of qubits to QFTbits which are then the fundamental carriers of information from the quantum field theoretical point of view. The goal of this note is to stress the availability of such a generalized concept of QFTbits.

id: 1201.4487
title: Photon echo quantum RAM integration in quantum computer
authors: Sergey A. Moiseev, Sergey N. Andrianov
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 124017
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4487
abstract: We have analyzed an efficient integration of the multi-qubit echo quantum memory into the quantum computer scheme on the atomic resonant ensembles in quantum electrodynamics cavity. Here, one atomic ensemble with controllable inhomogeneous broadening is used for the quantum memory node and other atomic ensembles characterized by the homogeneous broadening of the resonant line are used as processing nodes. We have found optimal conditions for efficient integration of multi-qubit quantum memory modified for this analyzed physical scheme and we have determined a specified shape of the self temporal modes providing a perfect reversible transfer of the photon qubits between the quantum memory node and arbitrary processing nodes. The obtained results open the way for realization of full-scale solid state quantum computing based on using the efficient multi-qubit quantum memory.

id: 1201.4509
title: Wave-Particle Duality in Classical Mechanics
authors: Alexander Y. Davydov
comments: 10 pages, 9 figures, presented at the Heinz von Foerster Congress "Self-Organization and Emergence", University of Vienna, Nov 11-13, 2011
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 361 (2012) 012029
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4509
abstract: Until recently, wave-particle duality has been thought of as quantum principle without a counterpart in classical physics. This belief was challenged after (i) finding that average dynamics of a classical particle in strong inhomogeneous oscillating field resembles that of a quantum object and (ii) experimental discovery of "walkers" - macroscopic droplets that bounce on a vertically vibrating bath of the same fluid and can self-propell via interaction with the surface waves they generate. This paper exposes a new family of objects that can display both particle and wave features all together while strictly obeying laws of the Newtonian mechanics. In contrast to the previously known duality examples in classical physics, oscillating field or constant inflow of energy are not required for their existence. These objects behave deterministically provided that all their degrees of freedom are known to an observer. If, however, some degrees of freedom are unknown, observer can describe such objects only {\it probabilistically} and they manifest {\it weird} features similar to that of quantum particles. We show new classical counterparts of such quantum phenomena as particle interference, tunneling, above-barrier reflection, trapping on top of a barrier, and spontaneous emission of radiation. In the light of these findings, we hypothesize that quantum mechanics may \emph{emerge} as approximation from a more profound theory on a deeper level.

id: 1201.4513
title: Comment on "Turbulence-free ghost imaging" [Appl. Phys. Lett. 98, 111115 (2011)]
authors: Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 2 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4513
abstract: It is shown that lensless pseudothermal ghost imaging is not immune to spatial resolution loss from the presence of atmospheric turbulence along the propagation paths.

id: 1201.4542
title: Heisenberg-style bounds for arbitrary estimates of shift parameters including prior information
authors: Michael J. W. Hall, Howard M. Wiseman
comments: v2:new bound added for 'ignorance respecting estimates', some clarifications
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 033040
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4542
abstract: A rigorous lower bound is obtained for the average resolution of any estimate of a shift parameter, such as an optical phase shift or a spatial translation. The bound has the asymptotic form k_I/<2|G|> where G is the generator of the shift (with an arbitrary discrete or continuous spectrum), and hence establishes a universally applicable bound of the same form as the usual Heisenberg limit. The scaling constant k_I depends on prior information about the shift parameter. For example, in phase sensing regimes, where the phase shift is confined to some small interval of length L, the relative resolution \delta\hat{\Phi}/L has the strict lower bound (2\pi e^3)^{-1/2}/<2m| G_1 |+1>, where m is the number of probes, each with generator G_1, and entangling joint measurements are permitted. Generalisations using other resource measures and including noise are briefly discussed. The results rely on the derivation of general entropic uncertainty relations for continuous observables, which are of interest in their own right.

id: 1201.4554
title: Possible corrections to quantum mechanical predictions in hidden variable model
authors: Agung Budiyono
comments: 24 pages, to appear in Physica A
journal: Physica A 391 (2012) 3081
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4554
abstract: We derive possible corrections to the statistical predictions of quantum mechanics in measurement over ensemble of identically prepared system based on a hidden variable model of quantization developed in the previous work. The corrections are characterized by a dimensionless parameter $\sigma$ and the prediction of quantum mechanics is reproduced in the formal limit $\sigma\rightarrow 0$. Quantum mechanics is argued to be reliable for sufficiently low quantum number.

id: 1201.4558
title: Completeness of classical $¦Õ^4$ theory on 2D lattices
authors: Vahid Karimipour, Mohammad Hossein Zarei
comments: 20 pages, 8 figures, Accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032316 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4558
abstract: We formulate a quantum formalism for the statistical mechanical models of discretized field theories on lattices and then show that the discrete version of $\phi^4$ theory on 2D square lattice is complete in the sense that the partition function of any other discretized scalar field theory on an arbitrary lattice with arbitrary interactions can be realized as a special case of the partition function of this model. To achieve this, we extend the recently proposed quantum formalism for the Ising model \cite{quantum formalism} and its completeness property \cite{completeness} to the continuous variable case.

id: 1201.4731
title: Relativistic Stark resonances in a simple exactly soluble model for a diatomic molecule
authors: Francois Fillion-Gourdeau, Emmanuel Lorin, Andre D. Bandrauk
comments: 37 pages, 30 figures
journal: 2012 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 215304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4731
abstract: A simple 1-D relativistic model for a diatomic molecule with a double point interaction potential is solved exactly in a constant electric field. The Weyl-Titchmarsh-Kodaira method is used to evaluate the spectral density function, allowing the correct normalization of continuum states. The boundary conditions at the potential wells are evaluated using Colombeau's generalized function theory along with charge conjugation invariance and general properties of self-adjoint extensions for point-like interactions. The resulting spectral density function exhibits resonances for quasibound states which move in the complex energy plane as the model parameters are varied. It is observed that for a monotonically increasing interatomic distance, the ground state resonance can either go deeper into the negative continuum or can give rise to a sequence of avoided crossings, depending on the strength of the potential wells. For sufficiently low electric field strength or small interatomic distance, the behavior of resonances is qualitatively similar to non-relativistic results.

id: 1201.4747
title: Capacities of linear quantum optical systems
authors: Cosmo Lupo, Vittorio Giovannetti, Stefano Pirandola, Stefano Mancini, Seth Lloyd
comments: 11 pages, 3 figures. v2: minor changes, close to the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062314 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4747
abstract: A wide variety of communication channels employ the quantized electromagnetic field to convey information. Their communication capacity crucially depends on losses associated to spatial characteristics of the channel such as diffraction and antenna design. Here we focus on the communication via a finite pupil, showing that diffraction is formally described as a memory channel. By exploiting this equivalence we then compute the communication capacity of an optical refocusing system, modeled as a converging lens. Even though loss of information originates from the finite pupil of the lens, we show that the presence of the refocusing system can substantially enhance the communication capacity. We mainly concentrate on communication of classical information, the extension to quantum information being straightforward.

id: 1201.4756
title: Macroscopic quantum resonators (MAQRO)
authors: Rainer Kaltenbaek, Gerald Hechenblaikner, Nikolai Kiesel, Oriol Romero-Isart, Keith C. Schwab, Ulrich Johann, Markus Aspelmeyer
comments: Proposal for a medium-sized space mission, 28 pages, 9 figures - in v2, we corrected some minor mistakes and replaced fig. 9 with a higher-resolution version; Experimental Astronomy, March 2012, Online, Open Access
journal: Exp. Astron. 34 (2), 123-164 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4756
abstract: Quantum physics challenges our understanding of the nature of physical reality and of space-time and suggests the necessity of radical revisions of their underlying concepts. Experimental tests of quantum phenomena involving massive macroscopic objects would provide novel insights into these fundamental questions. Making use of the unique environment provided by space, MAQRO aims at investigating this largely unexplored realm of macroscopic quantum physics. MAQRO has originally been proposed as a medium-sized fundamental-science space mission for the 2010 call of Cosmic Vision. MAQRO unites two experiments: DECIDE (DECoherence In Double-Slit Experiments) and CASE (Comparative Acceleration Sensing Experiment). The main scientific objective of MAQRO, which is addressed by the experiment DECIDE, is to test the predictions of quantum theory for quantum superpositions of macroscopic objects containing more than 10e8 atoms. Under these conditions, deviations due to various suggested alternative models to quantum theory would become visible. These models have been suggested to harmonize the paradoxical quantum phenomena both with the classical macroscopic world and with our notion of Minkowski space-time. The second scientific objective of MAQRO, which is addressed by the experiment CASE, is to demonstrate the performance of a novel type of inertial sensor based on optically trapped microspheres. CASE is a technology demonstrator that shows how the modular design of DECIDE allows to easily incorporate it with other missions that have compatible requirements in terms of spacecraft and orbit. CASE can, at the same time, serve as a test bench for the weak equivalence principle, i.e., the universality of free fall with test-masses differing in their mass by 7 orders of magnitude.

id: 1201.4780
title: Quantum walks: a comprehensive review
authors: Salvador E. Venegas-Andraca
comments: Paper accepted for publication in Quantum Information Processing Journal
journal: Quantum Information Processing vol. 11(5), pp. 1015-1106 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4780
abstract: Quantum walks, the quantum mechanical counterpart of classical random walks, is an advanced tool for building quantum algorithms that has been recently shown to constitute a universal model of quantum computation. Quantum walks is now a solid field of research of quantum computation full of exciting open problems for physicists, computer scientists, mathematicians and engineers. In this paper we review theoretical advances on the foundations of both discrete- and continuous-time quantum walks, together with the role that randomness plays in quantum walks, the connections between the mathematical models of coined discrete quantum walks and continuous quantum walks, the quantumness of quantum walks, a summary of papers published on discrete quantum walks and entanglement as well as a succinct review of experimental proposals and realizations of discrete-time quantum walks. Furthermore, we have reviewed several algorithms based on both discrete- and continuous-time quantum walks as well as a most important result: the computational universality of both continuous- and discrete- time quantum walks.

id: 1201.4791
title: A simple model of spontaneous emission
authors: Krzysztof Piotr W¨®jcik
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4791
abstract: We present a very simple model of a spontaneous emission from a two-level atom, interacting with a field of a finite number of states. Such a process is often said to occur because of the large number of equally-probable states of environment. We show that in our model increasing the number of field states may and may not cause a practically permanent emission, depending on the details of the model. We also describe how irreversibility emerges with growing number of states. Mathematical tools are reduced to a necessary minimum and hopefully can be well understood by undergraduate students.

id: 1201.4805
title: Ultrafast entangling gates between nuclear spins using photo-excited triplet states
authors: Vasileia Filidou, Stephanie Simmons, Steven D. Karlen, Feliciano Giustino, Harry L. Anderson, John J. L. Morton
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4805
abstract: The representation of information within the spins of electrons and nuclei has been powerful in the ongoing development of quantum computers. Although nuclear spins are advantageous as quantum bits (qubits) due to their long coherence lifetimes (exceeding seconds), they exhibit very slow spin interactions and have weak polarisation. A coupled electron spin can be used to polarise the nuclear spin and create fast single-qubit gates, however, the permanent presence of electron spins is a source of nuclear decoherence. Here we show how a transient electron spin, arising from the optically excited triplet state of C60, can be used to hyperpolarise, manipulate and measure two nearby nuclear spins. Implementing a scheme which uses the spinor nature of the electron, we performed an entangling gate in hundreds of nanoseconds: five orders of magnitude faster than the liquid-state J coupling. This approach can be widely applied to systems comprising an electron spin coupled to multiple nuclear spins, such as NV centres, while the successful use of a transient electron spin motivates the design of new molecules able to exploit photo-excited triplet states.

id: 1201.4822
title: Number-Theoretic Nature of Communication in Quantum Spin Systems
authors: Chris Godsil, Stephen Kirkland, Simone Severini, Jamie Smith
comments: 6 pages, 1 EPS figure
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 050502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4822
abstract: The last decade has witnessed substantial interest in protocols for transferring information on networks of quantum mechanical objects. A variety of control methods and network topologies have been proposed, on the basis that transfer with perfect fidelity --- i.e. deterministic and without information loss --- is impossible through unmodulated spin chains with more than a few particles. Solving the original problem formulated by Bose [Phys. Rev. Lett. 91, 207901 (2003)], we determine the exact number of qubits in unmodulated chains (with XY Hamiltonian) that permit the transfer with fidelity arbitrarily close to 1, a phenomenon called pretty good state transfer. We prove that this happens if and only if the number of nodes is n=p-1, 2p-1, where p is a prime, or n=2^{m}-1. The result highlights the potential of quantum spin system dynamics for reinterpreting questions about the arithmetic structure of integers, and, in this case, primality.

id: 1201.4829
title: Resonant Adiabatic Passage with Three Qubits
authors: Sangchul Oh, Yun-Pil Shim, Jianjia Fei, Mark Friesen, Xuedong Hu
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 022332 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4829
abstract: We investigate the non-adiabatic implementation of an adiabatic quantum teleportation protocol, finding that perfect fidelity can be achieved through resonance. We clarify the physical mechanisms of teleportation, for three qubits, by mapping their dynamics onto two parallel and mutually-coherent adiabatic passage channels. By transforming into the adiabatic frame, we explain the resonance by analogy with the magnetic resonance of a spin-1/2 particle. Our results establish a fast and robust method for transferring quantum states, and suggest an alternative route toward high precision quantum gates.

id: 1201.4839
title: Asymptotic behavior of quantum walks with spatio-temporal coin fluctuations
authors: Andre Ahlbrecht, Christopher Cedzich, Robert Matjeschk, Volkher B. Scholz, Albert H. Werner, Reinhard F. Werner
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4839
abstract: Quantum walks subject to decoherence generically suffer the loss of their genuine quantum feature, a quadratically faster spreading compared to classical random walks. This intuitive statement has been verified analytically for certain models and is also supported by numerical studies of a variety of examples. In this paper we analyze the long-time behavior of a particular class of decoherent quantum walks, which, to the best of our knowledge, was only studied at the level of numerical simulations before. We consider a local coin operation which is randomly and independently chosen for each time step and each lattice site and prove that, under rather mild conditions, this leads to classical behavior: With the same scaling as needed for a classical diffusion the position distribution converges to a Gaussian, which is independent of the initial state. Our method is based on non-degenerate perturbation theory and yields an explicit expression for the covariance matrix of the asymptotic Gaussian in terms of the randomness parameters.

id: 1201.4867
title: Efficient classical simulations of quantum Fourier transforms and normalizer circuits over Abelian groups
authors: M. Van den Nest
comments: 23 pages + appendices
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4867
abstract: The quantum Fourier transform (QFT) is sometimes said to be the source of various exponential quantum speed-ups. In this paper we introduce a class of quantum circuits which cannot outperform classical computers even though the QFT constitutes an essential component. More precisely, we consider normalizer circuits. A normalizer circuit over a finite Abelian group is any quantum circuit comprising the QFT over the group, gates which compute automorphisms and gates which realize quadratic functions on the group. We prove that all normalizer circuits have polynomial-time classical simulations. The proof uses algorithms for linear diophantine equation solving and the monomial matrix formalism introduced in our earlier work. We subsequently discuss several aspects of normalizer circuits. First we show that our result generalizes the Gottesman-Knill theorem. Furthermore we highlight connections to Shor's factoring algorithm and to the Abelian hidden subgroup problem in general. Finally we prove that quantum factoring cannot be realized as a normalizer circuit owing to its modular exponentiation subroutine.

id: 1201.4870
title: Eigenvalue Formulation of Quantum Mechanics Near Closed Timelike Curves
authors: Z. Gedik
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4870
abstract: Einstein's field equations of gravitation are known to admit closed timelike curve (CTC) solutions. Deutsch approached the problem from the quantum information point of view and proposed a self-consistency condition. In this work, the Deutsch equation is formulated as an eigenvalue problem. The disappearance of entanglement between two qubits in an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) state near a CTC is demonstrated. The method is utilized to analyze the discontinuous evolution of two chronology respecting (CR) qubits near a CTC.

id: 1201.4877
title: Symmetry-protected phases for measurement-based quantum computation
authors: Dominic V. Else, Ilai Schwarz, Stephen D. Bartlett, Andrew C. Doherty
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, comments welcome; v2 fixed minor typographic errors; v3 published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 240505 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4877
abstract: Ground states of spin lattices can serve as a resource for measurement-based quantum computation. Ideally, the ability to perform quantum gates via measurements on such states would be insensitive to small variations in the Hamiltonian. Here, we describe a class of symmetry-protected topological orders in one-dimensional systems, any one of which ensures the perfect operation of the identity gate. As a result, measurement-based quantum gates can be a robust property of an entire phase in a quantum spin lattice, when protected by an appropriate symmetry.

id: 1201.4884
title: Fine-grained uncertainty relation and entropic uncertainty relation in the presence of quantum memory
authors: T. Pramanik, P. Chowdhury
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to some error
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4884
abstract: In presence of quantum memory [M. Berta, M. Christandl, R. Colbeck, J.M. Renes, and R. Renner, Nature Phys. 6, 659 (2010)] the lower bound of entropic uncertainty relation depends on amount of entanglement between the particle (on which two incompatible observable are measured) and the quantum memory. On other hand, fine grained uncertainty relation [J. Oppenheim and S. Wehner, Science 330, 1072 (2010)] gives the upper bound of winning non-local (CHSH) game. We construct similar kind of quantum game and relate two uncertainty relation for measurement of any two observable on the quantum system in presence of quantum memory and show there are certain region where the lower bound of entropic uncertainty relation in presents of quantum memory given by Berta et. al. should not be achieve by spin projective measurement.

id: 1201.4894
title: Exact dynamics of single qubit gate fidelities under the measurement-based quantum computation scheme
authors: L. G. E. Arruda, F. F. Fanchini, R. d. J. Napolitano, J. E. M. Hornos, A. O. Caldeira
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures. Extra examples added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042326 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4894
abstract: Measurement-based quantum computation is an efficient model to perform universal computation. Nevertheless, theoretical questions have been raised, mainly with respect to realistic noise conditions. In order to shed some light on this issue, we evaluate the exact dynamics of some single qubit gate fidelities using the measurement-based quantum computation scheme when the qubits which are used as resource interact with a common dephasing environment. We report a necessary condition for the fidelity dynamics of a general pure N-qubit state, interacting with this type of error channel, to present an oscillatory behavior and we show that for the initial canonical cluster state the fidelity oscillates as a function of time. This state fidelity oscillatory behavior brings significant variations to the values of the computational results of a generic gate acting on that state depending on the instants we choose to apply our set of projective measurements. As we shall see, considering some specific gates that are frequently found in the literature, neither fast application of the set of projective measurements necessarily implies high gate fidelity, nor slow application thereof necessarily implies low gate fidelity. Our condition for the occurrence of the fidelity oscillatory behavior shows that the oscillation presented by the cluster state is due exclusively to its initial geometry. Other states that can be used as resources for measurement-based quantum computation can present the same initial geometrical condition. Therefore, it is very important for the present scheme to know when the fidelity of a particular resource state will oscillate in time and, if this is the case, what are the best times to perform the measurements.

id: 1201.4945
title: Little-used Mathematical Structures in Quantum Mechanics I. Galilei Invariance and the welcher Weg Problem
authors: R. N. Sen
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4945
abstract: Results of the welcher Weg experiment of Duerr, Nonn and Rempe are explained by using ray representations of the Galilei group. The key idea is that the state of the incoming atom be regarded as belonging to an irreducible unitary ray representation of this group. If this is the case, interaction with an interferometer with a which-way detector must split this state into the direct sum of two states belonging to representations with different internal energies. (While the zero of internal energy is arbitrary, the difference between two internal energies is well-defined and is invariant under unitary transformations.) The state of the outgoing atom will then be a superposition of two mutually orthogonal states, so that there will be no interference. Neither complementarity nor entanglement plays a role in this explanation. Furthermore, in atom interferometry it is not enough for a quantum eraser to erase the internal energy difference; to restore interference, two copies of a representation have to be collapsed into one. In a direct sum of copies of the same representation, copies of the same state will still be orthogonal. These assertions may be testable, and two new atom interferometry experiments are suggested. One of them is an `own-goal' experiment which may decisively refute the explanation offered here, and restore the aura of mystery that this paper tries to dispel.

id: 1201.4963
title: Little-used Mathematical Structures in Quantum Mechanics II. Representations of the CCR and Superseparability
authors: R. N. Sen
comments: 24 pages, 5 figures. arXiv admin note: significant text overlap with arXiv:1002.0547
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4963
abstract: It often goes unnoticed that, even for a finite number of degrees of freedom, the canonical commutation relations have many inequivalent irreducible unitary representations; the free particle and a particle in a box provide examples that are both simple and well-known. The representations are unitarily inequivalent because the spectra of the position and momentum operators are different, and spectra are invariant under unitary transformations. The existence of these representations can have consequences that run from the merely unexpected to the barely conceivable. To start with, states of a single particle that belong to inequivalent representations will always be mutually orthogonal; they will never interfere with each other. This property, called superseparability elsewhere, is well-defined mathematically, but has not yet been observed. This article suggests two single-particle interference experiments that may reveal its existence. The existence of inequivalent irreducibile representations may be traced to the existence of different self-adjoint extensions of symmetric operators on infinite-dimensional Hilbert spaces. Analysis of the underlying mathematics reveals that some of these extensions can be interpreted in terms of topological, geometrical and physical quantities that can be controlled in the laboratory. The tests suggested are based on these interpretations. In conclusion, it is pointed out that mathematically rigorous many-worlds interpretations of quantum mechanics may be possible in a framework that admits superseparability.

id: 1201.4975
title: Classicality from zero discord for continuous-variables bipartite systems
authors: M. Arsenijevic, J. Jeknic-Dugic, M. Dugic
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to being encompassed by some other posts, e.g. arXiv:1204.2789 [quant-ph]
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4975
abstract: Quantum information resources quantified by non-zero discord are ubiquitous for the continuous-variables bipartite systems. Complementary to this, we formally construct a model characterized by zero two-way discord for arbitrarily long time interval. The model is classical in the sense it does not support quantum information processing. We point out some interesting physical features of the model.

id: 1201.5058
title: PT-symmetric quantum systems with positive P
authors: Miloslav Znojil, Hendrik B. Geyer
comments: 13 pp
journal: Fortschr. Phys. 61 (2013) 111 - 123
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5058
abstract: A new version of PT-symmetric quantum theory is proposed and illustrated by an N-site-lattice Legendre oscillator. The essence of the innovation lies in the replacement of parity P (serving as an indefinite metric in an auxiliary Krein space) by its non-involutory alternative P(positive)=Q>0 playing the role of a positive-definite nontrivial metric in an auxiliary, redundant, unphysical Hilbert space. It is shown that the QT-symmetry of this form remains appealing and technically useful.

id: 1201.5060
title: Hybrid of superconducting quantum interference device and atomic Bose-Einstein condensate: An architecture for quantum information processing
authors: Kelly R. Patton, Uwe R. Fischer
comments: 9 pages of RevTex4-1, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 052303 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5060
abstract: A hybrid quantum system is proposed by coupling the internal hyperfine transitions of a trapped atomic Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) and a superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) via the macroscopic quantum field of the flux qubit. The presence of the condensate leads to a bosonic enhancement of the Rabi frequency over the otherwise small single-particle magnetic dipole transition matrix elements. This enhancement allows for the possibility to rapidly transfer and store qubit states in the BEC that were originally prepared in the SQUID. The fidelity of this transfer for different states is calculated, and a direct experimental protocol to determine the transfer fidelity by quantum tomography of the BEC qubit is presented.

id: 1201.5080
title: Towards a Bell-Kochen-Specker theorem of identity
authors: R. Srikanth, Debajyoti Gangopadhyay
comments: 3 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5080
abstract: In contrast to conventional, dynamical entanglement, in which particles with definite identity have uncertain properties, in so-called statistical entanglement, which arises between indistinguishable particles because of quantum symmetry rules, even particle identities are uncertain. The Bell and Kochen-Specker theorems imply that quantum properties either lack realism or possess it with a caveat of contextuality or nonlocality. In the matter of identity of multi-particle states of indistinguishable particles, these contrasting ontological attitudes are mirrored by the "bundle" vs. haecceity views. We offer some arguments aimed at importing the above theorems to the issue of identity in quantum theory, with the conclusion (under certain assumptions) that indistinguishable particles either lack individualism or possess a definite identity with a caveat of contextuality or nonlocality.

id: 1201.5092
title: Efficient entanglement criteria beyond Gaussian limits using Gaussian measurements
authors: Hyunchul Nha, Su-Yong Lee, Se-Wan Ji, M. S. Kim
comments: published version, 6 pages, 3 figures, including Supplemental Material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 030503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5092
abstract: We present a formalism to derive entanglement criteria beyond the Gaussian regime that can be readily tested by only homodyne detection. The measured observable is the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) correlation. Its arbitrary functional form enables us to detect non-Gaussian entanglement even when an entanglement test based on second-order moments fails. We illustrate the power of our experimentally friendly criteria for a broad class of non-Gaussian states under realistic conditions. We also show rigorously that quantum teleportation for continuous variables employs a specific functional form of EPR correlation.

id: 1201.5111
title: Decoherence and the conditions for the classical control of quantum systems
authors: G J Milburn
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5111
abstract: We find the conditions for one quantum system to function as a classical controller of another quantum system: the controller must be an open system and rapidly diagonalised in the basis of the controller variable that is coupled to the controlled system. This causes decoherence in the controlled system that can be made small if the rate of diagonalisation is fast. We give a detailed example based on the quantum optomechanical control of a mechanical resonator. The resulting equations are similar in structure to recently proposed models for consistently combining quantum and classical stochastic dynamics.

id: 1201.5151
title: Comment on "Experimental demonstration of a universally valid error-disturbance uncertainty relation in spin measurements"
authors: Yoshimasa Kurihara
comments: 3 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5151
abstract: In this comment we show that the experimental results for a universally valid uncertainty relation in ref.[J. Erhart et al. Nat. Phys.(2012)10.1038/nphys2194]cannot be justified. The experiments cannot be recognized to establish a violation of the Heisenberg-type uncertainty relation suggested by Ozawa[Phys. Lett. A318(2003)21, Phys. Rev. A67(2003)042105].

id: 1201.5184
title: Vibrational exciton-mediated quantum state transfert: a simple model
authors: Vincent J. C. Pouthier
comments: 13
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5184
abstract: A communication protocol is proposed in which quantum state transfer is mediated by a vibrational exciton. We consider two distant molecular groups grafted on the sides of a lattice. These groups behave as two quantum computers where the information in encoded and received. The lattice plays the role of a communication channel along which the exciton propagates and interacts with a phonon bath. Special attention is paid for describing the system involving an exciton dressed by a single phonon mode. The Hamiltonian is thus solved exactly so that the relevance of the perturbation theory is checked. Within the nonadiabatic weak-coupling limit, it is shown that the system supports three quasi-degenerate states that define the relevant paths followed by the exciton to tunnel between the computers. When the model parameters are judiciously chosen, constructive interferences take place between these paths. Phonon-induced decoherence is minimized and a high-fidelity quantum state transfer occurs over a broad temperature range.

id: 1201.5202
title: Environment-assisted quantum transport in ordered systems
authors: Ivan Kassal, Al¨¢n Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 053041 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5202
abstract: Noise-assisted transport in quantum systems occurs when quantum time-evolution and decoherence conspire to produce a transport efficiency that is higher than what would be seen in either the purely quantum or purely classical cases. In disordered systems, it has been understood as the suppression of coherent quantum localisation through noise, which brings detuned quantum levels into resonance and thus facilitates transport. We report several new mechanisms of environment-assisted transport in ordered systems, in which there is no localisation to overcome and where one would naively expect that coherent transport is the fastest possible. Although we are particularly motivated by the need to understand excitonic energy transfer in photosynthetic light-harvesting complexes, our model is general---transport in a tight-binding system with dephasing, a source, and a trap---and can be expected to have wider application.

id: 1201.5258
title: SU(2) coherent state path integrals labeled by a full set of Euler angles: basic formulation
authors: Masao Matsumoto
comments: LaTex 2e; 28 pages. We rearrange the contents in such a way that one can grasp the whole results clearer than before by three theorems; All the appendices except one are incorporated into the body of the text. The contraction of the general SU(2) coherent state path integrals to those for the generic canonical coherent states is added. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/9906100
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B, Vol. 26 (2012) 1250143
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5258
abstract: We develop a basic formulation of the spin (SU(2)) coherent state path integrals based not on the conventional highest or lowest weight vectors but on arbitrary fiducial vectors. The coherent states, being defined on a 3-sphere, are specified by a full set of Euler angles. They are generally considered as states without classical analogues. The overcompleteness relation holds for the states, by which we obtain the time evolution of general systems in terms of the path integral representation; the resultant Lagrangian in the action has a monopole-type term a la Balachandran etal. as well as some additional terms, both of which depend on fiuducial vectors in a simple way. The process of the discrete path integrals to the continuous ones is clarified. Complex variable forms of the states and path integrals are also obtained. During the course of all steps, we emphasize the analogies and correspondences to the general canonical coherent states and path integrals that we proposed some time ago. In this paper we concentrate on the basic formulation. The physical applications as well as criteria in choosing fiducial vectors for real Lagrangians, in relation to fictitious monopoles and geometric phases, will be treated in subsequent papers separately.

id: 1201.5280
title: Absorption imaging of a single atom
authors: E. W. Streed, A. Jechow, B. G. Norton, D. Kielpinski
comments: Accepted to Nature Commun
journal: Nature Commun 3, 933 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5280
abstract: Absorption imaging has played a key role in the advancement of science from van Leeuwenhoek's discovery of red blood cells to modern observations of dust clouds in stellar nebulas and Bose-Einstein condensates. Here we show the first absorption imaging of a single atom isolated in vacuum. The optical properties of atoms are thoroughly understood, so a single atom is an ideal system for testing the limits of absorption imaging. A single atomic ion was confined in an RF Paul trap and the absorption imaged at near wavelength resolution with a phase Fresnel lens. The observed image contrast of 3.1(3)% is the maximum theoretically allowed for the imaging resolution of our setup. The absorption of photons by single atoms is of immediate interest for quantum information processing (QIP). Our results also point out new opportunities in imaging of light-sensitive samples both in the optical and x-ray regimes.

id: 1201.5281
title: What went wrong with physics? The classical self force problem revisited, with radical implications to all of physics
authors: Yehonatan Knoll
comments: The significance of the constitutive relations better explained; chaos in light of ECD is discussed in an added section
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5281
abstract: Classical electrodynamics and general relativity are successful non-theories: Plagued by the self force problem, both are ill defined yet extremely practical. The paradox of a `practical non theory' is resolved in the current paper by showing that the experimentally valid content of classical electrodynamics can be extracted from a set of axioms, or constitutive relations, circumventing the ill-definedness of the self force. A concrete realization of these constitutive relations by a well defined theory of testable content is presented, and it is argued that all previous attempts to resolve the self force problem fail to do so, thus, at most, turning a non-theory into a theory---which is not classical electrodynamics. The proposed theory is further shown to agree not only with the (vaguely defined) experimental scope of classical electrodynamics, but also with that of quantum mechanics, the latter serving as a complementary statistical theory to the former. A straightforward generally covariant extension of the proposed theory of classical electrodynamics leads to self-force free general relativity, suggesting new interpretations of some astronomical observations. Questions pertaining to the crux of the nature of matter are automatically answered once the classical self-force problem is properly resolved.

id: 1201.5289
title: Continuous-wave non-classical light with GHz squeezing bandwidth
authors: Stefan Ast, Aiko Samblowski, Moritz Mehmet, Sebastian Steinlechner, Tobias Eberle, Roman Schnabel
comments: 3 pages, 4 figures
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 37, Issue 12, pp. 2367-2369 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5289
abstract: Squeezed states can be employed for entanglement-based continuous-variable quantum key distribution, where the secure key rate is proportional to the bandwidth of the squeezing. We produced a non-classical continuous-wave laser field at the telecommunication wavelength of 1550 nm, which showed squeezing over a bandwidth of more than 2 GHz. The experimental setup used parametric down-conversion via a periodically poled potassium titanyl phosphate crystal (PPKTP). We did not use any resonant enhancement for the funda- mental wavelength, which should in principle allow a production of squeezed light over the full phase-matching bandwidth of several nanometers. We measured the squeezing to be up to 0.3 dB below the vacuum noise from 50 MHz to 2 GHz limited by the measuring bandwidth of the homodyne detector. The squeezing strength was possibly limited by thermal lensing inside the non-linear crystal.

id: 1201.5334
title: Mathematical foundations of quantum information: Measurement and foundations
authors: Masanao Ozawa
comments: 30 pages, Latex. To appear in the December 2014 issue of "Sugaku Expositions," American Mathematical Society. Originally published in Japanese as: Masanao Ozawa, Mathematical Foundations of Quantum Information (in Japanese), Sugaku 61 (2), 113--132 (2009); doi:10.11429/sugaku.0612113. Based on a Plenary Address at the 2008 Mathematical Society of Japan Autumn Meeting, Tokyo, September 25, 2008
journal: Sugaku Expositions 27 (2), 195-221 (2014); originally published in Sugaku 61 (2), 113-132 (2009) (in Japanese)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5334
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to survey some topics on mathematical foundations of quantum information developed mainly by the present author and co-workers for the last three decades. The topics include an axiomatic construction of quantum measurement theory based on completely positive map-valued measures, a universally valid new formulation of the uncertainty principle for error and disturbance in quantum measurements, the Wigner-Araki-Yanase limit of quantum measurements, the accuracy limit of quantum computing based on conservation laws, and a quantum interpretation based on quantum set theory.

id: 1201.5455
title: Twelve-dimensional Pauli group contextuality
authors: Michel Planat
comments: expanded version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5455
abstract: The goal of the paper is to check whether the real eigenstates of the observables in the single qudit Pauli group may lead to quantum contextuality, the property that mutually compatible and independent experiments depend on each other. We find that quantum contextuality crops up at dimension twelve in various configurations with a few rays. We use the Shannon capacity for characterizing the corresponding orthogonality graphs. Some arithmetical properties underlying the qudit contextuality are outlined.

id: 1201.5461
title: Collapse of the quantum wavefunction and Welcher-Weg (WW) experiments
authors: Y.Ben-Aryeh
comments: 13 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5461
abstract: The 'collapse' of the wave function in a general measuring process is analyzed by a pure quantum mechanical (QM) approach. The problem of the delayed choice and Welcher-Weg (WW) experiments is analyzed for Mach-Zehnder (MZ) interferometer. The WW effect is related to complementarity principle and orthogonality of wavefunctions although it produces small momentum changes between the electromagnetic (EM) field and the beam-splitters (BS's). For QM states for which we have a superposition of states and interference effects there is no reality before measurement, but by excluding such effects the system gets a real meaning already before measurement.

id: 1201.5504
title: Ground-state correlation properties of charged bosons trapped in strongly anisotropic harmonic potentials
authors: Przemyslaw Koscik, Anna Okopinska
comments: 5 pages, 6 figures
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B (2012) 85: 93
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5504
abstract: We study systems of a few charged bosons contained within a strongly anisotropic harmonic trap. A detailed examination of the ground-state correlation properties of two-, three-, and four-particle systems is carried out within the framework of the single-mode approximation of the transverse components. The linear correlation entropy of the quasi-1D systems is discussed in dependence on the confinement anisotropy and compared with a strictly 1D limit. Only at weak interaction the correlation properties depend strongly on the anisotropy parameter.

id: 1201.5545
title: Deformed Heisenberg algebra and minimal length
authors: T. Mas?owski, A. Nowicki, V. M. Tkachuk
comments: to be published in JPA
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 075309
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5545
abstract: A one-dimensional deformed Heisenberg algebra $[X,P]=if(P)$ is studied. We answer the question: For what function of deformation $f(P)$ there exists a nonzero minimal uncertainty in position (minimal length). We also find an explicit expression for the minimal length in the case of arbitrary function of deformation.

id: 1201.5548
title: Ab initio quantum dynamics using coupled-cluster
authors: Simen Kvaal
comments: 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5548
abstract: The curse of dimensionality (COD) limits the current state-of-the-art {\it ab initio} propagation methods for non-relativistic quantum mechanics to relatively few particles. For stationary structure calculations, the coupled-cluster (CC) method overcomes the COD in the sense that the method scales polynomially with the number of particles while still being size-consistent and extensive. We generalize the CC method to the time domain while allowing the single-particle functions to vary in an adaptive fashion as well, thereby creating a highly flexible, polynomially scaling approximation to the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation. The method inherits size-consistency and extensivity from the CC method. The method is dubbed orbital-adaptive time-dependent coupled-cluster (OATDCC), and is a hierarchy of approximations to the now standard multi-configurational time-dependent Hartree method for fermions. A numerical experiment is also given.

id: 1201.5585
title: Modifying the Casimir force between indium tin oxide film and Au sphere
authors: A. A. Banishev, C.-C. Chang, R. Castillo-Garza, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko, U. Mohideen
comments: 30 pages, 19 figures, 1 table
journal: Phys. Rev. B, v.85, 045436 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5585
abstract: We present complete results of the experiment on measuring the Casimir force between an Au-coated sphere and an untreated or, alternatively, UV-treated indium tin oxide film deposited on a quartz substrate. Measurements were performed using an atomic force microscope in a high vacuum chamber. The measurement system was calibrated electrostatically. Special analysis of the systematic deviations is performed, and respective corrections in the calibration parameters are introduced. The corrected parameters are free from anomalies discussed in the literature. The experimental data for the Casimir force from two measurement sets for both untreated and UV-treated samples are presented. The experimental errors are determined at a 95% confidence level. It is demonstrated that the UV treatment of an I TO plate results in a significant decrease in the magnitude of the Casimir force (from 21% to 35% depending on separation). However, ellipsometry measurements of the imaginary parts of dielectric permittivities of the untreated and UV-treated samples did not reveal any significant differences. The experimental data are compared with computations in the framework of the Lifshitz theory. It is found that the data for the untreated sample are in a very good agreement with theoretical results taking into account the free charge carriers in an ITO film. For the UV-treated sample the data exclude the theoretical results obtained with account of free charge carriers. These data are in a very good agreement with computations disregarding the contribution of free carriers. According to the explanation provided, this is caused by the phase transition of the ITO film from metallic to dielectric state caused by the UV treatment. Possible applications of the discovered phenomenon in nanotechnology are discussed.

id: 1201.5590
title: Quantum contextuality for a relativistic spin-1/2 particle
authors: Jing-Ling Chen, Hong-Yi Su, Chunfeng Wu, Dong-Ling Deng, Adan Cabello, L. C. Kwek, C. H. Oh
comments: REVTeX4, 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87 (2013) 022109
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5590
abstract: The quantum predictions for a single nonrelativistic spin-1/2 particle can be reproduced by noncontextual hidden variables. Here we show that quantum contextuality for a relativistic electron moving in a Coulomb potential naturally emerges if relativistic effects are taken into account. The contextuality can be identified through the violation of noncontextuality inequalities. We also discuss quantum contextuality for the free Dirac electron as well as the relativistic Dirac oscillator.

id: 1201.5612
title: Statistical analysis of sampling methods in quantum tomography
authors: Thomas Kiesel
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052114 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5612
abstract: In quantum physics, all measured observables are subject to statistical uncertainties, which arise from the quantum nature as well as the experimental technique. We consider the statistical uncertainty of the so-called sampling method, in which one estimates the expectation value of a given observable by empirical means of suitable pattern functions. We show that if the observable can be written as a function of a single directly measurable operator, the variance of the estimate from the sampling method equals to the quantum mechanical one. In this sense, we say that the estimate is on the quantum mechanical level of uncertainty. In contrast, if the observable depends on non-commuting operators, e.g. different quadratures, the quantum mechanical level of uncertainty is not achieved. The impact of the results on quantum tomography is discussed, and different approaches to quantum tomographic measurements are compared. It is shown explicitly for the estimation of quasiprobabilities of a quantum state, that balanced homodyne tomography does not operate on the quantum mechanical level of uncertainty, while the unbalanced homodyne detection does.

id: 1201.5620
title: Entanglement Localization and Optimal Measurement
authors: Shaon Sahoo
comments: 4+ pages, 3 figures; some changes in text, main result unchanged; one ref. added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5620
abstract: The entanglement can be localized between two noncomplementary parts of a many-body system by performing measurements on the rest of the system. This localized entanglement (LE) depends on the chosen basis set of measurement (BSM). We derive here a generic optimality condition for the LE, which, besides being helpful in studying tripartite systems in pure states, can also be of use in studying mixed states of general bipartite systems. We further discuss a canonical way of localizing entanglement, where the BSM is not chosen arbitrarily, but is fully determined by the properties of the system. The LE obtained in this way, we call the localized entanglement by canonical measurement (LECM), is not only operationally meaningful and easy to calculate in practice (without needing any demanding optimization procedure), it provides a nice way to define the entanglement length in many-body systems. For spin-1/2 systems, the LECM is shown to be optimal in some important cases. At the end, some numerical results are presented for $j_1-j_2$ spin model to demonstrate how the LECM behaves.

id: 1201.5623
title: Two-Photon Spiral Imaging with Correlated Orbital Angular Momentum States
authors: David S. Simon, Alexander V. Sergienko
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5623
abstract: The concept of correlated two-photon spiral imaging is introduced. We begin by analyzing the joint orbital angular momentum (OAM) spectrum of correlated photon pairs. The mutual information carried by the photon pairs is evaluated, and it is shown that when an object is placed in one of the beam paths the value of the mutual information is strongly dependent on object shape and is closely related to the degree of rotational symmetry present. After analyzing the effect of the object on the OAM correlations, the method of correlated spiral imaging is described. We first present a version using parametric downconversion, in which entangled pairs of photons with opposite OAM values are produced, placing an object in the path of one beam. We then present a classical (correlated, but non-entangled) version. The relative problems and benefits of the classical versus entangled configurations are discussed. The prospect is raised of carrying out compressive imaging via twophoton OAM detection to reconstruct sparse objects with few measurements.

id: 1201.5625
title: Quantifying entanglement in multipartite conditional states of open quantum systems by measurements of their photonic environment
authors: Juan Diego Urbina, Walter T. Strunz, Carlos Viviescas
comments: 12 pages (including supplementary information), 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5625
abstract: A key lesson of the decoherence program is that information flowing out from an open system is stored in the quantum state of the surroundings. Simultaneously, quantum measurement theory shows that the evolution of any open system when its environment is measured is nonlinear and leads to pure states conditioned on the measurement record. Here we report the discovery of a fundamental relation between measurement and entanglement which is characteristic of this scenario. It takes the form of a scaling law between the amount of entanglement in the conditional state of the system and the probabilities of the experimental outcomes obtained from measuring the state of the environment. Using the scaling, we construct the distribution of entanglement over the ensemble of experimental outcomes for standard models with one open channel and provide rigorous results on finite-time disentanglement in systems coupled to non-Markovian baths. The scaling allows the direct experimental detection and quantification of entanglement in conditional states of a large class of open systems by quantum tomography of the bath.

id: 1201.5661
title: Liouville coherent states
authors: Matou? Ringel, Vladimir Gritsev
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, accepted to EPL
journal: EPL, 99 (2012) 20012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5661
abstract: For a certain class of open quantum systems there exists a dynamical symmetry which connects different time-evolved density matrices. We show how to use this symmetry for dynamics in the Liouville space with time-dependent parameters. This allows us to introduce a concept of generalized coherent states (e.g. density matrices) in the Liouville space. Dynamics of this class of density matrices is characterized by robustness with respect to any time-dependent perturbations of the couplings. We study their dynamical context while focusing on common physical situations corresponding to compact and non-compact symmetries.

id: 1201.5734
title: Measurement based Controlled Not gate for topological qubits in a Majorana fermion quantum-dot hybrid system
authors: Zheng-Yuan Xue
comments: v2: Accepted by EPJD, title modified
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D 67, 89 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5734
abstract: We propose a scheme to implement Controlled Not-gate for topological qubits in a quantum-dot-Majorana-fermion hybrid system. Quantum information is encoded on pairs of Majorana fermions, which live on the the interface between topologically trivial and nontrivial sections of a quantum nanowire deposited on an s-wave superconductor. A measurement-based two-qubit Controlled-Not gate is produced with the help of parity measurements assisted by the quantum-dot and followed by prescribed single-qubit gates. The parity measurement, on the quantum-dot and a topological qubit, is achieved by the Aharonov-Casher effect.

id: 1201.5761
title: Analysis of energy transfer in quantum networks using kinetic network approximations
authors: David K Moser
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5761
abstract: Coherent energy transfer in pigment-protein complexes has been studied by mapping the quantum network to a kinetic network. This gives an analytic way to find parameter values for optimal transfer efficiency. In the case of the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) complex, the comparison of quantum and kinetic network evolution shows that dephasing-assisted energy transfer is driven by the two-site coherent interaction, and not system-wide coherence. Using the Schur complement, we find a new kinetic network that gives a closer approximation to the quantum network by including all multi-site coherence contributions. Our new network approximation can be expanded as a series with contributions representing different numbers of coherently interacting sites. For both kinetic networks we study the system relaxation time, the time it takes for the excitation to spread throughout the complex. We make mathematically rigorous estimates of the relaxation time when comparing kinetic and quantum network. Numerical simulations comparing the coherent model and the two kinetic network models, confirm our bounds, and show that the relative error of the new kinetic network approximation is several orders of magnitude smaller. Keywords: exciton transfer, quantum efficiency, kinetic networks, FMO, coherent energy transfer, quantum networks, Schur complement.

id: 1201.5798
title: Proposed Experiment in Two-Qubit Linear Optical Photonic Gates for Maximal Success Rates
authors: A. Matthew Smith, D. B. Uskov, M. Fanto, L. H. Ying, L. Kaplan
comments: 9 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45, 185502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5798
abstract: Here we propose an experiment in Linear Optical Quantum Computing (LOQC) using the framework first developed by Knill, Laflamme, and Milburn. This experiment will test the ideas of the authors' previous work on imperfect LOQC gates using number-resolving photon detectors. We suggest a relatively simple physical apparatus capable of producing CZ gates with controllable fidelity less than 1 and success rates higher than the current theoretical maximum (S=2/27) for perfect fidelity. These experimental setups are within the reach of many experimental groups and would provide an interesting experiment in photonic quantum computing.

id: 1201.5836
title: Generalized monogamy of contextual inequalities from the no-disturbance principle
authors: Ravishankar Ramanathan, Akihito Soeda, Pawel Kurzynski, Dagomir Kaszlikowski
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 050404 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5836
abstract: In this paper we demonstrate that the property of monogamy of Bell violations seen for no-signaling correlations in composite systems can be generalized to the monogamy of contextuality in single systems obeying the Gleason property of no-disturbance. We show how one can construct monogamies for contextual inequalities by using the graph-theoretic technique of vertex decomposition of a graph representing a set of measurements into subgraphs of suitable independence numbers that themselves admit a joint probability distribution. After establishing that all the subgraphs that are chordal graphs admit a joint probability distribution, we formulate a precise graph-theoretic condition that gives rise to the monogamy of contextuality. We also show how such monogamies arise within quantum theory for a single four-dimensional system and interpret violation of these relations in terms of a violation of causality. These monogamies can be tested with current experimental techniques.

id: 1201.5848
title: Noncommuting local common causes for correlations violating the Clauser-Horne inequality
authors: G¨¢bor Hofer-Szab¨®, P¨¦ter Vecserny¨¦s
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5848
abstract: In the paper the EPR-Bohm scenario will be reproduced in an algebraic quantum field theoretical setting with locally finite degrees of freedom. It will be shown that for a set of spatially separated correlating events (projections) maximally violating the Clauser-Horne inequality there can be given a common causal explanation if commutativity is abandoned between the common cause and the correlating events. Moreover, the noncommuting common cause will be local and supported in the common past of the correlating events.

id: 1201.5849
title: First-principles investigation of hyperfine interactions for nuclear spin entanglement in photo-excited fullerenes
authors: Vasileia Filidou, Davide Ceresoli, John J. L. Morton, Feliciano Giustino
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5849
abstract: The study of hyperfine interactions in optically excited fullerenes has recently acquired importance within the context of nuclear spin entanglement for quantum information technology. We here report a first-principles pseudopotential study of the hyperfine coupling parameters of optically excited fullerene derivatives as well as small organic radicals. The calculations are performed within the gauge-invariant projector-augmented wave method [C. Pickard and F. Mauri, Phys. Rev. B. 63, 245101 (2001)]. In order to establish the accuracy of this methodology we compare our results with all-electron calculations and with experiment. In the case of fullerene derivatives we study the hyperfine coupling in the spin-triplet exciton state and compare our calculations with recent electron paramagnetic resonance measurements [M. Schaffry et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 200501 (2010)]. We discuss our results in light of a recent proposal for entangling remote nuclear spins in photo-excited chromophores.

id: 1201.5927
title: Entanglement spectra of q-deformed higher spin VBS states
authors: Raul A. Santos, Francis N. C. Paraan, Vladimir E. Korepin, Andreas Kl¨¹mper
comments: 14 pages, 8 EPS figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 175303
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Algebra (math.QA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5927
abstract: We calculate the reduced density matrix of a block of integer spin-S's in a q-deformed valence-bond-solid (VBS) state. This matrix is diagonalized exactly for an infinitely long block in an infinitely long chain. We construct an effective Hamiltonian with the same spectrum as the logarithm of the density matrix. We also derive analytic expressions for the von Neumann and R\'enyi entanglement entropies. For blocks of finite length, we calculate the eigenvalues of the reduced density matrix by perturbation theory and numerical diagonalization. These results enable us to describe the effects of finite-size corrections on the entanglement spectrum and entropy in this generalized VBS model.

id: 1201.5941
title: Usefulness classes of travelling entangled channels in noninertial frames
authors: Nasser Metwally
comments: 
journal: I. J. Mod. Phys B , vol 27 No 28 13501555 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5941
abstract: The dynamics of a general two qubits system in noninetrial frame is investigated analytically, where it is assumed that both of its subsystems are differently accelerated. Two classes of initial travelling states are considered:self transposed and a generic pure states. The entanglement contained in all possible generated entangled channels between the qubits and their Anti-qubits is quantified. The usefulness of the travelling channels as quantum channels to perform quantum teleportation is investigated. For the self transposed classes, we show that the generalized Werner state is the most robust class. We show that starting from a class of pure state, one can generate entangled channels more robust than self transposed classes.

id: 1201.5951
title: Experimental analysis of the quantum complementarity principle
authors: R. Auccaise, R. M. Serra, J. G. Filgueiras, R. S. Sarthour, I. S. Oliveira, L. C. C¨¦leri
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032121 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5951
abstract: One of the milestones of quantum mechanics is Bohr's complementarity principle. It states that a single quantum can exhibit a particle-like \emph{or} a wave-like behaviour, but never both at the same time. These are mutually exclusive and complementary aspects of the quantum system. This means that we need distinct experimental arrangements in order to measure the particle or the wave nature of a physical system. One of the most known representations of this principle is the single-photon Mach-Zehnder interferometer. When the interferometer is closed an interference pattern is observed (wave aspect of the quantum) while if it is open, the quantum behaves like a particle. Here, using a molecular quantum information processor and employing nuclear magnetic resonant (NMR) techniques, we analyze the quantum version of this principle by means of an interferometer that is in a quantum superposition of being closed and open, and confirm that we can indeed measure both aspects of the system with the same experimental apparatus. More specifically, we observe with a single apparatus the interference between the particle and the wave aspects of a quantum system.

id: 1201.5969
title: Tight lower bound on geometric discord of bipartite states
authors: Swapan Rana, Preeti Parashar
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 024102 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5969
abstract: We use singular value decomposition to derive a tight lower bound for geometric discord of arbitrary bipartite states. In a single shot this also leads to an upper bound of measurement-induced non locality which in turn yields that for Werner and isotropic states the two measures coincide. We also emphasize that our lower bound is saturated for all $2\otimes n$ states. Using this we show that both the generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger and $W$ states of $N$ qubits satisfy monogamy of geometric discord. Indeed, the same holds for all $N$-qubit pure states which are equivalent to $W$ states under stochastic local operations and classical communication. We show by giving an example that not all pure states of four or higher qubits satisfy monogamy.

id: 1201.5987
title: Markovianity criteria for quantum evolution
authors: Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski, Andrzej Kossakowski
comments: 17 pages
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 154002 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5987
abstract: We characterize a class of Markovian dynamics using the concept of divisible dynamical map. Moreover we provide a family of criteria which can distinguish Markovian and non-Markovian dynamics. These Markovianity criteria are based on a simple observation that Markovian dynamics implies monotonic behavior of several well known quantities like distinguishability of states, fidelity, relative entropy and genuine entanglement measures.

id: 1201.5995
title: A class of exposed indecomposable positive maps
authors: Gniewomir Sarbicki, Dariusz Chru?ci¨½ski
comments: 15 pages; slightly improved version
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 015306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5995
abstract: Exposed positive maps in matrix algebras define a dense subset of extremal maps. We provide a class of indecomposable positive maps in the algebra of 2n x 2n complex matrices with n>1. It is shown that these maps are exposed and hence define the strongest tool in entanglement theory to discriminate between separable and entangled states.

id: 1201.6008
title: On Axion's Effect on Propagation of Monochromatic Electromagnetic Wave Through Strong Magnetic Field
authors: Mikhail Khankhasayev, Carol Scarlett
comments: 5 pages with 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6008
abstract: A possibility of detecting the effect of photon-axion mixing in a cavity experiment is discussed. There are two photon-axion modes that acquire different indices of refraction and split in an inhomogeneous magnetic field. For a magnetic field inhomogeneous in the direction transverse to the light propagation an analytical solution is obtained both for the index of refraction and the beams' trajectories. In a cavity experiment, the beam splitting creates a bifurcation effect, which results in a decrease of the light intensity in the central region. Modulation of magnetic field can separate this effect from background by providing a narrow frequency range for any observed signal. When one integrates this effect over time and accounts for bandwidth, the overall drop in FWHM intensity is of order 10-2%. This is a very measurable effect.

id: 1201.6020
title: Quantum Feedback Networks and Control: A Brief Survey
authors: Guofeng Zhang, Matthew R. James
comments: 29 pages, 11 figures. A new reference has been added
journal: Chinese Science Bulletin, 57(18):2200-2214, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Optimization and Control (math.OC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6020
abstract: The purpose of this paper is to provide a brief review of some recent developments in quantum feedback networks and control. A quantum feedback network (QFN) is an interconnected system consisting of open quantum systems linked by free fields and/or direct physical couplings. Basic network constructs, including series connections as well as feedback loops, are discussed. The quantum feedback network theory provides a natural framework for analysis and design. Basic properties such as dissipation, stability, passivity and gain of open quantum systems are discussed. Control system design is also discussed, primarily in the context of open linear quantum stochastic systems. The issue of physical realizability is discussed, and explicit criteria for stability, positive real lemma, and bounded real lemma are presented. Finally for linear quantum systems, coherent $H^\infty$ and LQG control are described.

id: 1201.6024
title: Programmable Multimode Quantum Networks
authors: Seiji Armstrong, Jean-Francois Morizur, Jiri Janousek, Boris Hage, Nicolas Treps, Ping Koy Lam, Hans-A. Bachor
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures, 2 tables, comments welcome!
journal: Nature Communications 3:1026 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6024
abstract: Entanglement between large numbers of quantum modes is the quintessential resource for future technologies such as the quantum internet. Conventionally the generation of multimode entanglement in optics requires complex layouts of beam-splitters and phase shifters in order to transform the input modes in to entangled modes. These networks need substantial modification for every new set of entangled modes to be generated. Here we report on the highly versatile and efficient generation of various multimode entangled states with the ability to switch between different linear optics networks in real time. By defining our modes to be combinations of different spatial regions of one beam, we may use just one pair of multi-pixel detectors each with M photodiodes in order to measure N entangled modes, with a maximum number of N=M modes. We program virtual networks that are fully equivalent to the physical linear optics networks they are emulating. We present results for N=2 up to N=8 entangled modes here, including N=2,3,4 cluster states. Our approach introduces flexibility and scalability to multimode entanglement, two important attributes that are highly sought after in state of the art devices.

id: 1201.6039
title: Weak value amplification in a shot-noise limited interferometer
authors: Atsushi Nishizawa, Kouji Nakamura, Masa-Katsu Fujimoto
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6039
abstract: We study the weak-value amplification (WVA) in a phase measurement with an optical interferometer in which shot noise limits the sensitivity. We compute the signal and the shot noise including the full-order interaction terms of the WVA, and show that the shot-noise contribution to a phase shift in a pointer variable is always larger than the final variance of the pointer variable. This yields difference in estimating noise level up to a factor of 1.5. To clarify an advantage for practical uses of the WVA, we discuss signal-to-noise ratio and its optimization in the presence of the shot noise.

id: 1201.6077
title: Region of fidelities for a 1 -> N universal qubit quantum cloner
authors: Piotr ?wikli¨½ski, Micha? Horodecki, Micha? Studzi¨½ski
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures, final version to appear in Physics Letters A
journal: Physics Letters A 376, Issue 32, p. 2178-2187 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6077
abstract: We analyze a region of fidelities for qubit which is obtained after an application of a 1 -> N universal quantum cloner. We express the allowed region for fidelities in terms of overlaps of pure states with irreps of S(n) (n = N+1) showing that the pure states can be taken with real coefficients only. Subsequently, the case n = 4, corresponding to a 1 -> 3 cloner is studied in more detail as an illustrative example. To obtain the main result, we make a convex hull of possible ranges of fidelities related to a given irrep. The formalism allows to construct the state giving rise to a given N-tuple of fidelities.

id: 1201.6120
title: Quantum linear amplifier enhanced by photon subtraction and addition
authors: Ho-Joon Kim, Su-Yong Lee, Se-Wan Ji, Hyunchul Nha
comments: published version, 7 pages, 9 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 013839 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6120
abstract: A deterministic quantum amplifier inevitably adds noise to an amplified signal due to the uncertainty principle in quantum physics. We here investigate how a quantum-noise-limited amplifier can be improved by additionally employing the photon subtraction, the photon addition, and a coherent superposition of the two, thereby making a probabilistic, heralded, quantum amplifier. We show that these operations can enhance the performance in amplifying a coherent state in terms of intensity gain, fidelity, and phase uncertainty. In particular, the photon subtraction turns out to be optimal for the fidelity and the phase concentration among these elementary operations, while the photon addition also provides a significant reduction in the phase uncertainty with the largest gain effect.

id: 1201.6142
title: Schroedinger equations with indefinite effective mass
authors: Miloslav Znojil, G¨¦za L¨¦vai
comments: 17 pp., 3 figs
journal: Phys. Lett. A 376 (2012) 3000 - 3005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6142
abstract: The consistency of the concept of quantum (quasi)particles possessing effective mass which is both position- and excitation-dependent is analyzed via simplified models. It is shown that the system may be stable even when the effective mass m=m(x,E) itself acquires negative values in a limited range of coordinates x and energies E.

id: 1201.6171
title: Modelling of quantum information processing with Ehrenfest guided tra jectories: a case study
authors: Sai-Yun Ye, Dmitrii Shalashilin, Alessio Serafini
comments: 12 pages, figures aplenty
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6171
abstract: We apply a numerical method based on multi-configurational Ehrenfest tra jectories, and demonstrate converged results for the Choi fidelity of an entangling quantum gate between two two-level systems interacting through a set of bosonic modes. We consider both spin-boson and rotating wave Hamiltonians, for various numbers of mediating modes (from 1 to 100), and extend our treatment to include finite temperatures. Our results apply to two-level impurities interacting with the same band of a photonic crystal, or to two distant ions interacting with the same set of motional degrees of freedom.

id: 1201.6174
title: A Time-Efficient Output-Sensitive Quantum Algorithm for Boolean Matrix Multiplication
authors: Fran?ois Le Gall
comments: v2: slight modification of the title, addition of Theorem 2
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Data Structures and Algorithms (cs.DS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6174
abstract: This paper presents a quantum algorithm that computes the product of two $n\times n$ Boolean matrices in $\tilde O(n\sqrt{\ell}+\ell\sqrt{n})$ time, where $\ell$ is the number of non-zero entries in the product. This improves the previous output-sensitive quantum algorithms for Boolean matrix multiplication in the time complexity setting by Buhrman and \v{S}palek (SODA'06) and Le Gall (SODA'12). We also show that our approach cannot be further improved unless a breakthrough is made: we prove that any significant improvement would imply the existence of an algorithm based on quantum search that multiplies two $n\times n$ Boolean matrices in $O(n^{5/2-\varepsilon})$ time, for some constant $\varepsilon>0$.

id: 1201.6177
title: Effect of thermal noise on atom-field interaction: Glauber-Lachs versus Mixing
authors: S. Sivakumar
comments: 15 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6177
abstract: Coherent signal containing thermal noise is a mixed state of radiation. There are two distinct classes of such states, a Gaussian state obtained by Glauber-Lachs mixing and a non-Gaussian state obtained by the canonical probabilistic mixing of thermal state and coherent state. Though both these versions are noise-included signal states, the effect of noise is less pronounced in the Glauber-Lachs version. Effects of these two distinct ways of noise addition is considered in the context of atom-field interaction; in particular, temporal evolution of population inversion and atom-field entanglement are studied. Quantum features like the collapse-revivals in the dynamics of population inversion and entanglement are diminished by the presence of thermal noise. It is shown that the features lost due to the presence of thermal noise are restored by the process of photon-addition.

id: 1201.6212
title: Quantum fermions and quantum field theory from classical statistics
authors: C. Wetterich
comments: 15 pages, proceedings Emergent Quantum Mechanics, Heinz von Foerster conference, Vienna
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6212
abstract: An Ising-type classical statistical ensemble can describe the quantum physics of fermions if one chooses a particular law for the time evolution of the probability distribution. It accounts for the time evolution of a quantum field theory for Dirac particles in an external electromagnetic field. This yields in the non-relativistic one-particle limit the Schr\"odinger equation for a quantum particle in a potential. Interference or tunneling arise from classical probabilities.

id: 1201.6232
title: Quantum Isoperiodic Stable Structures and Directed Transport
authors: Gabriel G. Carlo
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6232
abstract: It has been recently found that the so called isoperiodic stable structures (ISSs) have a fundamental role in the classical current behavior of dissipative ratchets [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 106}, 234101 (2011)]. Here I analyze their quantum counterparts, the quantum ISSs (QISSs), which have a fundamental role in the quantum current behavior. QISSs have the simple attractor shape of those ISSs which settle down in short times. However, in the majority of the cases they are strongly different from the ISSs, looking approximately the same as the quantum chaotic attractors that are at their vicinity in parameter space. By adding thermal fluctuations of the size of $\hbar_{\rm eff}$ to the ISSs I am able to obtain very good approximations to the QISSs. I conjecture that in general, quantum chaotic attractors could be well approximated by means of just the classical information of a neighboring ISS plus thermal fluctuations. I expect to find this behavior in quantum dissipative systems in general.

id: 1201.6234
title: Experimental linear-optical implementation of a multifunctional optimal qubit cloner
authors: Karel Lemr, Karol Bartkiewicz, Antonin Cernoch, Jan Soubusta, Adam Miranowicz
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures, accepted to Phys. Rev. A (Rapid Communications)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 050307(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6234
abstract: We present the first experimental implementation of a multifunctional device for the optimal cloning of one to two qubits. Previous implementations have always been designed to optimize the cloning procedure with respect to one single type of a priori information about the cloned state. In contrast, our "all-in-one" implementation is optimal for several prominent regimes such as universal cloning, phase-covariant cloning, and also the first ever realized mirror phase-covariant cloning, when the square of the expected value of Pauli's Z operator is known in advance. In all these regimes the experimental device yields clones with almost maximum achievable average fidelity (97.5% of theoretical limit). Our device has a wide range of possible applications in quantum information processing, especially in quantum communication. For instance, one can use it for incoherent and coherent attacks against a variety of cryptographic protocols, including the Bennett-Brassard 1984 protocol of quantum key distribution through the Pauli damping channels. It can be also applied as a state-dependent photon multiplier in practical quantum networks.

id: 1201.6266
title: Modus Ponens in Physics
authors: Kate Clements, Fay Dowker, Petros Wallden
comments: 13 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Logic (math.LO); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6266
abstract: It is proved that the classical rules of inference about physical events are equivalent to three axioms: (i) something happens, (ii) modus ponens and (iii) if an event doesn't happen then its complement does. The multiplicative scheme for Generalised Measure Theory retains the first two axioms and replaces the third with a principle of maximal detail.

id: 1201.6286
title: Wave Function Renormalization Effects in Resonantly Enhanced Tunneling
authors: N. L?rch, F. V. Pepe, H. Lignier, D. Ciampini, R. Mannella, O. Morsch, E. Arimondo, P. Facchi, G. Florio, S. Pascazio, S. Wimberger
comments: 12 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053602 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6286
abstract: We study the time evolution of ultra-cold atoms in an accelerated optical lattice. For a Bose- Einstein condensate with a narrow quasi-momentum distribution in a shallow optical lattice the decay of the survival probability in the ground band has a step-like structure. In this regime we establish a connection between the wave function renormalization parameter Z introduced in [Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 2699 (2001)] to characterize non-exponential decay and the phenomenon of resonantly enhanced tunneling, where the decay rate is peaked for particular values of the lattice depth and the accelerating force.

id: 1201.6292
title: Method for measuring the entanglement of formation for arbitrary-dimensional pure states
authors: Ming Li, Shao-Ming Fei
comments: 4 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85 (2012) 014304
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6292
abstract: Entanglement of formation is an important measure of quantum entanglement. We present an experimental way to measure the entanglement of formation for arbitrary dimensional pure states. The measurement only evolves local quantum mechanical observables.

id: 1201.6319
title: Classical simulation of measurement-based quantum computation on higher-genus surface-code states
authors: Leonard Goff, Robert Raussendorf
comments: 21 pages, 13 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6319
abstract: We consider the efficiency of classically simulating measurement-based quantum computation on surface-code states. We devise a method for calculating the elements of the probability distribution for the classical output of the quantum computation. The operational cost of this method is polynomial in the size of the surface-code state, but in the worst case scales as $2^{2g}$ in the genus $g$ of the surface embedding the code. However, there are states in the code space for which the simulation becomes efficient. In general, the simulation cost is exponential in the entanglement contained in a certain effective state, capturing the encoded state, the encoding and the local post-measurement states. The same efficiencies hold, with additional assumptions on the temporal order of measurements and on the tessellations of the code surfaces, for the harder task of sampling from the distribution of the computational output.

id: 1201.6324
title: Matrix Product States, Random Matrix Theory and the Principle of Maximum Entropy
authors: Benoit Collins, Carlos E. Gonzalez-Guillen, David Perez-Garcia
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 320, (2013) 663--677
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6324
abstract: Using random matrix techniques and the theory of Matrix Product States we show that reduced density matrices of quantum spin chains have generically maximum entropy.

id: 1201.6370
title: Fidelity of a Rydberg blockade quantum gate from simulated quantum process tomography
authors: X. L. Zhang, A. T. Gill, L. Isenhower, T. G. Walker, M. Saffman
comments: revised, small corrections to Table III
journal: Physical Review A 85, 042310 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6370
abstract: We present a detailed error analysis of a Rydberg blockade mediated controlled-NOT quantum gate between two neutral atoms as demonstrated recently in Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 010503 (2010) and Phys. Rev. A 82, 030306 (2010). Numerical solutions of a master equation for the gate dynamics, including all known sources of technical error, are shown to be in good agreement with experiments. The primary sources of gate error are identified and suggestions given for future improvements. We also present numerical simulations of quantum process tomography to find the intrinsic fidelity, neglecting technical errors, of a Rydberg blockade controlled phase gate. The gate fidelity is characterized using trace overlap and trace distance measures. We show that the trace distance is linearly sensitive to errors arising from the finite Rydberg blockade shift and introduce a modified pulse sequence which corrects the linear errors. Our analysis shows that the intrinsic gate error extracted from simulated quantum process tomography can be under 0.002 for specific states of $^{87}$Rb or Cs atoms. The relation between the process fidelity and the gate error probability used in calculations of fault tolerance thresholds is discussed.

id: 1201.6413
title: Limit Theorems for Decoherent Two Dimensional Quantum Walks
authors: Clement Ampadu
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0207137 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6413
abstract: In this paper we consider the model with decoherence operators introduced by [Brun,T.A, et.al, Phys.Rev.A 67 (2003) 032304] which has recently been considered in the two-dimensional setting by [Ampadu,C., Brun-Type Formalism for Decoherence in Two Dimensional Quantum Walks, Communication in Theoretical Physics To Appear, arXiv:1104.2061 (2011)] to obtain the limit of the decoherent quantum walk.

id: 1201.6430
title: Dynamics of entropic measurement-induced nonlocality in structured reservoirs
authors: Ming-Liang Hu, Heng Fan
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures
journal: Annals of Physics, 2012, 327(9): 2343-2353
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6430
abstract: We propose the entropic measurement-induced nonlocality (MIN) as the maximal increment of von Neumann entropy induced by the locally non-disturbing measurement, and study behaviors of it both in the independent and common structured reservoirs. We present schemes for preserving the MIN, and show that for certain initial states the MIN, including the quantum correlations, can even be enhanced by the common reservoir. Additionally, we also show that the different measures of MIN may give different qualitative characterizations of nonlocal properties, i.e., it is rather measure dependent than state dependent.

id: 1201.6514
title: Equilibration and macroscopic quantum fluctuations in the Dicke model
authors: Alexander Altland, Fritz Haake
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys 14, 73011 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6514
abstract: We discuss the unitary quantum dynamics of the Dicke model (spin and oscillator coupled). A suitable quasiprobabilty representing the quantum state turns out to obey a Fokker-Planck equation, with drift terms representing the underlying classical Hamiltonian flow and diffusion terms describing quantum fluctuations. We show (by projecting the dynamics onto a co-moving Poincar\'e section) how the interplay of deterministic drift and quantum diffusion generates equilibration to the microcanonical density, under conditions of global classical chaos. The pertinent photon statistics reveals macroscopic quantum fluctuations.

id: 1201.6537
title: Quantum interference and manipulation of entanglement in silicon wire waveguide quantum circuits
authors: Damien Bonneau, Erman Engin, Kazuya Ohira, Nob Suzuki, Haruhiko Yoshida, Norio Iizuka, Mizunori Ezaki, Chandra M. Natarajan, Michael G. Tanner, Robert H. Hadfield, Sanders N. Dorenbos, Val Zwiller, Jeremy L. O'Brien, Mark G. Thompson
comments: 7 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 045003
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6537
abstract: Integrated quantum photonic waveguide circuits are a promising approach to realizing future photonic quantum technologies. Here, we present an integrated photonic quantum technology platform utilising the silicon-on-insulator material system, where quantum interference and the manipulation of quantum states of light are demonstrated in components orders of magnitude smaller than in previous implementations. Two-photon quantum interference is presented in a multi-mode interference coupler, and manipulation of entanglement is demonstrated in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer, opening the way to an all-silicon photonic quantum technology platform.

id: 1201.6554
title: Distinct Quantum States Can Be Compatible with a Single State of Reality
authors: Peter G. Lewis, David Jennings, Jonathan Barrett, Terry Rudolph
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 150404 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6554
abstract: Perhaps the quantum state represents information about reality, and not reality directly. Wave function collapse is then possibly no more mysterious than a Bayesian update of a probability distribution given new data. We consider models for quantum systems with measurement outcomes determined by an underlying physical state of the system but where several quantum states are consistent with a single underlying state---i.e., probability distributions for distinct quantum states overlap. Significantly, we demonstrate by example that additional assumptions are always necessary to rule out such a model.

id: 1201.6558
title: Time-Local Quantum-State-Diffusion Equation for Multilevel Quantum Dynamics
authors: Jun Jing, Xinyu Zhao, J. Q. You, Ting Yu
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: Physical Review A 85, 042106 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6558
abstract: An open quantum system with multiple levels coupled to a bosonic environment at zero temperature is investigated systematically using the non-Markovian quantum-state-diffusion (QSD) method [W. T. Strunz, L. Di\'osi, and N. Gisin, Phys. Rev. Lett. 82, 1801 (1999)]. We have established exact time-local QSD equations for a set of interesting multilevel open systems, including high-spin systems, multiple-transition atomic models, and multilevel atomic models driven by time-dependent external fields. These exact QSD equations have paved the way to evaluate the dynamics of open multilevel atomic systems in the general non-Markovian regimes without any approximation.

id: 1201.6572
title: Interference-assisted squeezing in fluorescence radiation
authors: R. Arun
comments: 8 pages, 6 figures, minor changes in text, results unchanged, published version
journal: Physics Letters A, 377 (2013) 200-205
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6572
abstract: The squeezing spectrum of the resonance fluorescence is studied for a coherently driven four-level atom in the Y-type configuration. It is found that the squeezing properties of the fluorescence radiation are modified significantly when quantum interference of the spontaneous decays channels is included. We show a considerable enhancement of steady-state squeezing in spectral components for strong and off-resonant driving fields. The squeezing may be increased in both the inner and outer sidebands of the spectrum depending upon the choice of parameters. We also show that the interference can degrade the spectral squeezing by increasing the decay rates of atomic transitions. An analytical description using dressed states is provided to explain the numerical results.

id: 1201.6577
title: Generation of Multipartite Continuous-variable Entanglements via Atomic Spin Wave
authors: Xihua Yang, Yuanyuan Zhou, Min Xiao
comments: 14pages, 3figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6577
abstract: We present a proof-of-principle way to generate nondegenerate multipartite continuous-variable entanglements via atomic spin wave induced by the strong coupling and probe fields in the Lambda-type electromagnetically induced transparency configuration in an atomic ensemble. Quantum correlated/anti-correlated and entangled Stokes and anti-Stokes fields, simultaneously produced through scattering the applied laser fields off the atomic spin wave, can be achieved. This method can, in principle, be extended to flexibly and conveniently create multicolor multipartite entangled narrow-band fields to any desired order with long correlation time, which may find promising applications in quantum information processing and quantum networks.

id: 1201.6597
title: Ultrafast Spin-Motion Entanglement and Interferometry with a Single Atom
authors: J. Mizrahi, C. Senko, B. Neyenhuis, K. G. Johnson, W. C. Campbell, C. W. S. Conover, C. Monroe
comments: 4 pages, 5 pdf figures; experiment completely redone, all data changed (new data is dramatically better). Text changed to explain new experiment. Paper has been largely rewritten
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 203001 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6597
abstract: We report entanglement of a single atom's hyperfine spin state with its motional state in a timescale of less than 3 ns. We engineer a short train of intense laser pulses to impart a spin-dependent momentum transfer of +/- 2 hbar k. Using pairs of momentum kicks, we create an atomic interferometer and demonstrate collapse and revival of spin coherence as the motional wavepacket is split and recombined. The revival after a pair of kicks occurs only when the second kick is delayed by an integer multiple of the harmonic trap period, a signature of entanglement and disentanglement of the spin with the motion. Such quantum control opens a new regime of ultrafast entanglement in atomic qubits.

id: 1201.6607
title: Wavefunctios of log-periodic oscillators
authors: V. Bessa, I. Guedes
comments: 15 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 52, 062106 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6607
abstract: We use the Lewis and Riesenfeld invariant method [\textit{J. Math. Phys.} \textbf{10}, 1458 (1969)] and a unitary transformation to obtain the exact Schr\"{o}dinger wave functions for time-dependent harmonic oscillators exhibiting log-periodic-type behavior. For each oscillator we calculate the quantum fluctuations in the coordinate and momentum as well as the quantum correlations between the coordinate and momentum. We observe that the oscillator with $m=m_0t/t_0$ and $\omega= \omega_0t_0/t$, which exhibits an exact log-periodic oscillation, behaves as the harmonic oscillator with $m$ and $\omega$ constant.

id: 1201.6624
title: Remote State Preparation of Mental Information
authors: Patrizio E. Tressoldi, Andrei Khrennikov
comments: 10 pages, 2 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial unattributed text overlap with arXiv:0909.5461 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6624
abstract: The aim of this paper is to define in theoretical terms and summarise the available experimental evidence that physical and mental "objects", if considered "information units", may present similar classical and quantum models of communication beyond their specific characteristics. Starting with the Remote State Preparation protocol, a variant of the Teleportation protocol, for which formal models and experimental evidence are already available in quantum mechanics, we outline a formal model applied to mental information we defined Remote State Preparation of Mental Information (RSPMI), and we summarise the experimental evidence supporting the feasibility of a RSPMI protocol. The available experimental evidence offers strong support to the possibility of real communication at distance of mental information promoting the integration between disciplines that have as their object of knowledge different aspects of reality, both physical and the mental, leading to a significant paradigm shift in cognitive and information science.

id: 1201.6625
title: Ideal state discrimination with an O(1)-qubit quantum computer
authors: Robin Blume-Kohout, Sarah Croke, Michael Zwolak
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, O(1) qubits
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6625
abstract: We show how to optimally discriminate between K distinct quantum states, of which N copies are available, using one-at-a-time interactions with each of the N copies. While this task (famously) requires joint measurements on all N copies, we show that it can be solved with one-at-a-time "coherent measurements" performed by an apparatus with log(K) qubits of quantum memory. We apply the same technique to optimal discrimination between K distinct N-particle matrix product states of bond dimension D, using a coherent measurement apparatus with log(K) + log(D) qubits of memory.

id: 1201.6628
title: How can we check the uncertainty relation?
authors: Vladimir Chernega
comments: 6 pages, 0 fugures, contribution to CEWQO in Madrid 2011, to appear in topical issue of Physica Scripta 2012
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6628
abstract: The state-extended uncertainty relations generalizing the Robertson Schrodinger inequality are presented in the form appropriate for the experimental check by homodyne photon state detection. The method of qubit portrait of qudit states identified with the tomographic probability distributions is discussed to analyze the entanglement of two-mode field.

id: 1201.6648
title: Casimir interaction between inclined metallic cylinders
authors: P. Rodriguez-Lopez, T. Emig
comments: 9 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032510 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6648
abstract: The Casimir interaction between one-dimensional metallic objects (cylinders, wires) displays unconventional features. Here we study the orientation dependence of this interaction by computing the Casimir energy between two inclined cylinders over a wide range of separations. We consider Dirichlet, Neumann and perfect metal boundary conditions, both at zero temperature and in the classical high temperature limit. For all types of boundary conditions, we find that at large distances the interaction decays slowly with distance, similarly to the case of parallel cylinders, and at small distances scales as the interaction of two spheres (but with different numerical coefficients). Our numerical results at intermediate distances agree with our analytic predictions at small and large separations. Experimental implications are discussed.

id: 1201.0135
title: Casimir-Polder potential for a metallic cylinder in cosmic string spacetime
authors: A. A. Saharian, A. S. Kotanjyan
comments: 12 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Lett. B 713 (2012) 133
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0135
abstract: Casimir-Polder potential is investigated for a polarizable microparticle in the geometry of a straight cosmic string with a metallic cylindrical shell. The electromagnetic field Green tensor is evaluated on the imaginary frequency axis. The expressions for the Casimir-Polder potential is derived in the general case of anisotropic polarizability for the both interior and exterior regions of the shell. The potential is decomposed into pure string and shell-induced parts. The latter dominates for points near the shell, whereas the pure string part is dominant near the string and at large distances from the shell. For the isotropic case and in the region inside the shell the both pure string and shell-induced parts in the Casimir-Polder force are repulsive with respect to the string. In the exterior region the shell-induced part of the force is directed toward the cylinder whereas the pure string part remains repulsive with respect to the string. At large distances from the shell the total force is repulsive.

id: 1201.0156
title: The nature of the low energy band of the Fenna-Matthews-Olson complex: vibronic signatures
authors: Felipe Caycedo-Soler, Alex W. Chin, Javier Almeida, Susana F. Huelga, Martin B. Plenio
comments: 14 pages, 6 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 136, 155102 (2012)
subjects: Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Soft Condensed Matter (cond-mat.soft); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0156
abstract: Based entirely upon actual experimental observations on electron-phonon coupling, we develop a theoretical framework to show that the lowest energy band of the Fenna- Matthews-Olson (FMO) complex exhibits observable features due to the quantum nature of the vibrational manifolds present in its chromophores. The study of linear spectra provides us with the basis to understand the dynamical features arising from the vibronic structure in non-linear spectra in a progressive fashion, starting from a microscopic model to finally performing an inhomogenous average. We show that the discreteness of the vibronic structure can be witnessed by probing the diagonal peaks of the non-linear spectra by means of a relative phase shift in the waiting time resolved signal. Moreover, we demonstrate the photon-echo and non-rephasing paths are sensitive to different harmonics in the vibrational manifold when static disorder is taken into account. Supported by analytical and numerical calculations, we show that nondiagonal resonances in the 2D spectra in the waiting time, further capture the discreteness of vibrations through a modulation of the amplitude without any effect in the signal intrinsic frequency. This fact generates a signal that is highly sensitive to correlations in the static disorder of the excitonic energy albeit protected against dephasing due to inhomogeneities of the vibrational ensemble.

id: 1201.0186
title: Onset of chaos and relaxation in isolated systems of interacting spins-1/2: energy shell approach
authors: L. F. Santos, F. Borgonovi, F. M. Izrailev
comments: 14 pages, 14 figures, version as published
journal: Phys. Rev. E 85, 036209 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0186
abstract: We study the onset of chaos and statistical relaxation in two isolated dynamical quantum systems of interacting spins-1/2, one of which is integrable and the other chaotic. Our approach to identifying the emergence of chaos is based on the level of delocalization of the eigenstates with respect to the energy shell, the latter being determined by the interaction strength between particles or quasi-particles. We also discuss how the onset of chaos may be anticipated by a careful analysis of the Hamiltonian matrices, even before diagonalization. We find that despite differences between the two models, their relaxation process following a quench is very similar and can be described analytically with a theory previously developed for systems with two-body random interactions. Our results imply that global features of statistical relaxation depend on the degree of spread of the eigenstates within the energy shell and may happen to both integrable and non-integrable systems.

id: 1201.0250
title: Quantum Dynamical Semigroups involving Separable and Entangled States
authors: Ajit Iqbal Singh
comments: A new section utilising power symmetric matrices and generalizations has been added and others re-arranged. The reference list has been updated accordingly
journal: 
subjects: Dynamical Systems (math.DS); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0250
abstract: Power symmetric matrices defned and studied by R. Sinkhorn (1981) and their generalization by R.B. Bapat, S.K. Jain and K. Manjunatha Prasad (1999) have been utilized to give positive block matrices with trace one possessing positive partial transpose, the so-called PPT states. Another method to construct such PPT states is given, it uses the form of a matrix unitarily equivalent to its transpose obtained by S.R. Garcia and J.E. Tener (2012). Evolvement or suppression of separability or entanglement of various levels for a quantum dynamical semigroup of completely positive maps has been studied using Choi-Jamiolkowsky matrix of such maps and the famous Horodecki's criteria (1996). A Trichotomy Theorem has been proved, and examples have been given that depend mainly on generalized Choi maps and clearly distinguish the levels of entanglement breaking.

id: 1201.0284
title: Generation of a two-photon state from a quantum dot in a microcavity under incoherent and coherent continuous excitation
authors: Elena del Valle, Alejandro Gonzalez-Tudela, Fabrice P. Laussy
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, conference proceedings
journal: Proceedings of SPIE 8255, 825505 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0284
abstract: We analyze the impact of both an incoherent and a coherent continuous excitation on our proposal to generate a two-photon state from a quantum dot in a microcavity [New J. Phys. 13, 113014 (2011)]. A comparison between exact numerical results and analytical formulas provides the conditions to efficiently generate indistinguishable and simultaneous pairs of photons under both types of excitation.

id: 1201.0285
title: Ferromagnetic Ordering in Carbon Nanotubes, Incorporated in Diamond Single Crystals
authors: Dmitri Yerchuck, Vyacheslav Stelmakh, Alla Dovlatova, Yauhen Yerchak, Andrey Alexandrov
comments: 29 pages, 15 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1112.3339; and with arXiv:0806.2800, arXiv:1004.2949, arXiv:cond-mat/0407604, arXiv:1009.2062, arXiv:1006.4841, arXiv:cond-mat/0404547 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0285
abstract: The physical origin of the mechanism of the formation of ferromagnetic ordering in carbon nanotubes (NTs), produced by high energy ion beam modification of diamond single crystals in $\langle{110}\rangle$ and $\langle{111}\rangle$ directions has been found. It is concluded from analysis of experimental results on ferromagnetic spin wave resonance observed, that the only $\pi$-electronic subsystem of given NTs is responsible for the appearance of ferromagnetism. It is determined by asymmetry in spin density distribution in Su-Schrieffer-Heeger (SSH) topological soliton lattice. The formation of SSH topological soliton lattice is considered in the frames of generalized SSH-model of organic conductors, in which $\pi$-electronic subsystem is represented being to be 1D quantum Fermi liquid. The phenomenon of formation of uncompensated antiferromagnetic ordering coexisting with superconductivity at room temperature in carbon nanotubes, produced by high energy ion beam modification of diamond single crystals in $\langle{100}\rangle$ direction is argued.

id: 1201.0319
title: Theory of dissipative chaotic atomic transport in an optical lattice
authors: V. Yu. Argonov, S. V. Prants
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 78, 043413 (2008)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0319
abstract: We study dissipative transport of spontaneously emitting atoms in a 1D standing-wave laser field in the regimes where the underlying deterministic Hamiltonian dynamics is regular and chaotic. A Monte Carlo stochastic wavefunction method is applied to simulate semiclassically the atomic dynamics with coupled internal and translational degrees of freedom. It is shown in numerical experiments and confirmed analytically that chaotic atomic transport can take the form either of ballistic motion or a random walking with specific statistical properties. The character of spatial and momentum diffusion in the ballistic atomic transport is shown to change abruptly in the atom-laser detuning regime where the Hamiltonian dynamics is irregular in the sense of dynamical chaos. We find a clear correlation between the behavior of the momentum diffusion coefficient and Hamiltonian chaos probability which is a manifestation of chaoticity of the fundamental atom-light interaction in the diffusive-like dissipative atomic transport. We propose to measure a linear extent of atomic clouds in a 1D optical lattice and predict that, beginning with those values of the mean cloud's momentum for which the probability of Hamiltonian chaos is close to 1, the linear extent of the corresponding clouds should increase sharply. A sensitive dependence of statistical characteristics of dissipative transport on the values of the detuning allows to manipulate the atomic transport by changing the laser frequency.

id: 1201.0322
title: High Energy Scattering in the Quasi-Potential Approach
authors: Nguyen Suan Han, Le Hai Yen, Nguyen Nhu Xuan
comments: 18 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:0804.3432
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics A, Vol. 27, No. 1 (2012) 1250004
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0322
abstract: Asymptotic behavior of the scattering amplitude for two scalar particles by scalar, vector and tensor exchanges at high energy and fixed momentum transfers is reconsidered in quantum field theory. In the framework of the quasi-potential approach and the modified perturbation theory a systematic scheme of finding the leading eikonal scattering amplitudes and its corrections are developed and constructed.The connection between the solutions obtained by quasi-potential and functional approaches is also discussed.The first correction to leading eikonal amplitude is found. Keywords: Eikonal scattering theory, Quantum gravity.

id: 1201.0323
title: Geometric optics with atomic beams scattered by a detuned standing laser wave
authors: S. V. Prants, V. O. Vitkovsky, L. E. Konkov
comments: 
journal: Journal of Russian Laser Research, V. 32, No. 6 (2011) p. 556-563
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0323
abstract: We report on theoretical and numerical study of propagation of atomic beams crossing a detuned standing-wave laser beam in the geometric optics limit. The interplay between external and internal atomic degrees of freedom is used to manipulate the atomic motion along the optical axis by light. By adjusting the atom-laser detuning, we demonstrate how to focus, split and scatter atomic beams in a real experiment. The novel effect of chaotic scattering of atoms at a regular near-resonant standing wave is found numerically and explained qualitatively. Some applications of the effects found are discussed.

id: 1201.0416
title: Open Bisimulation for Quantum Processes
authors: Yuxin Deng, Yuan Feng
comments: 25 pages. Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0416
abstract: Quantum processes describe concurrent communicating systems that may involve quantum information. We propose a notion of open bisimulation for quantum processes and show that it provides both a sound and complete proof methodology for a natural extensional behavioural equivalence between quantum processes. We also give a modal characterisation of open bisimulation, by extending the Hennessy-Milner logic to a quantum setting.

id: 1201.0475
title: On the preservation of unitarity during black hole evolution and information extraction from its interior
authors: Nikolaos D. Pappas
comments: 8 pages, no figures
journal: Mod. Phys. Lett. A, v27, iss19, pp12501,2012
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0475
abstract: For more than 30 years the discovery that black holes radiate like black bodies of specific temperature has triggered a multitude of puzzling questions concerning their nature and the fate of information that goes down the black hole during its lifetime. The most tricky issue in what is known as information loss paradox is the apparent violation of unitarity during the formation/evaporation process of black holes. A new idea is proposed based on the combination of our knowledge on Hawking radiation as well as the Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen phenomenon, that could resolve the paradox and spare physicists from the unpalatable idea that unitarity can ultimately be violated even under special conditions.

id: 1201.0486
title: Colouring the Sphere
authors: C. D. Godsil, J. Zaks
comments: This is a lightly corrected version of a 1988 research report. This report has actually been cited more than once because of a connection to the Kochen-Specker theorem in physics and, after due deliberation, we have decided that it would be useful to post it on the arXiv
journal: 
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0486
abstract: Let $G$ be the graph with the points of the unit sphere in $\mathbb{R}^3$ as its vertices, by defining two unit vectors to be adjacent if they are orthogonal as vectors. We present a proof, based on work of Hales and Straus chromatic number of this graph is four. We also prove that the subgraph of G induced by the unit vectors with rational coordinates is 3-colourable.

id: 1201.0521
title: Photo control of transport properties in disorderd wire; average conductance, conductance statistics, and time-reversal symmetry
authors: Takuya Kitagawa, Takashi Oka, Eugene Demler
comments: 12 figures
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0521
abstract: In this paper, we study the full conductance statistics of disordered one dimensional wire under the application of light. We develop the transfer matrix method for periodically driven systems to analyze the conductance of large system with small frequency of light, where coherent photon absorptions play important role to determine not only the average but also the shape of conductance distributions. The average conductance under the application of light results from the competition between dynamic localization and effective dimension increase, and shows non-monotonic behavior as a function of driving amplitude. On the other hand, the shape of conductance distribution displays crossover phenomena in the intermediate disorder strength; the application of light dramatically changes the distribution from log-normal to normal distributions. Furthermore, we propose that conductance of disordered systems can be controlled by engineering the shape, frequency and amplitude of light. Change of the shape of driving field controls the time-reversals symmetry and the disordered system shows analogous behavior as negative magneto-resistance known in static weak localization. A small change of frequency and amplitude of light leads to a large change of conductance, displaying giant-opto response. Our work advances the perspective to control the mean as well as the full conductance statistics by coherently driving disordered systems.

id: 1201.0578
title: Partial thermalization in the quantum chain of harmonic oscillators
authors: S. B. Rutkevich
comments: 27 pages, 3 figure, v2: one section and two figures added, section 2 extended
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0578
abstract: This preprint contains the English translation of the paper "Relaxation dynamics of a quantum chain of harmonic oscillators", which was published by the author in 1980 in the Ukrainian Physical Journal. Comments describing its motivations, background ideas and results are presented as well. This paper addressed to the problem of approach to the thermal equilibrium in an isolated macroscopic quantum system, which was studied on the example of the quantum chain of weakly interacting harmonic oscillators. In the initial state, macroscopic energy was supplied to one oscillator (atom) in the chain. Subsequent evolution of the quantum state of the whole chain was determined due to the model integrability. The main subject of interest was the time evolution of the reduced density operators characterizing the quantum state of a particular atom. On the short time-scale, the energy perturbation expands along the chain with the velocity of the fastest phonon mode. On the long-time scale, the single-atom density operators display strong fluctuations around the canonical Gibbs distribution. These fluctuations are caused by the degeneracy of the energy level differences (presence of resonances) in the model of coupled harmonic oscillators. After lifting this degeneracy, fluctuations are suppressed providing, that the reduced density operator of each atom in the chain becomes very close to the Gibbs distribution at almost any time moment.

id: 1201.0582
title: Relativistic ab initio calculations of the P-odd interaction constant W_A in diatomic molecules
authors: A. Borschevsky, M. Ilias, V. A. Dzuba, K. Beloy, V. V. Flambaum, P. Schwerdtfeger
comments: 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0582
abstract: We present ab initio calculations of the $W_A$ parameter of the P-odd spin-rotational Hamiltonian for a variety of diatomic molecules, including the group--2 and --12 halides. The results were obtained by relativistic Dirac--Hartree--Fock and density functional theory approaches, and corrected for core polarization effects. Strong enhancement of $W_A$ is found for the group--12 diatomic halides, which should be helpful in future determination of the nuclear anapole moment.

id: 1201.0592
title: Hydrodynamic model for electron-hole plasma in graphene
authors: D. Svintsov, V. Vyurkov, S. Yurchenko, T. Otsuji, V. Ryzhii
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0592
abstract: We propose a hydrodynamic model describing steady-state and dynamic electron and hole transport properties of graphene structures which accounts for the features of the electron and hole spectra. It is intended for electron-hole plasma in graphene characterized by high rate of intercarrier scattering compared to external scattering (on phonons and impurities), i.e., for intrinsic or optically pumped (bipolar plasma), and gated graphene (virtually monopolar plasma). We demonstrate that the effect of strong interaction of electrons and holes on their transport can be treated as a viscous friction between the electron and hole components. We apply the developed model for the calculations of the graphene dc conductivity, in particular, the effect of mutual drag of electrons and holes is described. The spectra and damping of collective excitations in graphene in the bipolar and monopolar limits are found. It is shown that at high gate voltages and, hence, at high electron and low hole densities (or vice-versa), the excitations are associated with the self-consistent electric field and the hydrodynamic pressure (plasma waves). In intrinsic and optically pumped graphene, the waves constitute quasineutral perturbations of the electron and hole densities (electron-hole sound waves) with the velocity being dependent only on the fundamental graphene constants.

id: 1201.0674
title: Efficient photon detection from color centers in a diamond optical waveguide
authors: D. Le Sage, L. M. Pham, N. Bar-Gill, C. Belthangady, M. D. Lukin, A. Yacoby, R. L. Walsworth
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0674
abstract: A common limitation of experiments using color centers in diamond is the poor photon collection efficiency of microscope objectives due to refraction at the diamond interface. We present a simple and effective technique to detect a large fraction of photons emitted by color centers within a planar diamond sample by detecting light that is guided to the edges of the diamond via total internal reflection. We describe a prototype device using this "side-collection" technique, which provides a photon collection efficiency of approximately 47% and a photon detection efficiency of approximately 39%. We apply the enhanced signal-to-noise ratio gained from side-collection to AC magnetometry using ensembles of nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color centers, and demonstrate an AC magnetic field sensitivity of 100 pT/\sqrt{Hz}, limited by added noise in the prototype side-collection device. Technical optimization should allow significant further improvements in photon collection and detection efficiency as well as sub-picotesla NV-diamond magnetic field sensitivity using the side-collection technique.

id: 1201.0681
title: Quantum fluids in the Kaehler parametrization
authors: L. Holender, M. A. Santos, I. V. Vancea
comments: 12 pages. Minor typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0681
abstract: In this paper we address the problem of the quantization of the perfect relativistic fluids formulated in terms of the K\"{a}hler parametrization. This fluid model describes a large set of interesting systems such as the power law energy density fluids, Chaplygin gas, etc. In order to maintain the generality of the model, we apply the BRST method in the reduced phase space in which the fluid degrees of freedom are just the fluid potentials and the fluid current is classically resolved in terms of them. We determine the physical states in this setting, the time evolution and the path integral formulation.

id: 1201.0688
title: Role of the superposition principle for enhancing the efficiency of the quantum-mechanical Carnot engine
authors: Sumiyoshi Abe, Shinji Okuyama
comments: 18 pages, 2 figures
journal: Physical Review E 85, 011104 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0688
abstract: A role of the superposition principle is discussed for the quantum-mechanical Carnot engine introduced by Bender, Brody, and Meister [J. Phys. A 33, 4427 (2000)]. It is shown that the efficiency of the engine can be enhanced by superposition of quantum states. A finite-time process is also discussed, and the condition of the maximum power output is presented. Interestingly, the efficiency at the maximum power is lower than that without superposition.

id: 1201.0779
title: Collective excitations in graphene in magnetic field
authors: Pavel A. Andreev
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Plasma Physics (physics.plasm-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0779
abstract: Collective excitations in graphene monolayer are studied. Equations describing collective properties of electrons in graphene are obtained. The basic ideas of the method of many-particle quantum hydrodynamics are used for the derivation. As starting point of the derivation we use the Dirac equation for massless electrons which is usually used for description of electrons in graphene [D. E. Sheehy and J. Schmalian, Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 226803 (2007)], where the Coulomb interaction is taken into account. We study dispersion properties of collective excitations by means derived here graphene quantum hydrodynamics equations (GQHD). We consider graphene in the external magnetic field which directed at an angle to the graphene sample. We do it in a linear approximation of the GQHD equations. We observe that the magnetic field directed perpendicular to the graphene plane had no influence on dispersion of the collective excitations. For the magnetic field directed at an angle to the graphene we obtain dependence of wave dispersion on system parameters: strength of magnetic field, wave vector, direction of wave propagation relatively to the magnetic field.

id: 1201.0840
title: The Kramers Problem for Quantum Fermi Gases with Velocity--Dependent Collision Frequency and Diffusive Boundary Conditions
authors: A. Yu. Kvashnin, A. V. Latyshev, A. A. Yushkanov
comments: 49 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0840
abstract: The classical Kramers problem of the kinetic theory is analytically solved. The Kramers problem about isothermal sliding for quantum Fermi gases is considered. Quantum gases with the velocity-dependent collision frequency are considered. Diffusive boundary conditions are applied. Dependence of isothermal sliding on the resulted chemical potential is found out.

id: 1201.0891
title: Termination of Nondeterministic Quantum Programs
authors: Yangjia Li, Nengkun Yu, Mingsheng Ying
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.0891
abstract: We define a language-independent model of nondeterministic quantum programs in which a quantum program consists of a finite set of quantum processes. These processes are represented by quantum Markov chains over the common state space. An execution of a nondeterministic quantum program is modeled by a sequence of actions of individual processes. These actions are described by super-operators on the state Hilbert space. At each step of an execution, a process is chosen nondeterministically to perform the next action. A characterization of reachable space and a characterization of diverging states of a nondeterministic quantum program are presented. We establish a zero-one law for termination probability of the states in the reachable space of a nondeterministic quantum program. A combination of these results leads to a necessary and sufficient condition for termination of nondeterministic quantum programs. Based on this condition, an algorithm is found for checking termination of nondeterministic quantum programs within a fixed finite-dimensional state space. A striking difference between nondeterministic classical and quantum programs is shown by example: it is possible that each of several quantum programs simulates the same classical program which terminates with probability 1, but the nondeterministic program consisting of them terminates with probability 0 due to the interference carried in the execution of them.

id: 1201.1008
title: Preparation and spectroscopy of a metastable Mott insulator state with attractive interactions
authors: Manfred J. Mark, Elmar Haller, Katharina Lauber, Johann G. Danzl, Alexander Janisch, Hans Peter B¨¹chler, Andrew J. Daley, Hanns-Christoph N?gerl
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 215302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1008
abstract: We prepare and study a metastable attractive Mott insulator state formed with bosonic atoms in a three-dimensional optical lattice. Starting from a Mott insulator with Cs atoms at weak repulsive interactions, we use a magnetic Feshbach resonance to tune the interactions to large attractive values and produce a metastable state pinned by attractive interactions with a lifetime on the order of 10 seconds. We probe the (de-)excitation spectrum via lattice modulation spectroscopy, measuring the interaction dependence of two- and three-body bound state energies. As a result of increased on-site three-body loss we observe resonance broadening and suppression of tunneling processes that produce three-body occupation.

id: 1201.1037
title: Black holes, quantum information, and unitary evolution
authors: Steven B. Giddings
comments: 39 pages, 5 figures. v2: refs added, very minor clarifications v3: few small changes to agree with published version v4: corrected sign in eq. 3.30
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1037
abstract: The unitary crisis for black holes indicates an apparent need to modify local quantum field theory. This paper explores the idea that quantum mechanics and in particular unitarity are fundamental principles, but at the price of familiar locality. Thus, one should seek to parameterize unitary evolution, extending the field theory description of black holes, such that their quantum information is transferred to the external state. This discussion is set in a broader framework of unitary evolution acting on Hilbert spaces comprising subsystems. Here, various constraints can be placed on the dynamics, based on quantum information-theoretic and other general physical considerations, and one can seek to describe dynamics with "minimal" departure from field theory. While usual spacetime locality may not be a precise concept in quantum gravity, approximate locality seems an important ingredient in physics. In such a Hilbert space approach an apparently "coarser" form of localization can be described in terms of tensor decompositions of the Hilbert space of the complete system. This suggests a general framework in which to seek a consistent description of quantum gravity, and approximate emergence of spacetime. Other possible aspects of such a framework -- in particular symmetries -- are briefly discussed.

id: 1201.1042
title: Mapping quantum-classical Liouville equation: projectors and trajectories
authors: Aaron Kelly, Ramses van Zon, Jeremy Schofield, Raymond Kapral
comments: 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1042
abstract: The evolution of a mixed quantum-classical system is expressed in the mapping formalism where discrete quantum states are mapped onto oscillator states, resulting in a phase space description of the quantum degrees of freedom. By defining projection operators onto the mapping states corresponding to the physical quantum states, it is shown that the mapping quantum-classical Liouville operator commutes with the projection operator so that the dynamics is confined to the physical space. It is also shown that a trajectory-based solution of this equation can be constructed that requires the simulation of an ensemble of entangled trajectories. An approximation to this evolution equation which retains only the Poisson bracket contribution to the evolution operator does admit a solution in an ensemble of independent trajectories but it is shown that this operator does not commute with the projection operators and the dynamics may take the system outside the physical space. The dynamical instabilities, utility and domain of validity of this approximate dynamics are discussed. The effects are illustrated by simulations on several quantum systems.

id: 1201.1132
title: Repulsive van der Waals forces due to hydrogen exposure on bilayer Graphene
authors: Mathias Bostr?m, Bo E. Sernelius
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A85, 012508 (2012)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1132
abstract: We consider the effect of atomic hydrogen exposure to a system of two undoped sheets of graphene grown near a silica surface (the first adsorbed to the surface and the second freestanding near the surface). In the absence of atomic hydrogen the van der Waals force between the sheets is attractive at all separations causing the sheets to come closer together. However, with addition of atomic hydrogen between the sheets the long range van der Waals interaction turns repulsive at a critical concentration. The underlying triple layer structure (SiO2 -Atomic Hydrogen Gas -Air) gives rise to a long range repulsion that at large enough separations dominates over the more rapidly decaying attraction between the two-dimensional undoped graphene sheets (and between the outer graphene sheet and SiO2). This may be an avenue to tune the separation between two graphene sheets with the gas concentration. Doping of the graphene layers increases the attractive part of the interaction and hence reduces the net repulsive interaction.

id: 1201.1144
title: Coarse-graining renormalization by higher-order singular value decomposition
authors: Z. Y. Xie, J. Chen, M. P. Qin, J. W. Zhu, L. P. Yang, T. Xiang
comments: 11 pages, 16 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 045139 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1144
abstract: We propose a novel coarse graining tensor renormalization group method based on the higher-order singular value decomposition. This method provides an accurate but low computational cost technique for studying both classical and quantum lattice models in two- or three-dimensions. We have demonstrated this method using the Ising model on the square and cubic lattices. By keeping up to 16 bond basis states, we obtain by far the most accurate numerical renormalization group results for the 3D Ising model. We have also applied the method to study the ground state as well as finite temperature properties for the two-dimensional quantum transverse Ising model and obtain the results which are consistent with published data.

id: 1201.1160
title: Numerical Regularization of Electromagnetic Quantum Fluctuations in Inhomogeneous Dielectric Media
authors: Shin-itiro Goto, Alison C. Hale, Robin W. Tucker, Timothy J. Walton
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, submitted to PRL
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1160
abstract: Electromagnetic Casimir stresses are of relevance to many technologies based on mesoscopic devices such as MEMS embedded in dielectric media, Casimir induced friction in nano-machinery, micro-fluidics and molecular electronics. Computation of such stresses based on cavity QED generally require numerical analysis based on a regularization process. A new scheme is described that has the potential for wide applicability to systems involving realistic inhomogeneous media. From a knowledge of the spectrum of the stationary modes of the electromagnetic field the scheme is illustrated by estimating numerically the Casimir stress on opposite faces of a pair of perfectly conducting planes separated by a vacuum and the change in this result when the region between the plates is filled with an incompressible inhomogeneous non-dispersive dielectric.

id: 1201.1176
title: Origin of the Three-body Parameter Universality in Efimov Physics
authors: Jia Wang, J. P. D'Incao, B. D. Esry, Chris H. Greene
comments: 11 pages; 9 figures. Includes Supplementary Material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 263001 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1176
abstract: In recent years extensive theoretical and experimental studies of universal few-body physics have led to advances in our understanding of universal Efimov physics [1]. The Efimov effect, once considered a mysterious and esoteric effect, is today a reality that many experiments in ultracold quantum gases have successfully observed and continued to explore [2-14]. Whereas theory was the driving force behind our understanding of Efimov physics for decades, recent experiments have contributed an unexpected discovery. Specifically, measurements have found that the so-called three-body parameter determining several properties of the system is universal, even though fundamental assumptions in the theory of the Efimov effect suggest that it should be a variable property that depends on the precise details of the short-range two- and three-body interactions. The present Letter resolves this apparent contradiction by elucidating unanticipated implications of the two-body interactions. Our study shows that the three-body parameter universality emerges because a universal effective barrier in the three-body potentials prevents the three particles from simultaneously getting close to each other. Our results also show limitations on this universality, as it is more likely to occur for neutral atoms and less likely to extend to light nuclei.

id: 1201.1206
title: Representations of quantum superalgebra Uq[gl(2|1)] in a coherent state basis and generalization
authors: Nguyen Cong Kien, Nguyen Anh Ky, Le Ba Nam, Nguyen Thi Hong Van
comments: 16 pages, LaTeX, no figure. V2: A reference corrected
journal: J. Math. Phys., vol. 52, 123512 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Algebra (math.QA); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1206
abstract: The coherent state method has proved to be useful in quantum physics and mathematics. This method, more precisely, the vector coherent state method, has been used by some authors to construct representations of superalgebras but almost, to our knowledge, it has not yet been extended to quantum superalgebras, except $U_q[osp(1|2)]$, one of the smallest quantum superalgebras. In this article the method is applied to a bigger quantum superalgebra, namely $U_q[gl(2|1)]$, in constructing $q$--boson-fermion realizations and finite-dimensional representations which, when irreducible, are classified into typical and nontypical representations. This construction leads to a more general class of $q$--boson-fermion realizations and finite-dimensional representations of $U_q[gl(2|1)]$ and, thus, at $q=1$, of $gl(2|1)$. Both $gl(2|1)$ and $U_q[gl(2|1)]$ have found different physics applications, therefore, it is meaningful to construct their representations.

id: 1201.1234
title: WKB Analysis of PT-Symmetric Sturm-Liouville problems
authors: Carl M. Bender, Hugh F. Jones
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1234
abstract: Most studies of PT-symmetric quantum-mechanical Hamiltonians have considered the Schroedinger eigenvalue problem on an infinite domain. This paper examines the consequences of imposing the boundary conditions on a finite domain. As is the case with regular Hermitian Sturm-Liouville problems, the eigenvalues of the PT-symmetric Sturm-Liouville problem grow like $n^2$ for large $n$. However, the novelty is that a PT eigenvalue problem on a finite domain typically exhibits a sequence of critical points at which pairs of eigenvalues cease to be real and become complex conjugates of one another. For the potentials considered here this sequence of critical points is associated with a turning point on the imaginary axis in the complex plane. WKB analysis is used to calculate the asymptotic behaviors of the real eigenvalues and the locations of the critical points. The method turns out to be surprisingly accurate even at low energies.

id: 1201.1244
title: Ordinary versus PT-symmetric $¦Õ^3$ quantum field theory
authors: Carl M. Bender, V. Branchina, Emanuele Messina
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1244
abstract: A quantum-mechanical theory is PT-symmetric if it is described by a Hamiltonian that commutes with PT, where the operator P performs space reflection and the operator T performs time reversal. A PT-symmetric Hamiltonian often has a parametric region of unbroken PT symmetry in which the energy eigenvalues are all real. There may also be a region of broken PT symmetry in which some of the eigenvalues are complex. These regions are separated by a phase transition that has been repeatedly observed in laboratory experiments. This paper focuses on the properties of a PT-symmetric $ig\phi^3$ quantum field theory. This quantum field theory is the analog of the PT-symmetric quantum-mechanical theory described by the Hamiltonian $H=p^2+ix^3$, whose eigenvalues have been rigorously shown to be all real. This paper compares the renormalization-group properties of a conventional Hermitian $g\phi^3$ quantum field theory with those of the PT-symmetric $ig\phi^3$ quantum field theory. It is shown that while the conventional $g\phi^3$ theory in $d=6$ dimensions is asymptotically free, the $ig\phi^3$ theory is like a $g\phi^4$ theory in $d=4$ dimensions; it is energetically stable, perturbatively renormalizable, and trivial.

id: 1201.1272
title: Relating Operator Spaces via Adjunctions
authors: Bart Jacobs, Jorik Mandemaker
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Logic in Computer Science (cs.LO); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1272
abstract: This chapter uses categorical techniques to describe relations between various sets of operators on a Hilbert space, such as self-adjoint, positive, density, effect and projection operators. These relations, including various Hilbert-Schmidt isomorphisms of the form tr(A-), are expressed in terms of dual adjunctions, and maps between them. Of particular interest is the connection with quantum structures, via a dual adjunction between convex sets and effect modules. The approach systematically uses categories of modules, via their description as Eilenberg-Moore algebras of a monad.

id: 1201.1329
title: Classical Analogue of Weak Value in Stochastic Process
authors: Hiroyuki Tomita
comments: Revised version from Arxiv:1109.4302. To appear in the proceedings of the Symposium on 'Interface between Quantum Information and Statistical Physics', to be published by World Scientific
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1329
abstract: One of the remarkable notions in the recent development of quantum physics is the weak value related to weak measurements. We emulate it as a two-time conditional expectation in a classical stochastic model. We use the well known symmetrized form of the master equation, which is formally equivalent to the wave equation in quantum mechanics apart from the fact that wave functions are always real. The origin of the unusual behaviors of the weak value such as the negative probability and the abnormal enhancement of some expectations becomes clearer in the present case, where the two-time conditional probability has no ambiguity of imaginary/complex values.

id: 1201.1362
title: Frequency metrology of helium around 1083 nm and determination of the nuclear charge radius
authors: P. Cancio Pastor, L. Consolino, G. Giusfredi, P. De Natale, M. Inguscio, V.A. Yerokhin, K. Pachucki
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 3 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 143001 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1362
abstract: We measure the absolute frequency of seven out of the nine allowed transitions between the 2$^3${\it S} and 2$^3${\it P} hyperfine manifolds in a metastable $^3$He beam by using an optical frequency comb synthesizer-assisted spectrometer. The relative uncertainty of our measurements ranges from $1\times 10^{-11}$ to $5\times 10^{-12}$, which is, to our knowledge, the most precise result for any optical $^3$He transition to date. The resulting $2^3${\it P}-2$^3${\it S} centroid frequency is $276\,702\,827\,204.8\,(2.4)$kHz. Comparing this value with the known result for the $^4$He centroid and performing {\em ab initio} QED calculations of the $^4$He-$^3$He isotope shift, we extract the difference of the squared nuclear charge radii $\delta r^2$ of $^3$He and $^4$He. Our result for $\delta r^2=1.074 (3)$ fm$^2$ disagrees by about $4\,\sigma$ with the recent determination [R. van Rooij {\em et al.}, Science {\bf 333}, 196 (2011)].

id: 1201.1372
title: Orbital angular momentum spectrum of Bessel-Gaussian modes, as generated by spontaneous parametric down-conversion
authors: Filippus S. Roux
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1372
abstract: The Bessel-Gaussian modal spectrum, generated in spontaneous parametric down-conversion of a Gaussian pump beam, is considered. This is done by first deriving a general expression for the true probability of detecting specific transverse spatial modes for the pairs of photons generated in a spontaneous parametric down-conversion process. These expressions are applied for Bessel-Gaussian modes in type I phase matching with collinear, degenerate down-converted beams. The result shows that a broad orbital angular momentum spectrum can be obtained for Bessel-Gaussian modes under certain conditions.

id: 1201.1398
title: An effective singular oscillator for Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau particles with a nonminimal vector coupling: a two-fold degeneracy
authors: T.R. Cardoso, L.B. Castro, A.S. de Castro
comments: 1 figure. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1009.1597
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1398
abstract: Scalar and vector bosons in the background of one-dimensional nonminimal vector linear plus inversely linear potentials are explored in a unified way in the context of the Duffin-Kemmer-Petiau theory. The problem is mapped into a Sturm-Liouville problem with an effective singular oscillator. With boundary conditions emerging from the problem, exact bound-state solutions in the spin-0 sector are found in closed form and it is shown that the spectrum exhibits degeneracy. It is shown that, depending on the potential parameters, there may or may not exist bound-state solutions in the spin-1 sector.

id: 1201.1435
title: Matrix Product State and Quantum Phase Transitions in the One-Dimensional Extended Quantum Compass Model
authors: Guang-Hua Liu, Wei Li, Wen-Long You, Guang-Shan Tian, Gang Su
comments: 12 pages, 19 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 184422 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1435
abstract: The matrix product state (MPS) is utilized to study the ground state properties and quantum phase transitions (QPTs) of the one-dimensional quantum compass model (QCM). The MPS wavefunctions are argued to be very efficient descriptions of QCM ground states, and are numerically determined by imaginary time projections. The ground state energy, correlations, quantum entanglement and its spectrum, local and nonlocal order parameters, etc., are calculated and studied in details. It is revealed that the bipartite and block entanglement entropies, as well as the nearest neighbor correlation functions can be used to detect the second-order QPTs, but not the first-order ones, while fidelity detections can recognize both. The entanglement spectrum is extracted from the MPS wavefunction, and found to be doubly degenerate in disordered phases of QCM, where non-local string order parameters exist. Moreover, with linearized tensor renormalization group method, the specific heat curves are evaluated and their low temperature behaviors are investigated.

id: 1201.1438
title: Towards the production of ultracold ground-state RbCs molecules: Feshbach resonances, weakly bound states, and coupled-channel model
authors: Tetsu Takekoshi, Markus Debatin, Raffael Rameshan, Francesca Ferlaino, Rudolf Grimm, Hanns-Christoph N?gerl, C. Ruth Le Sueur, Jeremy M. Hutson, Paul S. Julienne, Svetlana Kotochigova, Eberhard Tiemann
comments: 16 pages, 11 figures, submitted to PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032506 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1438
abstract: We have studied interspecies scattering in an ultracold mixture of $^{87}$Rb and $^{133}$Cs atoms, both in their lowest-energy spin states. The three-body loss signatures of 30 incoming s- and p-wave magnetic Feshbach resonances over the range 0 to 667 G have been catalogued. Magnetic field modulation spectroscopy was used to observe molecular states bound by up to 2.5 MHz$\times h$. Magnetic moment spectroscopy along the magneto-association pathway from 197 to 182 G gives results consistent with the observed and calculated dependence of the binding energy on magnetic field strength. We have created RbCs Feshbach molecules using two of the resonances. We have set up a coupled-channel model of the interaction and have used direct least-squares fitting to refine its parameters to fit the experimental results from the Feshbach molecules, in addition to the Feshbach resonance positions and the spectroscopic results for deeply bound levels. The final model gives a good description of all the experimental results and predicts a large resonance near 790 G, which may be useful for tuning the interspecies scattering properties. Quantum numbers and vibrational wavefunctions from the model can also be used to choose optimal initial states of Feshbach molecules for their transfer to the rovibronic ground state using stimulated Raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP).

id: 1201.1447
title: Translation Representations and Scattering By Two Intervals
authors: Palle Jorgensen, Steen Pedersen, Feng Tian
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1447
abstract: Studying unitary one-parameter groups in Hilbert space (U(t),H), we show that a model for obstacle scattering can be built, up to unitary equivalence, with the use of translation representations for L2-functions in the complement of two finite and disjoint intervals. The model encompasses a family of systems (U (t), H). For each, we obtain a detailed spectral representation, and we compute the scattering operator, and scattering matrix. We illustrate our results in the Lax-Phillips model where (U (t), H) represents an acoustic wave equation in an exterior domain; and in quantum tunneling for dynamics of quantum states.

id: 1201.1482
title: Dependence of nuclear spin singlet lifetimes on RF spin-locking power
authors: Stephen J. DeVience, Ronald L. Walsworth, Matthew S. Rosen
comments: 
journal: Journal of Magnetic Resonance 218 (2012) 5-10
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Medical Physics (physics.med-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1482
abstract: We measure the lifetime of long-lived nuclear spin singlet states as a function of the strength of the RF spin-locking field and present a simple theoretical model that agrees well with our measurements, including the low-RF-power regime. We also measure the lifetime of a long-lived coherence between singlet and triplet states that does not require a spin-locking field for preservation. Our results indicate that for many molecules, singlet states can be created using weak RF spin-locking fields: more than two orders of magnitude lower RF power than in previous studies. Our findings suggest that in many biomolecules, singlets and related states with enhanced lifetimes might be achievable in vivo with safe levels of RF power.

id: 1201.1493
title: Estimating the bias of a noisy coin
authors: Christopher Ferrie, Robin Blume-Kohout
comments: 10 pages
journal: AIP Conf. Proc. 1443, pp. 14-21 (2012)
subjects: Statistics Theory (math.ST); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1493
abstract: Optimal estimation of a coin's bias using noisy data is surprisingly different from the same problem with noiseless data. We study this problem using entropy risk to quantify estimators' accuracy. We generalize the "add Beta" estimators that work well for noiseless coins, and we find that these hedged maximum-likelihood (HML) estimators achieve a worst-case risk of O(N^{-1/2}) on noisy coins, in contrast to O(1/N) in the noiseless case. We demonstrate that this increased risk is unavoidable and intrinsic to noisy coins, by constructing minimax estimators (numerically). However, minimax estimators introduce extreme bias in return for slight improvements in the worst-case risk. So we introduce a pointwise lower bound on the minimum achievable risk as an alternative to the minimax criterion, and use this bound to show that HML estimators are pretty good. We conclude with a survey of scientific applications of the noisy coin model in social science, physical science, and quantum information science.

id: 1201.1557
title: Derivation of quantum work equalities using quantum Feynman-Kac formula
authors: Fei Liu
comments: 5 pages
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1557
abstract: On the basis of a quantum mechanical analogue of the famous Feynman-Kac formula and the Kolmogorov picture, we present a novel method to derive nonequilibrium work equalities for isolated quantum systems, which include the Jarzynski equality and Bochkov-Kuzovlev equality. Compared with previous methods in the literature, our method shows higher similarity in form to that deriving the classical fluctuation relations, which would give important insight when exploring new quantum fluctuation relations.

id: 1201.1600
title: Coulomb Oscillations in Antidots in the Integer and Fractional Quantum Hall Regimes
authors: A. Kou, C. M. Marcus, L. N. Pfeiffer, K. W. West
comments: related papers at this http URL
journal: PRL 108, 256803 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1600
abstract: We report measurements of resistance oscillations in micron-scale antidots in both the integer and fractional quantum Hall regimes. In the integer regime, we conclude that oscillations are of the Coulomb type from the scaling of magnetic field period with the number of edges bound to the antidot. Based on both gate-voltage and field periods, we find at filling factor {\nu} = 2 a tunneling charge of e and two charged edges. Generalizing this picture to the fractional regime, we find (again, based on field and gate-voltage periods) at {\nu} = 2/3 a tunneling charge of (2/3)e and a single charged edge.

id: 1201.1715
title: Long-range corrected hybrid meta-generalized-gradient approximations with dispersion corrections
authors: You-Sheng Lin, Chen-Wei Tsai, Guan-De Li, Jeng-Da Chai
comments: accepted for publication in J. Chem. Phys., 75 pages, 6 figures, supplementary material included
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 136, 154109 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1715
abstract: We propose a long-range corrected hybrid meta-GGA functional, based on a global hybrid meta-GGA functional, M05 [Y. Zhao, N. E. Schultz, and D. G. Truhlar, J. Chem. Phys. 123, 161103 (2005)], and empirical atom-atom dispersion corrections. Our resulting functional, omegaM05-D, is shown to be accurate for a very wide range of applications, such as thermochemistry, kinetics, noncovalent interactions, equilibrium geometries, frontier orbital energies, fundamental gaps, and excitation energies. In addition, we present three new databases, IP131 (131 ionization potentials), EA115 (115 electron affinities), and FG115 (115 fundamental gaps), consisting of experimental molecular geometries and accurate reference values, which will be useful in the assessment of the accuracy of density functional approximations.

id: 1201.1740
title: Quantum scattering model of energy transfer in photosynthetic complexes
authors: Bao-quan Ai, Shi-liang Zhu
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1740
abstract: We develop a quantum scattering model to describe the exciton transport through the Fenna-Matthews-Olson(FMO) complex. It is found that the exciton transport involved the optimal quantum coherence is more efficient than that involved classical behavior alone. Furthermore, we also find that the quantum resonance condition is easier to be fulfilled in multiple pathways than that in one pathway. We then definitely demonstrate that the optimal distribution of the pigments, the multitude of energy delivery pathways and the quantum effects, are combined together to contribute to the perfect energy transport in the FMO complex.

id: 1201.1765
title: Reconstruction of the wavefunctions of coupled nanoscopic emitters using a coherent optical technique
authors: M. Richter, F. Schlosser, M. Schoth, S. Burger, F. Schmidt, A. Knorr, S. Mukamel
comments: 20 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 085308 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1765
abstract: We show that using coherent, spatially resolved spectroscopy, complex hybrid wave functions can be disentangled into the individual wave functions of the individual emitters. This way, detailed information on the coupling of the individual emitters, not available in far-field spectroscopy can be obtained. The proposed quantum state tomography relies on the ability to selectively excite each emitter individually by spatially localized pulses. Simulations of coupled semiconductor Ga/InAs quantum dots, using light fields available in current nanoplasmonics, show that even undesired resonances can be removed from measured spectra. The method can also be applied to study the internal coupling of pigments in photosythesis and artificial light harvesting.

id: 1201.1778
title: Reply to the comment on: "Does an atom interferometer test the gravitational redshift at the Compton frequency?"
authors: Peter Wolf, Luc Blanchet, Christian J. Bord¨¦, Serge Reynaud, Christophe Salomon, Claude Cohen-Tannoudji
comments: To appear in Classical and Quantum Gravity
journal: Classical and Quantum Gravity 29 (2012) 048002
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1778
abstract: Hohensee, Chu, Peters and M\"uller have submitted a comment (arXiv:1112.6039 [gr-qc]) on our paper "Does an atom interferometer test the gravitational redshift at the Compton frequency?", Classical and Quantum Gravity 28, 145017 (2011), arXiv:1009.2485 [gr-qc]. Here we reply to this comment and show that the main result of our paper, namely that atom interferometric gravimeters do not test the gravitational redshift at the Compton frequency, remains valid.

id: 1201.1779
title: Manipulating dipolar and spin-exchange interactions in spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Bo-Yuan Ning, S. Yi, Jun Zhuang, J. Q. You, Wenxian Zhang
comments: To be published in PRA (5pages, 5 figures,)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053646 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1779
abstract: It remains a challenge to independently manipulate the magnetic dipolar and the spin-exchange interactions, which are entangled in many spin systems, particularly in spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensates. For this purpose, we put forward a sequence of rf pulses and the periodic dynamical decoupling sequence of optical Feshbach resonance pulses to control the dipolar and the spin-exchange interactions, respectively. Our analytic results and the numerical simulations demonstrate that either of the two interactions can be suppressed to make the other dominate the spin dynamics; furthermore, both of the interactions can be simultaneously suppressed to realize spinor-condensate-based magnetometers with a higher sensitivity. This manipulation method may find its wide applications in magnetic resonance and spintronics.

id: 1201.1860
title: Electron rest mass and energy levels of atoms in photonic crystal medium
authors: Renat Kh. Gainutdinov, Marat A. Khamadeev, Myakzyum Kh. Salakhov
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Renat Kh. Gainutdinov, Marat A. Khamadeev, and Myakzyum Kh. Salakhov, Electron rest mass and energy levels of atoms in the photonic crystal medium, Phys. Rev. A 85, 053836 (2012)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1860
abstract: Photonic crystals are periodic systems that consist of dielectrics with different refractive indices. They are designed to act on photons in contrast to semiconductor crystals whose periodicity affects the motion of electrons. Here we consider the interaction of an atomic electron with its own radiation field in the case when the atom is placed in air voids of a photonic crystal and is not in mechanical contact with the vibrational degrees of freedom of the dielectric host. A strong modification of this interaction from that in free space is shown to change the rest mass of the electron, and this has a significant effect on the shift of the atomic energy levels. This shift is investigated by using the example of atomic hydrogen in a high-index-contrast photonic crystal. The found effect may be of interest both from fundamental and practical points of view.

id: 1201.1877
title: Schr?dinger-Feynman quantization and composition of observables in general boundary quantum field theory
authors: Robert Oeckl
comments: 47 pages, LaTeX + AMS; v2: minor corrections, references updated
journal: Adv. Theor. Math. Phys. 19 (2015) 451-506
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1877
abstract: We show that the Feynman path integral together with the Schr\"odinger representation gives rise to a rigorous and functorial quantization scheme for linear and affine field theories. Since our target framework is the general boundary formulation, the class of field theories that can be quantized in this way includes theories without a metric spacetime background. We also show that this quantization scheme is equivalent to a holomorphic quantization scheme proposed earlier and based on geometric quantization. We proceed to include observables into the scheme, quantized also through the path integral. We show that the quantized observables satisfy the canonical commutation relations, a feature shared with other quantization schemes also discussed. However, in contrast to other schemes the presented quantization also satisfies a correspondence between the composition of classical observables through their product and the composition of their quantized counterparts through spacetime gluing. In the special case of quantum field theory in Minkowski space this reproduces the operationally correct composition of observables encoded in the time-ordered product. We show that the quantization scheme also generalizes other features of quantum field theory such as the generating function of the S-matrix.

id: 1201.1901
title: Amplitude spectroscopy of two coupled qubits
authors: A. M. Satanin, M. V. Denisenko, Sahel Ashhab, Franco Nori
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 184524 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1901
abstract: We study the effect of a time-dependent driving field with a large amplitude on a system composed of two coupled qubits (two-level systems). Using the rotating wave approximation (RWA) makes it possible to find simple conditions for resonant excitation of the four-level system. We find that the resonance conditions include the coupling strength between the qubits. Numerical simulations confirm the qualitative conclusions following from the RWA. To reveal the peculiarities of resonant transitions caused by the quasi-level motion and crossing in a periodic driving field, we use Floquet states, which determine the precise intermediate states of the system. Calculating the quasi-energy states of the multi-level system makes it possible to find the transition probabilities and build interference patterns for the transition probabilities. The interference patterns demonstrate the possibility of obtaining various pieces of information about the qubits, since the positions of transition-probability maxima depend on various system parameters, including the coupling strength between the qubits.

id: 1201.1947
title: Quantum spin pumping mediated by magnon
authors: Kouki Nakata
comments: 27 pages, 2 figures. v2; the detail of the calculation has been added in Appendix. The distinction from the spin pumping theory proposed by Tserkovnyak et al. has been clarified in section 5. v3; typos corrected
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 81 (2012) 064717
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.1947
abstract: We theoretically propose quantum spin pumping mediated by magnons, under a time-dependent transverse magnetic field, at the interface between a ferromagnetic insulator and a non-magnetic metal. The generation of a spin current under a thermal equilibrium condition is discussed by calculating the spin transfer torque, which breaks the spin conservation law for conduction electrons and operates the coherent magnon state. Localized spins lose spin angular momentum by emitting magnons and conduction electrons flip from down to up by absorbing the momentum. The spin transfer torque has a resonance structure as a function of the angular frequency of the applied transverse field. This fact is useful to enhance the spin pumping effect induced by quantum fluctuations. We also discuss the distinction between our quantum spin pumping theory and the one proposed by Tserkovnyak et al.

id: 1201.2094
title: Room temperature terahertz polariton emitter
authors: Markus Geiser, Giacomo Scalari, Fabrizio Castellano, Mattias Beck, J¨¦r?me Faist
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2094
abstract: The strong-coupling regime between an electronic transition and the photonic mode of a optical resonator manifests itself in the lifting of the degeneracy between the two modes and the creation of two polariton states with mixed optical and electronic character. This phenomenon has been studied in atoms, excitons in semiconductors and quantum electrodynamics circuits based on Josephson junctions. Recently, there is also strong interest to study similar e?ects using intersubband transitions in quantum wells in the terahertz, where the ultra strong coupling regime can be reached and new physical e?ects have been predicted. An other interesting feature of this system is that, in contrast to systems based on superconductors, the ultra strong coupling regime can be maintained up to room temperature. In this work, we demonstrate that parabolic quantum wells coupled to LC circuit resonators in the ultra strong coupling regime can achieve terahertz emission up to room temperature.

id: 1201.2112
title: Majorana Modes in Driven-Dissipative Atomic Superfluids With Zero Chern Number
authors: C.-E. Bardyn, M. A. Baranov, E. Rico, A. Imamoglu, P. Zoller, S. Diehl
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures; with supplementary material (11 pages); to appear in PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 130402 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2112
abstract: We investigate dissipation-induced p-wave paired states of fermions in two dimensions and show the existence of spatially separated Majorana zero modes in a phase with vanishing Chern number. We construct an explicit and natural model of a dissipative vortex that traps a single of these modes, and establish its topological origin by mapping the problem to a chiral one-dimensional wire where we observe a non-equilibrium topological phase transition characterized by an abrupt change of a topological invariant (winding number). We show that the existence of a single Majorana zero mode in the vortex core is intimately tied to the dissipative nature of our model. Engineered dissipation opens up possibilities for experimentally realizing such states with no Hamiltonian counterpart.

id: 1201.2114
title: Polariton ring condensates and sunflower ripples in an expanding quantum liquid
authors: Gabriel Christmann, Guilherme Tosi, Natalia G. Berloff, Panos Tsotsis, Peter S. Eldridge, Zacharias Hatzopoulos, Pavlos G. Savvidis, Jeremy J. Baumberg
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2114
abstract: Optically pumping high quality semiconductor microcavities allows for the spontaneous formation of polariton condensates, which can propagate over distances of many microns. Tightly focussed pump spots here are found to produce expanding incoherent bottleneck polaritons which coherently amplify the ballistic polaritons and lead to the formation of unusual ring condensates. This quantum liquid is found to form a remarkable sunflower-like spatial ripple pattern which arises from self interference with Rayleigh-scattered coherent polariton waves in the Cerenkov regime.

id: 1201.2263
title: Quantum inner-product metrics via recurrent solution of Dieudonne equation
authors: Miloslav Znojil
comments: 21 pp
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 085302
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2263
abstract: A given Hamiltonian matrix H with real spectrum is assumed tridiagonal and non-Hermitian. Its possible Hermitizations via an amended, ad hoc inner-product metric are studied. Under certain reasonable assumptions, all of these metrics are shown obtainable as recurrent solutions of the hidden Hermiticity constraint called Dieudonne equation. In this framework even the two-parametric Jacobi-polynomial real- and asymmetric-matrix N-site lattice Hamiltonian is found tractable non-numerically at all N.

id: 1201.2274
title: Controlled Dicke Subradiance from a Large Cloud of Two-Level Systems
authors: Tom Bienaime, Nicola Piovella, Robin Kaiser
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 108, 123602 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2274
abstract: Dicke superradiance has been observed in many systems and is based on constructive interferences between many scattered waves. The counterpart of this enhanced dynamics, subradiance, is a destructive interference effect leading to the partial trapping of light in the system. In contrast to the robust superradiance, subradiant states are fragile and spurious decoherence phenomena hitherto obstructed the observation of such metastable states. We show that a dilute cloud of cold atoms is an ideal system to look for subradiance in free space and study various mechanisms to control this subradiance.

id: 1201.2309
title: Measuring the magnetic birefringence of vacuum: the PVLAS experiment
authors: Guido Zavattini, Ugo Gastaldi, Ruggero Pengo, Giuseppe Ruoso, Federico Della Valle, Edoardo Milotti
comments: 18 pages, 6 figures. Accepted for publication in the Proceedings of the QFEXT11 Benasque Conference
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2309
abstract: We describe the principle and the status of the PVLAS experiment which is presently running at the INFN section of Ferrara, Italy, to detect the magnetic birefringence of vacuum. This is related to the QED vacuum structure and can be detected by measuring the ellipticity acquired by a linearly polarized light beam propagating through a strong magnetic field. Such an effect is predicted by the Euler-Heisenberg Lagrangian. The method is also sensitive to other hypothetical physical effects such as axion-like particles and in general to any fermion/boson millicharged particle. Here we report on the construction of our apparatus based on a high finesse ($>2\cdot10^5$) Fabry-Perot cavity and two 0.9 m long 2.5 T permanent dipole rotating magnets, and on the measurements performed on a scaled down test setup. With the test setup we have improved by about a factor 2 the limit on the parameter $A_e$ describing non linear electrodynamic effects in vacuum: $A_e < 2.9\cdot10^{-21}$ T$^{-2}$ @ 95% c.l.

id: 1201.2392
title: A Wideband, Low-Noise Superconducting Amplifier with High Dynamic Range
authors: Byeong Ho Eom, Peter K. Day, Henry G. Leduc, Jonas Zmuidzinas
comments: 15 pages, 4 figures + supplementary information
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2392
abstract: Amplifiers are ubiquitous in electronics and play a fundamental role in a wide range of scientific measurements. From a user's perspective, an ideal amplifier has very low noise, operates over a broad frequency range, and has a high dynamic range - it is capable of handling strong signals with little distortion. Unfortunately, it is difficult to obtain all of these characteristics simultaneously. For example, modern transistor amplifiers offer multi-octave bandwidths and excellent dynamic range. However, their noise remains far above the fundamental limit set by the uncertainty principle of quantum mechanics. Parametric amplifiers, which predate transistor amplifiers and are widely used in optics, exploit a nonlinear response to transfer power from a strong pump tone to a weak signal. If the nonlinearity is purely reactive, ie. nondissipative, in theory the amplifier noise can reach the quantum-mechanical limit. Indeed, microwave frequency superconducting Josephson parametric amplifiers do approach the quantum limit, but generally are narrow band and have very limited dynamic range. In this paper, we describe a superconducting parametric amplifier that overcomes these limitations. The amplifier is very simple, consisting only of a patterned metal film on a dielectric substrate, and relies on the nonlinear kinetic inductance of a superconducting transmission line. We measure gain extending over 2 GHz on either side of an 11.56 GHz pump tone, and we place an upper limit on the added noise of the amplifier of 3.4 photons at 9.4 GHz. Furthermore, the dynamic range is very large, comparable to microwave transistor amplifiers, and the concept can be applied throughout the microwave, millimeter-wave and submillimeter-wave bands.

id: 1201.2396
title: Association of Efimov trimers from a three-atom continuum
authors: Olga Machtey, Zav Shotan, Noam Gross, Lev Khaykovich
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 210406 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2396
abstract: We develop an experimental technique for rf-association of Efimov trimers from three-atoms continuum. We apply it to probe the lowest accessible Efimov energy level in bosonic lithium in the region where strong deviations from the universal behavior are expected, and provide quantitative study of this effect. Position of the Efimov resonance at the atom-dimer threshold, measured with a different experimental technique, concurs with the rf-association results.

id: 1201.2433
title: An Ultra-Low Noise Telecom Wavelength Free Running Single Photon Detector Using Negative Feedback Avalanche Diode
authors: Zhizhong Yan, Deny R. Hamel, Aimee K. Heinrichs, Xudong Jiang, Mark A. Itzler, Thomas Jennewein
comments: 28 pages, 16 figures, and 1 table
journal: Rev. Sci. Instrum. 83, 073105 (2012)
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2433
abstract: It is challenging to implement genuine free running single photon detectors for the 1550 nm wavelength range with simultaneously high detection efficiency (DE), low dark noise, and good time resolution. We report a novel read out system for the signals from a negative feedback avalanche diode (NFAD) which allows useful operation of these devices at a temperature of 193 K and results in very low dark counts (~100 CPS), good time jitter (~30 ps), and good DE (~10%). We characterized two NFADs with a time correlation method using photons generated from weak coherent pulses (WCP) and photon pairs produced by spontaneous parametric down conversion (SPDC). The inferred detector efficiencies for both types of photon sources agree with each other. The best noise equivalent power of the device is estimated to be 8.1 x 10^(-18) W Hz^(-1/2), more than 10 times better than typical InP/InGaAs SPADs show in free running mode. The afterpulsing probability was found to be less than 0.1% per ns at the optimized operating point. In addition, we studied the performance of an entanglement-based quantum key distribution (QKD) using these detectors and develop a model for the quantum bit error rate (QBER) that incorporates the afterpulsing coefficients. We verified experimentally that using these NFADs it is feasible to implement QKD over 400 km of telecom fibre. Our NFAD photon detector system is very simple, and is well suited for single-photon applications where ultra-low noise and free-running operation is required, and some afterpulsing can be tolerated.

id: 1201.2440
title: Self-consistent field theory of polarized BEC: dispersion of collective excitation
authors: P. A. Andreev, L. S. Kuz'menkov
comments: 16 pages, 15 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1106.0822
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D, Vol. 67, p. 216, (2013)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2440
abstract: We suggest the construction of a set of the quantum hydrodynamics equations for the Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC), where atoms have the electric dipole moment. The contribution of the dipole-dipole interactions (DDI) to the Euler equation is obtained. Quantum equations for the evolution of medium polarization are derived. Developing mathematical method allows to study effect of interactions on the evolution of polarization. The developing method can be applied to various physical systems in which dynamics is affected by the DDI. Derivation of Gross-Pitaevskii equation for polarized particles from the quantum hydrodynamics is described. We showed that the Gross-Pitaevskii equation appears at condition when all dipoles have the same direction which does not change in time. Comparison of the equation of the electric dipole evolution with the equation of the magnetization evolution is described. Dispersion of the collective excitations in the dipolar BEC, either affected or not affected by the uniform external electric field, is considered using our method. We show that the evolution of polarization in the BEC leads to the formation of a novel type of the collective excitations. Detailed description of the dispersion of collective excitations is presented. We also consider the process of wave generation in the polarized BEC by means of a monoenergetic beam of neutral polarized particles. We compute the possibilities of the generation of Bogoliubov and polarization modes by the dipole beam.

id: 1201.2443
title: Cosmological constant, inflation and no-cloning theorem
authors: Qing-Guo Huang, Feng-Li Lin
comments: 4 pages; refs added, version accepted for publication in Phys.Lett.B
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2443
abstract: From the viewpoint of no-cloning theorem we postulate a relation between the current accelerated expansion of our universe and the inflationary expansion in the very early universe. It implies that the fate of our universe should be in a state with accelerated expansion. Quantitatively we find that the no-cloning theorem leads to a lower bound on the cosmological constant which is compatible with observations.

id: 1201.2493
title: Long-lasting Exponential Spreading in Periodically Driven Quantum Systems
authors: Jiao Wang, Italo Guarneri, Giulio Casati, Jiangbin Gong
comments: 4 figures, 6 pages (including supplementary material), published in the 2nd of December, 2011 issue of PRL
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 234104 (2011)
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2493
abstract: Using a dynamical model relevant to cold-atom experiments, we show that long-lasting exponential spreading of wave packets in momentum space is possible. Numerical results are explained via a pseudo-classical map, both qualitatively and quantitatively. Possible applications of our findings are also briefly discussed.

id: 1201.2506
title: Intense 2-cycle laser pulses induce time-dependent bond-hardening in a polyatomic molecule
authors: K. Dota, M. Garg, A. K. Tiwari, J. A. Dharmadhikari, A. K. Dharmadhikari, D. Mathur
comments: To appear in Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2506
abstract: A time-dependent bond-hardening process is discovered in a polyatomic molecule (tetramethyl silane, TMS) using few-cycle pulses of intense 800 nm light. In conventional mass spectrometry, symmetrical molecules like TMS do not exhibit a prominent molecular ion (TMS$^+$) as unimolecular dissociation into [Si(CH$_3$)$_3]^+$ proceeds very fast. Under strong field and few-cycle conditions, this dissociation channel is defeated by time-dependent bond-hardening: a field-induced potential well is created in the TMS$^+$ potential energy curve that effectively traps a wavepacket. The time-dependence of this bond hardening process is verified using longer-duration ($\geq$ 100 fs) pulses; the relatively "slower" fall-off of optical field in such pulses allows the initially trapped wavepacket to leak out, thereby rendering TMS$^+$ unstable once again. Our results are significant as they demonstrate (i) optical generation of polyatomic ions that are normally inaccessible and (ii) optical control of dynamics in strong fields, with distinct advantages over weak-field control scenarios that demand a narrow bandwidth appropriate for a specified transition.

id: 1201.2648
title: Symmetry-protected topological orders for interacting fermions -- Fermionic topological nonlinear $¦Ò$ models and a special group supercohomology theory
authors: Zheng-Cheng Gu, Xiao-Gang Wen
comments: 67 pages, 22 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 90, 115141 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2648
abstract: Symmetry-protected topological (SPT) phases are gapped short-range-entangled quantum phases with a symmetry $G$, which can all be smoothly connected to the trivial product states if we break the symmetry. It has been shown that a large class of interacting bosonic SPT phases can be systematically described by group cohomology theory. In this paper, we introduce a (special) group supercohomology theory which is a generalization of the standard group cohomology theory. We show that a large class of short-range interacting fermionic SPT phases can be described by the group supercohomology theory. Using the data of super cocycles, we can obtain the ideal ground state wave function for the corresponding fermionic SPT phase. We can also obtain the bulk Hamiltonian that realizes the SPT phase, as well as the anomalous (ie, non-on-site) symmetry for the boundary effective Hamiltonian. The anomalous symmetry on the boundary implies that the symmetric} boundary must be gapless for 1+1D boundary, and must be gapless or topologically ordered beyond 1+1D. As an application of this general result, we construct a new SPT phase in 3D, for interacting fermionic superconductors with coplanar spin order (which have $T^2=1$ time-reversal $Z_2^T$ and fermion-number parity $Z_2^f$ symmetries described by a full symmetry group $Z_2^T\times Z_2^f$). Such a fermionic SPT state can neither be realized by free fermions nor by interacting bosons (formed by fermion-pairs), and thus are not included in the K-theory classification for free fermions or group cohomology description for interacting bosons. We also construct three interacting fermionic SPT phases in 2D with a full symmetry group $Z_2\times Z_2^f$. Those 2D fermionic SPT phases all have central-charge $c=1$ gapless edge excitations, if the symmetry is not broken.

id: 1201.2750
title: Self-isospectral tri-supersymmetry in PT-symmetric quantum systems with pure imaginary periodicity
authors: Francisco Correa, Mikhail S. Plyushchay
comments: 31 pages, 5 figures. Published version
journal: Annals Phys. 327: 1761--1783 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2750
abstract: We study a reflectionless PT-symmetric quantum system described by the pair of complexified Scarf II potentials mutually displaced in the half of their pure imaginary period. Analyzing the rich set of intertwining discrete symmetries of the pair, we find an exotic supersymmetric structure based on three matrix differential operators that encode all the properties of the system, including its reflectionless (finite-gap) nature. The structure we revealed particularly sheds new light on the splitting of the discrete states into two families, related to the bound and resonance states in Hermitian Scarf II counterpart systems, on which two different series of irreducible representations of sl(2,C) are realized.

id: 1201.2776
title: A study of atom localization in an optical lattice by analysis of the scattered light
authors: Christoph I Westbrook, Christophe Jurczak, Gerhard Birkl, Bruno Desruelle, William D. Phillips, Alain Aspect
comments: An old paper
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 44, 10 (1997) 1837-1851
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2776
abstract: We present an experimental study of a four beam optical lattice using the light scattered by the atoms in the lattice. We use both intensity correlations and observations of the transient behavior of the scattering when the lattice is suddenly switched on. We compare results for 3 different configurations of the optical lattice. We create situations in which the Lamb-Dicke effect is negligible and show that, in contrast to what has been stated in some of the literature, the damping rate of the 'coherent' atomic oscillations can be much smaller than the inelastic photon scattering rate.

id: 1201.2781
title: Equilibration and thermalization in finite quantum systems
authors: V.I. Yukalov
comments: Review article, 46 pages
journal: Laser Phys. Lett. 8 (2011) 485-507
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2781
abstract: Experiments with trapped atomic gases have opened novel possibilities for studying the evolution of nonequilibrium finite quantum systems, which revived the necessity of reconsidering and developing the theory of such processes. This review analyzes the basic approaches to describing the phenomena of equilibration, thermalization, and decoherence in finite quantum systems. Isolated, nonisolated, and quasi-isolated quantum systems are considered. The relations between equilibration, decoherence, and the existence of time arrow are emphasized. The possibility for the occurrence of rare events, preventing complete equilibration, are mentioned.

id: 1201.2785
title: Casimir force measurements in Au-Au and Au-Si cavities at low temperature
authors: J. Laurent, H. Sellier, A. Mosset, S. Huant, J. Chevrier
comments: accepted for publication in Physical Review B
journal: Physical Review B 85, 035426 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2785
abstract: We report on measurements of the Casimir force in a sphere-plane geometry using a cryogenic force microscope to move the force probe in situ over different materials. We show how the electrostatic environment of the interacting surfaces plays an important role in weak force measurements and can overcome the Casimir force at large distance. After minimizing these parasitic forces, we measure the Casimir force between a gold-coated sphere and either a gold-coated or a heavily doped silicon surface in the 100-400 nm distance range. We compare the experimental data with theoretical predictions and discuss the consequence of a systematic error in the scanner calibration on the agreement between experiment and theory. The relative force over the two surfaces compares favorably with theory at short distance, showing that this Casimir force experiment is sensitive to the dielectric properties of the interacting surfaces.

id: 1201.2792
title: Measurement of Photon Statistics with Live Photoreceptor Cells
authors: Nigel Sim, Mei Fun Cheng, Dmitri Bessarab, C. Michael Jones, Leonid A. Krivitsky
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters (Editors' Suggestion) 109, 113601 (2012)
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2792
abstract: We analyzed the electrophysiological response of an isolated rod photoreceptor of Xenopus laevis under stimulation by coherent and pseudo-thermal light sources. Using the suction electrode technique for single cell recordings and a fiber optics setup for light delivery allowed measurements of the major statistical characteristics of the rod response. The results indicate differences in average responses of rod cells to coherent and pseudo-thermal light of the same intensity and also differences in signal-to-noise ratios and second order intensity correlation functions. These findings should be relevant for interdisciplinary studies seeking applications of quantum optics in biology.

id: 1201.2802
title: Minimal Length and the Quantum Bouncer: A Nonperturbative Study
authors: Pouria Pedram
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Int. J. Theor. Phys
journal: Int. J. Theor. Phys. 51 (2012) 1901-1910
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2802
abstract: We present the energy eigenvalues of a quantum bouncer in the framework of the Generalized (Gravitational) Uncertainty Principle (GUP) via quantum mechanical and semiclassical schemes. In this paper, we use two equivalent nonperturbative representations of a deformed commutation relation in the form [X,P]=i\hbar(1+\beta P^2) where \beta is the GUP parameter. The new representation is formally self-adjoint and preserves the ordinary nature of the position operator. We show that both representations result in the same modified semiclassical energy spectrum and agrees well with the quantum mechanical description.

id: 1201.2876
title: Dynamics of coherences in the interacting double-dot Aharonov-Bohm interferometer: Exact numerical simulations
authors: Salil Bedkihal, Dvira Segal
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 155324 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2876
abstract: We study the real time dynamics of electron coherence in a double quantum dot two-terminal Aharonov-Bohm geometry, taking into account repulsion effects between the dots' electrons. The system is simulated by extending a numerically exact path integral method, suitable for treating transport and dissipation in biased impurity models [Phys. Rev. B 82, 205323 (2010)]. Numerical simulations at finite interaction strength are supported by master equation calculations in two other limits: assuming non-interacting electrons, and working in the Coulomb blockade regime. Focusing on the intrinsic coherence dynamics between the double-dot states, we find that its temporal characteristics are preserved under weak-to-intermediate inter-dot Coulomb interaction. In contrast, in the Coulomb blockade limit, a master equation calculation predicts coherence dynamics and a steady-state value which notably deviate from the finite interaction case.

id: 1201.3069
title: Duplex numbers, diffusion systems, and generalized quantum mechanics
authors: Jerzy Kocik
comments: 10 pages. Term "hyperbolic numbers" would be a better choice than "duplex numbers" used in the article. The formalism presented became known as "hyperbolic quantum mechanics"
journal: International Journal of Theoretical Physics, Vol. 38 No. 8, 1999 (pp. 2221-30)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3069
abstract: We show that the relation between the Schr\"odinger equation and diffusion processes has an algebraic nature and can be revealed via the structure of "duplex numbers." This helps one to clarify that quantum mechanics cannot be reduced to diffusion theory. Also, a generalized version of quantum mechanics where $\C$ is replaced by a normed algebra with a unit is proposed.

id: 1201.3080
title: Coherent control of correlated nanodevices: A hybrid time-dependent numerical renormalization-group approach to periodic switching
authors: Eitan Eidelstein, Avraham Schiller, Fabian Guettge, Frithjof B. Anders
comments: 20 pager, Revtex, 10 figures, submitted to Physical Review B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 075118 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3080
abstract: The time-dependent numerical renormalization-group approach (TD-NRG), originally devised for tracking the real-time dynamics of quantum-impurity systems following a single quantum quench, is extended to multiple switching events. This generalization of the TD-NRG encompasses the possibility of periodic switching, allowing for coherent control of strongly correlated systems by an external time-dependent field. To this end, we have embedded the TD-NRG in a hybrid framework that combines the outstanding capabilities of the numerical renormalization group to systematically construct the effective low-energy Hamiltonian of the system with the prowess of complementary approaches for calculating the real-time dynamics derived from this Hamiltonian. We demonstrate the power of our approach by hybridizing the TD-NRG with the Chebyshev expansion technique in order to investigate periodic switching in the interacting resonant-level model. Although the interacting model shares the same low-energy fixed point as its noninteracting counterpart, we surprisingly find the gradual emergence of damped oscillations as the interaction strength is increased. Focusing on a single quantum quench and using a strong-coupling analysis, we reveal the origin of these interaction-induced oscillations and provide an analytical estimate for their frequency. The latter agrees well with the numerical results.

id: 1201.3096
title: Laughlin spin liquid states on lattices obtained from conformal field theory
authors: Anne E. B. Nielsen, J. Ignacio Cirac, German Sierra
comments: 5+6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 257206 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3096
abstract: We propose a set of spin system wavefunctions that are very similar to lattice versions of the Laughlin states. The wavefunction are conformal blocks of conformal field theories, and for filling factor \nu=1/2 we provide a parent Hamiltonian, which is valid for any even number of spins and is at the same time a 2D generalization of the Haldane-Shastry model. We also demonstrate that the Kalmeyer-Laughlin state is reproduced as a particular case of this model. Finally, we discuss various properties of the spin states and point out several analogies to known results for the Laughlin states.

id: 1201.3103
title: Neutrino and antineutrino oscillations from decay of Z boson
authors: I. M. Pavlichenkov
comments: 5 pages, no figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3103
abstract: The two-particle wave function of neutrino and antineutrino after the decay of a Z boson is found as a solution of an initial value problem. The wave packet of this state involves the coherent superposition of massive neutrinos and antineutrinos resulting in independent oscillations of their flavor counterparts. Possible experiments to observe oscillations of a single lepton or both leptons from the same decay and the three independently emitted pairs are considered.

id: 1201.3190
title: Landauer-B¨¹ttiker formula and Schr?dinger conjecture
authors: Laurent Bruneau, Vojkan Jaksic, Claude-Alain Pillet
comments: 
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 319, 501-513, 2013
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3190
abstract: We study the entropy flux in the stationary state of a finite one-dimensional sample S connected at its left and right ends to two infinitely extended reservoirs at distinct temperatures T1, T2 and chemical potentials mu1, mu2. The sample is a free lattice Fermi gas confined to a box [0, L] with energy operator -\Delta + v. The Landauer-B\"uttiker formula expresses the steady state entropy flux in the coupled system in terms of scattering data. We study the behavior of this steady state entropy flux in the limit L->infinity and relate persistence of transport to norm bounds on the transfer matrices of the limiting half-line Schr\"odinger operator h. A natural conjecture is that the set of energies at which transport persists in this limit is precisely the essential support of the absolutely continuous spectrum of h. We show that this conjecture is equivalent to the Schr\"odinger conjecture in spectral theory of one-dimensional Schr\"odinger operators, thus giving a physically appealing interpretation to the Schr\"odinger conjecture.

id: 1201.3240
title: Atom and photon measurement in cooperative scattering by cold atoms
authors: Tom Bienaime, Marco Petruzzo, Daniele Bigerni, Nicola Piovella, Robin Kaiser
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures, article for special issue of PQE 2011
journal: Journal of Modern Optics, Volume 58, Issue 21, pages 1942-1950 (2011)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3240
abstract: In this paper, we study cooperative scattering of low intensity light by a cloud of N two-level systems. We include the incident laser field driving these two-level systems and compute the radiation pressure force on the center of mass of the cloud. This signature is of particular interest for experiments with laser cooled atoms. Including the complex coupling between dipoles in a scalar model for dilute clouds of two-level systems, we obtain expression for cooperative scattering forces taking into account the collective Lamb shift. We also derive the expression of the radiation pressure force on a large cloud of two-level systems from an heuristic approach and show that at lowest driving intensities this force is identical for a product and an entangled state.

id: 1201.3253
title: Probing Atomic Majorana Fermions in Optical Lattices
authors: Christina V. Kraus, Sebastian Diehl, Peter Zoller, Mikhail A. Baranov
comments: Published version
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 113036
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3253
abstract: We introduce a one-dimensional system of fermionic atoms in an optical lattice whose phase diagram includes topological states of different symmetry classes. These states can be identified by their zero-energy edge modes which are Majorana fermions. We propose several universal methods of detecting the Majorana edge states, based on their genuine features: zero-energy, localized character of the wave functions, and induced non-local fermionic correlations.

id: 1201.3305
title: Critical properties and R¨¦nyi entropies of the spin-3/2 XXZ chain
authors: Marcello Dalmonte, Elisa Ercolessi, Luca Taddia
comments: 8 pages, 10 figures; small text revisions and a new figure. Accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 165112 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3305
abstract: We discuss entanglement and critical properties of the spin-3/2 XXZ chain in its entire gapless region. Employing density-matrix renormalization group calculations combined with different methods based on level spectroscopy, correlation functions and entanglement entropies, we determine the sound velocity and the Luttinger parameter of the model as a function of the anisotropy parameter. Then, we focus on entanglement properties by systematically studying the behavior of R\'enyi entropies under both open and periodic boundary conditions, providing further evidence of recent findings about entanglement entropies of excited states in conformal field theory.

id: 1201.3344
title: Coexistence of spin-1/2 and spin-1 Dirac-Weyl fermions in the edge-centered honeycomb lattice
authors: Zhihao Lan, Nathan Goldman, Patrik Ohberg
comments: published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 155451 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3344
abstract: We investigate the properties of an edge-centered honeycomb lattice, and show that this lattice features both spin-1/2 and spin-1 Dirac-Weyl fermions at different filling fractions f (f=1/5,4/5 for spin-1/2 and f=1/2 for spin-1). This five-band system is the simplest lattice that can support simultaneously the two different paradigmatic Dirac-Weyl fermions with half-integer spin and integer spin. We demonstrate that these pseudo-relativistic structures, including a flat band at half-filling, can be deduced from the underlying Kagome sublattice. We further show that the signatures of the two kinds of relativistic fermions can be clearly revealed by several perturbations, such as a uniform magnetic field, a Haldane-type spin-orbit term, and charge density waves. We comment on the possibility to probe the similarities and differences between the two kinds of relativistic fermions, or even to isolate them individually. We present a realistic scheme to realize such a system using cold atoms.

id: 1201.3347
title: Hubble and Planck scale limits on the determination of orbital angular momentum states of light
authors: F. Tamburini, B. Thid¨¦, A. Sponselli
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3347
abstract: We review Heisenberg's uncertainty principle for the orbital angular momentum (OAM) of light. By taking into account the largest and smallest scales present in nature, such as the the Hubble radius and the Planck length, we have found that there exist upper and lower physical limits to the determination of the OAM of a photon.

id: 1201.3384
title: Planar Superconducting Resonators with Internal Quality Factors above One Million
authors: A. Megrant, C. Neill, R. Barends, B. Chiaro, Yu Chen, L. Feigl, J. Kelly, Erik Lucero, Matteo Mariantoni, P. J. J. O'Malley, D. Sank, A. Vainsencher, J. Wenner, T. C. White, Y. Yin, J. Zhao, C. J. Palmstr?m, John M. Martinis, A. N. Cleland
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 1 table
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3384
abstract: We describe the fabrication and measurement of microwave coplanar waveguide resonators with internal quality factors above 10 million at high microwave powers and over 1 million at low powers, with the best low power results approaching 2 million, corresponding to ~1 photon in the resonator. These quality factors are achieved by controllably producing very smooth and clean interfaces between the resonators' aluminum metallization and the underlying single crystal sapphire substrate. Additionally, we describe a method for analyzing the resonator microwave response, with which we can directly determine the internal quality factor and frequency of a resonator embedded in an imperfect measurement circuit.

id: 1201.3388
title: Photon condensation in circuit QED by engineered dissipation
authors: D. Marcos, A. Tomadin, S. Diehl, P. Rabl
comments: 
journal: New J. Phys. 14, 055005 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3388
abstract: We study photon condensation phenomena in a driven and dissipative array of superconducting microwave resonators. Specifically, we show that by using an appropriately designed coupling of microwave photons to superconducting qubits, an effective dissipative mechanism can be engineered, which scatters photons towards low-momentum states while conserving their number. This mimics a tunable coupling of bosons to a low temperature bath, and leads to the formation of a stationary photon condensate in the presence of losses and under continuous-driving conditions. Here we propose a realistic experimental setup to observe this effect in two or multiple coupled cavities, and study the characteristics of such an out-of-equilibrium condensate, which arise from the competition between pumping and dissipation processes.

id: 1201.3434
title: The two-qubit controlled-phase gate based on cross-phase modulation in GaAs/AlGaAs semiconductor quantum wells
authors: X. Q. Luo, D. L. Wang, H. Fan, W. M. Liu
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3434
abstract: We present a realization of two-qubit controlled-phase gate, based on the linear and nonlinear properties of the probe and signal optical pulses in an asymmetric GaAs/AlGaAs double quantum wells. It is shown that, in the presence of cross-phase modulation, a giant cross-Kerr nonlinearity and mutually matched group velocities of the probe and signal optical pulses can be achieved while realizing the suppression of linear and self-Kerr optical absorption synchronously. These characteristics serve to exhibit an all-optical two-qubit controlled-phase gate within efficiently controllable photon-photon entanglement by semiconductor mediation. In addition, by using just polarizing beam splitters and half-wave plates, we propose a practical experimental scheme to discriminate the maximally entangled polarization state of two-qubit through distinguishing two out of the four Bell states. This proposal potentially enables the realization of solid states mediated all-optical quantum computation and information processing.

id: 1201.3487
title: A Quaternion Based Quantum Chemical ab initio Treatment of Coherent and Non-Coherent Electron Transport in Molecules
authors: Augusto C. L. Moreira, Celso P. de Melo
comments: Main text: 27 pages, including 01 Scheme and 01 Figure Supporting Information: 30 pages, including 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3487
abstract: We present a quaternion inspired formalism specifically developed to evaluate the intensity of the electrical current that traverses a single molecule connected to two semi-infinite electrodes as the applied external bias is varied. The self-adjustment of the molecular levels is fully described at a density functional ab initio quantum chemical level. Use of a quaternion approach allows for an integrated treatment of both coherent (ballistic) and non-coherent (co-tunneling) contributions to the effective charge transport, where the latter involve the existence of transient charged states of the corresponding molecular species. An expression for the net current is calculated by using second-order perturbation theory to take into account all possible transitions between states localized at the two different electrodes that involve intermediary levels in the so-called "extended molecule" complex that comprises the system of interest attached to two small metallic clusters. We show that by a judicious choice of the relevant molecular parameters, the formalism can be extended to describe the electronic transport both in conjugated as in saturated molecules, where localized orbitals are more likely to be found. In this manner, the method can be applied to the full range of coupling regimes, not only to the weak or strong cases, but also in intermediate situations, where ballistic and co-tunneling processes may coexist.

id: 1201.3523
title: Electron Dynamics in Slowly Varying Antiferromagnetic Texture
authors: Ran Cheng, Qian Niu
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 245118 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3523
abstract: Effective dynamics of conduction electrons in antiferromagnetic (AFM) materials with slowly varying spin texture is developed via non-Abelian gauge theory. Quite different from the ferromagnetic (FM) case, the spin of a conduction electron does not follow the background texture even in the adiabatic limit due to the accumulation of a SU(2) non-Abelian Berry phase. Correspondingly, it is found that the orbital dynamics becomes spin-dependent and is affected by two emergent gauge fields. While one of them is the non-Abelian generalization of what has been discovered in FM systems, the other leads to an anomalous velocity that has no FM counterpart. Two examples are provided to illustrate the distinctive spin dynamics of a conduction electron.

id: 1201.3534
title: Atom-photon interactions in a system of coupled cavities
authors: Abdelkrim El Amili, S¨¦bastien Gleyzes, Christoph I Westbrook
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3534
abstract: We give a theoretical treatment of single atom detection in an compound, optical micro cavity. The cavity consists of a single mode semiconductor waveguide with a gap to allow atoms to interact with the optical field in the cavity. Optical losses, both in the semiconductor and induced by the gap are considered and we give an estimate of the cavity finesse. We also compute the cooperativity parameter and show how it depends on the gap width and cavity length. Maximization of the cooperativity does not always correspond to maximization of the coupling.

id: 1201.3541
title: Pinning effect and QPT-like behavior for two particles confined by a core-shell potential
authors: Pier Paolo Marchisio, Jeremy P. Coe, Irene D'Amico
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3541
abstract: We study the ground state entanglement, energy and fidelities of a two-electron system bounded by a core-shell potential, where the core width is varied continuously until it eventually vanishes. This simple system displays a rich and complex behavior: as the core width is varied, this system is characterized by two peculiar transitions where, for different reasons, it displays characteristics similar to a few-particle quantum phase transition. The first occurrence corresponds to something akin to a second order quantum phase transition, while the second transition is marked by a discontinuity, with respect to the driving parameter, in the first derivatives of quantities like energy and entanglement. The study of this system allows to shed light on the sudden variation of entanglement and energy observed in S. Abdullah et al. [Phys. Rev. B 80, 235302 (2009)]. We also compare the core-shell system with a system where a core well is absent: this shows that, even when extremely narrow, the core well has a relevant `pinning' effect. Interestingly, depending on the potential symmetry, the pinning of the wavefunction may either halve or double the system entanglement (with respect to the no-core-well system) when the ground state is already bounded to the outer (shell) well. In the process we discuss the system fidelity and show the usefulness of considering the particle density fidelity as opposed to the more commonly used -- but much more difficult to access -- wavefunction fidelity. In particular we demonstrate that -- for ground-states with nodeless spatial wavefunctions -- the particle density fidelity is zero if and only if the wavefunction fidelity is zero.

id: 1201.3695
title: Entanglement entropy dynamics of disordered quantum spin chains
authors: Ferenc Igloi, Zsolt Szatmari, Yu-Cheng Lin
comments: 8 pages, 8(+1) figures; published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 094417 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3695
abstract: By means of free fermionic techniques we study the time evolution of the entanglement entropy, S(t), of a block of spins in the random transverse-field Ising chain after a sudden change of the parameters of the Hamiltonian. We consider global quenches, when the parameters are modified uniformly in space, as well as local quenches, when two disconnected blocks are suddenly joined together. For a non-critical final state, the dynamical entanglement entropy is found to approach a finite limiting value for both types of quenches. If the quench is performed to the critical state, the entropy grows for an infinite block as S(t) \sim ln ln t. This type of ultraslow increase is explained through the strong disorder renormalization group method.

id: 1201.3717
title: Exact Solvability of the two-photon Rabi Hamiltonian
authors: Igor Travenec
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3717
abstract: Exact spectrum of the two-photon Rabi Hamiltonian is found, proceeding in full analogy with the solution of standard (one-photon) Rabi Hamiltonian, published by Braak in Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 100401 (2011). The Hamiltonian is rewritten as a set of two differential equations. Symmetries that get hidden after further treatment are found. One can plainly see, how the Hilbert space splits into four disjunct subspaces, categorized by four values of the symmetry parameter $c=\pm1,\pm i$. There were only two values $\pm1$ for the standard Rabi model. Four analytic functions are introduced by a recurrence scheme for the coefficients of their series expansion. All their roots yield the complete spectrum of the Hamiltonian. Eigenstates in Bargmann space are also at disposal.

id: 1201.3742
title: Ultranarrow CPO resonance in a ¦«-type atomic system
authors: T. Laupr¨ºtre, S. Kumar, P. Berger, R. Faoro, R. Ghosh, F. Bretenaker, F. Goldfarb
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 85, p. 051805 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3742
abstract: It is well known that ultranarrow electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) resonances can be observed in atomic gases at room temperature. We report here the experimental observation of another type of ultranarrow resonances, as narrow as the EIT ones, in a \Lambda-system selected by light polarization in metastable 4He at room temperature. It is shown to be due to coherent population oscillations in an open two-level system (TLS). For perpendicular linearly polarized coupling and probe beams, this system can be considered as two coupled open TLSs, in which the ground state populations exhibit anti-phase oscillations. We also predict theoretically that in case of two parallel polarizations, the system would behave like a closed TLS, and the narrow resonance associated with these oscillations would disappear.

id: 1201.3750
title: Effective mass theory of monolayer ¦Ä-doping in the high-density limit
authors: Daniel W. Drumm, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg, Michelle Y. Simmons, Mark Friesen
comments: 
journal: Physical Review B 85:155419, 2012
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3750
abstract: Monolayer \delta-doped structures in silicon have attracted renewed interest with their recent incorporation into atomic-scale device fabrication strategies as source and drain electrodes and in-plane gates. Modeling the physics of \delta-doping at this scale proves challenging, however, due to the large computational overhead associated with ab initio and atomistic methods. Here, we develop an analytical theory based on an effective mass approximation. We specifically consider the Si:P materials system, and the limit of high donor density, which has been the subject of recent experiments. In this case, metallic behavior including screening tends to smooth out the local disorder potential associated with random dopant placement. While smooth potentials may be difficult to incorporate into microscopic, single-electron analyses, the problem is easily treated in the effective mass theory by means of a jellium approximation for the ionic charge. We then go beyond the analytic model, incorporating exchange and correlation effects within a simple numerical model. We argue that such an approach is appropriate for describing realistic, high-density, highly disordered devices, providing results comparable to density functional theory, but with greater intuitive appeal, and lower computational effort. We investigate valley coupling in these structures, finding that valley splitting in the low-lying \Gamma band grows much more quickly than the \Gamma-\Delta band splitting at high densities. We also find that many-body exchange and correlation corrections affect the valley splitting more strongly than they affect the band splitting.

id: 1201.3751
title: Ab initio calculation of valley splitting in monolayer ¦Ä-doped phosphorus in silicon
authors: Daniel W. Drumm, Akin Budi, Manolo C. Per, Salvy P. Russo, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 
journal: Nanoscale Research Letters 8:111, 2013
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3751
abstract: The differences in energy between electronic bands due to valley splitting are of paramount importance in interpreting transport spectroscopy experiments on state-of-the-art quantum devices defined by scanning tunneling microscope lithography. We develop a plane-wave density functional theory description of these systems which is size-limited due to computational tractability. We then develop a less resource-intensive alternative via localized basis functions, retaining the physics of the plane-wave description, and extend this model beyond the capability of plane-wave methods to determine the ab initio valley splitting of well-isolated \delta-layers. In obtaining agreement between plane-wave and delocalized methods, we show that the valley splitting has been overestimated in previous ab initio calculations by more than 50%.

id: 1201.3765
title: The arrangement field of the space-time points
authors: Diego Marin
comments: 144 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3765
abstract: Arrangement field theory is a theory of everything which describes all particles as different manifestations of an unique field, the gauge field Sp(12,C). All fields (bosons and fermions in three families) fill up the adjoint representation of Lie group Sp(12,C), with quarks and leptons which take the role of gauginos. The theory represents a serious improvement of current Quantum Field Theory and includes some features of String Theory and Loop Gravity. It starts by describing universe as an ensemble of vertices connected by edges, where the existence of an edge is regulated by a quantum amplitude. This implies that universe is made by elementary blocks (atoms of space-time), whose reciprocal positions are determined by a probabilistic law. In such a way, concepts as "near", "far" or "between to" become limited. After a huge number of measurements we can find "far" a particle which first was "near", due to displacement of space-time block where the particle has sat. This occurence is highly improbable nowadays, but it has been the normality just after Big Bang. At that time the universe was made by mini-blocks which have continuously exchanged their positions.

id: 1201.3838
title: Matrix representation of the time operator
authors: Carl M. Bender, M. Gianfreda
comments: 13 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3838
abstract: In quantum mechanics the time operator $\Theta$ satisfies the commutation relation $[\Theta,H]=i$, and thus it may be thought of as being canonically conjugate to the Hamiltonian $H$. The time operator associated with a given Hamiltonian $H$ is not unique because one can replace $\Theta$ by $\Theta+ \Theta_{\rm hom}$, where $\Theta_{\rm hom}$ satisfies the homogeneous condition $[\Theta_{\rm hom},H]=0$. To study this nonuniqueness the matrix elements of $\Theta$ for the harmonic-oscillator Hamiltonian are calculated in the eigenstate basis. This calculation requires the summation of divergent series, and the summation is accomplished by using zeta-summation techniques. It is shown that by including appropriate homogeneous contributions, the matrix elements of $\Theta$ simplify dramatically. However, it is still not clear whether there is an optimally simple representation of the time operator.

id: 1201.3843
title: An Exact Solution of a Generalization of the Rabi Model
authors: Fred Moolekamp
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3843
abstract: There has been renewed theoretical interest recently in the Rabi model due to Braak's analytical solution and introduction of a new criterion for integrability. We focus not on the integrability of the system but rather why it is solvable in the first place. We show that the Rabi model is the limiting case of a more general finite dimensional system by use of a contraction and suggest that this is the reason for it's solvability, which still applies in the case of non-integrable but solvable variations.

id: 1201.3903
title: Symmetries of finite Heisenberg groups for k-partite systems
authors: M. Korbelar, J. Tolar
comments: 6 pages, to appear in Proceedings of QTS7 "Quantum Theory and Symmetries 7", Prague, August 7-13, 2011
journal: Journal of Physics: Conference Series 343 (2012) 012122
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3903
abstract: Symmetries of finite Heisenberg groups represent an important tool for the study of deeper structure of finite-dimensional quantum mechanics. This short contribution presents extension of previous investigations to composite quantum systems comprised of k subsystems which are described with position and momentum variables in Z_{n_i}, i=1,...,k. Their Hilbert spaces are given by k-fold tensor products of Hilbert spaces of dimensions n_1,...,n_k. Symmetry group of the corresponding finite Heisenberg group is given by the quotient group of a certain normalizer. We provide the description of the symmetry groups for arbitrary multipartite cases. The new class of symmetry groups represents very specific generalization of finite symplectic groups over modular rings.

id: 1201.3951
title: Estimation of length scale of RS II-$p$ braneworld model through perturbations in Helium's atom ground state energy
authors: Nephtali Garrido, Hector H. Hernandez
comments: 9 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3951
abstract: We put to the test an effective three-dimensional electrostatic potential, obtained effectively by considering an electrostatic source inside a (5+$p$)-dimensional braneworld scenario with $p$ compact and one infinite spacial extra dimensions in the RS II-$p$ model, for $p=1$ and $p=2$. This potential is regular at the source and matches the standard Coulomb potential outside a neighborhood. We use variational and perturbative approximation methods to calculate corrections to the ground energy of the Helium atom modified by this potential, by making use of a 6 and 39-parameter trial wave function of Hylleraas type for the ground state. These corrections to the ground-state energy are compared with experimental data for Helium atom in order to set bounds for the extra dimensions length scale. We find that these bounds are less restrictive than the ones obtained by Morales et. al. through a calculation using the Lamb shift in Hydrogen.

id: 1201.3974
title: Perfect Sampling with Unitary Tensor Networks
authors: Andrew J. Ferris, Guifre Vidal
comments: 11 pages, 9 figures, renamed partial sampling to incomplete sampling for clarity, extra references, plus a variety of minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 165146 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3974
abstract: Tensor network states are powerful variational ans\"atze for many-body ground states of quantum lattice models. The use of Monte Carlo sampling techniques in tensor network approaches significantly reduces the cost of tensor contractions, potentially leading to a substantial increase in computational efficiency. Previous proposals are based on a Markov chain Monte Carlo scheme generated by locally updating configurations and, as such, must deal with equilibration and autocorrelation times, which result in a reduction of efficiency. Here we propose a perfect sampling scheme, with vanishing equilibration and autocorrelation times, for unitary tensor networks -- namely tensor networks based on efficiently contractible, unitary quantum circuits, such as unitary versions of the matrix product state (MPS) and tree tensor network (TTN), and the multi-scale entanglement renormalization ansatz (MERA). Configurations are directly sampled according to their probabilities in the wavefunction, without resorting to a Markov chain process. We also describe a partial sampling scheme that can result in a dramatic (basis-dependent) reduction of sampling error.

id: 1201.3975
title: Variational Monte Carlo with the Multi-Scale Entanglement Renormalization Ansatz
authors: Andrew J. Ferris, Guifre Vidal
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures, a variety of minor clarifications and corrections
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 165147 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3975
abstract: Monte Carlo sampling techniques have been proposed as a strategy to reduce the computational cost of contractions in tensor network approaches to solving many-body systems. Here we put forward a variational Monte Carlo approach for the multi-scale entanglement renormalization ansatz (MERA), which is a unitary tensor network. Two major adjustments are required compared to previous proposals with non-unitary tensor networks. First, instead of sampling over configurations of the original lattice, made of L sites, we sample over configurations of an effective lattice, which is made of just log(L) sites. Second, the optimization of unitary tensors must account for their unitary character while being robust to statistical noise, which we accomplish with a modified steepest descent method within the set of unitary tensors. We demonstrate the performance of the variational Monte Carlo MERA approach in the relatively simple context of a finite quantum spin chain at criticality, and discuss future, more challenging applications, including two dimensional systems.

id: 1201.3992
title: High harmonic spectra via dominant interaction Hamiltonians
authors: Carlos Zagoya, Christoph-Marian Goletz, Frank Grossmann, Jan M. Rost
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3992
abstract: We formulate the concept of dominant interaction Hamiltonians to obtain an integrable approximation to the dynamics of an electron exposed to a strong laser field and an atomic potential leading to high harmonic generation. The concept relies on local information in phase space to switch between the interactions. This information is provided by classical integrable trajectories from which we construct a semiclassical wave function. The high harmonic spectrum obtained is in excellent agreement with the accurate quantum spectrum. The separation in the atomic potential and laser coupling interactions should facilitate the calculation of high harmonic spectra in complex systems.

id: 1201.4087
title: Evidence for speed-dependent effects in NH3 self-broadened spectra: towards a new determination of the Boltzmann constant
authors: Meriam Triki, Cyril Lemarchand, Beno?t Darqui¨¦, Papa Lat Tabara Sow, Vincent Roncin, Christian Chardonnet, Christophe Daussy
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures, 1 table
journal: Physical Review A 85, 6 (2012) 062510
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4087
abstract: In this paper we present an accurate analysis of the shape of an isolated rovibrational ammonia line from the strong nu2 band around 10 $\mu$m, recorded by laser absorption spectroscopy. Experimental spectra obtained under controlled temperature and pressure, are confronted to various models that take into account Dicke narrowing or speed-dependent effects. Our results show clear evidence for speed-dependent broadening and shifting, which had never been demonstrated so far in NH3. Accurate lineshape parameters of the nu2 saQ(6,3) line are obtained. Our current project aiming at measuring the Boltzmann constant, kB, by laser spectroscopy will straight away benefit from such knowledge. We anticipate that a first optical determination of kB with a competitive uncertainty of a few ppm is now reachable.

id: 1201.4174
title: An order parameter for symmetry-protected phases in one dimension
authors: Jutho Haegeman, David Perez-Garcia, Ignacio Cirac, Norbert Schuch
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures. v2: tiny corrections, accepted version, Journal-Ref added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 050402 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4174
abstract: We introduce an order parameter for symmetry-protected phases in one dimension which allows to directly identify those phases. The order parameter consists of string-like operators and swaps, but differs from conventional string order operators in that it only depends on the symmetry but not on the state. We verify our framework through numerical simulations for the SO(3) invariant spin-1 bilinear-biquadratic model which exhibits a dimerized and a Haldane phase, and find that the order parameter not only works very well for the dimerized and the Haldane phase, but it also returns a distinct signature for gapless phases. Finally, we discuss possible ways to measure the order parameter in experiments with cold atoms.

id: 1201.4310
title: Efimov physics beyond universality
authors: Richard Schmidt, Steffen Patrick Rath, Wilhelm Zwerger
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures; final version
journal: Eur. Phys. J. B 85, 386 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4310
abstract: We provide an exact solution of the Efimov spectrum in ultracold gases within the standard two-channel model for Feshbach resonances. It is shown that the finite range in the Feshbach coupling makes the introduction of an adjustable three-body parameter obsolete. The solution explains the empirical relation between the scattering length a_- where the first Efimov state appears at the atom threshold and the van der Waals length l_vdw for open channel dominated resonances. There is a continuous crossover to the closed channel dominated limit, where the scale in the energy level diagram as a function of the inverse scattering length 1/a is set by the intrinsic length r* associated with the Feshbach coupling. Our results provide a number of predictions for non-universal ratios between energies and scattering lengths that can be tested in future experiments.

id: 1201.4349
title: Synthetic partial waves in ultracold atomic collisions
authors: R. A. Williams, L. J. LeBlanc, K. Jimenez-Garcia, M. C. Beeler, A. R. Perry, W. D. Phillips, I. B. Spielman
comments: 
journal: Science 335, 314-317 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4349
abstract: Interactions between particles can be strongly altered by their environment. We demonstrate a technique for modifying interactions between ultracold atoms by dressing the bare atomic states with light, creating an effective interaction of vastly increased range that scatters states of finite relative angular momentum at collision energies where only s-wave scattering would normally be expected. We collided two optically dressed neutral atomic Bose-Einstein condensates with equal, and opposite, momenta and observed that the usual s-wave distribution of scattered atoms was altered by the appearance of d- and g-wave contributions. This technique is expected to enable quantum simulation of exotic systems, including those predicted to support Majorana fermions.

id: 1201.4416
title: Non-equilibrium dynamics of the Tavis-Cummings model
authors: Peter Barmettler, Davide Fioretto, Vladimir Gritsev
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: EPL, 104 (2013) 10004
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4416
abstract: In quantum many-body theory no generic microscopic principle at the origin of complex dynamics is known. Quite opposed, in classical mechanics the theory of non-linear dynamics provides a detailed framework for the distinction between near-integrable and chaotic systems. Here we propose to describe the off-equilibrium dynamics of the Tavis-Cummings model by an underlying classical Hamiltonian system, which can be analyzed using the powerful tools of classical theory of motion. We show that scattering in the classical phase space can drive the quantum model close to thermal equilibrium. Interestingly, this happens in the fully quantum regime, where physical observables do not show any dynamic chaotic behavior.

id: 1201.4420
title: Measurement and Control of Single Nitrogen-Vacancy Center Spins above 600 K
authors: D. M. Toyli, D. J. Christle, A. Alkauskas, B. B. Buckley, C. G. Van de Walle, D. D. Awschalom
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, and 14 pages of supplemental material with additional figures. Title change and minor revisions from previous version. DMT and DJC contributed equally to this work
journal: Phys. Rev. X 2, 031001 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4420
abstract: We study the spin and orbital dynamics of single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond between room temperature and 700 K. We find that the ability to optically address and coherently control single spins above room temperature is limited by nonradiative processes that quench the NV center's fluorescence-based spin readout between 550 and 700 K. Combined with electronic structure calculations, our measurements indicate that the energy difference between the 3E and 1A1 electronic states is approximately 0.8 eV. We also demonstrate that the inhomogeneous spin lifetime (T2*) is temperature independent up to at least 625 K, suggesting that single NV centers could be applied as nanoscale thermometers over a broad temperature range.

id: 1201.4470
title: From spin to anyon notation: The XXZ Heisenberg model as a $D_{3}$ (or $su(2)_{4}$) anyon chain
authors: Peter E. Finch
comments: 13 pages
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46 (2013) 055305
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4470
abstract: We discuss a relationship between certain one-dimensional quantum spin chains and anyon chains. In particular we show how the XXZ Heisenberg chain is realised as a $D_{3}$ (alternately $su(2)_{4}$) anyon model. We find the difference between the models lie primarily in choice of boundary condition.

id: 1201.4608
title: Semiclassical approximations for Hamiltonians with operator-valued symbols
authors: Hans-Michael Stiepan, Stefan Teufel
comments: Final version to appear in Commun. Math. Phys. Results have been strengthened with only minor changes to the proofs. A section on the Hofstadter model as an application of the general theory was added and the previous section on other applications was removed
journal: Commun. Math. Phys. 320 (2013), 821-849
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4608
abstract: We consider the semiclassical limit of quantum systems with a Hamiltonian given by the Weyl quantization of an operator valued symbol. Systems composed of slow and fast degrees of freedom are of this form. Typically a small dimensionless parameter $\varepsilon\ll 1$ controls the separation of time scales and the limit $\varepsilon\to 0$ corresponds to an adiabatic limit, in which the slow and fast degrees of freedom decouple. At the same time $\varepsilon\to 0$ is the semiclassical limit for the slow degrees of freedom. In this paper we show that the $\varepsilon$-dependent classical flow for the slow degrees of freedom first discovered by Littlejohn and Flynn, coming from an $\epsi$-dependent classical Hamilton function and an $\varepsilon$-dependent symplectic form, has a concrete mathematical and physical meaning: Based on this flow we prove a formula for equilibrium expectations, an Egorov theorem and transport of Wigner functions, thereby approximating properties of the quantum system up to errors of order $\varepsilon^2$. In the context of Bloch electrons formal use of this classical system has triggered considerable progress in solid state physics. Hence we discuss in some detail the application of the general results to the Hofstadter model, which describes a two-dimensional gas of non-interacting electrons in a constant magnetic field in the tight-binding approximation.

id: 1201.4610
title: Reducing decoherence in optical and spin transitions in rare-earth-ion doped materials
authors: D. L. McAuslan, J. G. Bartholomew, M. J. Sellars, J. J. Longdell
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4610
abstract: In many important situations the dominant dephasing mechanism in cryogenic rare-earth-ion doped systems is due to magnetic field fluctuations from spins in the host crystal. Operating at a magnetic field where a transition has a zero first-order-Zeeman (ZEFOZ) shift can greatly reduce this dephasing. Here we identify the location of transitions with zero first-order Zeeman shift for optical transitions in Pr3+:YAG and for spin transitions in Er3+:Y2SiO5. The long coherence times that ZEFOZ would enable would make Pr3+:YAG a strong candidate for achieving the strong coupling regime of cavity QED, and would be an important step forward in creating long-lived telecommunications wavelength quantum memories in Er3+:Y2SiO5. This work relies mostly on published spin Hamiltonian parameters but Raman heterodyne spectroscopy was performed on Pr3+:YAG to measure the parameters for the excited state.

id: 1201.4627
title: Stabilization of one-dimensional solitons against the critical collapse by quintic nonlinear lattices
authors: Jianhua Zeng, Boris A. Malomed
comments: 8 pages,9 figures. Physical Review A (in press)
journal: 
subjects: Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4627
abstract: It has been recently discovered that stabilization of two-dimensional (2D) solitons against the critical collapse in media with the cubic nonlinearity by means of nonlinear lattices (NLs) is a challenging problem. We address the 1D version of the problem, i.e., the nonlinear-Schr\"odinger equation (NLSE) with the quintic or cubic-quintic (CQ) terms, the coefficient in front of which is periodically modulated in space. The models may be realized in optics and Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs). Stability diagrams for the solitons are produced by means of numerical methods and analytical approximations. It is found that the sinusoidal NL stabilzes solitons supported by the quintic-only nonlinearity in a narrow stripe in the respective parameter plane, on the contrary to the case of the cubic nonlinearity in 2D, where the stabilization of solitons by smooth spatial modulations is not possible at all. The stability region is much broader in the 1D CQ model, where higher-order solitons may be stable too.

id: 1201.4636
title: Synthetic charge-flux quantum liquids
authors: Tapio P Simula
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 144521 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4636
abstract: We apply rotating optical flux lattices to spinor Bose-Einstein condensates. Distinct quantum states emerge for fractional ratios of vortex charge density to optical flux density. We exhibit the calculated charge-flux states and discuss their topological structure and experimental signatures.

id: 1201.4685
title: Order Effects in Sequential Measurements of Non-Commuting Psychological Observables
authors: Harald Atmanspacher, Hartmann Roemer
comments: 12 pages, minor corrections and additional explanations, in particular in sectios 2-4, new example in section 4, acknowledgement
journal: Journal of Mathematical Psychology 56 (2012), 274-280
subjects: Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability (physics.data-an); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4685
abstract: Sequential measurements of non-commuting observables produce order effects that are well-known in quantum physics. But their conceptual basis, a significant measurement interaction, is relevant for far more general situations. We argue that non-commutativity is ubiquitous in psychology where almost every interaction with a mental system changes that system in an uncontrollable fashion. Psychological order effects for sequential measurements are therefore to be expected as a rule. In this paper we focus on the theoretical basis of such effects. We classify several families of order effects theoretically, relate them to psychological observations, and predict effects yet to be discovered empirically. We assess the complexity, related to the predictive power, of particular (Hilbert space) models of order effects and discuss possible limitations of such models.

id: 1201.4746
title: Molecular Gas Adsorption Induced Carrier Transport Studies of Epitaxial Graphene using IR Reflection Spectroscopy
authors: B. K. Daas, W. K. Nomani, K. M. Daniels, T. S. Sudarshan, Goutam Koley, M. V. S. Chandrashekhar
comments: 4 pages, 1 fig (This is accepted as a journal of material science forum)
journal: 
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4746
abstract: We investigate molecular adsorption doping by electron withdrawing NO2 and electron donating NH3 on epitaxial graphene grown on C-face SiC substrates. Amperometric measurements show conductance changes upon introduction of molecular adsorbents on epitaxial graphene. Conductance changes are a trade-off between carrier concentration and scattering, and manifest at direct current and optical frequencies. We therefore investigate changes in the infrared (IR) reflection spectra to correlate these two frequency domains, as reflectance changes are due to a change of epitaxial graphene (EG) surface conductance. We match theory with experimental IR data and extract changes in carrier concentration and scattering due to gas adsorption. Finally, we separate the intraband and interband scattering contributions to the electronic transport under gas adsorption. The results indicate that, under gas adsorption, the influence of interband scattering cannot be neglected, even at DC.

id: 1201.4759
title: Dynamical Localization for d-Dimensional Random Quantum Walks
authors: Alain Joye
comments: Typos, errors and omissions corrected. Invited paper to appear in Quantum Information Processing, Special Issue on Quantum Walks
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4759
abstract: We consider a d-dimensional random quantum walk with site-dependent random coin operators. The corresponding transition coefficients are characterized by deterministic amplitudes times independent identically distributed site-dependent random phases. When the deterministic transition amplitudes are close enough to those of a quantum walk which forbids propagation, we prove that dynamical localization holds for almost all random phases. This instance of Anderson localization implies that all quantum mechanical moments of the position operator are uniformly bounded in time and that spectral localization holds, almost surely.

id: 1201.4783
title: An improved proximity force approximation for electrostatics
authors: C. D. Fosco, F. C. Lombardo, F. D. Mazzitelli
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures. Version to be published in Annals of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Classical Physics (physics.class-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4783
abstract: A quite straightforward approximation for the electrostatic interaction between two perfectly conducting surfaces suggests itself when the distance between them is much smaller than the characteristic lengths associated to their shapes. Indeed, in the so called "proximity force approximation" the electrostatic force is evaluated by first dividing each surface into a set of small flat patches, and then adding up the forces due two opposite pairs, the contribution of which are approximated as due to pairs of parallel planes. This approximation has been widely and successfully applied to different contexts, ranging from nuclear physics to Casimir effect calculations. We present here an improvement on this approximation, based on a derivative expansion for the electrostatic energy contained between the surfaces. The results obtained could be useful to discuss the geometric dependence of the electrostatic force, and also as a convenient benchmark for numerical analyses of the tip-sample electrostatic interaction in atomic force microscopes.

id: 1201.4865
title: Entanglement Entropy of Two Spheres
authors: Noburo Shiba
comments: 17 pages, 9 figures; v4, added references, revised argument in section V, a typo in eq.(25) corrected, published version
journal: JHEP07(2012)100
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4865
abstract: We study the entanglement entropy S_{AB} of a massless free scalar field on two spheres A and B whose radii are R_1 and R_2, respectively, and the distance between the centers of them is r. The state of the massless free scalar field is the vacuum state. We obtain the result that the mutual information S_{A;B}:=S_A+S_B-S_{AB} is independent of the ultraviolet cutoff and proportional to the product of the areas of the two spheres when r>>R_1,R_2, where S_A and S_B are the entanglement entropy on the inside region of A and B, respectively. We discuss possible connections of this result with the physics of black holes.

id: 1201.4866
title: Density functional theory with fractional orbital occupations
authors: Jeng-Da Chai
comments: accepted for publication in J. Chem. Phys., 45 pages, 21 figures, 3 tables, supplementary material not included
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 136, 154104 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4866
abstract: In contrast to the original Kohn-Sham (KS) formalism, we propose a density functional theory (DFT) with fractional orbital occupations for the study of ground states of many-electron systems, wherein strong static correlation is shown to be described. Even at the simplest level represented by the local density approximation (LDA), our resulting DFT-LDA is shown to improve upon KS-LDA for multi-reference systems, such as dissociation of H2 and N2, and twisted ethylene, while performing similarly to KS-LDA for single-reference systems, such as reaction energies and equilibrium geometries. Because of its computational efficiency (similar to KS-LDA), this DFT-LDA is applied to the study of the singlet-triplet energy gaps (ST gaps) of acenes, which are "challenging problems" for conventional electronic structure methods due to the presence of strong static correlation effects. Our calculated ST gaps are in good agreement with the existing experimental and high-level ab initio data. The ST gaps are shown to decrease monotonically with the increase of chain length, and become vanishingly small (within 0.1 kcal/mol) in the limit of an infinitely large polyacene. In addition, based on our calculated active orbital occupation numbers, the ground states for large acenes are shown to be polyradical singlets.

id: 1201.4979
title: Faddeev equation approach for three-cluster nuclear reactions
authors: A. Deltuva, A.C. Fonseca, R. Lazauskas
comments: Submitted to "Clusters in Nuclei Vol. 3"
journal: 
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4979
abstract: In this lecture we aim to present a formalism based on Faddeev-like equations for describing nuclear three-cluster reactions that include elastic, transfer and breakup channels. Two different techniques based on momentum-space and configuration-space representations are explained in detail. An important new feature of these methods is the possibility to account for the repulsive Coulomb interaction between two of the three clusters in all channels. Comparison with previous calculations based on approximate methods used in nuclear reaction theory is also discussed.

id: 1201.5015
title: Spatio-temporal Fermionization of Strongly Interacting 1D Bosons
authors: V. Guarrera, D. Muth, R. Labouvie, A. Vogler, G. Barontini, M. Fleischhauer, H. Ott
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 021601(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5015
abstract: Building on the recent experimental achievements obtained with scanning electron microscopy on ultracold atoms, we study one-dimensional Bose gases in the crossover between the weakly (quasi-condensate) and the strongly interacting (Tonks-Girardeau) regime. We measure the temporal two-particle correlation function and compare it with calculations performed using the Time Evolving Block Decimation algorithm. More pronounced antibunching is observed when entering the more strongly interacting regime. Even though this mimics the onset of a fermionic behavior, we highlight that the exact and simple duality between 1D bosons and fermions does not hold when such dynamical response is probed. The onset of fermionization is also reflected in the density distribution, which we measure \emph{in situ} to extract the relevant parameters and to identify the different regimes. Our results show agreement between experiment and theory and give new insight into the dynamics of strongly correlated many-body systems.

id: 1201.5036
title: Hyperfine induced electron spin and entanglement dynamics in double quantum dots: The case of separate baths
authors: Bjoern Erbe, John Schliemann
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 155127 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5036
abstract: We consider a system of two strongly coupled electron spins in zero magnetic field, each of which is interacting with an individual bath of nuclear spins via the hyperfine interaction. Applying the long spin approximation (LSA) introduced in Europhys. Lett. 95, 47009 (here each bath is replaced by a single long spin), we numerically study the electron spin and entanglement dynamics. We demonstrate that the decoherence time is scaling with the bath size according to a power law. As expected, the decaying part of the dynamics decreases with increasing bath polarization. However, surprisingly it turns out that, under certain circumstances, combining quantum dots of different geometry to the double dot setup has a very similar effect on the magnitude of the spin decay. Finally, we show that even for a comparatively weak exchange coupling the electron spins can be fully entangled.

id: 1201.5091
title: Quantum mechanics is the square root of a stochastic process
authors: Marco Frasca
comments: 4 pages, no figure. Extended mathematics to fix a problem in the definition of Ito integrals
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5091
abstract: We prove a theorem showing that quantum mechanics is not directly a stochastic process characterizing Brownian motion but rather its square root. This implies that a complex-valued stochastic process is involved. Schr\"odinger equation is immediately derived without further assumptions using It\=o integrals that are properly generalized. Fluctuations in space arise from a Brownian motion and the combined effect of a stochastic process with a symmetric Bernoulli distribution typical of tossing a coin.

id: 1201.5115
title: Path Integral Junctions
authors: Satoshi Ohya
comments: 13 pages, 14 figures; typos corrected, references added, discussion of weight factors improved
journal: J.Phys.A45:255305,2012
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5115
abstract: We propose path integral description for quantum mechanical systems on compact graphs consisting of N segments of the same length. Provided the bulk Hamiltonian is segment-independent, scale-invariant boundary conditions given by self-adjoint extension of a Hamiltonian operator turn out to be in one-to-one correspondence with N \times N matrix-valued weight factors on the path integral side. We show that these weight factors are given by N-dimensional unitary representations of the infinite dihedral group.

id: 1201.5143
title: On integrable rational potentials of the Dirac equation
authors: Tomasz Stachowiak, Maria Przybylska
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures. Final version
journal: Physics Letters A 377 (2013) pp. 833-841
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5143
abstract: The one dimensional Dirac equation with a rational potential is reducible to an ordinary differential equation with a Riccati-like coefficient. Its integrability can be studied with the help of differential Galois theory, although the results have to be stated with recursive relations, because in general the equation is of Heun type. The inverse problem of finding integrable rational potentials based on the properties of the singular points is also presented; in particular, a general class of integrable potentials leading to the Whittaker equation is found.

id: 1201.5188
title: Spacetime rotation-induced Landau quantization
authors: Kohkichi Konno, Rohta Takahashi
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. D 85, 061502(R) (2012)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Astrophysical Phenomena (astro-ph.HE); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5188
abstract: We investigate non-inertial and gravitational effects on quantum states in electromagnetic fields and present the analytic solution for energy eigenstates for the Schr\"odinger equation including non-inertial, gravitational and electromagnetic effects. We find that in addition to the Landau quantization the rotation of spacetime itself leads to the additional quantization, and that the energy levels for an electron are different from those for a proton at the level of gravitational corrections.

id: 1201.5213
title: Nonequilibrium representative ensembles for isolated quantum systems
authors: V. I. Yukalov
comments: Latex file, 11 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 375 (2011) 2797-2801
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5213
abstract: An isolated quantum system is considered, prepared in a nonequilibrium initial state. In order to uniquely define the system dynamics, one has to construct a representative statistical ensemble. From the principle of least action it follows that the role of the evolution generator is played by a grand Hamiltonian, but not merely by its energy part. A theorem is proved expressing the commutators of field operators with operator products through variational derivatives of these products. A consequence of this theorem is the equivalence of the variational equations for field operators with the Heisenberg equations for the latter. A finite quantum system cannot equilibrate in the strict sense. But it can tend to a quasi-stationary state characterized by ergodic averages and the appropriate representative ensemble depending on initial conditions. Microcanonical ensemble, arising in the eigenstate thermalization, is just a particular case of representative ensembles. Quasi-stationary representative ensembles are defined by the principle of minimal information. The latter also implies the minimization of an effective thermodynamic potential.

id: 1201.5250
title: High contrast resonances of the coherent population trapping on sublevels of the ground atomic term
authors: Ersoy Sahin, Ramiz Hamid, Cengiz Birlikseven, G?n¨¹l ?zen, Azad Ch. Izmailov
comments: 4
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5250
abstract: We have detected and analyzed narrow, high contrast coherent population trapping resonances, which appear in transmission of the probe monochromatic light beam under action of the counterpropagating two-frequency laser radiation, on example of the nonclosed three level {\Lambda}-system formed by spectral components of the Doppler broadened D2 line of cesium atoms (in the cell with the rarefied Cs vapor). These nontrivial resonances are determined directly by the trapped atomic population on the definite lower level of the {\Lambda}-system and may be used in atomic frequency standards, sensitive magnetometers and in ultrahigh resolution laser spectroscopy of atoms and molecules.

id: 1201.5252
title: Zitterbewegung of electrons in quantum wells and dots in presence of an in-plane magnetic field
authors: Tutul Biswas, Tarun Kanti Ghosh
comments: 7 pages, 6 figures
journal: Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 24, 185304 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5252
abstract: We study the effect of an in-plane magnetic field on the zitterbewegung (ZB) of electrons in a semiconductor quantum well (QW) and in a quantum dot (QD) with the Rashba and Dresselhaus spin-orbit interactions. We obtain a general expression of the time-evolution of the position vector and current of the electron in a semiconductor quantum well. The amplitude of the oscillatory motion is directly related to the Berry connection in momentum space. We find that in presence of the magnetic field the ZB in a quantum well does not vanish when the strengths of the Rashba and Dresselhaus spin-orbit interactions are equal. The in-plane magnetic field helps to sustain the ZB in quantum wells even at low value of $k_0 d$ (where $d$ is the width of the Gaussian wavepacket and $k_0$ is the initial wave vector). The trembling motion of an electron in a semiconductor quantum well with high Lande g-factor (e.g. InSb) sustains over a long time, even at low value of $k_0 d$. Further, we study the ZB of an electron in quantum dots within the two sub-band model numerically. The trembling motion persists in time even when the magnetic field is absent as well as when the strengths of the SOI are equal. The ZB in quantum dots is due to the superposition of oscillatory motions corresponding to all possible differences of the energy eigenvalues of the system. This is an another example of multi-frequency ZB phenomenon.

id: 1201.5304
title: Wave-particle duality: suggestion for an experiment
authors: R. N. Sen
comments: 6 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: General Physics (physics.gen-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5304
abstract: Feynman contended that the double-slit experiment contained the `only mystery' in quantum mechanics. The mystery was that electrons traverse the interferometer as waves, but are detected as particles. This note was motivated by the question whether single electrons can be detected as waves. It suggests a double-slit interferometry experiment with atoms of noble gases in which it may be possible to detect an individual atom as a probability wave, using a detector which can execute two different types of simple harmonic motion: as a simple pendulum, and as a torsion pendulum. In the experiment, a torsional oscillation will never be induced by the impact of a probability wave, but will always be induced by the impact of a particle. Detection as a wave is contingent on the atom interacting much more strongly with the macroscopic detector as a whole than with its microscopic constituents. This requirement may be more difficult to meet with electrons, protons, neutrons or photons than with atoms.

id: 1201.5312
title: Parent Hamiltonian for the non-Abelian chiral spin liquid
authors: Martin Greiter, Darrell F. Schroeter, Ronny Thomale
comments: 5+2 pages, no figures. Version 2: two references added
journal: Phys. Rev. B 89, 165125 (2014)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5312
abstract: We construct a parent Hamiltonian for the family of non-Abelian chiral spin liquids proposed recently by two of us [PRL 102, 207203 (2009)], which includes the Abelian chiral spin liquid proposed by Kalmeyer and Laughlin, as the special case S=1/2. As we use a circular disk geometry with an open boundary, both the annihilation operators we identify and the Hamiltonians we construct from these are exact only in the thermodynamic limit.

id: 1201.5333
title: Random pure quantum states via unitary Brownian motion
authors: Ion Nechita, Cl¨¦ment Pellegrini
comments: 
journal: Electron. Commun. Probab. 18 (2013), no. 27, 1-13
subjects: Probability (math.PR); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5333
abstract: We introduce a new family of probability distributions on the set of pure states of a finite dimensional quantum system. Without any a priori assumptions, the most natural measure on the set of pure state is the uniform (or Haar) measure. Our family of measures is indexed by a time parameter $t$ and interpolates between a deterministic measure ($t=0$) and the uniform measure ($t=\infty$). The measures are constructed using a Brownian motion on the unitary group $\mathcal U_N$. Remarkably, these measures have a $\mathcal U_{N-1}$ invariance, whereas the usual uniform measure has a $\mathcal U_N$ invariance. We compute several averages with respect to these measures using as a tool the Laplace transform of the coordinates.

id: 1201.5411
title: Lower bounds on the Probability of Error for Classical and Classical-Quantum Channels
authors: Marco Dalai
comments: Updated to published version + bug fixed in Figure 3
journal: IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 59, issue 12, Dec. 2013, pp. 8027 - 8056
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5411
abstract: In this paper, lower bounds on error probability in coding for discrete classical and classical-quantum channels are studied. The contribution of the paper goes in two main directions: i) extending classical bounds of Shannon, Gallager and Berlekamp to classical-quantum channels, and ii) proposing a new framework for lower bounding the probability of error of channels with a zero-error capacity in the low rate region. The relation between these two problems is revealed by showing that Lov\'asz' bound on zero-error capacity emerges as a natural consequence of the sphere packing bound once we move to the more general context of classical-quantum channels. A variation of Lov\'asz' bound is then derived to lower bound the probability of error in the low rate region by means of auxiliary channels. As a result of this study, connections between the Lov\'asz theta function, the expurgated bound of Gallager, the cutoff rate of a classical channel and the sphere packing bound for classical-quantum channels are established.

id: 1201.5422
title: A Factor-Graph Representation of Probabilities in Quantum Mechanics
authors: Hans-Andrea Loeliger, Pascal O. Vontobel
comments: Proc. IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT), Cambridge, MA, July 1-6, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5422
abstract: A factor-graph representation of quantum-mechanical probabilities is proposed. Unlike standard statistical models, the proposed representation uses auxiliary variables (state variables) that are not random variables.

id: 1201.5459
title: Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking in Quantum Systems. A review for Scholarpedia
authors: F. Strocchi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5459
abstract: The mechanism of spontaneous symmetry breaking in quantum systems is briefly reviewed, rectifying part of the standard wisdom on logical and mathematical grounds. The crucial role of the localization properties of the time evolution for the conclusion of the Goldstone theorem is emphasized.

id: 1201.5529
title: A simple block representation of reversible cellular automata with time-symmetry
authors: Pablo Arrighi, Vincent Nesme
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures, Automata 2011
journal: 
subjects: Discrete Mathematics (cs.DM); Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5529
abstract: Reversible Cellular Automata (RCA) are a physics-like model of computation consisting of an array of identical cells, evolving in discrete time steps by iterating a global evolution G. Further, G is required to be shift-invariant (it acts the same everywhere), causal (information cannot be transmitted faster than some fixed number of cells per time step), and reversible (it has an inverse which verifies the same requirements). An important, though only recently studied special case is that of Time-symmetric Cellular Automata (TSCA), for which G and its inverse are related via a local operation. In this note we revisit the question of the Block representation of RCA, i.e. we provide a very simple proof of the existence of a reversible circuit description implementing G. This operational, bottom-up description of G turns out to be time-symmetric, suggesting interesting connections with TSCA. Indeed we prove, using a similar technique, that a wide class of them admit an Exact block representation (EBR), i.e. one which does not increase the state space.

id: 1201.5536
title: The relation between classical and quantum electrodynamics
authors: Mario Bacelar Valente
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5536
abstract: Quantum electrodynamics presents intrinsic limitations in the description of physical processes that make it impossible to recover from it the type of description we have in classical electrodynamics. Hence one cannot consider classical electrodynamics as reducing to quantum electrodynamics and being recovered from it by some sort of limiting procedure. Quantum electrodynamics has to be seen not as a more fundamental theory, but as an upgrade of classical electrodynamics, which permits an extension of classical theory to the description of phenomena that, while being related to the conceptual framework of the classical theory, cannot be addressed from the classical theory.

id: 1201.5542
title: Bethe Ansatz and Ordinary Differential Equation Correspondence for Degenerate Gaudin Models
authors: Omar El Araby, Vladimir Gritsev, Alexandre Faribault
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, published version
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 115130 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5542
abstract: In this work, we generalize the numerical approach to Gaudin models developed earlier by us to degenerate systems showing that their treatment is surprisingly convenient from a numerical point of view. In fact, high degeneracies not only reduce the number of relevant states in the Hilbert space by a non negligible fraction, they also allow to write the relevant equations in the form of sparse matrix equations. Moreover, we introduce a new inversion method based on a basis of barycentric polynomials which leads to a more stable and efficient root extraction which most importantly avoids the necessity of working with arbitrary precision. As an example we show the results of our procedure applied to the Richardson model on a square lattice.

id: 1201.5551
title: Aspects of finite electrodynamics in D=3 dimensions
authors: Patricio Gaete, Jose` Helayel-Neto, Euro Spallucci
comments: 12 pages, 2 figures; reference list updated and extended; new aknowlegments; removed line after eq.(1) erroneously inserted
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5551
abstract: We study the impact of a minimal length on physical observables for a three-dimensional axionic electrodynamics. Our calculation is done within the framework of the gauge-invariant, but path-dependent, variables formalism which is alternative to the Wilson loop approach. Our result shows that the interaction energy contains a regularised Bessel function and a linear confining potential. This calculation involves no theta expansion at all. Once again, the present analysis displays the key role played by the new quantum of length.

id: 1201.5589
title: The quantum free particle on spherical and hyperbolic spaces: A curvature dependent approach
authors: Jos¨¦ F. Cari?ena, Manuel F. Ra?ada, Mariano Santander
comments: 
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics {\bf 52}, 072104 (2011)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5589
abstract: The quantum free particle on the sphere $S_\kappa^2$ ($\kappa>0$) and on the hyperbolic plane $H_\kappa^2$ ($\kappa<0$) is studied using a formalism that considers the curvature $\k$ as a parameter. The first part is mainly concerned with the analysis of some geometric formalisms appropriate for the description of the dynamics on the spaces ($S_\kappa^2$, $\IR^2$, $H_\kappa^2$) and with the the transition from the classical $\kappa$-dependent system to the quantum one using the quantization of the Noether momenta. The Schr\"odinger separability and the quantum superintegrability are also discussed. The second part is devoted to the resolution of the $\kappa$-dependent Schr\"odinger equation. First the characterization of the $\kappa$-dependent `curved' plane waves is analyzed and then the specific properties of the spherical case are studied with great detail. It is proved that if $\kappa>0$ then a discrete spectrum is obtained. The wavefunctions, that are related with a $\kappa$-dependent family of orthogonal polynomials, are explicitly obtained.

id: 1201.5627
title: The Algebraic Bethe Ansatz and Tensor Networks
authors: Valentin Murg, Vladimir E. Korepin, Frank Verstraete
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 045125 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5627
abstract: We describe the Algebraic Bethe Ansatz for the spin-1/2 XXX and XXZ Heisenberg chains with open and periodic boundary conditions in terms of tensor networks. These Bethe eigenstates have the structure of Matrix Product States with a conserved number of down-spins. The tensor network formulation suggestes possible extensions of the Algebraic Bethe Ansatz to two dimensions.

id: 1201.5636
title: Numerical Contraction of the Tensor Network generated by the Algebraic Bethe Ansatz
authors: Valentin Murg, Vladimir E. Korepin, Frank Verstraete
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 045125 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5636
abstract: The algebraic Bethe Ansatz is a prosperous and well-established method for solving one-dimensional quantum models exactly. The solution of the complex eigenvalue problem is thereby reduced to the solution of a set of algebraic equations. Whereas the spectrum is usually obtained directly, the eigenstates are available only in terms of complex mathematical expressions. This makes it very hard in general to extract properties from the states, like, for example, correlation functions. In our work, we apply the tools of Tensor Network States to describe the eigenstates approximately as Matrix Product States. From the Matrix Product State expression, we then obtain observables like correlation functions directly.

id: 1201.5650
title: Ground state and dynamics of the biased dissipative two-state system: Beyond variational polaron theory
authors: Ahsan Nazir, Dara P. S. McCutcheon, Alex W. Chin
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures, comments welcome. Published version, including revised dynamics section and new discussion on the Toulouse point
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 224301 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5650
abstract: We propose a ground-state ansatz for the Ohmic spin-boson model that improves upon the variational treatment of Silbey and Harris for biased systems in the scaling limit. In particular, it correctly captures the smooth crossover behaviour expected for the ground-state magnetisation when moving between the delocalised and localised regimes of the model, a feature that the variational treatment is unable to properly reproduce, while it also provides a lower ground-state energy estimate in the crossover region. We further demonstrate the validity of our intuitive ground-state by showing that it leads to predictions in excellent agreement with those derived from a non-perturbative Bethe-ansatz technique. Finally, recasting our ansatz in the form of a generalised polaron transformation, we are able to explore the dissipative two-state dynamics beyond weak system-environment coupling within an efficient time-local master equation formalism.

id: 1201.5665
title: Spectroscopy of low-frequency noise and its temperature dependence in a superconducting qubit
authors: Fei Yan, Jonas Bylander, Simon Gustavsson, Fumiki Yoshihara, Khalil Harrabi, David G. Cory, Terry P.Orlando, Yasunobu Nakamura, Jaw-Shen Tsai, William D. Oliver
comments: v2: Modified title and presentation; 11 p. incl. 5 p. appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. B vol. 85, 174521 (2012)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5665
abstract: We report a direct measurement of the low-frequency noise spectrum in a superconducting flux qubit. Our method uses the noise sensitivity of a free-induction Ramsey interference experiment, comprising free evolution in the presence of noise for a fixed period of time followed by single-shot qubit-state measurement. Repeating this procedure enables Fourier-transform noise spectroscopy with access to frequencies up to the achievable repetition rate, a regime relevant to dephasing in ensemble-averaged time-domain measurements such as Ramsey interferometry. Rotating the qubit's quantization axis allows us to measure two types of noise: effective flux noise and effective critical-current or charge noise. For both noise sources, we observe that the very same 1/f-type power laws measured at considerably higher frequencies (0.2-20 MHz) are consistent with the noise in the 0.01-100-Hz range measured here. We find no evidence of temperature dependence of the noises over 65-200 mK, and also no evidence of time-domain correlations between the two noises. These methods and results are pertinent to the dephasing of all superconducting qubits.

id: 1201.5673
title: Radiative Heat Transfer between Neighboring Particles
authors: Alejandro Manjavacas, F. Javier Garcia de Abajo
comments: 22 pages, 9 figures, fully self-contained derivations
journal: Physical Review B 86, 075466 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5673
abstract: The near-field interaction between two neighboring particles is known to produce enhanced radiative heat transfer. We advance in the understanding of this phenomenon by including the full electromagnetic particle response, heat exchange with the environment, and important radiative corrections both in the distance dependence of the fields and in the particle absorption coefficients. We find that crossed terms of electric and magnetic interactions dominate the transfer rate between gold and SiC particles, whereas radiative corrections reduce it by several orders of magnitude even at small separations. Radiation away from the dimer can be strongly suppressed or enhanced at low and high temperatures, respectively. These effects must be taken into account for an accurate description of radiative heat transfer in nanostructured environments.

id: 1201.5686
title: Enhanced solid-state multi-spin metrology using dynamical decoupling
authors: L. M. Pham, N. Bar-Gill, C. Belthangady, D. Le Sage, P. Cappellaro, M. D. Lukin, A. Yacoby, R. L. Walsworth
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5686
abstract: We use multi-pulse dynamical decoupling to increase the coherence lifetime (T2) of large numbers of nitrogen-vacancy (NV) electronic spins in room temperature diamond, thus enabling scalable applications of multi-spin quantum information processing and metrology. We realize an order-of-magnitude extension of the NV multi-spin T2 for diamond samples with widely differing spin environments. For samples with nitrogen impurity concentration <~1 ppm, we find T2 > 2 ms, comparable to the longest coherence time reported for single NV centers, and demonstrate a ten-fold enhancement in NV multi-spin sensing of AC magnetic fields.

id: 1201.5750
title: New constraints on Yukawa-type interactions from the Casimir effect
authors: V. M. Mostepanenko, V. B. Bezerra, G. L. Klimchitskaya, C. Romero
comments: Plenary talk at the 10th International Conference "Quantum Field Theory Under the Influence of External Conditions" (Benasque, Spain, 2011); 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A, v.27, N15, 1260015-(1-16) (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5750
abstract: Measurements of the Casimir force are used to obtain stronger constraints on the parameters of hypothetical interactions predicted in different unification schemes beyond the Standard Model. We review new strong constraints on the Yukawa-type interactions derived during the last two years from recent experiments on measuring the lateral Casimir force, Casimir force in configurations with corrugated boundaries and the Casimir-Polder force. Specifically, from measurements of the lateral Casimir force compared with the exact theory the strengthening of constraints up to a factor of 24 millions was achieved. We also discuss further possibilities to strengthen constraints on the Yukawa interactions from the Casimir effect.

id: 1201.5797
title: Characterization of the Quasi-Stationary State of an Impurity Driven by Monochromatic Light I - The Effective Theory
authors: Jean-Bernard Bru, Walter de Siqueira Pedra, Matthias Westrich
comments: 51 pages, 11 figures, to appear in Ann. Henri Poincar\'e
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5797
abstract: We consider an impurity ($N$--level atom) driven by monochromatic light in a host environment which is a fermionic thermal reservoir. The external light source is a time--periodic perturbation of the atomic Hamiltonian stimulating transitions between two atomic energy levels $E_{1}$ and $E_{N}$ and thus acts as an optical pump. The purpose of the present work is the analysis of the effective atomic dynamics resulting from the full microscopic time--evolution of the compound system. We prove, in particular, that the atomic dynamics of population relaxes for large times to a quasi-stationary state, that is, a stationary state up to small oscillations driven by the external light source. This state turns out to be uniquely determined by a balance condition. The latter is related to \textquotedblleft generalized Einstein relations\textquotedblright relations of spontaneous/stimulated emission/absorption rates, which are conceptually similar to the phenomenological relations derived by Einstein in 1916. As an application we show from quantum mechanical first principles how an inversion of population of energy levels of an impurity in a crystal can appear. Our results are based on the spectral analysis of the generator of the evolution semigroup related to a non--autonomous Cauchy problem effectively describing the atomic dynamics.

id: 1201.5809
title: PT-symmetrically deformed shock waves
authors: Andrea Cavaglia, Andreas Fring
comments: 17 pages, 10 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 444010
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5809
abstract: We investigate for a large class of nonlinear wave equations, which allow for shock wave formations, how these solutions behave when they are PT-symmetrically deformed. For real solutions we find that they are transformed into peaked solutions with a discontinuity in the first derivative instead. The systems we investigate include the PT-symmetrically deformed inviscid Burgers equation recently studied by Bender and Feinberg, for which we show that it does not develop any shocks, but peaks instead. In this case we exploit the rare fact that the PT-deformation can be provided by an explicit map found by Curtright and Fairlie together with the property that the undeformed equation can be solved by the method of characteristics. We generalise the map and observe this type of behaviour for all integer values of the deformation parameter epsilon. The peaks are formed as a result of mapping the multi-valued self-avoiding shock profile to a multi-valued self-crossing function by means of the PT-deformation. For some deformation parameters we also investigate the deformation of complex solutions and demonstrate that in this case the deformation mechanism leads to discontinuties.

id: 1201.5874
title: Quarter-filled Kitaev-Hubbard Model: A Quantum Hall State in an Optical Lattice
authors: S. R. Hassan, Sandeep K Goyal, R. Shankar, David S¨¦n¨¦chal
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 88, 045301 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5874
abstract: We analyze the Physics of cold atoms in honeycomb optical lattices with on-site repulsion and spin-orbit couplings that break time reversal symmetry. Such systems, at half filling and large on-site repulsion, have been proposed as a possible realization of the Kitaev model. The spin-orbit couplings break the spin degeneracy and, if strong-enough, lead to four non-overlapping bands in the non-interacting limit. These bands carry non-zero Chern number and therefore the non-interacting system has non-zero angular momentum and chiral edge states at 1/4 and 3/4 filling. We have investigated the effect of interactions using the variational cluster perturbation theory and conclude that the chiral edge states exist in finite range of interaction and hopping parameter space.

id: 1201.6018
title: Collective Dipole Oscillation of a Spin-Orbit Coupled Bose-Einstein Condensate
authors: Jin-Yi Zhang, Si-Cong Ji, Zhu Chen, Long Zhang, Zhi-Dong Du, Bo Yan, Ge-Sheng Pan, Bo Zhao, Youjin Deng, Hui Zhai, Shuai Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, 0 table
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 115301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6018
abstract: We present an experimental study of the collective dipole oscillation of a spin-orbit coupled Bose-Einstein condensate in a harmonic trap. Dynamics of the center-of-mass dipole oscillation is studied in a broad parameter region, as a function of spin-orbit coupling parameters as well as oscillation amplitude. Anharmonic properties beyond effective-mass approximation are revealed, such as amplitude-dependent frequency and finite oscillation frequency at place with divergent effective mass. These anharmonic behaviors agree quantitatively with variational wave-function calculations. Moreover, we experimentally demonstrate a unique feature of spin-orbit coupled system predicted by a sum-rule approach, stating that spin polarization susceptibility--a static physical quantity--can be measured via dynamics of dipole oscillation. The divergence of polarization susceptibility is observed at the quantum phase transition that separates magnetic nonzero-momentum condensate from nonmagnetic zero-momentum phase. The good agreement between the experimental and theoretical results provides a bench mark for recently developed theoretical approaches.

id: 1201.6047
title: The exponential of the spin representation of the Lorentz algebra
authors: Jason Hanson
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6047
abstract: As discussed in a previous article, any (real) Lorentz algebra element possess a unique orthogonal decomposition as a sum of two mutually annihilating decomposable Lorentz algebra elements. In this article, this concept is extended to the spin representation of the Lorentz algebra. As an application, a formula for the exponential of the spin representation is obtained, as well as a formula for the spin representation of a proper orthochronous Lorentz transformation.

id: 1201.6062
title: An OpenCL implementation for the solution of TDSE on GPU and CPU architectures
authors: Cathal ? Broin, L. A. A. Nikolopoulos
comments: 11 pages, 7 figures. The present version is slightly different from the submitted peer-reviewed version
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6062
abstract: Open Computing Language (OpenCL) is a parallel processing language that is ideally suited for running parallel algorithms on Graphical Processing Units (GPUs). In the present work we report on the development of a generic parallel single-GPU code for the numerical solution of a system of first-order ordinary differential equations (ODEs) based on the OpenCL model. We have applied the code in the case of the Time-Dependent Schr\"odinger Equation of atomic hydrogen in a strong laser field and studied its performance on NVIDIA and AMD GPUs against the serial performance on a CPU. We found excellent scalability and a significant speed-up of the GPU over the CPU device which tended towards a value of about 40 with significant speedups expected against multi-core CPUs.

id: 1201.6121
title: Matrix-Product based Projected Wave Functions Ansatz for Quantum Many-Body Ground States
authors: Chung-Pin Chou, Frank Pollmann, Ting-Kuo Lee
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6121
abstract: We develop a new projected wave function approach which is based on projection operators in the form of matrix-product operators (MPOs). Our approach allows to variationally improve the short range entanglement of a given trial wave function by optimizing the matrix elements of the MPOs while the long range entanglement is contained in the initial guess of the wave function. The optimization is performed using standard variational Monte Carlo techniques. We demonstrate the efficiency of our approach by considering a one-dimension model of interacting spinless fermions. In addition, we indicate how to generalize this approach to higher dimensions using projection operators which are based on tensor products.

id: 1201.6167
title: Scattering and bound states in two-dimensional anisotropic potentials
authors: Matthias Rosenkranz, Weizhu Bao
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 050701(R) (2011)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6167
abstract: We propose a framework for calculating scattering and bound state properties in anisotropic two-dimensional potentials. Using our method, we derive systematic approximations of partial wave phase shifts and binding energies. Moreover, the method is suitable for efficient numerical computations. We calculate the s-wave phase shift and binding energy of polar molecules in two layers polarized by an external field along an arbitrary direction. We find that scattering depends strongly on their polarization direction and that absolute interlayer binding energies are larger than thermal energies at typical ultracold temperatures.

id: 1201.6176
title: Effective dipole-dipole interactions in multilayered dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates
authors: Matthias Rosenkranz, Yongyong Cai, Weizhu Bao
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures. Submitted 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6176
abstract: We propose a two-dimensional model for a multilayer stack of dipolar Bose-Einstein condensates formed by a strong optical lattice. We derive effective intra- and interlayer dipole-dipole interaction potentials and provide simple analytical approximations for a given number of lattice sites at arbitrary polarization. We find that the interlayer dipole-dipole interaction changes the transverse aspect ratio of the ground state in the central layers depending on its polarization and the number of lattice sites. The changing aspect ratio should be observable in time of flight images. Furthermore, we show that the interlayer dipole-dipole interaction reduces the excitation energy of local perturbations, affecting the development of a roton minimum.

id: 1201.6238
title: Quantum current noise from a Born-Markov master equation
authors: P. G. Kirton, A. D. Armour, M. Houzet, F. Pistolesi
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: PRB, 86, 081305(R), 2012
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6238
abstract: We present a formalism for calculating the non-symmetrized quantum current noise within the Born-Markov approximation for the master equation. The formalism is particularly well suited to obtaining the current noise for quantum transport in mesoscopic devices such as a superconducting single electron transistor (SSET). As an example of the method, we obtain explicit results for the double Josephson-quasiparticle (DJQP) resonance in a SSET. Our calculations reveal the asymmetries that develop in the current noise as well as clarifying the behavior at high frequencies. Our findings are consistent with recent measurements of the asymmetry in the current noise spectrum.

id: 1201.6244
title: Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics with a Single Quantum Dot Coupled to a Photonic Molecule
authors: Arka Majumdar, Armand Rundquist, Michal Bajcsy, Jelena Vu?kovi?
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6244
abstract: We demonstrate the effects of cavity quantum electrodynamics for a quantum dot coupled to a photonic molecule, consisting of a pair of coupled photonic crystal cavities. We show anti-crossing between the quantum dot and the two super-modes of the photonic molecule, signifying achievement of the strong coupling regime. From the anti-crossing data, we estimate the contributions of both mode-coupling and intrinsic detuning to the total detuning between the super-modes. Finally, we also show signatures of off-resonant cavity-cavity interaction in the photonic molecule.

id: 1201.6293
title: Quantum transducer in circuit optomechanics
authors: Nicolas Didier, Stefano Pugnetti, Yaroslav M. Blanter, Rosario Fazio
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6293
abstract: Mechanical resonators are macroscopic quantum objects with great potential. They couple to many different quantum systems such as spins, optical photons, cold atoms, and Bose Einstein condensates. It is however difficult to measure and manipulate the phonon state due to the tiny motion in the quantum regime. On the other hand, microwave resonators are powerful quantum devices since arbitrary photon state can be synthesized and measured with a quantum tomography. We show that a linear coupling, strong and controlled with a gate voltage, between the mechanical and the microwave resonators enables to create quantum phonon states, manipulate hybrid entanglement between phonons and photons and generate entanglement between two mechanical oscillators. In circuit quantum optomechanics, the mechanical resonator acts as a quantum transducer between an auxiliary quantum system and the microwave resonator, which is used as a quantum bus.

id: 1201.6318
title: Clebsch-Gordan coefficients for the Higgs algebra: The L?wdin-Shapiro approach
authors: T. Shreecharan
comments: 9 Pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6318
abstract: The L\"{o}wdin-Shapiro projection operator for the Higgs algebra is constructed and utilised to find an analytical expression for the Clebsch-Gordan coefficients for the same.

id: 1201.6323
title: Bunching and anti-bunching in electronic transport
authors: Clive Emary, Christina P?ltl, Alexander Carmele, Julia Kabuss, Andreas Knorr, Tobias Brandes
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 165417 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6323
abstract: In quantum optics the $g^{(2)}$-function is a standard tool to investigate photon emission statistics. We define a $g^{(2)}$-function for electronic transport and use it to investigate the bunching and anti-bunching of electron currents. Importantly, we show that super-Poissonian electron statistics do not necessarily imply electron bunching, and that sub-Poissonian statistics do not imply anti-bunching. We discuss the information contained in $g^{(2)}(\tau)$ for several typical examples of transport through nano-structures such as few-level quantum dots.

id: 1201.6325
title: Origin of Long Lived Coherences in Light-Harvesting Complexes
authors: Niklas Christensson, Harald F. Kauffmann, Tonu Pullerits, Tomas Mancal
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6325
abstract: A vibronic exciton model is developed to investigate the origin of long lived coherences in light-harvesting complexes. Using experimentally determined parameters and uncorrelated site energy fluctuations, the model predicts oscillations in the nonlinear spectra of the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) complex with a dephasing time of 1.3 ps at 77 K. These oscillations correspond to the coherent superposition of vibronic exciton states with dominant contributions from vibrational excitations on the same pigment. Purely electronic coherences are found to decay on a 200 fs timescale.

id: 1201.6341
title: Driven dynamics and rotary echo of a qubit tunably coupled to a harmonic oscillator
authors: Simon Gustavsson, Jonas Bylander, Fei Yan, Pol Forn-D¨ªaz, Vlad Bolkhovsky, Danielle Braje, George Fitch, Khalil Harrabi, Donna Lennon, Jovi Miloshi, Peter Murphy, Rick Slattery, Steven Spector, Ben Turek, Terry Weir, Paul B. Welander, Fumiki Yoshihara, David G. Cory, Yasunobu Nakamura, Terry P. Orlando, William D. Oliver
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 170503 (2012)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6341
abstract: We have investigated the driven dynamics of a superconducting flux qubit that is tunably coupled to a microwave resonator. We find that the qubit experiences an oscillating field mediated by off-resonant driving of the resonator, leading to strong modifications of the qubit Rabi frequency. This opens an additional noise channel, and we find that low-frequency noise in the coupling parameter causes a reduction of the coherence time during driven evolution. The noise can be mitigated with the rotary-echo pulse sequence, which, for driven systems, is analogous to the Hahn-echo sequence.

id: 1201.6353
title: Multifractal dimensions for critical random matrix ensembles
authors: J. A. Mendez-Bermudez, A. Alcazar-Lopez, Imre Varga
comments: 6 pages, 9 figures
journal: Europhys. Lett. 98, 37006 (2012)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6353
abstract: Based on heuristic arguments we conjecture that an intimate relation exists between the eigenfunction multifractal dimensions $D_q$ of the eigenstates of critical random matrix ensembles $D_{q'} \approx qD_q[q'+(q-q')D_q]^{-1}$, $1\le q \le 2$. We verify this relation by extensive numerical calculations. We also demonstrate that the level compressibility $\chi$ describing level correlations can be related to $D_q$ in a unified way as $D_q=(1-\chi)[1+(q-1)\chi]^{-1}$, thus generalizing existing relations with relevance to the disorder driven Anderson--transition.

id: 1201.6400
title: Universal dynamical phase diagram of lattice spin models and strongly correlated ultracold atoms in optical lattices
authors: E. Demler, A. Maltsev, A. Prokofiev
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6400
abstract: We study semiclassical dynamics of anisotropic Heisenberg models in two and three dimensions. Such models describe lattice spin systems and hard core bosons in optical lattices. We solve numerically Landau-Lifshitz type equations on a lattice and show that in the phase diagram of magnetization and interaction anisotropy, one can identify several distinct regimes of dynamics. These regions can be distinguished based on the character of one dimensional solitonic excitations, and stability of such solitons to transverse modulation. Small amplitude and long wavelength perturbations can be analyzed analytically using mapping of non-linear hydrodynamic equations to KdV type equations. Numerically we find that properties of solitons and dynamics in general remain similar to our analytical results even for large amplitude and short distance inhomogeneities, which allows us to obtain a universal dynamical phase diagram. As a concrete example we study dynamical evolution of the system starting from a state with magnetization step and show that formation of oscillatory regions and their stability to transverse modulation can be understood from the properties of solitons. In regimes unstable to transverse modulation we observe formation of lump type solutions with modulation in all directions. We discuss implications of our results for experiments with ultracold atoms.

id: 1201.6553
title: Collective excitations of graphene excitons being in the Bose-Einstein condensate state
authors: P. A. Andreev
comments: 4 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6553
abstract: Bose-Einstein condensation of the excitons in graphene is considered. We suggested the model spinor equation for neutral particles with short range interaction described the microscopic graphene excitons dynamic. Using this equation we derived quantum hydrodynamic equations for description of collective properties of excitons in graphene, particularly for the case when excitons being in the Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) state. The dispersion of collective excitations in graphene excitons BEC is studied. We shown that frequency of collective excitations is proportional to the square root of the wave vector module: $\omega\sim \sqrt{k}$.

id: 1201.6631
title: Anomalously small blackbody radiation shift in Tl+ frequency standard
authors: Z. Zuhrianda, M. S. Safronova, M. G. Kozlov
comments: 5 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A, 2012, 85, 022513
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6631
abstract: The operation of atomic clocks is generally carried out at room temperature, whereas the definition of the second refers to the clock transition in an atom at absolute zero. This implies that the clock transition frequency should be corrected in practice for the effect of finite temperature of which the leading contributor is the blackbody radiation (BBR) shift. In the present work, we used configuration interaction + coupled-cluster method to evaluate polarizabilities of the $6s^2 ^1S_0$ and $6s6p ^3P_0$ states of Tl$^+$ ion; we find $\alpha_0(^1S_0)=19.6$ a.u. and $\alpha_0(^3P_0)=21.4$ a.u.. The resulting BBR shift of the $6s6p ^3P_0 - 6s^2 ^1S_0$ Tl$^+$ transition at $300 K$ is $\Delta \nu_{\rm BBR}=-0.0157(16)$ Hz. This result demonstrates that near cancelation of the $^1S_0$ and $^3P_0$ state polarizabilities in divalent B+, Al+, In$^+$ ions of group IIIB [Safronova \textit{et al.}, PRL 107, 143006 (2011)] continues for much heavier Tl$^+$, leading to anomalously small BBR shift for this system. This calculation demonstrates that the BBR contribution to the fractional frequency uncertainty of the Tl+ frequency standard at 300K is $1\times10^{-18}$. We find that Tl+ has the smallest fractional BBR shift among all present or proposed frequency standards with the exception of Al+.

id: 1201.6668
title: Entanglement probe of two-impurity Kondo physics in a spin chain
authors: Abolfazl Bayat, Sougato Bose, Pasquale Sodano, Henrik Johannesson
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 066403 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6668
abstract: We propose that real-space properties of the two-impurity Kondo model can be obtained from an effective spin model where two single-impurity Kondo spin chains are joined via an RKKY interaction between the two impurity spins. We then use a DMRG approach, valid in all ranges of parameters, to study its features using two complementary quantum-entanglement measures, the negativity and the von Neumann entropy. This non-perturbative approach enables us to uncover the precise dependence of the spatial extent $\xi_K$ of the Kondo screening cloud with the Kondo and RKKY couplings. Our results reveal an exponential suppression of the Kondo temperature $T_K \sim 1/\xi_K$ with the size of the effective impurity spin in the limit of large ferromagnetic RKKY coupling, a striking display of "Kondo resonance narrowing" in the two-impurity Kondo model. We also show how the antiferromagnetic RKKY interaction produces an effective decoupling of the impurities from the bulk already for intermediate strengths of this interaction, and, furthermore, exhibit how the non-Fermi liquid quantum critical point is signaled in the quantum entanglement between various parts of the system.

id: 1201.6671
title: Spin-Peierls Quantum Phase Transitions in Coulomb Crystals
authors: A. Bermudez, M. B. Plenio
comments: slightly longer than the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 010501 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6671
abstract: The spin-Peierls instability describes a structural transition of a crystal due to strong magnetic interactions. Here we demonstrate that cold Coulomb crystals of trapped ions provide an experimental testbed in which to study this complex many-body problem and to access extreme regimes where the instability is triggered by quantum fluctuations alone. We present a consistent analysis based on different analytical and numerical methods, and provide a detailed discussion of its feasibility on the basis of ion-trap experiments. Moreover, we identify regimes where this quantum simulation may exceed the power of classical computers.

id: 1201.6632
title: Evolution of order and chaos across a first-order quantum phase transition
authors: A. Leviatan, M. Macek
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures, Physics Letters B, in press. Higher quality (larger size) figures can be obtained from this http URL
journal: Physics Letters B 714 (2012) 110-114
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6632
abstract: We study the evolution of the dynamics across a generic first order quantum phase transition in an interacting boson model of nuclei. The dynamics inside the phase coexistence region exhibits a very simple pattern. A classical analysis reveals a robustly regular dynamics confined to the deformed region and well separated from a chaotic dynamics ascribed to the spherical region. A quantum analysis discloses regular bands of states in the deformed region, which persist to energies well above the phase-separating barrier, in the face of a complicated environment. The impact of kinetic collective rotational terms on this intricate interplay of order and chaos is investigated.

id: 1201.6627
title: Shortcuts to adiabaticity in a time-dependent box
authors: A. del Campo, M. G. Boshier
comments: 6 pp, 4 figures, typo in Eq. (6) fixed
journal: Sci. Rep. 2, 648 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.6627
abstract: A method is proposed to drive an ultrafast non-adiabatic dynamics of an ultracold gas trapped in a box potential. The resulting state is free from spurious excitations associated with the breakdown of adiabaticity, and preserves the quantum correlations of the initial state up to a scaling factor. The process relies on the existence of an adiabatic invariant and the inversion of the dynamical self-similar scaling law dictated by it. Its physical implementation generally requires the use of an auxiliary expulsive potential analogous to those used in soliton control. The method is extended to a broad family of many-body systems. As illustrative examples we consider the ultrafast expansion of a Tonks-Girardeau gas and of Bose-Einstein condensates in different dimensions, where the method exhibits an excellent robustness against different regimes of interactions and the features of an experimentally realizable box potential.

id: 1201.3427
title: Novel quasi-exactly solvable models with anharmonic singular potentials
authors: Davids Agboola, Yao-Zhong Zhang
comments: LaTex 18 pages. Updated version to appear in Annals of Physics
journal: Ann. Phys. 330 (2013) 246-262
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Classical Analysis and ODEs (math.CA); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.3427
abstract: We present new quasi-exactly solvable models with inverse quartic, sextic, octic and decatic power potentials, respectively. We solve these models exactly via the functional Bethe ansatz method. For each case, we give closed-form solutions for the energies and the wave functions as well as analytical expressions for the allowed potential parameters in terms of a set of algebraic equations.

id: 1201.4252
title: Searching for New Physics beyond the Standard Model in Electric Dipole Moment
authors: Takeshi Fukuyama
comments: 95pages. References are added. Appendix K is revised
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.4252
abstract: This is a theoretical review of exploration of new physics beyond the Standard Model (SM) in electric dipole moment (EDM) in elementary particles, atoms, and molecule. EDM is a very important CP violating phenomenon and sensitive to new physics. Starting with the estimations of EDM of quarks-leptons in the SM, we explore the new signals beyond the SM. However, these works drive us to more wide fronteers where we serach fundamental physics using atoms and molecules and vice versa. Paramagnetic atoms and molecules have great enhancement factor on electron EDM. Diamagnetic atoms and molecules are very sensitive to nuclear P and T odd processes. Thus the EDM becomes the key word not only of New Physics but also of unprecedented fruitful collaboration among particle, atomic. molecular physics. This review intends to help such collaboration over the wide range of physicists.

id: 1201.5708
title: Anomalous Currents on Closed Surfaces: Extended Proximity, Partial Quantization, and Qubits
authors: Alexander Selem
comments: 22 pages, 13 figures. References and focus updated. Added effective action arguments. Same text as published version
journal: 2013 J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 25 045003
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5708
abstract: Motivated by the surface of topological insulators, the Dirac anomaly's discontinuous dependence on sign of the mass, $m/|m|$, is investigated on closed topologies when mass terms are weak or only partially cover the surface. It is found that, unlike the massive Dirac theory on an infinite plane, there is a smoothly decreasing current when the mass region is not infinite; also, a massive finite region fails to exhibit a Hall current edge--exerting an extended proximity effect, which can, however, be uniformly small--and oppositely orientated Hall phases are fully quantized while accompanied by diffuse chiral modes. Examples are computed using Dirac energy eigenstates on a flat torus (genus one topology) and closed cap cylinder (genus zero topology) for various mass-term geometries. Finally, from the resulting the properties of the surface spectra, a potential application for a flux-charge qubit is presented.

