id: 1202.0052
title: 3D local qupit quantum code without string logical operator
authors: Isaac H. Kim
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0052
abstract: Recently Haah introduced a new quantum error correcting code embedded on a cubic lattice. One of the defining properties of this code is the absence of string logical operator. We present new codes with similar properties by relaxing the condition on the local particle dimension. The resulting code is well-defined when the local Hilbert space dimension is prime. These codes can be divided into two different classes: the local stabilizer generators are either symmetric or antisymmetric with respect to the inversion operation. These is a nontrivial correspondence between these two classes. For any symmetric code without string logical operator, there exists a complementary antisymmetric code with the same property and vice versa. We derive a sufficient condition for the absence of string logical operator in terms of the algebraic constraints on the defining parameters of the code. Minimal number of local particle dimension which satisfies the condition is 5. These codes have logarithmic energy barrier for any logical error.

id: 1202.0104
title: Geometric measure of quantum discord and total quantum correlations in a N-partite quantum state
authors: Ali Saif M. Hassan, Pramod S. Joag
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 345301
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0104
abstract: Quantum discord, as introduced by Olliver and Zurek [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{88}, 017901 (2001)], is a measure of the discrepancy between quantum versions of two classically equivalent expressions for mutual information and is found to be useful in quantification and application of quantum correlations in mixed states. It is viewed as a key resource present in certain quantum communication tasks and quantum computational models without containing much entanglement. An early step toward the quantification of quantum discord in a quantum state was by Dakic, Vedral, and Brukner [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105,190502 (2010)] who introduced a geometric measure of quantum discord and derived an explicit formula for any two-qubit state. Recently, Luo and Fu [Phys. Rev. A \textbf{82}, 034302 (2010)] introduced a generic form of the geometric measure of quantum discord for a bipartite quantum state. We extend these results and find generic forms of the geometric measure of quantum discord and total quantum correlations in a general N-partite quantum state. Further, we obtain computable exact formulas for the geometric measure of quantum discord and total quantum correlations in a N-qubit quantum state. The exact formulas for the $N$-qubit quantum state are experimentally implementable.

id: 1202.0141
title: Polyhedral duality in Bell scenarios with two binary observables
authors: Tobias Fritz
comments: 19 pages, to appear in J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 072202 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0141
abstract: For the Bell scenario with two parties and two binary observables per party, it is known that the no-signaling polytope is the polyhedral dual (polar) of the Bell polytope. Computational evidence suggests that this duality also holds for three parties. Using ideas of Werner, Wolf, \.Zukowski and Brukner, we prove this for any number of parties by describing a simple linear bijection mapping (tight) Bell inequalities to (extremal) no-signaling boxes and vice versa. Furthermore, a symmetry-based technique for extending Bell inequalities (resp. no-signaling boxes) with two binary observables from n parties to n+1 parties is described; the Mermin-Klyshko family of Bell inequalities arises in this way, as well as 11 of the 46 classes of tight Bell inequalities for 3 parties. Finally, we ask whether the set of quantum correlations is self-dual with respect to our transformation. We find this not to be the case in general, although it holds for 2 parties on the level of correlations. This self-duality implies Tsirelson's bound for the CHSH inequality.

id: 1202.0157
title: Relations between entanglement, Bell-inequality violation and teleportation fidelity for the two-qubit X states
authors: Ming-Liang Hu
comments: 5 pages, to be published in "Quantum Information Processing"
journal: Quantum Inf. Process. 12, 229 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0157
abstract: Based on the assumption that the receiver Bob can apply any unitary transformation, Horodecki {\it et al.} [Phys. Lett. A {\bf 222}, 21 (1996)] proved that any mixed two spin-1/2 state which violates the Bell-CHSH inequality is useful for teleportation. Here, we further show that any X state which violates the Bell-CHSH inequality can also be used for nonclassical teleportation even if Bob can only perform the identity or the Pauli rotation operations. Moreover, we showed that the maximal difference between the two average fidelities achievable via Bob's arbitrary transformations and via the sole identity or the Pauli rotation is 1/9.

id: 1202.0164
title: Measurement induced focussing of radiation from independent single photon sources
authors: R. Wiegner, S. Oppel, J. von Zanthier, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0164
abstract: We present a technique based on multi-photon detection which leads to a strong focussing of photons scattered by independent single photon emitters. For N single photon sources it is shown that if m - 1 photons are detected in a particular direction (with m \leq N) the probability to detect the m-th photon in the same direction can be as high as 100%. This measurement induced focussing effect is already clearly visible for m>2.

id: 1202.0235
title: Experimental implementation of a NMR entanglement witness
authors: J. G. Filgueiras, T. O. Maciel, R. E. Auccaise, R. O. Vianna, R. S. Sarthour, I. S. Oliveira
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0235
abstract: Entanglement witnesses (EW) allow the detection of entanglement in a quantum system, from the measurement of some few observables. They do not require the complete determination of the quantum state, which is regarded as a main advantage. On this paper it is experimentally analyzed an entanglement witness recently proposed in the context of Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) experiments to test it in some Bell-diagonal states. We also propose some optimal entanglement witness for Bell-diagonal states. The efficiency of the two types of EW's are compared to a measure of entanglement with tomographic cost, the generalized robustness of entanglement. It is used a GRAPE algorithm to produce an entangled state which is out of the detection region of the EW for Bell-diagonal states. Upon relaxation, the results show that there is a region in which both EW fails, whereas the generalized robustness still shows entanglement, but with the entanglement witness proposed here with a better performance.

id: 1202.0322
title: Large deviation analysis for quantum security via smoothing of Renyi entropy of order 2
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: The results for the classical case have been removed. This part was moved to the recent paper arXiv:1309.1596
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0322
abstract: It is known that the security evaluation can be done by smoothing of R\'{e}nyi entropy of order 2 in the classical and quantum settings when we apply universal$_2$ hash functions. Using the smoothing of Renyi entropy of order 2, we derive security bounds for $L_1$ distinguishability and modified mutual information criterion under the classical and quantum setting, and have derived these exponential decreasing rates. These results are extended to the case when we apply $\varepsilon$-almost dual universal$_2$ hash functions. Further, we apply this analysis to the secret key generation with error correction.

id: 1202.0325
title: Quantum wiretap channel with non-uniform random number and its exponent and equivocation rate of leaked information
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0325
abstract: A usual code for quantum wiretap channel requires an auxiliary random variable subject to the perfect uniform distribution. However, it is difficult to prepare such an auxiliary random variable. We propose a code that requires only an auxiliary random variable subject to a non-uniform distribution instead of the perfect uniform distribution. Further, we evaluate the exponential decreasing rate of leaked information and derive its equivocation rate. For practical constructions, we also discuss the security when our code consists of a linear error correcting code.

id: 1202.0334
title: Crosstalk calibration of multi-pixel photon counters using coherent states
authors: Dmitry A. Kalashnikov, Si-Hui Tan, Leonid A. Krivitsky
comments: 8 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables
journal: OPTICS EXPRESS 20, 5044-5051 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0334
abstract: We present a novel method of calibration of crosstalk probability for multi-pixel photon counters (MPPCs) based on the measurement of the normalized second-order intensity correlation function of coherent light. The method was tested for several MPPCs, and was shown to be advantageous over the traditional calibration method based on the measurements of the dark noise statistics. The method can be applied without the need of modification for different kinds of spatially resolved single photon detectors.

id: 1202.0345
title: Engineering W-type steady states for three atoms via dissipation in an optical cavity
authors: Xin-Yu Chen, Li-Tuo Shen, Zhen-Biao Yang, Huai-Zhi Wu, Mei-Feng Chen
comments: 4 pages, 4 figures
journal: J. Opt. Soc. Am. B 29, 1535-1540 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0345
abstract: We propose a scheme for the dissipative preparation of W-type entangled steady-states of three atoms trapped in an optical cavity. The scheme is based on the competition between the decay processes into and out of the target state. By suitable choice of system parameters, we resolve the whole evolution process and employ the effective operator formalism to engineer four independent decay processes, so that the target state becomes the stationary state of the quantum system. The scheme requires neither the preparation of definite initial states nor the precise control of system parameters and preparation time.

id: 1202.0346
title: Schmidt-number benchmark for genuine quantum memories and gates
authors: Ryo Namiki, Yuuki Tokunaga
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 010305(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0346
abstract: We propose to apply the notion of the Schmidt number in order to show that a quantum memory or gate process is capable of maintaining a genuine multi-level quantum coherence. We present a simple criterion in terms of an average gate fidelity with respect to the input states of two mutually unbiased bases and demonstrate the coherence of the gate operation in several existing experiments. The Schmidt-number benchmark naturally includes the quantum benchmark as a specific case.

id: 1202.0376
title: Spectral properties of photon pairs generated by spontaneous four wave mixing in inhomogeneous photonic crystal fibers
authors: Liang Cui, Xiaoying Li, Ningbo Zhao
comments: to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0376
abstract: The photonic crystal fiber (PCF) is one of the excellent media for generating photon pairs via spontaneous four wave mixing. Here we study how the inhomogeneity of PCFs affect the spectral properties of photon pairs from both the theoretical and experimental aspects. The theoretical model shows that the photon pairs born in different place of the inhomogeneous PCF are coherently superposed, and a modulation in the broadened spectrum of phase matching function will appear, which prevents the realization of spectral factorable photon pairs. In particular, the inhomogeneity induced modulation can be examined by measuring the spectrum of individual signal or idler field when the asymmetric group velocity matching is approximately fulfilled. Our experiments are performed by tailoring the spectrum of pulsed pump to satisfy the specified phase matching condition. The observed spectra of individual signal photons, which are produced from different segments of the 1.9 m inhomogeneous PCF, agree with the theoretical predictions. The investigations are not only useful for fiber based quantum state engineering, but also provide a dependable method to test the homogeneity of PCF.

id: 1202.0408
title: Quantum processing by adiabatic transfer through a manifold of dark states
authors: Santosh Kumar, Deepak Kumar
comments: 5 pages and 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0408
abstract: We consider a network whose nodes are electromagnetic cavities, each coupled to a single three-level atom. The nodes are connected by optical fibers. Each atom is addressed by a control laser, which along with the cavity field drives atomic transitions. The network can be in the form of chain or two and three dimensional arrays of $N$-cavities connected by $N_B$ fibers. Following the work on two-cavity system by Pellizzari, we find that under certain conditions, the system possesses two kinds of dark states. The first kind are $N$ states corresponding to atomic excitations at each node and these are our logical states for quantum processing. The second kind are $N_B$ degenerate dark states on pairs of sites connected by a fibre. By manipulating intensities and phases of control lasers on the cavities, one can pass adiabatically among these dark states due to their degeneracy. This network operates as a $N$-level quantum system in which one can generate computationally useful states by protocols of external controls. We obtain numerical results for small chains and lattices to demonstrate some quantum operations like the transport of states across the array, generation of W-states and Fourier-like states. We also discuss effects of dissipation and limitations of the model.

id: 1202.0419
title: Entanglement evolution of three-qubit mixed states in multipartite cavity-reservoir systems
authors: Jing-Zhou Xu, Jin-Bao Guo, Wei Wen, Yan-Kui Bai, Fengli Yan
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Chin. Phys. B 21, 080305 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0419
abstract: We analyze the multipartite entanglement evolution of three-qubit mixed states composed of a GHZ state and a W state. For a composite system consisting of three cavities interacting with independent reservoirs, it is shown that the entanglement evolution is restricted by a set of monogamy relations. Furthermore, as quantified by the negativity, the entanglement dynamical property of the mixed entangled state of cavity photons is investigated. It is found that the three cavity photons can exhibit the phenomenon of entanglement sudden death (ESD). However, compared with the evolution of a generalized three-qubit GHZ state which has the equal initial entanglement, the ESD time of mixed states is later than that of the pure state. Finally, we discuss the entanglement distribution in the multipartite system, and point out the intrinsic relation between the ESD of cavity photons and the entanglement sudden birth of reservoirs.

id: 1202.0432
title: Quantum teleportation with nonclassical correlated states in noninertial frames
authors: Hossein Mehri-Dehnavi, Robabeh Rahimi, Hosein Mohammadzadeh, Zahra Ebadi, Behrouz Mirza
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures, expanded version to appear in Quantum Inf. Process
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0432
abstract: Quantum teleportation is studied in noninertial frame, for fermionic case, when Alice and Bob share a general nonclassical correlated state. In noninertial frames two fidelities of teleportation are given. It is found that the average fidelity of teleportation from a separable and nonclassical correlated state is increasing with the amount of nonclassical correlation of the state. However, for any particular nonclassical correlated state, the fidelity of teleportation decreases by increasing the acceleration.

id: 1202.0434
title: Two--mode optical tomograms: a possible experimental check of the Robertson uncertainty relations
authors: V. I. Man'ko, G. Marmo, A. Simoni, F. Ventriglia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0434
abstract: The experimental check of two--mode Robertson uncertainty relations and inequalities for highest quadrature moments is suggested by using homodyne photon detection. The relation between optical tomograms and symplectic tomograms is used to connect the tomographic dispersion matrix and the quadrature components dispersion matrix of the two--mode field states.

id: 1202.0456
title: Quantum Key Distribution with Qubits Encoded in Qutrit
authors: R.Kumar, R.Demkowicz-Dobrzanski, K.Banaszek
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0456
abstract: We present a novel one-way quantum key distribution protocol based on 3-dimensional quantum state, a qutrit, that encodes two qubits in its 2-dimensional subspaces. The qubits hold the classical bit information that has to be shared between the legitimate users. Alice sends such a qutrit to Bob where he decodes one of the qubit and measures it along the random Pauli basis. This scheme has higher secure key rate at longer transmission distance than the standard BB84 protocol.

id: 1202.0462
title: Comparison of dynamical decoupling protocols for a nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond
authors: Zhi-Hui Wang, G. de Lange, D. Riste, R. Hanson, V. V. Dobrovitski
comments: 16 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 155204 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0462
abstract: We perform a detailed theoretical-experimental study of the dynamical decoupling (DD) of the nitrogen-vacancy (NV) center in diamond. We investigate the DD sequences applied to suppress the dephasing of the electron spin of the NV center induced by the coupling to a spin bath composed of the substitutional nitrogen atoms. The decoupling efficiency of various DD schemes is studied, including both periodic and periodic pulse sequences. For ideal control pulses, we find that the DD protocols with the Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill (CPMG) timing of the pulses provides best performance. We show that, as the number of control pulses increases, the decoupling fidelity scaling differs qualitatively from the predictions of the Magnus expansion, and explain the origin of this difference. In particular, more advanced symmetrized or concatenated protocols do not improve the DD performance. Next, we investigate the impact of the systematic instrumental pulse errors in different periodic and aperiodic pulse sequences. The DD protocols with the single-axis control do not preserve all spin components in the presence of the pulse errors, and the two-axis control is needed. We demonstrate that the two-axis control sequence with the CPMG timing is very robust with respect to the pulse errors. The impact of the pulse errors can be diminished further by symmetrizing this protocol. For all protocols studied here, we present a detailed account of the pulse error parameters which make strongest impact on the DD performance. In conclusion, we give specific recommendations about choosing the decoupling protocol for the system under investigation.

id: 1202.0478
title: Observation of reduction in Casimir force without change of dielectric permittivity
authors: A. A. Banishev, C.-C. Chang, R. Castillo-Garza, G. L. Klimchitskaya, V. M. Mostepanenko, U. Mohideen
comments: Plenary talk at the 10th International Conference "Quantum Field Theory Under the Influence of External Conditions" (Benasque, Spain, 2011), 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A, v.27, N15, 1260001-(1-15) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0478
abstract: Additional information is provided on the effect of the significant (up to 35%) reduction in the magnitude of the Casimir force between an Au-coated sphere and an indium tin oxide film which was observed after UV treatment of the latter. A striking feature of this effect is that the reduction is not accompanied with a corresponding variation of the dielectric permittivity, as confirmed by direct ellipsometry measurements. The measurement data are compared with computations using the Lifshitz theory. It is shown that the data for the untreated sample are in a very good agreement with theory taking into account the free charge carriers in the indium tin oxide. The data for the UV-treated sample exclude the theoretical results obtained with account of free charge carriers. These data are found to be in a very good agreement with theory disregarding the free charge carriers in an indium tin oxide film. A possible theoretical explanation of our observations as a result of phase transition of indium tin oxide from metallic to dielectric state is discussed in comparison with other related experiments.

id: 1202.0493
title: What are single photons good for?
authors: Nicolas Sangouard, Hugo Zbinden
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures, submitted to the special issue of the Journal of Modern Optics on the Single-Photon Workshop 2011
journal: Journal of Modern Optics 59, 1458 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0493
abstract: In a long-held preconception, photons play a central role in present-day quantum technologies. But what are sources producing photons one by one good for precisely? Well, in opposition to what many suggest, we show that single-photon sources are not helpful for point to point quantum key distribution because faint laser pulses do the job comfortably. However, there is no doubt about the usefulness of sources producing single photons for future quantum technologies. In particular, we show how single-photon sources could become the seed of a revolution in the framework of quantum communication, making the security of quantum key distribution device independent or extending quantum communication over many hundreds of kilometers. Hopefully, these promising applications will provide a guideline for researchers to develop more and more efficient sources, producing narrowband, pure and indistinguishable photons at appropriate wavelengths.

id: 1202.0518
title: Explicit capacity-achieving receivers for optical communication and quantum reading
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Saikat Guha, Si-Hui Tan, Seth Lloyd
comments: 7 pages, submission to the 2012 International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2012), Boston, MA, USA; v2: Accepted
journal: Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2012, Cambridge, MA, USA), pages 551-555
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0518
abstract: An important practical open question has been to design explicit, structured optical receivers that achieve the Holevo limit in the contexts of optical communication and "quantum reading." The Holevo limit is an achievable rate that is higher than the Shannon limit of any known optical receiver. We demonstrate how a sequential decoding approach can achieve the Holevo limit for both of these settings. A crucial part of our scheme for both settings is a non-destructive "vacuum-or-not" measurement that projects an n-symbol modulated codeword onto the n-fold vacuum state or its orthogonal complement, such that the post-measurement state is either the n-fold vacuum or has the vacuum removed from the support of the n symbols' joint quantum state. The sequential decoder for optical communication requires the additional ability to perform multimode optical phase-space displacements---realizable using a beamsplitter and a laser, while the sequential decoder for quantum reading also requires the ability to perform phase-shifting (realizable using a phase plate) and online squeezing (a phase-sensitive amplifier).

id: 1202.0601
title: Precise evaluation of leaked information with universal2 privacy amplification in the presence of quantum attacker
authors: Masahito Hayashi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0601
abstract: We treat secret key extraction when the eavesdropper has correlated quantum states. We propose quantum privacy amplification theorems different from Renner's, which are based on quantum conditional R\'{e}nyi entropy of order 1+s. Using those theorems, we derive an exponential decreasing rate for leaked information and the asymptotic equivocation rate, which have not been derived hitherto in the quantum setting.

id: 1202.0631
title: Quantum Cheshire Cats
authors: Yakir Aharonov, Daniel Rohrlich, Sandu Popescu, Paul Skrzypczyk
comments: v2: 5 pages, 1 figure. New author added; New section added; Published version
journal: New J. Phys. 15, 113015 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0631
abstract: In this paper we present a quantum Cheshire Cat. In a pre- and post-selected experiment we find the Cat in one place, and its grin in another. The Cat is a photon, while the grin is its circular polarization.

id: 1202.0676
title: The importance of level statistics for the decoherence of a central spin due to a spin environment
authors: H?kon Brox, Joakim Bergli, Yuri M. Galperin
comments: 9 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 85. 052117 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0676
abstract: We study the decoherence of a central spin-1/2 due to a closed environment composed of spin-1/2 particles. It is known that a frustrated spin environment, such as a spin glass, is much more efficient for decoherence of the central spin than a similar size environment without frustration. We construct a Hamiltonian where the degree of frustration is parametrized by a single parameter $\kappa$. By use of this model we find that the environment can be classified by two distinct regimes with respect to the strength of level repulsion. These regimes behave qualitatively different with respect to decoherence of the central spin and might explain the strong enhancement of decoherence observed for frustrated environments.

id: 1202.0679
title: Generalizing entanglement via informational invariance for arbitrary statistical theories
authors: F. Holik, C. Massri, A. Plastino
comments: Improved version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0679
abstract: Given an arbitrary statistical theory, di?erent from quantum mechanics, how to decide which are the nonclassical correlations? We present a formal framework which allows for a definition of nonclassical correlations in such theories, alternative to the current one. This enables one to formulate extrapolations of some important quantum mechanical features via adequate extensions of reciprocal maps relating states of a system with states of its subsystems. These extended maps permit one to generalize i) separability measures to any arbitrary statistical model as well as ii) previous entanglement criteria. The standard definition of entanglement becomes just a particular case of the ensuing, more general notion.

id: 1202.0688
title: Entanglement Dynamics of Two Qubits in a Common Bath
authors: Jian Ma, Zhe Sun, Xiaoguang Wang, Franco Nori
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062323 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0688
abstract: We derive a set of hierarchical equations for qubits interacting with a Lorentz-broadened cavity mode at zero temperature, without using the rotating-wave, Born, and Markovian approximations. We use this exact method to reexamine the entanglement dynamics of two qubits interacting with a common bath, which was previously solved only under the rotating-wave and single-excitation approximations. With the exact hierarchy equation method used here, we observe significant differences in the resulting physics, compared to the previous results with various approximations. Double excitations due to counter-rotating-wave terms are also found to have remarkable effects on the dynamics of entanglement.

id: 1202.0699
title: Direct detection of n-particle atomic correlations via light scattering
authors: L. Jin, M. Macovei, J. Evers
comments: 8 pages, 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0699
abstract: The creation and direct detection of n-particle atomic correlations in ensembles of atoms is investigated. For this, we study an ensemble of laser-driven atoms in which either a dipole-dipole or a Rydberg-Rydberg interaction leads to the formation of correlations between the internal degrees of freedom of the atom. We show that light scattering can be used to imprint information about these correlations onto light, and reveal how this information can be extracted from the statistical properties of the scattered light. As main result we find that observation in certain detection directions allows to directly and individually measure n-particle atomic correlations. Complementary, we discuss a method to experimentally determine the interesting detection positions.

id: 1202.0716
title: Topological phases and multiqubit entanglement
authors: Markus Johansson, Marie Ericsson, Kuldip Singh, Erik Sj?qvist, Mark S. Williamson
comments: Minor changes; journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032112 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0716
abstract: Global phase factors of topological origin, resulting from cyclic local $\rm{SU}$ evolution, called topological phases, were first described in [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 90}, 230403 (2003)], in the case of entangled qubit pairs. In this paper we investigate topological phases in multi-qubit systems as the result of cyclic local $\rm{SU(2)}$ evolution. These phases originate from the topological structure of the local $\rm{SU(2)}$-orbits and are an attribute of most entangled multi-qubit systems. We discuss the relation between topological phases and SLOCC-invariant polynomials and give examples where topological phases appear. A general method to find the values of the topological phases in an $n$-qubit system is described and a complete list of these phases for up to seven qubits is given.

id: 1202.0737
title: Equilibrium and Disorder-induced behavior in Quantum Light-Matter Systems
authors: Eduardo Mascarenhas, Libby Heaney, M. C. O. Aguiar, Marcelo Fran?a Santos
comments: about 10 pages, 12 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics, 14 (2012) 043033
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0737
abstract: We analyze equilibrium properties of coupled-doped cavities described by the Jaynes-Cummings- Hubbard Hamiltonian. In particular, we characterize the entanglement of the system in relation to the insulating-superfluid phase transition. We point out the existence of a crossover inside the superfluid phase of the system when the excitations change from polaritonic to purely photonic. Using an ensemble statistical approach for small systems and stochastic-mean-field theory for large systems we analyze static disorder of the characteristic parameters of the system and explore the ground state induced statistics. We report on a variety of glassy phases deriving from the hybrid statistics of the system. On-site strong disorder induces insulating behavior through two different mechanisms. For disorder in the light-matter detuning, low energy cavities dominate the statistics allowing the excitations to localize and bunch in such cavities. In the case of disorder in the light- matter coupling, sites with strong coupling between light and matter become very significant, which enhances the Mott-like insulating behavior. Inter-site (hopping) disorder induces fluidity and the dominant sites are strongly coupled to each other.

id: 1202.0772
title: Cavity Dynamical Casimir Effect in the presence of a three-level atom
authors: A. V. Dodonov, V. V. Dodonov
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 063804 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0772
abstract: We consider the scenario in which a damped three-level atom in the ladder or V configurations is coupled to a single cavity mode whose vacuum state is amplified by dint of the dynamical Casimir effect. We obtain approximate analytical expressions and exact numerical results for the time-dependent probabilities, demonstrating that the presence of the third level modifies the photon statistics and its population can serve as a witness of photon generation from vacuum.

id: 1202.0773
title: Capacities of classical compound quantum wiretap and classical quantum compound wiretap channels
authors: Minglai Cai, Ning Cai, Christian Deppe
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0773
abstract: We determine the capacity of the classical compound quantum wiretapper channel with channel state information at the transmitter. Moreover we derive a lower bound on the capacity of this channel without channel state information and determine the capacity of the classical quantum compound wiretap channel with channel state information at the transmitter.

id: 1202.0841
title: Logical inconsistency in combining counterfactual results from non-commutative operations: Deconstructing the GHZ-Bell theorems
authors: Louis Sica
comments: Several typos have been corrected. The description of the reasoning has been improved in several places in the text. Formatting has been changed. All results and arguments are the same
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0841
abstract: The Greenberger, Horne, Zeilinger (GHZ) theorem is critically important to consideration of the possibility of hidden variables in quantum mechanics. Since it depends on predictions of single sets of measurements on three particles, it eliminates the sampling loophole encountered by the Bell theorem which requires a large number of observations to obtain a small number of useful joint measurements. In evading this problem, the GHZ theorem is believed to have confirmed Bell's historic conclusion that local hidden variables are inconsistent with the results of quantum mechanics. The GHZ theorem depends on predicting the results of sets of measurements of which only one may be performed, i.e., counterfactuals. In the present paper, the non-commutative aspects of these unperformed measurement sequences are critically examined. Three classical examples and two variations on the GHZ construction are analyzed to demonstrate that combined counter factual results of non-commuting operations are in general logically inconsistent with performable measurement sequences that take non-commutation into account. As a consequence, negative conclusions regarding local hidden variables do not follow from the GHZ and Bell theorems as historically reasoned.

id: 1202.0883
title: Improved Four-state Continuous-variable Quantum Key Distribution with Long Secure Distance
authors: Jian Yang, Bingjie Xu, Xiang Peng, Hong Guo
comments: 5 pages and 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0883
abstract: The four-state continuous-variable quantum key distribution (CVQKD) protocol has a long practical secure distance \cite{Leverrier_PRL_2009}, while it has the difficulty of parameter estimation. We propose an improved four-state protocol, where the covariance matrix can be estimated from experimental data without using the linear channel assumption, and thus ensuring its unconditional security in the asymptotical limit. Our new scheme keeps the advantages of high reconciliation efficiency and long secure distance of the four-state protocol, and it can be implemented under current technology.

id: 1202.0916
title: The Classical Harmonic Vibrations of the Atomic Centers of Mass with Micro Amplitudes and Low Frequencies Monitored by the Entanglement between the Two Two-level Atoms in a Single mode Cavity
authors: Yong-Yi Huang
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0916
abstract: We study the entanglement dynamics of the two two-level atoms coupling with a single-mode polarized cavity field after incorporating the atomic centers of mass classical harmonic vibrations with micro amplitudes and low frequencies. We propose a quantitative vibrant factor to modify the concurrence of the two atoms states. When the vibrant frequencies are very low, we obtain that: (i) the factor depends on the relative vibrant displacements and the initial phases rather than the absolute amplitudes, and reduces the concurrence to three orders of magnitude; (ii) the concurrence increases with the increase of the initial phases; (iii) the frequency of the harmonic vibration can be obtained by measuring the maximal value of the concurrence during a small time. These results indicate that even the extremely weak classical harmonic vibrations can be monitored by the entanglement of quantum states.

id: 1202.0928
title: Improved quantum hypergraph-product LDPC codes
authors: Alexey A. Kovalev, Leonid P. Pryadko
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2012)
journal: IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory Proceedings (ISIT 2012) pp. 348 - 352
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0928
abstract: We suggest several techniques to improve the toric codes and the finite-rate generalized toric codes (quantum hypergraph-product codes) recently introduced by Tillich and Z\'emor. For the usual toric codes, we introduce the rotated lattices specified by two integer-valued periodicity vectors. These codes include the checkerboard codes, and the family of minimal single-qubit-encoding toric codes with block length $n=t^2+(t+1)^2$ and distance $d=2t+1$, $t=1,2,...$. We also suggest several related algebraic constructions which nearly quadruple the rate of the existing hypergraph-product codes.

id: 1202.0939
title: The role of quantum discord in reduction of the lower bound of entropic uncertainty relation in presence of quantum memory
authors: T. Pramanik, S. Mal
comments: This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to some error
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0939
abstract: The uncertainty of measurement on a quantum system can be reduced in presence of quantum memory [M. Berta et. al. Nature Phys. {\bf 6}, 659 (2010)]. By measurement on quantum memory, some information (non-classical information) is inaccessible, hence, it limits the lower bound of entropic uncertainty relation. In the present work, we improve the lower bound of entropic uncertainty relation in presence of quantum memory by considering inaccessibility of non classical correlation at Bob side and also compare the lower bound given by M. Berta et. al. and our prescription for two different kind of shared bipartite state.

id: 1202.0946
title: Gaussian Stochastic Linearization for Open Quantum Systems Using Quadratic Approximation of Hamiltonians
authors: Igor G. Vladimirov, Ian R. Petersen
comments: 27 pages, 1 figure, 5 appendices, submitted (in a brief form) to MTNS 2012, Melbourne, Victoria
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Systems and Control (cs.SY); Optimization and Control (math.OC); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0946
abstract: This paper extends the energy-based version of the stochastic linearization method, known for classical nonlinear systems, to open quantum systems with canonically commuting dynamic variables governed by quantum stochastic differential equations with non-quadratic Hamiltonians. The linearization proceeds by approximating the actual Hamiltonian of the quantum system by a quadratic function of its observables which corresponds to the Hamiltonian of a quantum harmonic oscillator. This approximation is carried out in a mean square optimal sense with respect to a Gaussian reference quantum state and leads to a self-consistent linearization procedure where the mean vector and quantum covariance matrix of the system observables evolve in time according to the effective linear dynamics. We demonstrate the proposed Hamiltonian-based Gaussian linearization for the quantum Duffing oscillator whose Hamiltonian is a quadro-quartic polynomial of the momentum and position operators. The results of the paper are applicable to the design of suboptimal controllers and filters for nonlinear quantum systems.

id: 1202.1015
title: Probability-based comparison of quantum states
authors: Sergey N. Filippov, Mario Ziman
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures, 1 table, some results are extended
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1015
abstract: We address the following state comparison problem: is it possible to design an experiment enabling us to unambiguously decide (based on the observed outcome statistics) on the sameness or difference of two unknown state preparations without revealing complete information about the states? We find that the claim "the same" can never be concluded without any doubts unless the information is complete. Moreover, we prove that a universal comparison (that perfectly distinguishes all states) also requires complete information about the states. Nevertheless, for some measurements, the probability distribution of outcomes still allows one to make an unambiguous conclusion regarding the difference between the states even in the case of incomplete information. We analyze an efficiency of such a comparison of qudit states when it is based on the SWAP-measurement. For qubit states, we consider in detail the performance of special families of two-valued measurements enabling us to successfully compare at most half of the pairs of states. Finally, we introduce almost universal comparison measurements which can distinguish almost all non-identical states (up to a set of measure zero). The explicit form of such measurements with two and more outcomes is found in any dimension.

id: 1202.1016
title: Long-distance quantum communication over noisy networks without long-time quantum memory
authors: Pawe? Mazurek, Andrzej Grudka, Micha? Horodecki, Pawe? Horodecki, Justyna ?odyga, ?ukasz Pankowski, Anna Przysi??na
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures; title modified; appendix included in main text; section IV extended; minor mistakes removed
journal: Phys. Rev. A 90, 062311 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1016
abstract: The problem of sharing entanglement over large distances is crucial for implementations of quantum cryptography. A possible scheme for long-distance entanglement sharing and quantum communication exploits networks whose nodes share Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) pairs. In Perseguers et al. [Phys. Rev. A 78, 062324 (2008)] the authors put forward an important isomorphism between storing quantum information in a dimension $D$ and transmission of quantum information in a $D+1$-dimensional network. We show that it is possible to obtain long-distance entanglement in a noisy two-dimensional (2D) network, even when taking into account that encoding and decoding of a state is exposed to an error. For 3D networks we propose a simple encoding and decoding scheme based solely on syndrome measurements on 2D Kitaev topological quantum memory. Our procedure constitutes an alternative scheme of state injection that can be used for universal quantum computation on 2D Kitaev code. It is shown that the encoding scheme is equivalent to teleporting the state, from a specific node into a whole two-dimensional network, through some virtual EPR pair existing within the rest of network qubits. We present an analytic lower bound on fidelity of the encoding and decoding procedure, using as our main tool a modified metric on space-time lattice, deviating from a taxicab metric at the first and the last time slices.

id: 1202.1019
title: A model-theoretic interpretation of environmentally-induced superselection
authors: Chris Fields
comments: 15 pages, 1 figure; minor corrections
journal: Int. J. Gen. Syst. 41: 847-859 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1019
abstract: Environmentally-induced superselection or "einselection" has been proposed as an observer-independent mechanism by which apparently classical systems "emerge" from physical interactions between degrees of freedom described completely quantum-mechanically. It is shown that einselection can only generate classical systems if the "environment" is assumed \textit{a priori} to be classical; einselection therefore does not provide an observer-independent mechanism by which classicality can emerge from quantum dynamics. Einselection is then reformulated in terms of positive operator-valued measures (POVMs) acting on a global quantum state. It is shown that this re-formulation enables a natural interpretation of apparently-classical systems as virtual machines that requires no assumptions beyond those of classical computer science.

id: 1202.1021
title: Quantum dynamics of bio-molecular systems in noisy environments
authors: M. B. Plenio, S. F. Huelga
comments: Proceedings of the 22nd Solvay Conference in Chemistry on "Quantum Effects in Chemistry and Biology"
journal: Procedia Chemistry 3, 248 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1021
abstract: We discuss three different aspects of the quantum dynamics of bio-molecular systems and more generally complex networks in the presence of strongly coupled environments. Firstly, we make a case for the systematic study of fundamental structural elements underlying the quantum dynamics of these systems, identify such elements and explore the resulting interplay of quantum dynamics and environmental decoherence. Secondly, we critically examine some existing approaches to the numerical description of system-environment interaction in the non-perturbative regime and present a promising new method that can overcome some limitations of existing methods. Thirdly, we present an approach towards deciding and quantifying the non-classicality of the action of the environment and the observed system-dynamics. We stress the relevance of these tools for strengthening the interplay between theoretical and experimental research in this field.

id: 1202.1027
title: Impossibility of a Quantum Speed-up with a Faulty Oracle
authors: Oded Regev, Liron Schiff
comments: Appeared in ICALP'08
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1027
abstract: We consider Grover's unstructured search problem in the setting where each oracle call has some small probability of failing. We show that no quantum speed-up is possible in this case.

id: 1202.1033
title: Symmetries on Spin Chains: Limited Controllability and Minimal Controls for Full Controllability
authors: Xiaoting Wang, Daniel Burgarth, Sophie Schirmer
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1033
abstract: Symmetry is a fundamentally important concept in many branches of physics. In this work, we discuss two types of symmetries, external symmetry and internal symmetry, which appear frequently in controlled quantum spin chains and apply them to study various controllability problems. For spin chains under single local end control when external symmetries exists, we can rigorously prove that the system is controllable in each of the invariant subspaces for both XXZ and XYZ chains, but not for XX or Ising chains. Such results have direct applications in controlling antiferromagnetic Heisenberg chains when the dynamics is naturally confined in the largest excitation subspace. We also address the theoretically important question of minimal control resources to achieve full controllability over the entire spin chain space. In the process we establish a systematic way of evaluating the dynamical Lie algebras and using known symmetries to help identify the dynamical Lie algebra.

id: 1202.1072
title: Optical polarization of nuclear ensembles in diamond
authors: Ran Fischer, Andrey Jarmola, Pauli Kehayias, Dmitry Budker
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 87, 125207 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1072
abstract: We report polarization of a dense nuclear-spin ensemble in diamond and its dependence on magnetic field and temperature. The polarization method is based on the transfer of electron spin polarization of negatively charged nitrogen vacancy color centers to the nuclear spins via the excited-state level anti-crossing of the center. We polarize 90% of the 14N nuclear spins within the NV centers, and 70% of the proximal 13C nuclear spins with hyperfine interaction strength of 13-14 MHz. Magnetic-field dependence of the polarization reveals sharp decrease in polarization at specific field values corresponding to cross-relaxation with substitutional nitrogen centers, while temperature dependence of the polarization reveals that high polarization persists down to 50 K. This work enables polarization of the 13C in bulk diamond, which is of interest in applications of nuclear magnetic resonance, in quantum memories of hybrid quantum devices, and in sensing.

id: 1202.1126
title: Private-Capacity Bounds for Bosonic Wiretap Channels
authors: Ligong Wang, Jeffrey H. Shapiro, Nivedita Chandrasekaran, Gregory W. Wornell
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1126
abstract: We prove an upper bound on the private capacity of the single-mode noiseless bosonic wiretap channel. Combined with a previous lower bound, we obtain the low photon-number asymptotic expression for the private capacity. We then show that the multiple-mode noiseless bosonic wiretap channel is equivalent to parallel single-mode channels, hence the single-mode bounds can be applied. Finally, we consider multiple-spatial-mode propagation through atmospheric turbulence, and derive a private-capacity lower bound that only requires second moments of the channel matrix.

id: 1202.1142
title: Gaming the Quantum
authors: Faisal Shah Khan, Simon J. D. Phoenix
comments: Version 4 contains two new sections: an introduction and section 6.1. The latter section discusses how a quantum mechanism design approach can be used to contruct quantum games at Nash equilibrium. Article to appear in Quantum Information & Computation
journal: Quantum Information & Computation, Vol.13 No.3&4 March 1, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1142
abstract: In the time since a merger of quantum mechanics and game theory was proposed formally in 1999, the two distinct perspectives apparent in this merger of applying quantum mechanics to game theory, referred to henceforth as the theory of "quantized games", and of applying game theory to quantum mechanics, referred to henceforth as "gaming the quantum", have become synonymous under the single ill-defined term "quantum game". Here, these two perspectives are delineated and a game-theoretically proper description of what makes a multi-player, non-cooperative game quantum mechanical, is given. Within the context of this description, finding a Nash equilibrium in a strictly competitive quantum game is shown to be equivalent to finding a solution to a simultaneous best approximation problem in the state space of quantum objects, thus setting up a framework for a game theory inspired study of "equilibrium" behavior of quantum physical systems such as those utilized in quantum information processing and computation.

id: 1202.1143
title: Composite Cluster States and Alternative Architectures for One- Way Quantum Computation
authors: Darran F. Milne, Natalia V. Korolkova
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1007.0403
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1143
abstract: We propose a new architecture for the measurement-based quantum computation model. The new design relies on small composite light-atom primary clusters. These are then assembled into cluster arrays using ancillary light modes and the actual computation is run on such a cellular cluster. We show how to create the primary clusters, which are Gaussian cluster states composed of both light and atomic modes. These are entangled via QND interactions and beamsplitters and the scheme is well described within the continuous-variable covariance matrix formalism.

id: 1202.1167
title: Casimir forces between cylinders at different temperatures
authors: Vladyslav A. Golyk, Matthias Krger, M. T. Homer Reid, Mehran Kardar
comments: 10 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. D 85, 065011 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1167
abstract: We study Casimir interactions between cylinders in thermal non-equilibrium, where the objects as well as the environment are held at different temperatures. We provide the general formula for the force, in a one reflection approximation, for cylinders of arbitrary radii and optical properties. As is the case for equilibrium, we find that the force for optically diluted cylinders can be obtained by appropriate summation of the corresponding result for spheres. We find that the non-equilibrium forces are generally larger than their equilibrium counterpart at separations greater than the thermal wavelength. They may also exhibit oscillations as function of separation, leading to stable points of zero net force. These effects are particularly pronounced for thin conducting cylinders (e.g. 40nm diameter nano-wires of tungsten) due to their large emissivity.

id: 1202.1230
title: Extracting past-future vacuum correlations using circuit QED
authors: Carlos Sabin, Borja Peropadre, Marco del Rey, Eduardo Martin-Martinez
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures. v2: version accepted to Physical Review Letters. Title changed by editors
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109 033602 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1230
abstract: We propose a realistic circuit QED experiment to test the extraction of past-future vacuum entanglement to a pair of superconducting qubits. The qubit P interacts with the quantum field along an open transmission line for an interval T_on and then, after a time-lapse T_off, the qubit F starts interacting for a time T_on in a symmetric fashion. After that, past-future quantum correlations will have transferred to the qubits, even if the qubits do not coexist at the same time. We show that this experiment can be realized with current technology and discuss its utility as a possible implementation of a quantum memory.

id: 1202.1321
title: Modified Schr?dinger equation, its analysis and experimental verification
authors: Isaac Shnaid
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1321
abstract: According to classical non-relativistic Schr\"odinger equation, any local perturbation of wave function instantaneously affects all infinite region, because this equation is of parabolic type, and its solutions demonstrate infinite speed of perturbations propagation. From physical point of view, this feature of Schr\"odinger equation solutions is questionable. According to relativistic quantum mechanics, the perturbations propagate with speed of light. However when appropriate mathematical procedures are applied to Dirac relativistic quantum equation with finite speed of the wave function perturbations propagation, only classical Schr\"odinger equation predicting infinite speed of the wave function perturbations propagation is obtained. Thus, in non-relativistic quantum mechanics the problem persists. In my work modified non-relativistic Schr\"odinger equation is formulated. It is also of parabolic type, but its solutions predict finite speed of the wave function perturbations propagation. Properties of modified Schr\"odinger equation solutions are studied. I show that results of classical Davisson-Germer experiments with electron waves diffraction support developed theoretical concept of modified Schr\"odinger equation, and predict that speed of the wave function perturbations propagation has order of magnitude of speed of light.

id: 1202.1376
title: On the entropy of decoherence matrix for quantum walks
authors: Norio Konno, Etsuo Segawa
comments: 9 pages
journal: Yokohama Mathematical Journal 58 (2012), 65-78
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1376
abstract: The decoherence matrix studied by Gudder and Sorkin (2011) can be considered as a map from the set of all the pairs of $n$-length paths to complex numbers, which is induced by the discrete-time quantum walk. The decoherence matrix is one of the decoherence functionals which present their historical quantum measure theory. In this paper, we compute the von Neumann entropy of the decoherence matrix. To do so, we use the result that the eigensystem of the decoherence matrix can be expressed by a corresponding correlated random walk.

id: 1202.1394
title: The hyperfine structure of the ground states in the helium muonic atoms
authors: Alexei M. Frolov
comments: 
journal: Physical Letters A, v. 376, p. 2548 - 2551 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1394
abstract: The hyperfine structures of the ground states in the ${}^{3}$He$^{2+} \mu^{-} e^{-}$ and ${}^{4}$He$^{2+} \mu^{-} e^{-}$ helium-muonic atoms are investigated with the use of highly accurate variational wave functions. The differences between corresponding levels of hyperfine structure (i.e. hyperfine splittings) are determined to very high numerical accuracy. In particular, we have found that the hyperfine structure splitting in the ground state of the ${}^{4}$He$^{2+} \mu^{-} e^{-}$ atom is $\Delta \nu \approx 4464.55454(3)$ $MHz$, while analogous splitting for the ${}^{3}$He$^{2+}\mu^{-}e^{-}$ atom is $\Delta \nu \approx 4166.43547(3)$.

id: 1202.1404
title: Quantization in relativistic classical mechanics: the Stueckelberg equation, neutrino oscillation and large-scale structure of the Universe
authors: V. D. Rusov, D. S. Vlasenko
comments: 14 pages, 1 figure. Presented at Heinz von Foerster Congress 2011 (v2: some misprints in references fixed; v3: Inroduction and sections 4 and 5 are revised)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1404
abstract: Based on the Chetaev theorem on stable dynamical trajectories in the presence of dissipative forces, we obtain the generalized condition for stability of relativistic classical Hamiltonian systems (with an invariant evolution parameter) in the form of the Stueckelberg equation. As is known, this equation is the basis of a competing paradigm known as parametrized relativistic quantum mechanics (pRQM). It is shown that the energy of dissipative forces, which generate the Chetaev generalized condition of stability, coincides exactly with Bohmian relativistic quantum potential. We show that the squared amplitude of a wave function in the Stueckelberg equation is equivalent to the probability density function for the number of particle trajectories, relative to which the velocity and the position of the particle are not hidden parameters. The conditions for reasonableness of trajectory interpretation of pRQM are discussed. On basis of analysis of a general formalism for vacuum-flavor mixing of neutrino within the context of the standard and pRQM models we show that the corresponding expressions for the probability of transition from one neutrino flavor to another differ appreciably, but they are experimentally testable: the estimations of absolute value for neutrino mass based on modern experimental data for solar and atmospheric neutrinos show that the pRQM results have a preference. It is noted that the selection criterion of mass solutions relies on proximity between the average size of condensed neutrino clouds, which is described by the Muraki formula (29th ICRC, 2005) and depends on the neutrino mass, and the average size of typical observed void structure (dark matter + hydrogen gas), which plays the role of characteristic dimension of large-scale structure of the Universe.

id: 1202.1437
title: Photon-number distributions of twin beams generated in spontaneous parametric down-conversion and measured by an intensified CCD camera
authors: Jan Perina Jr, Ondrej Haderka, Martin Hamar, Vaclav Michalek
comments: 14 pages, 14 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 023816 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1437
abstract: The measurement of photon-number statistics of fields composed of photon pairs, generated in spontaneous parametric down-conversion and detected by an intensified CCD camera is described. Final quantum detection efficiencies, electronic noises, finite numbers of detector pixels, transverse intensity spatial profiles of the detected beams as well as losses of single photons from a pair are taken into account in a developed general theory of photon-number detection. The measured data provided by an iCCD camera with single-photon detection sensitivity are analyzed along the developed theory. Joint signal-idler photon-number distributions are recovered using the reconstruction method based on the principle of maximum likelihood. The range of applicability of the method is discussed. The reconstructed joint signal-idler photon-number distribution is compared with that obtained by a method that uses superposition of signal and noise and minimizes photoelectron entropy. Statistics of the reconstructed fields are identified to be multi-mode Gaussian. Elements of the measured as well as the reconstructed joint signal-idler photon-number distributions violate classical inequalities. Sub-shot-noise correlations in the difference of the signal and idler photon numbers as well as partial suppression of odd elements in the distribution of the sum of signal and idler photon numbers are observed.

id: 1202.1440
title: Comparison between experiment and theory for the thermal Casimir force
authors: G. L. Klimchitskaya, M. Bordag, V. M. Mostepanenko
comments: Plenary talk at the 10th International Conference "Quantum Field Theory Under the Influence of External Conditions" (Benasque, Spain, 2011); 16 pages, 5 figures
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. A, v.27, N15, 1260012-(1-16) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1440
abstract: We analyze recent experiments on measuring the thermal Casimir force with account of possible background effects. Special attention is paid to the validity of the proximity force approximation (PFA) used in the comparison between the experimental data and computational results in experiments employing a sphere-plate geometry. The PFA results are compared with the exact results where they are available. The possibility to use fitting procedures in theory-experiment comparison is discussed. On this basis we reconsider experiments exploiting spherical lenses of centimeter-size radii.

id: 1202.1470
title: Graphene tests of Klein phenomena
authors: Stefano De Leo, Pietro Rotelli
comments: 8 pages
journal: Journal of Physics A 44, 475305-9 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1470
abstract: Graphene is characterized by chiral electronic excitations. As such it provides a perfect testing ground for the production of Klein pairs (electron/holes). If confirmed, the standard results for barrier phenomena must be reconsidered with, as a byproduct, the accumulation within the barrier of holes.

id: 1202.1485
title: Spontaneous emission by rotating objects: A scattering approach
authors: Mohammad F. Maghrebi, Robert L. Jaffe, Mehran Kardar
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 230403 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1485
abstract: We study the quantum electrodynamics (QED) vacuum in the presence of a body rotating along its axis of symmetry and show that the object spontaneously emits energy if it is lossy. The radiated power is expressed as a general trace formula solely in terms of the scattering matrix, making an explicit connection to the conjecture of Zel'dovich [JETP Lett. 14, 180 (1971)] on rotating objects. We further show that a rotating body drags along nearby objects while making them spin parallel to its own rotation axis.

id: 1202.1494
title: Nanofiber-based optical trapping of cold neutral atoms
authors: Eugen Vetsch, Samuel T. Dawkins, Rudolf Mitsch, Daniel Reitz, Philipp Schneeweiss, Arno Rauschenbeutel
comments: 
journal: IEEE J. Quantum Electron. 18, 1763 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1494
abstract: We present experimental techniques and results related to the optimization and characterization of our nanofiber-based atom trap [Vetsch et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 203603 (2010)]. The atoms are confined in an optical lattice which is created using a two-color evanescent field surrounding the optical nanofiber. For this purpose, the polarization state of the trapping light fields has to be properly adjusted. We demonstrate that this can be accomplished by analyzing the light scattered by the nanofiber. Furthermore, we show that loading the nanofiber trap from a magneto-optical trap leads to sub-Doppler temperatures of the trapped atomic ensemble and yields a sub-Poissonian distribution of the number of trapped atoms per trapping site.

id: 1202.1495
title: Correlation and nonlocality measures as indicators of quantum phase transitions in several critical systems
authors: Ferdi Altintas, Resul Eryigit
comments: 
journal: Annals of Physics 327 (2012) pp. 3084-3101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1495
abstract: We have investigated the quantum phase transitions in the ground states of several critical systems, including transverse field Ising and XY models as well as XY with multiple spin interactions, XXZ and the collective system Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick models, by using different quantumness measures, such as entanglement of formation, quantum discord, as well as its classical counterpart, measurement-induced disturbance and the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt-Bell function. Measurement-induced disturbance is found to detect the first and second order phase transitions present in these critical systems, while, surprisingly, it is found to fail to signal the infinite-order phase transition present in the XXZ model. Remarkably, the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt-Bell function is found to detect all the phase transitions, even when quantum and classical correlations are zero for the relevant ground state.

id: 1202.1508
title: Spatiotemporal dynamics of quantum jumps with Rydberg atoms
authors: Tony E. Lee, M. C. Cross
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 063822 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Pattern Formation and Solitons (nlin.PS)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1508
abstract: We study the nonequilibrium dynamics of quantum jumps in a one-dimensional chain of atoms. Each atom is driven on a strong transition to a short-lived state and on a weak transition to a metastable state. We choose the metastable state to be a Rydberg state so that when an atom jumps to the Rydberg state, it inhibits or enhances jumps in the neighboring atoms. This leads to rich spatiotemporal dynamics that are visible in the fluorescence of the strong transition.

id: 1202.1536
title: Quantum Simulation of Tunneling in Small Systems
authors: Andrew T. Sornborger
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: Scientific Reports, 2, 597 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1536
abstract: A number of quantum algorithms have been performed on small quantum computers; these include Shor's prime factorization algorithm, error correction, Grover's search algorithm and a number of analog and digital quantum simulations. Because of the number of gates and qubits necessary, however, digital quantum particle simulations remain untested. A contributing factor to the system size required is the number of ancillary qubits needed to implement matrix exponentials of the potential operator. Here, we show that a set of tunneling problems may be investigated with no ancillary qubits and a cost of one single-qubit operator per time step for the potential evolution. We show that physically interesting simulations of tunneling using 2 qubits (i.e. on 4 lattice point grids) may be performed with 40 single and two-qubit gates. Approximately 70 to 140 gates are needed to see interesting tunneling dynamics in three-qubit (8 lattice point) simulations.

id: 1202.1598
title: Quantifying non-classicality with local unitary operations
authors: Sevag Gharibian
comments: 8 pages, comments welcome. v2: Minor updates to match the published version
journal: Physical Review A, 86:042106, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1598
abstract: We propose a measure of non-classical correlations in bipartite quantum states based on local unitary operations. We prove the measure is non-zero if and only if the quantum discord is non-zero; this is achieved via a new characterization of zero discord states in terms of the state's correlation matrix. Moreover, our scheme can be extended to ensure the same relationship holds even with a generalized version of quantum discord in which higher-rank projective measurements are allowed. We next derive a closed form expression for our scheme in the cases of Werner states and (2 x N)-dimensional systems. The latter reveals that for (2 x N)-dimensional states, our measure reduces to the geometric discord [Dakic et al., PRL 105, 2010]. A connection to the CHSH inequality is shown. We close with a characterization of all maximally non-classical, yet separable, (2 x N)-dimensional states of rank at most two (with respect to our measure).

id: 1202.1633
title: Extremal asymmetric universal cloning machines
authors: Mingming Jiang, Sixia Yu
comments: 4 pages 2 figures
journal: J. Math. Phys. 51, 052306 (2010)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1633
abstract: The trade-offs among various output fidelities of asymmetric universal cloning machines are investigated. First we find out all the attainable optimal output fidelities for the 1 to 3 asymmetric universal cloning machine and it turns out that there are two kinds of extremal asymmetric cloning machines which have to cooperate in order to achieve some of the optimal output fidelities. Second we construct a family of extremal cloning machines that includes the universal symmetric cloning machine as well as an asymmetric 1 to $1+N$ cloning machine for qudits with two different output fidelities such that the optimal trade-off between the measurement disturbance and state estimation is attained in the limit of infinite $N$.

id: 1202.1659
title: Generalized Quantum Theory: Overview and Latest Developments
authors: Thomas Filk, Hartmann R?mer
comments: 14 pages, update in references
journal: Axiomathes (2011) 21:211-230
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1659
abstract: The main formal structures of Generalized Quantum Theory are summarized. Recent progress has sharpened some of the concepts, in particular the notion of an observable, the action of an observable on states (putting more emphasis on the role of proposition observables), and the concept of generalized entanglement. Furthermore, the active role of the observer in the structure of observables and the partitioning of systems is emphasized.

id: 1202.1682
title: Super-bunched bright squeezed vacuum state
authors: T. Sh. Iskhakov, A. Perez, K. Yu. Spasibko, M. V. Chekhova, G. Leuchs
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Optics Letters
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1682
abstract: In this paper we experimentally study the statistical properties of a bright squeezed vacuum state containing up to 10^13 photons per mode (10 uJ per pulse), produced via high gain parametric down conversion (PDC). The effects of bunching and superbunching of photons were observed for a single mode PDC radiation by second-order intensity correlation function measurements with analog detectors.

id: 1202.1695
title: Spin-spin correlations of entangled qubit pairs in the Bohm interpretation of quantum mechanics
authors: A. Ramsak
comments: Extended version of talk presented at the International Workshop 21st-century directions in de Broglie-Bohm theory and beyond, Vallico Sotto 2010
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45, 115310 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1695
abstract: A general entangled qubit pair is analyzed in the de Broglie-Bohm formalism corresponding to two spin-1/2 quantum rotors. Several spin-spin correlators of Bohm's hidden variables are analyzed numerically and a detailed comparison with results obtained by standard quantum mechanics is outlined. In addition to various expectation values the Bohm interpretation allows also a study of the corresponding probability distributions, which enables a novel understanding of entangled qubit dynamics. In particular, it is shown how the angular momenta of two qubits in this formalism can be viewed geometrically and characterized by their relative angles. For perfectly entangled pairs, for example, a compelling picture is given, where the qubits exhibit a unison precession making a constant angle between their angular momenta. It is also demonstrated that the properties of standard quantum mechanical spin-spin correlators responsible for the violation of Bell's inequalities are identical to their counterparts emerging from the probability distributions obtained by the Bohmian approach.

id: 1202.1699
title: Classification of bi-qutrit positive partial transpose entangled edge states by their ranks
authors: Seung-Hyeok Kye, Hiroyuki Osaka
comments: correct the title to avoid an acronym, correct few texts
journal: J. Math. Phys., 53 (2012), 052201
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1699
abstract: We construct $3\otimes 3$ PPT entangled edge states with maximal ranks, to complete the classification of $3\otimes 3$ PPT entangled edge states by their types. The ranks of the states and their partial transposes are 8 and 6, respectively. These examples also disprove claims in the literature.

id: 1202.1710
title: Optical qudit-type entanglement creation at long distances by means of small cross-Kerr nonlinearities
authors: S. Ya. Kilin, A. B. Mikhalychev
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 83, 052303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1710
abstract: Entanglement represents an important resource for quantum information processing, but its generation itself requires physical resources that are limited. We propose a scheme for generating a wide class of entangled qudit-type states of optical field modes at sites separated by noisy medium when only weak optical nonlinearities are available at both sites. The protocol is also based on exploiting a weak probe field, transmitted between the sites and used for generation of quantum correlations between two spatially separated field modes. The idea of probabilistic entanglement enhancement by measurement is discussed, and corresponding scheme for measuring the probe field state with linear optics and photodetectors not resolving photon numbers is proposed. It is shown that the protocol is applicable in the case when decoherence, limited efficiency and dark counts of photodetectors, and uncertainty of nonlinear coupling constants are present.

id: 1202.1713
title: Incomplete quantum state estimation: a comprehensive study
authors: Yong Siah Teo, Bohumil Stoklasa, Berthold-Georg Englert, Jaroslav Rehacek, Zdenek Hradil
comments: 11 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042317 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1713
abstract: We present a detailed account of quantum state estimation by joint maximization of the likelihood and the entropy. After establishing the algorithms for both perfect and imperfect measurements, we apply the procedure to data from simulated and actual experiments. We demonstrate that the realistic situation of incomplete data from imperfect measurements can be handled successfully.

id: 1202.1730
title: Nanofiber Fabry-Perot microresonator for non-linear optics and cavity quantum electrodynamics
authors: C. Wuttke, M. Becker, S. Brckner, M. Rothhardt, A. Rauschenbeutel
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Optics Letters, Vol. 37, Issue 11, pp. 1949-1951 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1730
abstract: We experimentally realize a Fabry-Perot-type optical microresonator near the cesium D2 line wavelength based on a tapered optical fiber, equipped with two fiber Bragg gratings which enclose a sub-wavelength diameter waist. Owing to the very low taper losses, the finesse of the resonator reaches F = 86 while the on-resonance transmission is T = 11 %. The characteristics of our resonator fulfill the requirements of non-linear optics and cavity quantum electrodynamics in the strong coupling regime. In combination with its demonstrated ease of use and its advantageous mode geometry, it thus opens a realm of applications.

id: 1202.1783
title: Analytic Examples, Measurement Models and Classical Limit of Quantum Backflow
authors: J.M.Yearsley, J J.Halliwell, R.Hartshorn, A.Whitby
comments: 33 pages, 14 figures. Minor revisions. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042116 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1783
abstract: We investigate the backflow effect in elementary quantum mechanics - the phenomenon in which a state consisting entirely of positive momenta may have negative current and the probability flows in the opposite direction to the momentum. We compute the current and flux for states consisting of superpositions of gaussian wave packets. These are experimentally realizable but the amount of backflow is small. Inspired by the numerical results of Penz et al (M.Penz, G.Gr\"ubl, S.Kreidl and P.Wagner, J.Phys. A39, 423 (2006)), we find two non-trivial wave functions whose current at any time may be computed analytically and which have periods of significant backflow, in one case with a backwards flux equal to about 70 percent of the maximum possible backflow, a dimensionless number $c_{bm} \approx 0.04 $, discovered by Bracken and Melloy (A.J.Bracken and G.F.Melloy, J.Phys. A27, 2197 (1994)). This number has the unusual property of being independent of $\hbar$ (and also of all other parameters of the model), despite corresponding to an obviously quantum-mechanical effect, and we shed some light on this surprising property by considering the classical limit of backflow. We discuss some specific measurement models in which backflow may be identified in certain measurable probabilities.

id: 1202.1795
title: On the quantumness of correlations in nuclear magnetic resonance
authors: D. O. Soares-Pinto, R. Auccaise, J. Maziero, A. Gavini-Viana, R. M. Serra, L. C. Cleri
comments: 
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 370, 4821 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1795
abstract: Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) was successfully employed to test several protocols and ideas in Quantum Information Science. In most of these implementations the existence of entanglement was ruled out. This fact introduced concerns and questions about the quantum nature of such bench tests. In this article we address some issues related to the non-classical aspects of NMR systems. We discuss some experiments where the quantum aspects of this system are supported by quantum correlations of separable states. Such quantumness, beyond the entanglement-separability paradigm, is revealed via a departure between the quantum and the classical versions of information theory. In this scenario, the concept of quantum discord seems to play an important role. We also present an experimental implementation of an analogous of the single-photon Mach-Zehnder interferometer employing two nuclear spins to encode the interferometric paths. This experiment illustrate how non-classical correlations of separable states may be used to simulate quantum dynamics. The results obtained are completely equivalent to the optical scenario, where entanglement (between two field modes) may be present.

id: 1202.1804
title: No-signaling from Gleason non-contextuality and the tensor-product structure
authors: Himanshu Sharma, R. Srikanth
comments: 3 pages; interpretational comments added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1804
abstract: The no-signaling principle in quantum mechanics is shown to be a consequence of Gleason non-contextuality and the tensor product structure.

id: 1202.1809
title: Virtual Parallel Computing and a Search Algorithm using Matrix Product States
authors: Claudio Chamon, Eduardo R. Mucciolo
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure (published version)
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 030503 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1809
abstract: We propose a form of parallel computing on classical computers that is based on matrix product states. The virtual parallelization is accomplished by representing bits with matrices and by evolving these matrices from an initial product state that encodes multiple inputs. Matrix evolution follows from the sequential application of gates, as in a logical circuit. The action by classical probabilistic one-bit and deterministic two-bit gates such as NAND are implemented in terms of matrix operations and, as opposed to quantum computing, it is possible to copy bits. We present a way to explore this method of computation to solve search problems and count the number of solutions. We argue that if the classical computational cost of testing solutions (witnesses) requires less than $O(n^2)$ local two-bit gates acting on $n$ bits, the search problem can be fully solved in subexponential time. Therefore, for this restricted type of search problem, the virtual parallelization scheme is faster than Grover's quantum algorithm

id: 1202.1852
title: Strong Resilience of Topological Codes to Depolarization
authors: H. Bombin, Ruben S. Andrist, Masayuki Ohzeki, Helmut G. Katzgraber, M. A. Martin-Delgado
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures, 1 table - see Physics Viewpoint by D. Gottesman [this http URL]
journal: Phys. Rev. X 2, 021004 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1852
abstract: The inevitable presence of decoherence effects in systems suitable for quantum computation necessitates effective error-correction schemes to protect information from noise. We compute the stability of the toric code to depolarization by mapping the quantum problem onto a classical disordered eight-vertex Ising model. By studying the stability of the related ferromagnetic phase both via large-scale Monte Carlo simulations and via the duality method, we are able to demonstrate an increased error threshold of 18.9(3)% when noise correlations are taken into account. Remarkably, this agrees within error bars with the result for a different class of codes-topological color codes-where the mapping yields interesting new types of interacting eight-vertex models.

id: 1202.1899
title: Relation Between Quantum Speed Limits And Metrics On U(n)
authors: Kai-Yan Lee, H. F. Chau
comments: minor amendments, 6 pages, to appear in J.Phys.A
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical, Vol 46, 015305 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1899
abstract: Recently, Chau [Quant. Inform. & Comp. 11, 721 (2011)] found a family of metrics and pseudo-metrics on $n$-dimensional unitary operators that can be interpreted as the minimum resources (given by certain tight quantum speed limit bounds) needed to transform one unitary operator to another. This result is closely related to the weighted $\ell^1$-norm on ${\mathbb R}^n$. Here we generalize this finding by showing that every weighted $\ell^p$-norm on ${\mathbb R}^n$ with $1\le p \le \limitingp$ induces a metric and a pseudo-metric on $n$-dimensional unitary operators with quantum information-theoretic meanings related to certain tight quantum speed limit bounds. Besides, we investigate how far the correspondence between the existence of metrics and pseudo-metrics of this type and the quantum speed limits can go.

id: 1202.1900
title: Slowing light with a coupled optomechanical crystal array
authors: Zhenglu Duan, Bixuan Fan
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: EPL (Europhysics Letters), 2012, 99(4): 44005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1900
abstract: We study the propagation of light in a resonator optical waveguide consisting of evanescently coupled optomechanical crystal array. In the strong driving limit, the Hamiltonian of system can be linearized and diagonalized. In this case we obtain the polaritons, which is formed by the interaction of photons and the collective excitation of mechanical resonators. By analyzing the dispersion relations of polaritons, we find that the band structure can be controlled by changing the related parameters. It has been suggested an engineerable band structure can be used to slow and stop light pulses.

id: 1202.1923
title: Atomic physics and quantum optics using superconducting circuits
authors: J. Q. You, Franco Nori
comments: 13 pages, 6 figures, 3 boxes with additional 2 figures. See also: this http URL
journal: Nature 474, 589-597 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1923
abstract: Superconducting circuits based on Josephson junctions exhibit macroscopic quantum coherence and can behave like artificial atoms. Recent technological advances have made it possible to implement atomic-physics and quantum-optics experiments on a chip using these artificial atoms. This review presents a brief overview of the progress achieved so far in this rapidly advancing field. We not only discuss phenomena analogous to those in atomic physics and quantum optics with natural atoms, but also highlight those not occurring in natural atoms. In addition, we summarize several prospective directions in this emerging interdisciplinary field.

id: 1202.1959
title: Correlations in quantum states and the local creation of quantum discord
authors: Manuel Gessner, Elsi-Mari Laine, Heinz-Peter Breuer, Jyrki Piilo
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052122 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1959
abstract: Quantum discord is usually referred to as a measure for quantum correlations. In the search of the fundamental resource to gain a quantum advantage in quantum information applications, quantum discord is considered a promising candidate. In this paper we present an alternative view on quantum correlations in terms of the rank of the correlation matrix as introduced by Dakic, Vedral, and Brukner [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 190502 (2010)]. According to our analysis, information about the quantum discord does not necessarily determine the amount of quantum correlations but rather the quantumness of the state. Nonzero quantum discord is only a necessary but not a sufficient condition for correlations above the classically achievable limit. This becomes clear when we consider states of nonzero discord, which can be created from zero discord states only by a single local operation. We further show that the set of these states has measure zero.

id: 1202.1963
title: Spatial mode effects in a cavity EIT-based quantum memory with ion Coulomb crystals
authors: Kasper R. Zangenberg, Aurlien Dantan, Michael Drewsen
comments: 15 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. B 45, 124011 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1963
abstract: Quantum storage and retrieval of light in ion Coulomb crystals using cavity electromagnetically induced transparency is investigated theoretically. It is found that, when both the control and probe fields are coupled to the same cavity mode, their transverse mode profile affects the quantum memory efficiency in a non-trivial way. Under such conditions the control field parameters and crystal dimensions that maximize the memory efficiency are calculated.

id: 1202.1982
title: Casimir-Polder interaction of fullerene molecules with surfaces
authors: Stefan Yoshi Buhmann, Stefan Scheel, Simen ?. Ellingsen, Klaus Hornberger, Andreas Jacob
comments: 9 pages, 8 figures, 9 tables
journal: Physical Review A 85 042513 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1982
abstract: We calculate the thermal Casimir--Polder potential of C60 and C70 fullerene molecules near gold and silicon nitride surfaces, motivated by their relevance for molecular matter wave interference experiments. We obtain the coefficients governing the asymptotic power laws of the interaction in the thermal, retarded and nonretarded distance regimes and evaluate the full potential numerically. The interaction is found to be dominated by electronic transitions, and hence independent of the internal temperature of the molecules. The contributions from phonon transitions, which are affected by the molecular temperature, give rise to only a small correction. Moreover, we find that the sizeable molecular line widths of thermal fullerenes may modify the nonretarded interaction, depending on the model used. Detailed measurements of the nonretarded potential of fullerene thus allow one to distinguish between different theories of incorporating damping.

id: 1202.2041
title: Entanglement protection and generation under continuous monitoring
authors: Alberto Barchielli, Matteo Gregoratti
comments: 24 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2041
abstract: Entanglement between two quantum systems is a resource in quantum information, but dissipation usually destroys it. In this article we consider two qubits without direct interaction and we show that, even in cases where the open system dynamics destroys any initial entanglement, the mere monitoring of the environment can preserve or create the entanglement, by filtering the state of the qubits. While the systems we study are very simple, we can show examples with entanglement protection or entanglement birth, death, rebirth due to monitoring.

id: 1202.2044
title: Emergence of classical behavior from the quantum spin
authors: M. Radonjic, S. Prvanovic, N. Buric
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2044
abstract: Classical Hamiltonian system of a point moving on a sphere of fixed radius is shown to emerge from the constrained evolution of quantum spin. The constrained quantum evolution corresponds to an appropriate coarse-graining of the quantum states into equivalence classes, and forces the equivalence classes to evolve as single units representing the classical states. The coarse-grained quantum spin with the constrained evolution in the limit of the large spin becomes indistinguishable from the classical system.

id: 1202.2053
title: Simplified Approach to Implementing Controlled-Unitary Operations in a Two-Qubit System
authors: Preethika Kumar, Steven R. Skinner
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures, 1 table
journal: Physical Review A 76, pp. 022335-022346 (2007)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2053
abstract: We introduce a scheme for realizing arbitrary controlled-unitary operations in a two qubit system. If the 2 \times 2 unitary matrix is special unitary (has unit determinant), the controlled-unitary gate operation can be realized in a single pulse operation. The pulse, in our scheme, will constitute varying one of the parameters of the system between an arbitrarily maximum and a "calculated" minimum value. This parameter will constitute the variable parameter of the system while the other parameters, which include the coupling between the two qubits, will be treated as fixed parameters. The values of the parameters are what we solve for using our approach in order to realize an arbitrary controlled-unitary operation. We further show that the computational complexity of the operation is no greater than that required for a Controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate. Since conventional schemes realize a controlled-unitary operation by breaking it into a sequence of single-qubit and CNOT gate operations, our method is an improvement because we not only require lesser time duration, but also fewer control lines, to implement the same operation. To demonstrate improvement over other schemes, we show, as examples, how two controlled-unitary operations, one being the controlled-Hadamard gate, can be realized in a single pulse operation using our scheme. Furthermore, our method can be applied to a wide range of coupling schemes and can be used to realize gate operations between two qubits coupled via Ising, Heisenberg and anisotropic interactions.

id: 1202.2084
title: Generation of GHZ entangled states of photons in multiple cavities via a superconducting qutrit or an atom through resonant interaction
authors: Chui-Ping Yang, Qi-Ping Su, Siyuan Han
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures, accepted by Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022329 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2084
abstract: We propose an efficient method to generate a GHZ entangled state of n photons in n microwave cavities (or resonators) via resonant interaction to a single superconducting qutrit. The deployment of a qutrit, instead of a qubit, as the coupler enables us to use resonant interactions exclusively for all qutrit-cavity and qutrit-pulse operations. This unique approach significantly shortens the time of operation which is advantageous to reducing the adverse effects of qutrit decoherence and cavity decay on fidelity of the protocol. Furthermore, the protocol involves no measurement on either the state of qutrit or cavity photons. We also show that the protocol can be generalized to other systems by replacing the superconducting qutrit coupler with different types of physical qutrit, such as an atom in the case of cavity QED, to accomplish the same task.

id: 1202.2147
title: Quantum state transmission in a cavity array via two-photon exchange
authors: Yu-Li Dong, Shi-Qun Zhu, Wen-Long You
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures. to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 023833 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2147
abstract: The dynamical behavior of a coupled cavity array is investigated when each cavity contains a three-level atom. For the uniform and staggered intercavity hopping, the whole system Hamiltonian can be analytically diagonalized in the subspace of single-atom excitation. The quantum state transfer along the cavities is analyzed in detail for distinct regimes of parameters, and some interesting phenomena including binary transmission, selective localization of the excitation population are revealed. We demonstrate that the uniform coupling is more suitable for the quantum state transfer. It is shown that the initial state of polariton located in the first cavity is crucial to the transmission fidelity, and the local entanglement depresses the state transfer probability. Exploiting the metastable state, the distance of the quantum state transfer can be much longer than that of Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard model. A higher transmission probability and longer distance can be achieved by employing a class of initial encodings and final decodings.

id: 1202.2163
title: Optimal multipartite entanglement concentration of electron-spin states based on charge detection and projection measurements
authors: Bao-Cang Ren, Tie-Jun Wang, Ming Hua, Fu-Fu Du, Fu-Guo Deng
comments: 6 pages, 4 figure
journal: Quantum Inf. Process.13, 825-838 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2163
abstract: We propose an optimal entanglement concentration protocol (ECP) for nonlocal N-electron systems in a partially entangled pure state, resorting to charge detection and the projection measurement on an additional electron. For each nonlocal N-electron system, one party in quantum communication, say Alice first entangles it with an additional electron, and then she projects the additional electron into an orthogonal basis for dividing the N-electron systems into two groups. In the first group, the N parties obtain a subset of $N$-electron systems in a maximally entangled state directly. In the second group, they obtain some less-entangled N-electron systems which are the resource for the entanglement concentration in the next round. By iterating the entanglement concentration process several times, the present ECP has the maximal success probability, the theoretical limit of an ECP as it just equals to the entanglement of the partially entangled state, far higher than others, without resorting to a collective unitary evolution.

id: 1202.2164
title: Convex Geometry: a travel to the limits of our knowledge
authors: Bogdan Mielnik
comments: 4 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2164
abstract: Our knowledge and ignorance concerning the geometry of quantum states are discussed.

id: 1202.2184
title: General polygamy inequality of multi-party quantum entanglement
authors: Jeong San Kim
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: Physical Review A 85, 062302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2184
abstract: Using entanglement of assistance, we establish a general polygamy inequality of multi-party entanglement in arbitrary dimensional quantum systems. For multi-party closed quantum systems, we relate our result with the monogamy of entanglement to show that the entropy of entanglement is an universal entanglement measure that bounds both monogamy and polygamy of multi-party quantum entanglement.

id: 1202.2190
title: Efficient single-photon-assisted entanglement concentration for partially entangled photon pairs
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Lan Zhou, Sheng-Mei Zhao, Bao-Yu Zheng
comments: 
journal: Physical Review A 85, 012307 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2190
abstract: We present two realistic entanglement concentration protocols (ECPs) for pure partially entangled photons. A partially entangled photon pair can be concentrated to a maximally entangled pair with only an ancillary single photon in a certain probability, while the conventional ones require two copies of partially entangled pairs at least. Our first protocol is implemented with linear optics and the second one is implemented with cross-Kerr nonlinearities. Compared with other ECPs, they do not need to know the accurate coefficients of the initial state. With linear optics, it is feasible with current experiment. With cross-Kerr nonlinearities, it does not require the sophisticated single-photon detectors and can be repeated to get a higher success probability. Moreover, the second protocol can get the higher entanglement transformation efficiency and it maybe the most economical one by far. Meanwhile, both of protocols are more suitable for multi-photon system concentration, because they need less operations and classical communications. All these advantages make two protocols be useful in current long-distance quantum communications.

id: 1202.2259
title: A Sequence of Quantum Gates
authors: Yorick Hardy, Willi-Hans Steeb
comments: 10 pages, LaTeX
journal: Int. J. Geom. Methods Mod. Phys. 9 (2012) 1220013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2259
abstract: We study a sequence of quantum gates in finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces given by the normalized eigenvectors of the unitary operators. The corresponding sequence of the Hamilton operators is also given. From the Hamilton operators we construct another hierarchy of quantum gates via the Cayley transform.

id: 1202.2283
title: Quantum Cournot equilibrium for the Hotelling-Smithies model of product choice
authors: Ramij Rahaman, Priyadarshi Majumdar, B. Basu
comments: 13 pages, 6 tables, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2283
abstract: This paper demonstrates the quantization of a spatial Cournot duopoly model with product choice, a two stage game focusing on non-cooperation in locations and quantities. With quantization, the players can access a continuous set of strategies, using continuous variable quantum mechanical approach. The presence of quantum entanglement in the initial state identifies a quantity equilibrium for every location pair choice with any transport cost. Also higher profit is obtained by the firms at Nash equilibrium. Adoption of quantum strategies rewards us by the existence of a larger quantum strategic space at equilibrium.

id: 1202.2294
title: Super-resolving multi-photon interferences with independent light sources
authors: Steffen Oppel, Thomas Bttner, Pieter Kok, Joachim von Zanthier
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 233603 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2294
abstract: We propose to use multi-photon interferences from statistically independent light sources in combination with linear optical detection techniques to enhance the resolution in imaging. Experimental results with up to five independent thermal light sources confirm this approach to improve the spatial resolution. Since no involved quantum state preparation or detection is required the experiment can be considered an extension of the Hanbury Brown and Twiss experiment for spatial intensity correlations of order N>2.

id: 1202.2307
title: Shot-noise limited monitoring and phase locking of the motion of a single trapped ion
authors: P. Bushev, G. Hetet, L. Slodicka, D. Rotter, M. A. Wilson, F. Schmidt-Kaler, J. Eschner, R. Blatt
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 133602 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2307
abstract: We perform high-resolution real-time read-out of the motion of a single trapped and laser-cooled Ba ion. By using an interferometric setup we demonstrate shot-noise limited measurement of thermal oscillations with resolution of 4 times the standard quantum limit. We apply the real-time monitoring for phase control of the ion motion through a feedback loop, suppressing the photon recoil-induced phase diffusion. Due to the spectral narrowing in phase-locked mode, the coherent ion oscillation is measured with resolution of about 0.3 times the standard quantum limit.

id: 1202.2326
title: Qutrit Magic State Distillation
authors: Hussain Anwar, Earl T. Campbell, Dan E. Browne
comments: 13 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 063006 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2326
abstract: Magic state distillation (MSD) is a purification protocol that plays a central role in fault tolerant quantum computation. Repeated iteration of the steps of a MSD protocol, generates pure single non-stabilizer states, or magic states, from multiple copies of a mixed resource state using stabilizer operations only. Thus mixed resource states promote the stabilizer operations to full universality. Magic state distillation was introduced for qubit-based quantum computation, but little has been known concerning MSD in higher dimensional qudit-based computation. Here, we describe a general approach for studying MSD in higher dimensions. We use it to investigate the features of a qutrit MSD protocol based on the 5-qutrit stabilizer code. We show that this protocol distills non-stabilizer magic states, and identify two types of states, that are attractors of this iteration map. Finally, we show how these states may be converted, via stabilizer circuits alone, into a state suitable for state injected implementation of a non-Clifford phase gate, enabling non-Clifford unitary computation.

id: 1202.2333
title: Phase Space Evolution and Discontinuous Schr?dinger Waves
authors: Emerson Sadurni
comments: Presented at the conference QTS7, Prague 2011. 12 pages, 7 figures
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 343 012106 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2333
abstract: The problem of Schr\"odinger propagation of a discontinuous wavefunction -diffraction in time- is studied under a new light. It is shown that the evolution map in phase space induces a set of affine transformations on discontinuous wavepackets, generating expansions similar to those of wavelet analysis. Such transformations are identified as the cause for the infinitesimal details in diffraction patterns. A simple case of an evolution map, such as SL(2) in a two-dimensional phase space, is shown to produce an infinite set of space-time trajectories of constant probability. The trajectories emerge from a breaking point of the initial wave.

id: 1202.2386
title: Undoing measurement-induced dephasing in circuit QED
authors: A. Frisk Kockum, L. Tornberg, G. Johansson
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052318 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2386
abstract: We analyze the backaction of homodyne detection and photodetection on superconducting qubits in circuit quantum electrodynamics. Although both measurement schemes give rise to backaction in the form of stochastic phase rotations, which leads to dephasing, we show that this can be perfectly undone provided that the measurement signal is fully accounted for. This result improves upon that of Phys. Rev. A, 82, 012329 (2010), showing that the method suggested can be made to realize a perfect two-qubit parity measurement. We propose a benchmarking experiment on a single qubit to demonstrate the method using homodyne detection. By analyzing the limited measurement efficiency of the detector and bandwidth of the amplifier, we show that the parameter values necessary to see the effect are within the limits of existing technology.

id: 1202.2403
title: The microscopic origin of thermodynamic entropy in isolated systems
authors: J. M. Deutsch, Haibin Li, Auditya Sharma
comments: Manuscript is 5 pages, 2 figures, plus supplementary materials of 8 pages and 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2403
abstract: A microscopic understanding of the thermodynamic entropy in quantum systems has been a mystery ever since the invention of quantum mechanics. In classical physics, this entropy is believed to be the logarithm of the volume of phase space accessible to an isolated system [1]. There is no quantum mechanical analog to this. Instead, Von Neumann's hypothesis for the entropy [2] is most widely used. However this gives zero for systems with a known wave function, that is a pure state. This is because it measures the lack of information about the system rather than the flow of heat as obtained from thermodynamic experiments. Many arguments attempt to sidestep these issues by considering the system of interest coupled to a large external one, unlike the classical case where Boltzmann's approach for isolated systems is far more satisfactory. With new experimental techniques, probing the quantum nature of thermalization is now possible [3, 4]. Here, using recent advances in our understanding of quantum thermalization [5-10] we show how to obtain the entropy as is measured from thermodynamic experiments, solely from the self-entanglement of the wavefunction, and find strong numerical evidence that the two are in agreement for non-integrable systems. It is striking that this entropy, which is closely related to the concept of heat, and generally thought of as microscopic chaotic motion, can be determined for systems in energy eigenstates which are stationary in time and therefore not chaotic, but instead have a very complex spatial dependence.

id: 1202.2413
title: Entangled Quantum State Discrimination using Pseudo-Hermitian System
authors: Ananya Ghatak, Bhabani Prasad Mandal
comments: Latex, 9 pages, 1 figure
journal: J. Phys A : Math & Gen. 45, 355301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2413
abstract: We demonstrate how to discriminate two non-orthogonal, entangled quantum state which are slightly different from each other by using pseudo-Hermitian system. The positive definite metric operator which makes the pseudo-Hermitian systems fully consistent quantum theory is used for such a state discrimination. We further show that non-orthogonal states can evolve through a suitably constructed pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonian to orthogonal states. Such evolution ceases at exceptional points of the pseudo-Hermitian system.

id: 1202.2418
title: Quantum mode filtering of non-Gaussian states for teleportation-based quantum information processing
authors: Shuntaro Takeda, Hugo Benichi, Takahiro Mizuta, Noriyuki Lee, Jun-ichi Yoshikawa, Akira Furusawa
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053824 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2418
abstract: We propose and demonstrate an effective mode-filtering technique of non-Gaussian states generated by photon-subtraction. More robust non-Gaussian states have been obtained by removing noisy low frequencies from the original mode spectrum. We show that non-Gaussian states preserve their non-classicality after quantum teleportation to a higher degree, when they have been mode-filtered. This is indicated by a stronger negativity $-0.033 \pm 0.005$ of the Wigner function at the origin, compared to $-0.018 \pm 0.007$ for states that have not been mode-filtered. This technique can be straightforwardly applied to various kinds of photon-subtraction protocols, and can be a key ingredient in a variety of applications of non-Gaussian states, especially teleportation-based protocols towards universal quantum information processing.

id: 1202.2456
title: Invariant measures on multimode quantum Gaussian states
authors: C. Lupo, S. Mancini, A. De Pasquale, P. Facchi, G. Florio, S. Pascazio
comments: 17 pages, comments are welcome. v2: presentation improved and typos corrected. Close to the published version
journal: J. Math. Phys. 53, 122209 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2456
abstract: We derive the invariant measure on the manifold of multimode quantum Gaussian states, induced by the Haar measure on the group of Gaussian unitary transformations. To this end, by introducing a bipartition of the system in two disjoint subsystems, we use a parameterization highlighting the role of nonlocal degrees of freedom -- the symplectic eigenvalues -- which characterize quantum entanglement across the given bipartition. A finite measure is then obtained by imposing a physically motivated energy constraint. By averaging over the local degrees of freedom we finally derive the invariant distribution of the symplectic eigenvalues in some cases of particular interest for applications in quantum optics and quantum information.

id: 1202.2472
title: Classical-Quantum Coexistence: a `Free Will' Test
authors: Lajos Disi
comments: 7pp, based on talk at Conf. on Emergent Quantum Mechanics, Heinz von Foerster Congress (Vienna University, Nov 11-13, 2011)
journal: J.Phys.Conf.Ser. 361 (2012) 012028 -(7)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2472
abstract: Von Neumann's statistical theory of quantum measurement interprets the instantaneous quantum state and derives instantaneous classical variables. In realty, quantum states and classical variables coexist and can influence each other in a time-continuous way. This has been motivating investigations since longtime in quite different fields from quantum cosmology to optics as well as in foundations. Different theories (mean-field, Bohm, decoherence, dynamical collapse, continuous measurement, hybrid dynamics, e.t.c.) emerged for what I call `coexistence of classical continuum with quantum'. I apply to these theories a sort of `free will' test to distinguish `tangible' classical variables useful for causal control from useless ones.

id: 1202.2530
title: Implementing Quantum Gates by Optimal Control with Doubly Exponential Convergence
authors: Pierre de Fouquieres
comments: 4+2 figures; to appear in PRL
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2530
abstract: We introduce a novel algorithm for the task of coherently controlling a quantum mechanical system to implement any chosen unitary dynamics. It performs faster than existing state of the art methods by one to three orders of magnitude (depending on which one we compare to), particularly for quantum information processing purposes. This substantially enhances the ability to both study the control capabilities of physical systems within their coherence times, and constrain solutions for control tasks to lie within experimentally feasible regions. Natural extensions of the algorithm are also discussed.

id: 1202.2534
title: Continuous-Variable Bell Inequalities in Phase Space
authors: Karl-Peter Marzlin, T. A. Osborn
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2534
abstract: We propose a variation of Bell inequalities for continuous variables that employs the Wigner function and Weyl symbols of operators in phase space. We present examples of Bell inequality violation which beat Cirel'son's bound.

id: 1202.2539
title: Quantum Time Crystals
authors: Frank Wilczek
comments: 6 pages, no figures. v2: tightened format, additional references, small improvements
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2539
abstract: Difficulties around the idea of spontaneous breaking of time translation symmetry in a closed quantum mechanical system are identified, and then overcome in a simple model. The possibility of ordering in imaginary time is also discussed.

id: 1202.2593
title: Error threshold estimates for surface code with loss of qubits
authors: Masayuki Ohzeki
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, 2 tables, title changed
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2593
abstract: We estimate optimal thresholds for surface code in the presence of loss via an analytical method developed in statistical physics. The optimal threshold for the surface code is closely related to a special critical point in a finite-dimensional spin glass, which is disordered magnetic material. We compare our estimations to the heuristic numerical results reported in earlier studies. Further application of our method to the depolarizing channel, a natural generalization of the noise model, unveils its wider robustness even with loss of qubits.

id: 1202.2616
title: Efficient entanglement concentration for three-photon W states with parity check measurement
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Lan Zhou, Sheng-Mei Zhao
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2616
abstract: We present an optimal entanglement concentration ECP for an arbitrary less-entangled W state. By two of the parties say Alice and Charlie performing one parity check measurements, they can obtain the maximally entangled W state with a certain probability. Otherwise, they can obtain another lesser-entangled W state with another probability, which can be used to reconcentrated into a maximally entangled W state. By iterating this ECP several times, it has the maximal success probability. This ECP maybe an optimal one and is useful in current quantum information processing.

id: 1202.2626
title: Development of a high-sensitivity torsion balance to investigate the thermal Casimir force
authors: T. Graveson, C. Rackson, W. J. Kim
comments: Proceedings of the 10th International Conference "Quantum Field Theory Under the Influence of External Conditions"; 11 pages and 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2626
abstract: We report development of a high-sensitivity torsion balance to measure the thermal Casimir force. Special emphasis is placed on experimental investigations of a possible surface electric force originating from surface patch potentials that have been recently noticed by several experimental groups. By gaining a proper understanding of the actual contribution of the surface electric force in real materials, we aim to undertake precision force measurements to resolve the Casimir force at finite temperature in real metals, as well as in other semiconducting materials, such as graphene.

id: 1202.2639
title: Low-overhead surface code logical Hadamard
authors: Austin G. Fowler
comments: 12 pages, 11 figures, published version
journal: QIC 12, 970--982 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2639
abstract: We present an improved low-overhead implementation of surface code logical H. We describe in full detail logical H applied to a single distance 7 double-defect logical qubit in an otherwise idle scalable array such qubits. Our goal is to provide a clear description of logical H and to emphasize that the surface code possesses low-overhead implementations of the entire Clifford group.

id: 1202.2651
title: State succinctness of two-way finite automata with quantum and classical states
authors: Shenggen Zheng, Daowen Qiu, Jozef Gruska, Lvzhou Li, Paulo Mateus
comments: 26pages, comments and suggestions are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Formal Languages and Automata Theory (cs.FL)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2651
abstract: {\it Two-way quantum automata with quantum and classical states} (2QCFA) were introduced by Ambainis and Watrous in 2002. In this paper we study state succinctness of 2QCFA. For any $m\in {\mathbb{Z}}^+$ and any $\epsilon<1/2$, we show that: {enumerate} there is a promise problem $A^{eq}(m)$ which can be solved by a 2QCFA with one-sided error $\epsilon$ in a polynomial expected running time with a constant number (that depends neither on $m$ nor on $\varepsilon$) of quantum states and $\mathbf{O}(\log{\frac{1}{\epsilon})}$ classical states, whereas the sizes of the corresponding {\it deterministic finite automata} (DFA), {\it two-way nondeterministic finite automata} (2NFA) and polynomial expected running time {\it two-way probabilistic finite automata} (2PFA) are at least $2m+2$, $\sqrt{\log{m}}$, and $\sqrt[3]{(\log m)/b}$, respectively; there exists a language $L^{twin}(m)=\{wcw| w\in\{a,b\}^*\}$ over the alphabet $\Sigma=\{a,b,c\}$ which can be recognized by a 2QCFA with one-sided error $\epsilon$ in an exponential expected running time with a constant number of quantum states and $\mathbf{O}(\log{\frac{1}{\epsilon})}$ classical states, whereas the sizes of the corresponding DFA, 2NFA and polynomial expected running time 2PFA are at least $2^m$, $\sqrt{m}$, and $\sqrt[3]{m/b}$, respectively; {enumerate} where $b$ is a constant.

id: 1202.2666
title: Efficient electronic entanglement concentration assisted with single mobile electron
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Lan Zhou, Wei-Wen Cheng, Long-Yan Gong, Sheng-Mei Zhao
comments: 6pages, 3figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2666
abstract: We present an efficient entanglement concentration protocol (ECP) for mobile electrons with charge detection. This protocol is quite different from other ECPs for one can obtain a maximally entangled pair from a pair of less-entangled state and a single mobile electron with a certain probability. With the help of charge detection, it can be repeated to reach a higher success probability. It also does not need to know the coefficient of the original less-entangled states. All these advantages may make this protocol useful in current distributed quantum information processing.

id: 1202.2685
title: Classical light analogue of the nonlocal Aharonov-Bohm effect
authors: Nandan Satapathy, Deepak Pandey, Poonam Mehta, Supurna Sinha, Joseph Samuel, Hema Ramachandran
comments: To appear in Europhys. Lett
journal: EPL, 97 (2012) 50011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2685
abstract: We demonstrate the existence of a non-local geometric phase in the intensity-intensity correlations of classical incoherent light, that is not seen in the lower order correlations. This two-photon Pancharatnam phase was observed and modulated in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer. Using acousto-optic interaction, independent phase noise was introduced to light in the two arms of the interferometer to create two independent incoherent classical sources from laser light. The experiment is the classical optical analogue of the multi-particle Aharonov-Bohm effect. As the trajectory of light over the Poincare sphere introduces a phase shift observable only in the intensity-intensity correlation, it provides a means of deflecting the two-photon wavefront, while having no effect on single photons.

id: 1202.2693
title: Multistate transitions and quantum oscillations of optical activity
authors: Celia Blanco, David Hochberg
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022114 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2693
abstract: We consider the effects of multistate transitions on the tunneling racemization of chiral molecules. This requires going beyond simple two-state models of enantiomers and to include transitions within a multiple-level quantum-mechanical system.We derive an effective two-level description which accounts for transitions from the enantiomers to an arbitrary number of excited states as an application of the Weisskopf-Wigner approximation scheme. Modifications to the optical activity from these additional states are considered in general terms under the assumption of \textit{CPT} invariance and then under T invariance. Some formal dynamical analogies between enantiomers and the neutral K-meson system are discussed.

id: 1202.2728
title: Born Rule and Noncontextual Probability
authors: Fabrizio Logiurato, Augusto Smerzi
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2728
abstract: The probabilistic rule that links the formalism of Quantum Mechanics (QM) to the real world was stated by Born in 1926. Since then, there were many attempts to derive the Born postulate as a theorem, Gleason's being the most prominent. The Gleason derivation, however, is generally considered rather intricate and its physical meaning, in particular in relation with the noncontextuality of probability (NP), is not quite evident. More recently, we are witnessing a revival of interest in possible demonstrations of the Born rule, like Zurek's and Deutsch's based on the decoherence and on the theory of decisions, respectively. Despite an ongoing debate about the presence of hidden assumptions and circular reasonings, these have the merit of prompting more physically oriented approaches to the problem. Here we suggest a new proof of the Born rule based on the noncontextuality of probability. Within the theorem we also demonstrate the continuity of probability with respect to the amplitudes, which has been suggested to be a gap in Zurek's and Deutsch's approaches, and we show that NP is implicitly postulated also in their demonstrations. Finally, physical motivations of NP are given based on an invariance principle with respect to a resolution change of measurements and with respect to the principle of no-faster-than-light signalling.

id: 1202.2743
title: Error- and Loss-Tolerances of Surface Codes with General Lattice Structures
authors: Keisuke Fujii, Yuuki Tokunaga
comments: 5pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 020303(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2743
abstract: We propose a family of surface codes with general lattice structures, where the error-tolerances against bit and phase errors can be controlled asymmetrically by changing the underlying lattice geometries. The surface codes on various lattices are found to be efficient in the sense that their threshold values universally approach the quantum Gilbert-Varshamov bound. We find that the error-tolerance of surface codes depends on the connectivity of underlying lattices; the error chains on a lattice of lower connectivity are easier to correct. On the other hand, the loss-tolerance of surface codes exhibits an opposite behavior; the logical information on a lattice of higher connectivity has more robustness against qubit loss. As a result, we come upon a fundamental trade-off between error- and loss-tolerances in the family of the surface codes with different lattice geometries.

id: 1202.2750
title: Topos-Based Logic for Quantum Systems and Bi-Heyting Algebras
authors: Andreas Doering
comments: 22 pages, no figures; v2: improved presentation, minor correction, all main results unchanged, added example. Accepted for publication in Logic & Algebra in Quantum Computing, Lecture Notes in Logic, published by the Association for Symbolic Logic in conjunction with Cambridge University Press
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2750
abstract: To each quantum system, described by a von Neumann algebra of physical quantities, we associate a complete bi-Heyting algebra. The elements of this algebra represent contextualised propositions about the values of the physical quantities of the quantum system.

id: 1202.2776
title: Strongly correlated photons generated by coupling a three- or four-level system to a waveguide
authors: Huaixiu Zheng, Daniel J. Gauthier, Harold U. Baranger
comments: 13+ pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 043832 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2776
abstract: We study the generation of strongly correlated photons by coupling an atom to photonic quantum fields in a one-dimensional waveguide. Specifically, we consider a three-level or four-level system for the atom. Photon-photon bound states emerge as a manifestation of the strong photon-photon correlation mediated by the atom. Effective repulsive or attractive interaction between photons can be produced, causing either suppressed multiphoton transmission (photon blockade) or enhanced multiphoton transmission (photon-induced tunneling). As a result, nonclassical light sources can be generated on demand by sending coherent states into the proposed system. We calculate the second-order correlation function of the transmitted field and observe bunching and antibunching caused by the bound states. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the proposed system can produce photon pairs with a high degree of spectral entanglement, which have a large capacity for carrying information and are important for large-alphabet quantum communication.

id: 1202.2779
title: A hybrid model for Rydberg gases including exact two-body correlations
authors: K. P. Heeg, M. G?rttner, J. Evers
comments: significantly expanded and revised version (more observables, high-density regime); 9 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 063421 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2779
abstract: A model for the simulation of ensembles of laser-driven Rydberg-Rydberg interacting multi-level atoms is discussed. Our hybrid approach combines an exact two-body treatment of nearby atom pairs with an effective approximate treatment for spatially separated pairs. We propose an optimized evolution equation based only on the system steady state, and a time-independent Monte Carlo technique is used to efficiently determine this steady state. The hybrid model predicts features in the pair correlation function arising from multi-atom processes which existing models can only partially reproduce. Our interpretation of these features shows that higher-order correlations are relevant already at low densities. Finally, we analyze the performance of our model in the high-density case.

id: 1202.2798
title: Most robust and fragile two-qubit entangled states under depolarizing channels
authors: Chao-Qian Pang, Fu-Lin Zhang, Yue Jiang, Mai-Lin Liang, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 10 pages, 9 figs. to appear in Quantum Information & Computation (QIC)
journal: Quantum Information & Computation (QIC), 13, 0645 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2798
abstract: For a two-qubit system under local depolarizing channels, the most robust and most fragile states are derived for a given concurrence or negativity. For the one-sided channel, the pure states are proved to be the most robust ones, with the aid of the evolution equation for entanglement given by Konrad et al. [Nat. Phys. 4, 99 (2008)]. Based on a generalization of the evolution equation for entanglement, we classify the ansatz states in our investigation by the amount of robustness, and consequently derive the most fragile states. For the two-sided channel, the pure states are the most robust for a fixed concurrence. Under the uniform channel, the most fragile states have the minimal negativity when the concurrence is given in the region [1/2,1]. For a given negativity, the most robust states are the ones with the maximal concurrence, and the most fragile ones are the pure states with minimum of concurrence. When the entanglement approaches zero, the most fragile states under general nonuniform channels tend to the ones in the uniform channel. Influences on robustness by entanglement, degree of mixture, and asymmetry between the two qubits are discussed through numerical calculations. It turns out that the concurrence and negativity are major factors for the robustness. When they are fixed, the impact of the mixedness becomes obvious. In the nonuniform channels, the most fragile states are closely correlated with the asymmetry, while the most robust ones with the degree of mixture.

id: 1202.2817
title: An approximate diagonalization method for large scale Hamiltonians
authors: Mohammad H. Amin, Anatly Yu. Smirnov, Neil G. Dickson, Marshal Drew-Brook
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2817
abstract: An approximate diagonalization method is proposed that combines exact diagonalization and perturbation expansion to calculate low energy eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of a Hamiltonian. The method involves deriving an effective Hamiltonian for each eigenvalue to be calculated, using perturbation expansion, and extracting the eigenvalue from the diagonalization of the effective Hamiltonian. The size of the effective Hamiltonian can be significantly smaller than that of the original Hamiltonian, hence the diagonalization can be done much faster. We compare the results of our method with those obtained using exact diagonalization and quantum Monte Carlo calculation for random problem instances with up to 128 qubits.

id: 1202.2908
title: Geometric gauge potentials and forces in low-dimensional scattering systems
authors: B. Zygelman
comments: (Final version, published in Phy. Rev. A. 86, 042704 (2012)
journal: Phys. Rev. A. 86, 042704 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2908
abstract: We introduce and analyze several low-dimensional scattering systems that exhibit geometric phase phenomena. The systems are fully solvable and we compare exact solutions of them with those obtained in a Born-Oppenheimer projection approximation. We illustrate how geometric magnetism manifests in them, and explore the relationship between solutions obtained in the diabatic and adiabatic pictures. We provide an example, involving a neutral atom dressed by an external field, in which the system mimics the behavior of a charged particle that interacts with, and is scattered by, a ferromagnetic material. We also introduce a similar system that exhibits Aharonov-Bohm scattering. We propose some practical applications. We provide a theoretical approach that underscores universality in the appearance of geometric gauge forces. We do not insist on degeneracies in the adiabatic Hamiltonian, and we posit that the emergence of geometric gauge forces is a consequence of symmetry breaking in the latter.

id: 1202.2943
title: The Quantum Relative Entropy as a Rate Function and Information Criteria
authors: Kazuya Okamura
comments: 21 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Probability (math.PR); Statistics Theory (math.ST)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2943
abstract: We prove that the quantum relative entropy is a rate function in large deviation principle. Next, we define information criteria for quantum states and estimate the accuracy of the use of them. Most of the results in this paper are essentially based on Hiai-Ohya-Tsukada theorem.

id: 1202.2978
title: How to Counteract Systematic Errors in Quantum State Transfer
authors: Chiara Marletto, Alastair Kay, Artur Ekert
comments: 16 pages, 1 figure
journal: Quantum Information&Computation Vol.12 No.7&8 (2012) pp0648-0660
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2978
abstract: In the absence of errors, the dynamics of a spin chain, with a suitably engineered local Hamiltonian, allow the perfect, coherent transfer of a quantum state over large distances. Here, we propose encoding and decoding procedures to recover perfectly from low rates of systematic errors. The encoding and decoding regions, located at opposite ends of the chain, are small compared to the length of the chain, growing linearly with the size of the error. We also describe how these errors can be identified, again by only acting on the encoding and decoding regions.

id: 1202.2982
title: Entanglement between two subsystems, the Wigner semicircle and extreme value statistics
authors: Udaysinh T. Bhosale, Steven Tomsovic, Arul Lakshminarayan
comments: Substantially improved version (now 43 pages, 10 figures) that is accepted for publication in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062331 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2982
abstract: The entanglement between two arbitrary subsystems of random pure states is studied via properties of the density matrix's partial transpose, $\rho_{12}^{T_2}$. The density of states of $\rho_{12}^{T_2}$ is close to the semicircle law when both subsystems have dimensions which are not too small and are of the same order. A simple random matrix model for the partial transpose is found to capture the entanglement properties well, including a transition across a critical dimension. Log-negativity is used to quantify entanglement between subsystems and analytic formulas for this are derived based on the simple model. The skewness of the eigenvalue density of $\rho_{12}^{T_2}$ is derived analytically, using the average of the third moment over the ensemble of random pure states. The third moment after partial transpose is also shown to be related to a generalization of the Kempe invariant. The smallest eigenvalue after partial transpose is found to follow the extreme value statistics of random matrices, namely the Tracy-Widom distribution. This distribution, with relevant parameters obtained from the model, is found to be useful in calculating the fraction of entangled states at critical dimensions. These results are tested in a quantum dynamical system of three coupled standard maps, where one finds that if the parameters represent a strongly chaotic system, the results are close to those of random states, although there are some systematic deviations at critical dimensions.

id: 1202.2983
title: The Minimum Hartree Value for the Quantum Entanglement Problem
authors: Liqun Qi
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2983
abstract: A general $n$-partite state $| \Psi>$ of a composite quantum system can be regarded as an element in a Hilbert tensor product space $\HH = \otimes_{k=1}^n \HH_k$, where the dimension of $\HH_k$ is $d_k$ for $k = 1,..., n$. Without loss of generality we may assume that $d_1 \le...\le d_n$. A separable (Hartree) $n$-partite state $| \phi>$ can be described by $| \phi> = \otimes_{k=1}^n | \phi^{(k)}>$ with $| \phi^{(k)}> \in \HH_k$. We show that $\sigma := \min \{< \Psi | \phi_\Psi> : | \Psi> \in \HH,.$ $. < \Psi | \Psi > = 1\}$ is a positive number, where $| \phi_\Psi >$ is the nearest separable state to $| \Psi >$. We call $\sigma$ the minimum Hartree value of $\HH$. We further show that $\sigma \ge 1/{\sqrt{d_1... d_{n-1}}}$. Thus, the geometric measure of the entanglement content of $\Psi$, $\| | \Psi > - | \phi_\Psi > \| \le \sqrt{2-2\sigma} \le \sqrt{2-2(1/{\sqrt{d_1...d_{n-1}}})}$.

id: 1202.2992
title: A rate equation approach to cavity mediated laser cooling
authors: Tony Blake, Andreas Kurcz, Almut Beige
comments: 15 pages, 10 figures, minor corrections, PRA (in press)
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 013419 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2992
abstract: The cooling rate for cavity mediated laser cooling scales as the Lamb-Dicke parameter eta squared. A proper analysis of the cooling process hence needs to take terms up to eta^2 in the system dynamics into account. In this paper, we present such an analysis for a standard scenario of cavity mediated laser cooling with eta << 1. Our results confirm that there are many similarities between ordinary and cavity mediated laser cooling. However, for a weakly confined particle inside a strongly coupled cavity, which is the most interesting case for the cooling of molecules, numerical results indicate that even more detailed calculations are needed to model the cooling process accurately.

id: 1202.2993
title: Bipartite entanglement in systems of identical particles: the partial transposition criterion
authors: F. Benatti, R. Floreanini, U. Marzolino
comments: LaTeX, 22 pages
journal: Ann. Phys. 327, 1304 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2993
abstract: We study bipartite entanglement in systems of N identical bosons distributed in M different modes. For such systems, a definition of separability not related to any a priori Hilbert space tensor product structure is needed and can be given in terms of commuting subalgebras of observables. Using this generalized notion of separability, we classify the states for which partial transposition turns out to be a necessary and sufficient condition for entanglement detection.

id: 1202.2997
title: Non-Markovianity, Loschmidt echo and criticality: a unified picture
authors: Pinja Haikka, John Goold, Suzanne McEndoo, Francesco Plastina, Sabrina Maniscalco
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 060101(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2997
abstract: A simple relationship between recently proposed measures of non-Markovianity and the Loschmidt echo is established, holding for a two-level system (qubit) undergoing pure dephasing due to a coupling with a many-body environment. We show that the Loschmidt echo is intimately related to the information flowing out from and occasionally back into the system. This, in turn, determines the non-Markovianity of the reduced dynamics. In particular, we consider a central qubit coupled to a quantum Ising ring in the transverse field. In this context, the information flux between system and environment is strongly affected by the environmental criticality; the qubit dynamics is shown to be Markovian exactly and only at the critical point. Therefore non-Markovianity is an indicator of criticality in the model considered here.

id: 1202.3019
title: Efficient two-step entanglement concentration for arbitrary W states
authors: Yu-Bo Sheng, Lan Zhou, Sheng-Mei Zhao
comments: 10 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3019
abstract: We present two two-step practical entanglement concentration protocols (ECPs) for concentrating an arbitrary three-particle less-entangled W state into a maximally entangled W state assisted with single photons. The first protocol uses the linear optics and the second protocol adopts the cross-Kerr nonlinearity to perform the protocol. In the first protocol, based on the post-selection principle, three parties say Alice, Bob and Charlie in different distant locations can obtain the maximally entangled W state from the arbitrary less-entangled W state with a certain success probability. In the second protocol, it dose not require the parties to posses the sophisticated single-photon detectors and the concentrated photon pair can be retained after performing this protocol successfully. Moreover, the second protocol can be repeated to get a higher success probability. Both protocols may be useful in practical quantum information applications.

id: 1202.3049
title: Robust nonlocality tests with displacement-based measurements
authors: Jonatan Bohr Brask, Rafael Chaves
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures, significant content changes from v1, titled updated
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 010103(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3049
abstract: Lately, much interest has been directed towards designing setups that achieve decisive tests of local realism. Here we present Bell tests with measurements based on linear optical displacements and single-photon detection. The scheme displays good tolerance to loss. In particular, for entangled squeezed states, we find thresholds compatible with current efficiencies of detectors and sources. Furthermore, the scheme is easily extendible to any number of observers, allowing observation of multipartite nonlocality for a single photon shared among multiple modes. We also consider the case of atom-photon entanglement, where the loss threshold can be lowered further, as well as local filters compensating transmission and coupling inefficiencies at the source.

id: 1202.3057
title: Magnon qubit on double Bose-Einstein condensate
authors: S .N. Andrianov, S. A. Moiseev
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3057
abstract: We have proposed a magnon qubit based on coupled configuration of Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC) in two ferromagnetic samples placed closely to each other. We have evaluated the magnon BEC qubit realization in the double BEC scheme where we found a quantum synchronism condition providing an effective Hamiltonian of magnon qubit. It has the form of well-known superconducting Josephson qubit. The possibilities for coherent magnon BEC qubit rotation are analyzed. Implementations of the magnon BEC qubit are considered for small samples and thin ferromagnetic films. Advantages of the proposed macroscopic qubit realization are discussed.

id: 1202.3070
title: Tensorial characterization and quantum estimation of weakly entangled qubits
authors: P. Aniello, J. Clemente-Gallardo, G. Marmo, G. F. Volkert
comments: 23 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3070
abstract: In the case of two qubits, standard entanglement monotones like the linear entropy fail to provide an efficient quantum estimation in the regime of weak entanglement. In this paper, a more efficient entanglement estimation, by means of a novel class of entanglement monotones, is proposed. Following an approach based on the geometric formulation of quantum mechanics, these entanglement monotones are defined by inner products on invariant tensor fields on bipartite qubit orbits of the group SU(2)xSU(2).

id: 1202.3116
title: Continuity of the Maximum-Entropy Inference
authors: Stephan Weis
comments: 34 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3116
abstract: We study the inverse problem of inferring the state of a finite-level quantum system from expected values of a fixed set of observables, by maximizing a continuous ranking function. We have proved earlier that the maximum-entropy inference can be a discontinuous map from the convex set of expected values to the convex set of states because the image contains states of reduced support, while this map restricts to a smooth parametrization of a Gibbsian family of fully supported states. Here we prove for arbitrary ranking functions that the inference is continuous up to boundary points. This follows from a continuity condition in terms of the openness of the restricted linear map from states to their expected values. The openness condition shows also that ranking functions with a discontinuous inference are typical. Moreover it shows that the inference is continuous in the restriction to any polytope which implies that a discontinuity belongs to the quantum domain of non-commutative observables and that a geodesic closure of a Gibbsian family equals the set of maximum-entropy states. We discuss eight descriptions of the set of maximum-entropy states with proofs of accuracy and an analysis of deviations.

id: 1202.3159
title: Anomalous light shift through quantum jumps in quasi-resonant Rayleigh scattering
authors: D. G. Norris, A. D. Cimmarusti, L. A. Orozco, P. Barberis-Blostein, H. J. Carmichael
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 021804(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3159
abstract: An anomalous light shift in the precession of a ground-state Zeeman coherence is observed: the Larmor frequency increases with the strength of a drive that is blue (red) detuned from a transition out of the lower (upper) energy level. Our measurements are made on Rb 85 atoms traversing an optical cavity containing a few photons; shifts as large as 1% per photon are recorded. The anomalous shift arises from an accumulation of phase driven by quantum jumps. It is stochastic and accompanied by broadening.

id: 1202.3163
title: Alignment of reference frames and an operational interpretation for the G-asymmetry
authors: Michael Skotiniotis, Gilad Gour
comments: 12pages, no figures. Title has been changed to match teh published version
journal: New Journal of Physics, volume 14, 073022, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3163
abstract: We determine the quantum states and measurements that optimize the accessible information in a reference frame alignment protocol associated with the groups U(1), corresponding to a phase reference, and $\mathbb{Z}_M$, the cyclic group of $M$ elements. Our result provides an operational interpretation for the $G$-asymmetry which is information-theoretic and which was thus far lacking. In particular, we show that in the limit of many copies of the bounded-size quantum reference frame, the accessible information approaches the Holevo bound. This implies that the rate of alignment of reference frames, measured by the (linearized) accessible information per system, is equal to the regularized, linearized $G$-asymmetry. The latter quantity is equal to the number variance in the case where $G=U(1)$. Quite surprisingly, for the case where $G=\mathbb{Z}_{M}$ and $M\geq 4$, it is equal to a quantity that is not additive in general, but instead can be superadditive under tensor product of two distinct bounded-size reference frames. This remarkable phenomenon is purely quantum and has no classical analog.

id: 1202.3166
title: Quantum resonant effects in the delta-kicked rotor revisited
authors: A. Ullah, S. K. Ruddell, J-A. Currivan, M. D. Hoogerland
comments: 30 pages, 17 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3166
abstract: We review the theoretical model and experimental realization of the atom optics $\delta-$kicked rotor (AOKR), a paradigm of classical and quantum chaos. We have performed a number of experiments with an all-optical Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) in a periodic standing wave potential in an AOKR system. We discuss results of the investigation of the phenomena of quantum resonances in the AOKR. An interesting feature of the momentum distribution of the atoms obtained as a result of short pulses of light, is the variance of the momentum distribution or the kinetic energy $<p^{2}>/2m$ in units of the recoil energy $E_{rec} = \hbar \omega_{rec}$. The energy of the system is examined as a function of pulse period for a range of kicks that allow the observation of quantum resonances. In particular we study the behavior of these resonances for a large number of kicks. Higher order quantum resonant effects corresponding to the fractional Talbot time of (1/4)$T_{T}$ and (1/5)$T_{T}$ for five and ten kicks have been observed. Moreover, we describe the effect of the initial momentum of the atoms on quantum resonances in the AOKR.

id: 1202.3195
title: Cancellation of atmospheric turbulence effects in entangled two-photon beams
authors: Marcelo V. da Cunha Pereira, Lusa A. P. Filpi, Carlos H. Monken
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3195
abstract: Turbulent airflow in the atmosphere and the resulting random fluctuations in its refractive index have long been known as a major cause of image deterioration in astronomical imaging and figures among the obstacles for reliable optical communication when information is encoded in the spatial profile of a laser beam. Here we show that using correlation imaging and a suitably prepared source of photon pairs, the most severe of the disturbances inflicted on the beam by turbulence can be cancelled out. Other than a two-photon light source, only linear passive optical elements are needed and, as opposed to adaptive optics techniques, our scheme does not rely on active wavefront correction.

id: 1202.3201
title: Fake state attack on practically decoy state quantum key distribution
authors: Yong-gang Tan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3201
abstract: In this paper, security of practically decoy state quantum key distribution under fake state attack is considered. If quantum key distribution is insecure under this type of attack, decoy sources can not also provide it with enough security. Strictly analysis shows that Eve should eavesdrop with the aid of photon-number-resolving instruments. In practical implementation of decoy state quantum key distribution where statistical fluctuation is considered, however, Eve can attack it successfully with threshold detectors.

id: 1202.3210
title: Multipartite entanglement in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) pigment-protein complex
authors: A. Thilagam
comments: 16 pages, new figs, typos
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3210
abstract: We investigate multipartite states in the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) pigment-protein complex of the green sulfur bacteria using a Lorentzian spectral density of the phonon reservoir fitted with typical parameter estimates of the species, P. aestuarii. The evolution of the entanglement measure of the excitonic W qubit states is evaluated in the picosecond time range, showing increased revivals in the non-Markovian regime. Similar trends are observed in the evolution dynamics of the Meyer-Wallach measure of the N-exciton multipartite state, with results showing that multipartite entanglement can last from 0.5 to 1 ps, between the Bchls of the FMO complex. The teleportation and quantum information splitting fidelities associated with the GHZ and W_A resource states of the excitonic qubit channels of the FMO complex show that revivals in fidelities increase with the degree of non-Markovian strength of the decoherent environment. Results indicate that quantum information processing tasks involving teleportation followed by the decodification process involving W_A states of the FMO complex, may play a critical role during coherent oscillations at physiological temperatures.

id: 1202.3232
title: Symmetric Device-Independent Quantum Key Distribution Against General Attack
authors: Yong-gang Tan
comments: Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3232
abstract: A symmetric device-independent quantum key distribution (DIQKD) protocol is proposed in this paper, with Holevo limit and subadditivity of von Neumann entropy, one can bound Eve's ability with collective attack. Together with symmetry of this protocol, the state Eve prepared for Alice and Bob, and at the same time, her eavesdropping on Alice's and Bob's measurements can be definitely inferred at the assumption that Eve aims at maximizing her information gain. The optimal state under this circumstance can be solely bounded with Alice and Bob's statistical results on the quantity of Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) polynomial $S$, that is, our symmetric DIQKD has the same secure basis as that of Ekert91 protocol.

id: 1202.3272
title: The Casimir effect in the sphere-plane geometry
authors: Antoine Canaguier-Durand, Romain Gurout, Paulo A. Maia Neto, Astrid Lambrecht, Serge Reynaud
comments: Proceedings of the 10th International Conference "Quantum Field Theory Under the Influence of External Conditions" (Benasque, Spain, 2011); 10 pages and 6 figures
journal: International Journal of Modern Physics Conference Series, 14, 250-259 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3272
abstract: We present calculations of the Casimir interaction between a sphere and a plane, using a multipolar expansion of the scattering formula. This configuration enables us to study the nontrivial dependence of the Casimir force on the geometry, and its correlations with the effects of imperfect reflection and temperature. The accuracy of the Proximity Force Approximation (PFA) is assessed, and is shown to be affected by imperfect reflexion. Our analytical and numerical results at ambient temperature show a rich variety of interplays between the effects of curvature, temperature, finite conductivity, and dissipation.

id: 1202.3273
title: Optomechanical quantum information processing with photons and phonons
authors: K. Stannigel, P. Komar, S. J. M. Habraken, S. D. Bennett, M. D. Lukin, P. Zoller, P. Rabl
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 013603 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3273
abstract: We describe how strong resonant interactions in multimode optomechanical systems can be used to induce controlled nonlinear couplings between single photons and phonons. Combined with linear mapping schemes between photons and phonons, these techniques provide a universal building block for various classical and quantum information processing applications. Our approach is especially suited for nano-optomechanical devices, where strong optomechanical interactions on a single photon level are within experimental reach.

id: 1202.3288
title: Time-convolutionless non-Markovian master equation in strong-coupling regime
authors: Yang Li, Bin Luo, Jian-Wei Zhang, Hong Guo
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3288
abstract: The time-convolutionless (TCL) non-Markovian master equation was generally thought to break down at finite time due to its singularity and fail to produce the asymptotic behavior in strong coupling regime. However, in this paper, we show that the singularity is not an obstacle for validity of the TCL master equation. Further, we propose a multiscale perturbative method valid for solving the TCL master equation in strong coupling regime, though the ordinary perturbative method invalidates therein.

id: 1202.3290
title: The role of the geometric phases in adiabatic populations tracking for non-hermitian hamiltonians
authors: Arnaud Leclerc, David Viennot, Georges Jolicard
comments: 15 pages, 8 figures
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 415201
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3290
abstract: We show that the definition of instantaneous eigenstate populations for a dynamical non-self-adjoint system is not obvious. The naive direct extension of the definition used for the self-adjoint case leads to inconsistencies; the resulting artifacts can induce a false inversion of population or a false adiabaticity. We show that the inconsistency can be avoided by introducing geometric phases in another possible definition of populations. An example is given which demonstrates both the anomalous effects and their removal by our approach.

id: 1202.3292
title: Equilibration of quasi-isolated quantum systems
authors: V. I. Yukalov
comments: Latex file, 12 pages
journal: Phys. Lett. A 376 (2012) 550-554
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3292
abstract: The evolution of a quasi-isolated finite quantum system from a nonequilibrium initial state is considered. The condition of quasi-isolation allows for the description of the system dynamics on the general basis, without specifying the system details and for arbitrary initial conditions. The influence of surrounding results in (at least partial) equilibration and decoherence. The resulting equilibrium state bears information on initial conditions and is characterized by a representative ensemble. It is shown that the system average information with time does not increase. The partial equilibration and non-increase of average information explain the irreversibility of time.

id: 1202.3322
title: Some properties of n-party entanglement under LOCC operations
authors: Daniel Lehmann
comments: 21 pages. Compare with Theorem 12 of Nielsen and Vidal QIC 1 (1) 2001
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3322
abstract: Nielsen characterized in full those 2-party quantum protocols of local operations and classical communication that transform, with probability one, a pure global initial state into a pure global final state. The present work considers the generalization of Nielsen's characterization to n-party protocols. It presents a sweeping generalization of the only if part of Nielsen's result. The result presented here pertains also to protocols that do not generate a final state for sure, it considers arbitrary mixed initial states instead of pure states and n-party protocols for an arbitrary n. In this very general setting, local operations and classical communication can never decrease the expected spectra of the local mixed states in the majorization ordering. In other terms, the local states can only become purer (weakly) in expectation. The proof also provides an improvement on Nielsen's. The if part of Nielsen's characterization does not generalize. This is shown by studying the entanglement of three qubits. It is shown that one can find pure states of a system of three qubits that are not equivalent under unitary local operations but define local mixed states on all subparts of the system that have the same spectra. Neither equivalence of pure states under local unitary operations nor accessibility under LOCC operations among a system of three qubits can be characterized by properties of the spectra of the local mixed states.

id: 1202.3326
title: Duality relations in a two-path interferometer with an asymmetric beam splitter
authors: Li Li, Nai-Le Liu, Sixia Yu
comments: 4 pages, 1 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3326
abstract: We investigate quantitatively the wave-particle duality in a general Mach-Zehnder interferometer setup with an asymmetric beam splitter. The asymmetric beam splitter introduces additional a priori which-path knowledge, which is different for a particle detected at one output port of the interferometer and a particle detected at the other. Accordingly, the fringe visibilities of the interference patterns emerging at the two output ports are also different. Hence, in sharp contrast with the symmetric case, here we should concentrate on one output port and distinguish two possible paths taken by the particles detected at that port among four paths. It turns out that two nonorthogonal unsharp observables are measured jointly in this setup. We apply the condition for joint measurability of these unsharp observables to obtain a trade-off relation between the fringe visibility of the interference pattern and the which-path distinguishability.

id: 1202.3329
title: Measurements and majorization
authors: Daniel Lehmann
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3329
abstract: Majorization is an outstanding tool to compare the purity of mixed states or the amount of information they contain and also the degrees of entanglement presented by such states in tensor products. States are compared by their spectra and majorization defines a partial order on those. This paper studies the effect of measurements on the majorization relation among states. It, then, proceeds to study the effect of local measurements on the agents sharing an entangled global state. If the result of the measurement is recorded, Nielsen and Vidal showed that the expected spectrum after any P.O.V.M. measurement majorizes the initial spectrum, i.e., a P.O.V.M. measurement cannot, in expectation, reduce the information of the observer. A new proof of this result is presented and, as a consequence, the only if part of Nielsen's characterization of LOCC transformations is generalized to n-party entanglement. If the result of a bi-stochastic measurement is not recorded, the initial state majorizes the final state, i.e., no information may be gained by such a measurement. This strengthens a result of A. Peres. In the n-party setting, no local trace preserving measurement by Alice can change the local state of another agent.

id: 1202.3331
title: Practical Quantum Bit Commitment Protocol
authors: Ariel Danan, Lev Vaidman
comments: Quantum Inf. Process. (2011)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3331
abstract: A quantum protocol for bit commitment the security of which is based on technological limitations on nondemolition measurements and long-term quantum memory is presented.

id: 1202.3336
title: Universality in entanglement of quasiparticle excitations
authors: Iztok Pizorn
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures, revtex4-1
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3336
abstract: We show that the entanglement entropy of single quasiparticle excitations of one dimensional systems exceeds the ground state entanglement entropy for log(2), if the correlation length of the system is finite. For quadratic fermion systems we show that the excess of entanglement is related to the number of quasiparticles in the excited state. This observation is confirmed by numerical examples of one dimensional quantum many-body systems, including nonintegrable. Tensor network methods to describe quasiparticle excitations are discussed.

id: 1202.3338
title: New constructions of CSS codes obtained by moving to higher alphabets
authors: Iryna Andriyanova, Denise Maurice, Jean-Pierre Tillich
comments: 9 pages, 9 figures, full version of a paper submitted to the IEEE Symposium on Information Theory
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3338
abstract: We generalize a construction of non-binary quantum LDPC codes over $\F_{2^m}$ due to \cite{KHIS11a} and apply it in particular to toric codes. We obtain in this way not only codes with better rates than toric codes but also improve dramatically the performance of standard iterative decoding. Moreover, the new codes obtained in this fashion inherit the distance properties of the underlying toric codes and have therefore a minimum distance which grows as the square root of the length of the code for fixed $m$.

id: 1202.3374
title: On-demand production of entangled photon pairs via quantum-dot biexciton control
authors: Guy Bensky, Selvakumar V. Nair, Harry E. Ruda, Shubhrangshu Dasgupta, Gershon Kurizki, Paul Brumer
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3374
abstract: A pulsed laser scenario, designed to prepare an appropriately chosen self-assembled quantum dot with 100% population in a biexciton state, is proposed. The ensuing radiative emission would provide a near perfect (99.5%) high rate, on-demand, source of entangled photons.

id: 1202.3400
title: Quantum Dynamics of Solitons in Strongly Interacting Systems on Optical Lattices
authors: Chester P. Rubbo, Indubala I. Satija, William P. Reinhardt, Radha Balakrishnan, Ana Maria Rey, Salvatore R. Manmana
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053617 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3400
abstract: Mean-field dynamics of strongly interacting bosons described by hard core bosons with nearest-neighbor attraction has been shown to support two species of solitons: one of Gross-Pitaevskii (GP-type) where the condensate fraction remains dark and a novel non-Gross-Pitaevskii-type (non-GP-type) characterized by brightening of the condensate fraction. Here we study the effects of quantum fluctuations on these solitons using the adaptive time-dependent density matrix renormalization group method, which takes into account the effect of strong correlations. We use local observables as the density, condensate density and correlation functions as well as the entanglement entropy to characterize the stability of the initial states. We find both species of solitons to be stable under quantum evolution for a finite duration, their tolerance to quantum fluctuations being enhanced as the width of the soliton increases. We describe possible experimental realizations in atomic Bose Einstein Condensates, polarized degenerate Fermi gases, and in systems of polar molecules on optical lattices.

id: 1202.3430
title: N-Photon wave packets interacting with an arbitrary quantum system
authors: Ben Q. Baragiola, Robert L. Cook, Agata M. Branczyk, Joshua Combes
comments: 20 pages, 8 figures. Published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 013811 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3430
abstract: We present a theoretical framework that describes a wave packet of light prepared in a state of definite photon number interacting with an arbitrary quantum system (e.g. a quantum harmonic oscillator or a multi-level atom). Within this framework we derive master equations for the system as well as for output field quantities such as quadratures and photon flux. These results are then generalized to wave packets with arbitrary spectral distribution functions. Finally, we obtain master equations and output field quantities for systems interacting with wave packets in multiple spatial and/or polarization modes.

id: 1202.3433
title: Non-Threshold Quantum Secret Sharing Schemes in the Graph State Formalism
authors: Pradeep Sarvepalli
comments: LaTeX, 6 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 042303 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3433
abstract: In a recent work, Markham and Sanders have proposed a framework to study quantum secret sharing (QSS) schemes using graph states. This framework unified three classes of QSS protocols, namely, sharing classical secrets over private and public channels, and sharing quantum secrets. However, most work on secret sharing based on graph states focused on threshold schemes. In this paper, we focus on general access structures. We show how to realize a large class of arbitrary access structures using the graph state formalism. We show an equivalence between $[[n,1]]$ binary quantum codes and graph state secret sharing schemes sharing one bit. We also establish a similar (but restricted) equivalence between a class of $[[n,1]]$ Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS) codes and graph state QSS schemes sharing one qubit. With these results we are able to construct a large class of quantum secret sharing schemes with arbitrary access structures.

id: 1202.3439
title: An excitation-dependent four-level model for quantum entanglement in photosynthetic systems
authors: Chi-Han Chang, Agata M. Branczyk, Gregory D. Scholes, Daniel F. V. James
comments: 17 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3439
abstract: We model energy transfer between two coupled four-level chromophores with arbitrarily spaced energy levels. Our analysis takes into account the crucial---yet often ignored---process of initial excitation by light that is incident on the chromophores. We show that the amount of entanglement generated between the chromophores is strongly dependent on the degree of initial excitation as well as the inclusion of higher energy levels. We apply our model to the specific example of chlorophyll. Our results suggest that an excitation-dependent approach should be employed for entanglement studies on multi-level light-harvesting systems even when a two-level approximation is valid.

id: 1202.3448
title: Four questions for quantum-classical hybrid theory
authors: Hans-Thomas Elze
comments: 16 pages - based on talk at the Conference on Emergent Quantum Mechanics / Heinz von Foerster Congress (Vienna University, Nov. 11-13, 2011)
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 361 (2012) 012004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3448
abstract: Four questions are discussed which may be addressed to any proposal of a quantum-classical hybrid theory which concerns the direct coupling of classical and quantum mechanical degrees of freedom. In particular, we consider the formulation of hybrid dynamics presented recently in Ref.[1]. This linear theory differs from the nonlinear ensemble theory of Hall and Reginatto, but shares with it to fulfil all consistency requirements discussed in the literature, while earlier attempts failed. - Here, we additionally ask: Does the theory allow for superposition, separable, and entangled states originating in the quantum mechanical sector? Does it allow for "Free Will", as introduced, in this context, by Diosi [2]. Is it local? Does it provide hints for the emergence of quantum mechanics from dynamics beneath?

id: 1202.3449
title: A criterion for coincidence of the entanglement-assisted classical capacity and the Holevo capacity of a quantum channel
authors: M.E. Shirokov
comments: 17 pages, generalizations to infinite dimensional quantum channels with linear constraints have been added. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1106.3297
journal: Problems of Information Transmission, 48:2 (2012), 85-101
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3449
abstract: It is easy to show coincidence of the entanglement-assisted classical capacity and the Holevo capacity for any c-q channel between finite dimensional quantum systems. In this paper we prove the converse assertion: coincidence of the above-mentioned capacities of a quantum channel implies that the $\chi$-essential part of this channel is a c-q channel (the $\chi$-essential part is a restriction of a channel obtained by discarding all input states useless for transmission of classical information). The above observations are generalized to infinite dimensional quantum channels with linear constraints by using the obtained conditions for coincidence of the quantum mutual information and the constrained Holevo capacity.

id: 1202.3467
title: Joint source-channel coding for a quantum multiple access channel
authors: Mark M. Wilde, Ivan Savov
comments: 21 pages, v2: minor changes, accepted into Journal of Physics A
journal: Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical vol. 45, no. 43, p. 435302 (October 2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Information Theory (cs.IT)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3467
abstract: Suppose that two senders each obtain one share of the output of a classical, bivariate, correlated information source. They would like to transmit the correlated source to a receiver using a quantum multiple access channel. In prior work, Cover, El Gamal, and Salehi provided a combined source-channel coding strategy for a classical multiple access channel which outperforms the simpler "separation" strategy where separate codebooks are used for the source coding and the channel coding tasks. In the present paper, we prove that a coding strategy similar to the Cover-El Gamal-Salehi strategy and a corresponding quantum simultaneous decoder allow for the reliable transmission of a source over a quantum multiple access channel, as long as a set of information inequalities involving the Holevo quantity hold.

id: 1202.3471
title: Quantum Navigation and Ranking in Complex Networks
authors: Eduardo Snchez-Burillo, Jordi Duch, Jess Gmez-Gardenes, David Zueco
comments: title changed, more real networks analyzed, version published in scientific reports
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Social and Information Networks (cs.SI); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3471
abstract: Complex networks are formal frameworks capturing the interdependencies between the elements of large systems and databases. This formalism allows to use network navigation methods to rank the importance that each constituent has on the global organization of the system. A key example is Pagerank navigation which is at the core of the most used search engine of the World Wide Web. Inspired in this classical algorithm, we define a quantum navigation method providing a unique ranking of the elements of a network. We analyze the convergence of quantum navigation to the stationary rank of networks and show that quantumness decreases the number of navigation steps before convergence. In addition, we show that quantum navigation allows to solve degeneracies found in classical ranks. By implementing the quantum algorithm in real networks, we confirm these improvements and show that quantum coherence unveils new hierarchical features about the global organization of complex systems.

id: 1202.3472
title: Measurable quantum geometric phase from a rotating single spin
authors: D. Maclaurin, M. W. Doherty, L. C. L. Hollenberg, A. M. Martin
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures: Accepted for publication in Physical Review Letters
journal: Physical Review Letters 108, 240403 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3472
abstract: We demonstrate that the internal magnetic states of a single nitrogen-vacancy defect, within a rotating diamond crystal, acquire geometric phases. The geometric phase shift is manifest as a relative phase between components of a superposition of magnetic substates. We demonstrate that under reasonable experimental conditions a phase shift of up to four radians could be measured. Such a measurement of the accumulation of a geometric phase, due to macroscopic rotation, would be the first for a single atom-scale quantum system.

id: 1202.3559
title: A remarkable representation of the Clifford group
authors: Ingemar Bengtsson
comments: 6 pages; talk at the Vaxjo conference on Advances in Quantum Theory, 2010
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3559
abstract: The finite Heisenberg group knows when the dimension of Hilbert space is a square number. Remarkably, it then admits a representation such that the entire Clifford group --- the automorphism group of the Heisenberg group --- is represented by monomial phase-permutation matrices. This has a beneficial influence on the amount of calculation that must be done to find Symmetric Informationally Complete POVMs. I make some comments on the equations obeyed by the absolute values of the components of the SIC vectors, and on the fact that the representation partly suggests a preferred tensor product structure.

id: 1202.3561
title: How much complementarity?
authors: Ingemar Bengtsson
comments: 6 pages; talk at the Vaxjo conference on Foundations of Probability and Physics, 2011
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3561
abstract: Bohr placed complementary bases at the mathematical centre point of his view of quantum mechanics. On the technical side then my question translates into that of classifying complex Hadamard matrices. Recent work (with Barros e Sa) shows that the answer depends heavily on the prime number decomposition of the Hilbert space. By implication so does the geometry of quantum state space.

id: 1202.3571
title: The effects of reduced "free will" on Bell-based randomness expansion
authors: Dax Enshan Koh, Michael J.W. Hall, Setiawan, James E. Pope, Chiara Marletto, Alastair Kay, Valerio Scarani, Artur Ekert
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 160404 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3571
abstract: With the advent of quantum information, the violation of a Bell inequality is used as evidence of the absence of an eavesdropper in cryptographic scenarios such as key distribution and randomness expansion. One of the key assumptions of Bell's Theorem is the existence of experimental "free will", meaning that measurement settings can be chosen at random and independently by each party. The relaxation of this assumption potentially shifts the balance of power towards an eavesdropper. We consider a no-signalling model with reduced "free will" and bound the adversary's capabilities in the task of randomness expansion.

id: 1202.3628
title: Wigner phase space distribution as a wave function
authors: Denys I. Bondar, Renan Cabrera, Dmitry V. Zhdanov, Herschel A. Rabitz
comments: 6 pages and 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 052108 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3628
abstract: We demonstrate that the Wigner function of a pure quantum state is a wave function in a specially tuned Dirac bra-ket formalism and argue that the Wigner function is in fact a probability amplitude for the quantum particle to be at a certain point of the classical phase space. Additionally, we establish that in the classical limit, the Wigner function transforms into a classical Koopman-von Neumann wave function rather than into a classical probability distribution. Since probability amplitude need not be positive, our findings provide an alternative outlook on the Wigner function's negativity.

id: 1202.3640
title: Correlation additivity relation is superadditive for separable states
authors: Zhanjun Zhang
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3640
abstract: We deny with a concrete example the generality of the correlation subadditivity relation conjectured by Modi et al's [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf 104}, 080501 (2010)] for any quantum state and point out that the correlation additivity relation is actually super-additive for separable states. This work indicates that any effort on explicitly proving the conjecture and finding the subadditivity source is unnecessary and fruitless.

id: 1202.3646
title: The quantum adiabatic algorithm and scaling of gaps at first order quantum phase transitions
authors: C.R. Laumann, R. Moessner, A. Scardicchio, S.L. Sondhi
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 030502 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3646
abstract: Motivated by the quantum adiabatic algorithm (QAA), we consider the scaling of the Hamiltonian gap at quantum first order transitions, generally expected to be exponentially small in the size of the system. However, we show that a quantum antiferromagnetic Ising chain in a staggered field can exhibit a first order transition with only an algebraically small gap. In addition, we construct a simple classical translationally invariant one-dimensional Hamiltonian containing nearest-neighbour interactions only, which exhibits an exponential gap at a thermodynamic quantum first-order transition of essentially topological origin. This establishes that (i) the QAA can be successful even across first order transitions but also that (ii) it can fail on exceedingly simple problems readily solved by inspection, or by classical annealing.

id: 1202.3673
title: Finding decompositions of a class of separable states
authors: Erik Alfsen, Fred Shultz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3673
abstract: By definition a separable state has the form \sum A_i \otimes B_i, where 0 \leq A_i, B_i for each i. In this paper we consider the class of states which admit such a decomposition with B_1, ..., B_p having independent images. We give a simple intrinsic characterization of this class of states, and starting with a density matrix in this class, describe a procedure to find such a decomposition with B_1, ..., B_p having independent images, and A_1, ..., A_p being distinct with unit trace. Such a decomposition is unique, and we relate this to the facial structure of the set of separable states. A special subclass of such separable states are those for which the rank of the matrix matches one marginal rank. Such states have arisen in previous studies of separability (e.g., they are known to be a class for which the PPT condition is equivalent to separability). The states investigated also include a class that corresponds (under the Choi-Jamio{\l}kowski isomorphism) to the quantum channels called quantum-classical and classical-quantum by Holevo.

id: 1202.3674
title: Full photon statistics of a light beam transmitted through an optomechanical system
authors: Andreas Kronwald, Max Ludwig, Florian Marquardt
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 013847 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3674
abstract: In this paper, we study the full statistics of photons transmitted through an optical cavity coupled to nanomechanical motion. We analyze the entire temporal evolution of the photon correlations, the Fano factor, and the effects of strong laser driving, all of which show pronounced features connected to the mechanical backaction. In the regime of single-photon strong coupling, this allows us to predict a transition from sub-Poissonian to super-Poissonian statistics for larger observation time intervals. Furthermore, we predict cascades of transmitted photons triggered by multi-photon transitions. In this regime, we observe Fano factors that are drastically enhanced due to the mechanical motion.

id: 1202.3675
title: Nonlinear mechanics with photonic crystal nanomembranes
authors: T. Antoni, K. Makles, R. Braive, T. Briant, P.-F. Cohadon, I. Sagnes, I. Robert-Philip, A. Heidmann
comments: 
journal: Europhysics Letters 100 (2012) 68005
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3675
abstract: Optomechanical systems close to their quantum ground state and nonlinear nanoelectromechanical systems are two hot topics of current physics research. As high-reflectivity and low mass are crucial features to improve optomechanical coupling towards the ground state, we have designed, fabricated and characterized photonic crystal nanomembranes, at the crossroad of both topics. Here we demonstrate a number of nonlinear effects with these membranes. We first characterize the nonlinear behavior of a single mechanical mode and we demonstrate its nonlocal character by monitoring the subsequent actuation-related frequency shift of a different mode. We then proceed to study the underlying nonlinear dynamics, both by monitoring the phase-space trajectory of the free resonator and by characterizing the mechanical response in presence of a strong pump excitation. We observe in particular the frequency evolution during a ring-down oscillation decay, and the emergence of a phase conjugate mechanical response to a weaker probe actuation. Our results are crucial to understand the full nonlinear features of the PhC membranes, and possibly to look for nonlinear signatures of the quantum dynamics.

id: 1202.3817
title: On infinite-dimensional state spaces
authors: Tobias Fritz
comments: 5+4 pages, minor revision, to appear in J. Math. Phys
journal: J. Math. Phys. 54, 052107 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Group Theory (math.GR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3817
abstract: It is well-known that the canonical commutation relation $[x,p]=i$ can be realized only on an infinite-dimensional Hilbert space. While any finite set of experimental data can also be explained in terms of a finite-dimensional Hilbert space by approximating the commutation relation, Occam's razor prefers the infinite-dimensional model in which $[x,p]=i$ holds on the nose. This reasoning one will necessarily have to make in any approach which tries to detect the infinite-dimensionality. One drawback of using the canonical commutation relation for this purpose is that it has unclear operational meaning. Here, we identify an operationally well-defined context from which an analogous conclusion can be drawn: if two unitary transformations $U,V$ on a quantum system satisfy the relation $V^{-1}U^2V=U^3$, then finite-dimensionality entails the relation $UV^{-1}UV=V^{-1}UVU$; this implication strongly fails in some infinite-dimensional realizations. This is a result from combinatorial group theory for which we give a new proof. This proof adapts to the consideration of cases where the assumed relation $V^{-1}U^2V=U^3$ holds only up to $\eps$ and then yields a lower bound on the dimension.

id: 1202.3822
title: No-signaling Quantum Key Distribution: Solution by Linear Programming
authors: Won-Young Hwang, Joonwoo Bae, Nathan Killoran
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure, derivation much simplifed
journal: Quantum Information Processing 14, 687 (2015)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3822
abstract: We outline a straightforward approach for obtaining a secret key rate using only no-signaling constraints and linear programming. Assuming an individual attack, we consider all possible joint probabilities. Initially, we study only the case where Eve has binary outcomes, and we impose constraints due to the no-signaling principle and given measurement outcomes. Within the remaining space of joint probabilities, by using linear programming, we get bound on the probability of Eve correctly guessing Bob's bit. We then make use of an inequality that relates this guessing probability to the mutual information between Bob and a more general Eve, who is not binary-restricted. Putting our computed bound together with the Csisz\'ar-K\"orner formula, we obtain a positive key generation rate. The optimal value of this rate agrees with known results, but was calculated in a more straightforward way, offering the potential of generalization to different scenarios.

id: 1202.3831
title: Quantum Enhanced Magnetometer with Low-Frequency Squeezing
authors: Travis Horrom, Robinjeet Singh, Jonathan P. Dowling, Eugeniy E. Mikhailov
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 023803 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3831
abstract: We report the demonstration of a magnetometer with noise-floor reduction below the shot-noise level. This magnetometer, based on a nonlinear magneto-optical rotation effect, is enhanced by the injection of a squeezed vacuum state into its input. The noise spectrum shows squeezed noise reduction of about 2 dB spanning from close to 100 Hz to several megahertz. We also report on the observation of two different regimes of operation of such a magnetometer: one in which the detection noise is limited by the quantum noise of the light probe only, and one in which we see additional noise originating from laser noise which is rotated into the vacuum polarization.

id: 1202.3849
title: Berry phases for interacting spins in composite environments
authors: Da-Bao Yang, Fu-Lin Zhang, Jing-Ling Chen
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3849
abstract: Due to the potential application in quantum information process, geometric phase of interacting system arouse many interests. Some physicists concentrate on the system in pure classical envi- ronment, while others study the system in pure quantized environment. So a natural question is asked: how about an interacting system in composite environments made up of both classical and quantized field. In this letter, we analyze a quantum system composed of two interacting spins, of which one is in classical magnetic field and the other is in quantized field. First, classical magnetic field driven Berry phases for the whole system and subsystem are studied. The effect of couplings between particles and photon on these phases are analyzed. In comparison with the dynamical quantized field, We find that even a static quantized field in its vacuum state can also have an effect on Berry phase. Second, quantized field driven Berry phases for the whole system and sub- system are formulated, including both one and two mode of this field. The vacuum induced effects are elaborated, moreover compared with the constant vacuum induced phases in former papers, the counterpart in this letter varies according to classical magnetic field, couplings and other pa- rameters. For the two mode quantized field, the rigorous relationship between the concurrence and Berry phase for subsystem are built up.

id: 1202.3853
title: Relations for certain symmetric norms and anti-norms before and after partial trace
authors: Alexey E. Rastegin
comments: 11 pages, no figures. A typo error in Eq. (5.15) is corrected. Minor improvements. J. Stat. Phys. (in press)
journal: J. Stat. Phys. 148, 1040-1053 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3853
abstract: Changes of some unitarily invariant norms and anti-norms under the operation of partial trace are examined. The norms considered form a two-parametric family, including both the Ky Fan and Schatten norms as particular cases. The obtained results concern operators acting on the tensor product of two finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces. For any such operator, we obtain upper bounds on norms of its partial trace in terms of the corresponding dimensionality and norms of this operator. Similar inequalities, but in the opposite direction, are obtained for certain anti-norms of positive matrices. Through the Stinespring representation, the results are put in the context of trace-preserving completely positive maps. We also derive inequalities between the unified entropies of a composite quantum system and one of its subsystems, where traced-out dimensionality is involved as well.

id: 1202.3888
title: Nonlinear coherent loss for generating non-classical states
authors: A. Mikhalychev, D. Mogilevtsev, S. Kilin
comments: 
journal: J.Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 (2011) 325307
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3888
abstract: Here we discuss generation of non-classical states of bosonic mode with the help of artificially designed loss, namely the nonlinear coherent loss. We show how to generate superpositions of Fock states, and how it is possible to "comb" the initial states leaving only states with certain properties in the resulting superposition (for example, a generation of a superposition of Fock states with odd number of particles). We discuss purity of generated states and estimate maximal achievable generation fidelity.

id: 1202.3903
title: Recurrence for discrete time unitary evolutions
authors: F. A. Grnbaum, L. Velzquez, A. H. Werner, R. F. Werner
comments: 27 pages, 5 figures, typos corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3903
abstract: We consider quantum dynamical systems specified by a unitary operator U and an initial state vector \phi. In each step the unitary is followed by a projective measurement checking whether the system has returned to the initial state. We call the system recurrent if this eventually happens with probability one. We show that recurrence is equivalent to the absence of an absolutely continuous part from the spectral measure of U with respect to \phi. We also show that in the recurrent case the expected first return time is an integer or infinite, for which we give a topological interpretation. A key role in our theory is played by the first arrival amplitudes, which turn out to be the (complex conjugated) Taylor coefficients of the Schur function of the spectral measure. On the one hand, this provides a direct dynamical interpretation of these coefficients; on the other hand it links our definition of first return times to a large body of mathematical literature.

id: 1202.3921
title: Symmetries and security of a quantum-public-key encryption based on single-qubit rotations
authors: U. Seyfarth, G. M. Nikolopoulos, G. Alber
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures. To be published in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 022342 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3921
abstract: Exploring the symmetries underlying a previously proposed encryption scheme which relies on single-qubit rotations, we derive an improved upper bound on the maximum information that an eavesdropper might extract from all the available copies of the public key. Subsequently, the robustness of the scheme is investigated in the context of attacks that address each public-key qubit independently. The attacks under consideration make use of projective measurements on single qubits and their efficiency is compared to attacks that address many qubits collectively and require complicated quantum operations.

id: 1202.4010
title: Optimal counterfeiting attacks and generalizations for Wiesner's quantum money
authors: Abel Molina, Thomas Vidick, John Watrous
comments: 18 pages. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1104.1140
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4010
abstract: We present an analysis of Wiesner's quantum money scheme, as well as some natural generalizations of it, based on semidefinite programming. For Wiesner's original scheme, it is determined that the optimal probability for a counterfeiter to create two copies of a bank note from one, where both copies pass the bank's test for validity, is (3/4)^n for n being the number of qubits used for each note. Generalizations in which other ensembles of states are substituted for the one considered by Wiesner are also discussed, including a scheme recently proposed by Pastawski, Yao, Jiang, Lukin, and Cirac, as well as schemes based on higher dimensional quantum systems. In addition, we introduce a variant of Wiesner's quantum money in which the verification protocol for bank notes involves only classical communication with the bank. We show that the optimal probability with which a counterfeiter can succeed in two independent verification attempts, given access to a single valid n-qubit bank note, is (3/4+sqrt(2)/8)^n. We also analyze extensions of this variant to higher-dimensional schemes.

id: 1202.4028
title: Analysis of photon-mediated entanglement between distinguishable matter qubits
authors: A. M. Dyckovsky, S. Olmschenk
comments: 13 pages, 10 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4028
abstract: We theoretically evaluate establishing remote entanglement between distinguishable matter qubits through interference and detection of two emitted photons. The fidelity of the entanglement operation is analyzed as a function of the temporal and frequency mode-matching between the photons emitted from each quantum memory. With a general analysis, we define limits on the absolute magnitudes of temporal and frequency mode-mismatches in order to maintain entanglement fidelities greater than 99% with two-photon detection efficiencies greater than 90%. We apply our analysis to several selected systems of quantum memories. Results indicate that high fidelities may be achieved in each system using current experimental techniques, while maintaining acceptable rates of entanglement. Thus, it might be possible to use two-photon-mediated entanglement operations between distinguishable quantum memories to establish a network for quantum communication and distributed quantum computation.

id: 1202.4046
title: Coherent Ro-vibrational Revivals in a Thermal Molecular Ensemble
authors: Martin Bitter, Evgeny A. Shapiro, Valery Milner
comments: submitted at Physical Review A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4046
abstract: We report an experimental and theoretical study of the evolution of vibrational coherence in a thermal ensemble of nitrogen molecules. Rotational dephasing and rephasing of the vibrational coherence is detected by coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering. The existence of ro-vibrational coupling and the discrete energy spectrum of the rotational bath lead to a whole new class of full and fractional ro-vibrational revivals. Following the rich ro-vibrational dynamics on a nanosecond time scale with sub-picosecond time resolution enables us to determine the second-order ro-vibrational constant $gamma_e$ and assess new possibilities of controlling decoherence.

id: 1202.4054
title: Nonlocality Distillation for High-Dimensional System
authors: Guo-Zhu Pan, Chao Li, Zheng-Gen Chen, Ming Yang, Zhuo-Liang Cao
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures, Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4054
abstract: The intriguing and powerful capability of nonlocality in communication field ignites the research of the nonlocality distillation. The first protocol presented in Ref[Phys. Rev. Lett. 102, 120401] shows that the nonlocality of bipartite binary-input and binary-output nonsignaling correlated boxes could be amplified by 'wiring' two copies of weaker-nonlocality boxes. Several optimized distillation protocols were presented later for bipartite binary-input and binary-output nonsignaling correlated boxes. In this paper, we focus on the bipartite binary-input and multi-nary-output nonsignaling correlated boxes---high-dimensional boxes, and design comparators-based protocols to achieve the distillation of high-dimensional nonlocality. The results show that the high-dimensional nonlocality can be distilled in different ways, and we find that the efficiencies of the protocols are influenced not only by the wirings but also by the classes the initial nonlocality boxes belongs to. Here, the initial nonlcalities may have the same violation of the high-dimensional Bell-type inequality, but they can fall into different classes, which shows that the value of the violation of the high-dimensional Bell-type inequality is not the only representation of nonlocality, and the combination manner(classes) in the expression of the correlated boxes is another important nonlocal representation too. The current protocols are compatible with the previous two-dimensional nonlocality distillation protocols, but our protocols are more powerful and universal than previous ones in the sense that the current protocols can be applied to the system with any dimension rather than the only two-dimension system in the previous protocols.

id: 1202.4065
title: Quantum limit in continuous quantum measurement
authors: ChengGang Shao
comments: 18 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4065
abstract: An inequality about quantum noise is presented with the imprecise measurement theory, which is used to analyse the quantum limit in continuous quantum measurement. Different from the linear-response approach based on the quantum relation between noise and susceptibilities of the detector, we provide an explicit functional relation between quantum noise and reduction operator, and show a rigorous result: The minimum noise added by the detector in quantum measurement is precisely equal to the zero-point noise. This conclusion generalizes the standard Haus-Caves quantum limit for a linear amplifier. We also discuss the statistic characters of the back-action force in quantum measurement and show on how to reach the quantum limit.

id: 1202.4077
title: Long-distance entanglement generation with scalable and robust two-dimensional quantum network
authors: Ying Li, Daniel Cavalcanti, Leong Chuan Kwek
comments: 5 pags, 4 figs. V2: text corrected, discussion on channel losses added. Accepted by PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 062330 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4077
abstract: We present a protocol for generating entanglement over long distances in a two-dimensional quantum network based on the surface error-correction code. This protocol requires a fixed number of quantum memories at each node of the network and tolerates error rates of up to 1.67% in the quantum channels.

id: 1202.4089
title: Dynamics of multi-modes maximum entangled coherent state over amplitude damping channel
authors: A. El Allati, Y. Hassouni, N. Metwally
comments: 
journal: Chin. Phys. B Vol. 20, No. 11 110303 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4089
abstract: The dynamics of maximum entangled coherent state travels through an amplitude damping channel is investigated. For small values of the transmissivity rate the travelling state is very fragile to this noise channel, where it suffers from the phase flip error with high probability. The entanglement decays smoothly for larger values of the transmissivity rate and speedily for smaller values of this rate. As the number of modes increases, the travelling state over this noise channel loses its entanglement hastily. The odd and even states vanish at the same value of the field intensity.

id: 1202.4117
title: Path Integrals for (Complex) Classical and Quantum Mechanics
authors: Ray J. Rivers
comments: 13 pages: Published in the Proceedings of AAMP 7, (Prague) 2011. This file differs from the published version by the inclusion of extra references, with minor changes of text (which leave conclusions unaltered)
journal: Acta Polytechnica (Czech Republic) 51 No.4, 83-89 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Classical Physics (physics.class-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4117
abstract: An analysis of classical mechanics in a complex extension of phase space shows that a particle in such a space can behave in a way redolant of quantum mechanics; additional degrees of freedom permit 'tunnelling' without recourse to instantons and lead to time/energy uncertainty. In practice, 'classical' particle trajectories with additional degrees of freedom have arisen in several different formulations of quantum mechanics. In this talk we compare the extended phase space of the closed time-path formalism with that of complex classical mechanics, to suggest that $\hbar$ has a role in our understanding of the latter. However, differences in the way that trajectories are used make a deeper comparison problematical. We conclude with some thoughts on quantisation as dimensional reduction.

id: 1202.4210
title: Simple Non-Markovian Microscopic Models for the Depolarizing Channel of a Single Qubit
authors: K. M. Fonseca Romero, R. Lo Franco
comments: 13 pages, 2 figures. Title corrected. Paper rewritten. Added references. Some typos and errors corrected. Author added
journal: Phys. Scr. 86 (2012) 065004
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4210
abstract: The archetypal one-qubit noisy channels ---depolarizing, phase-damping and amplitude-damping channels--- describe both Markovian and non-Markovian evolution. Simple microscopic models for the depolarizing channel, both classical and quantum, are considered. Microscopic models which describe phase damping and amplitude damping channels are briefly reviewed.

id: 1202.4255
title: Facial structures for various notions of positivity and applications to the theory of entanglement
authors: Seung-Hyeok Kye
comments: An expository note. Section 7 and Section 8 have been enlarged
journal: Rev. Math. Phys. 25 (2013), 1330002
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4255
abstract: In this expository note, we explain facial structures for the convex cones consisting of positive linear maps, completely positive linear maps, decomposable positive linear maps between matrix algebras, respectively. These will be applied to study the notions of entangled edge states with positive partial transposes and optimality of entanglement witnesses.

id: 1202.4263
title: Decoherence and equilibration under nondestructive measurements
authors: V. I. Yukalov
comments: Latex file, 15 pages
journal: Ann. Phys. (N.Y.) 327 (2012) 253-263
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4263
abstract: The evolution of observable quantities of finite quantum systems is analyzed when the latter are subject to nondestructive measurements. The type and number of measurements characterize the level of decoherence produced in the system. A finite number of instantaneous measurements leads to only a partial decoherence. But infinite number of such measurements yields complete decoherence and equilibration. Continuous measurements result in partial decoherence in finite time, but produce complete decoherence and equilibration as time tends to infinity. Resulting equilibrium states are characterized by representative statistical ensembles that, generally, retain information on initial conditions. Any system, to be observable, necessarily requires the presence of measurements, whose large number leads to the system equilibration and decoherence.

id: 1202.4280
title: System-environment correlations and Non-Markovian dynamics
authors: Ansgar Pernice, Julius Helm, Walter T. Strunz
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4280
abstract: We determine the total state dynamics of a dephasing open quantum system using the standard environment of harmonic oscillators. Of particular interest are random unitary approaches to the same reduced dynamics and system-environment correlations in the full model. Concentrating on a model with an at times negative dephasing rate, the issue of "non-Markovianity" will also be addressed. Crucially, given the quantum environment, the appearance of non-Markovian dynamics turns out to be accompanied by a loss of system-environment correlations. Depending on the initial purity of the qubit state, these system-environment correlations may be purely classical over the whole relevant time scale, or there may be intervals of genuine system-environment entanglement. In the latter case, we see no obvious relation between the build-up or decay of these quantum correlations and "Non-Markovianity".

id: 1202.4314
title: Atomic frequency comb memory with spin wave storage in 153Eu3+:Y2SiO5
authors: N. Timoney, B. Lauritzen, I. Usmani, M. Afzelius, N. Gisin
comments: 7 pages and 7 figures
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 124001 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4314
abstract: 153Eu3+:Y2SiO5 is a very attractive candidate for a long lived, multimode quantum memory due to the long spin coherence time (~15 ms), the relatively large hyperfine splitting (100 MHz) and the narrow optical homogeneous linewidth (~100 Hz). Here we show an atomic frequency comb memory with spin wave storage in a promising material 153Eu3+:Y2SiO5, reaching storage times slightly beyond 10 {\mu}s. We analyze the efficiency of the storage process and discuss ways of improving it. We also measure the inhomogeneous spin linewidth of 153Eu3+:Y2SiO5, which we find to be 69 \pm 3 kHz. These results represent a further step towards realising a long lived multi mode solid state quantum memory.

id: 1202.4316
title: High threshold error correction for the surface code
authors: James R. Wootton, Daniel Loss
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures. Published version + extra material; Phys. Rev. Lett. (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4316
abstract: An algorithm is presented for error correction in the surface code quantum memory. This is shown to correct depolarizing noise up to a threshold error rate of 18.5%, exceeding previous results and coming close to the upper bound of 18.9%. The time complexity of the algorithm is found to be polynomial with error suppression, allowing efficient error correction for codes of realistic sizes.

id: 1202.4324
title: Quantum correlations in the collective spin systems
authors: Chen Wang, Yu-Yu Zhang, Qing-Hu Chen
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052112 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4324
abstract: Quantum and classical pairwise correlations in two typical collective spin systems (i.e., the Dicke model and the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick model) are discussed. These correlations in the thermodynamical limit are obtained analytically and in a finite-size system are calculated numerically. Large-size scaling behavior for the quantum discord itself is observed, which has never been reported in another critical system. A logarithmic diverging behavior for the first derivative of the quantum discord is also found in both models, which might be universal in the second-order quantum phase transition. It is suggested that the pronounced maximum or minimum of first derivative of quantum discord signifies the critical point. Comparisons between the quantum discord and the scaled concurrence are performed. It is shown that the quantum discord is very small in one phase and robust in the other phase, while the scaled concurrence shows maximum at the critical point and decays rapidly when away from the the critical point.

id: 1202.4440
title: Libertarian free will and quantum indeterminism
authors: Chetan S. Mandayam Nayakar, S. Omkar, R. Srikanth
comments: 12 pages, RevTeX4. Structured to be largely accessible to philosophers and neuroscientists. Supersedes arXiv:1011.4898
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4440
abstract: The basic question in the long-standing debate about free will (FW) is not whether FW can be demonstrated to exist nor even whether it exists, but instead how to define it scientifically. If FW is not dismissed as an illusion nor identified with a variety of unpredictability, then logical paradoxes arise that make FW elusive to define. We resolve these paradoxes through a model of FW, in which FW is a new causal primitive empowered to override physical causality under guidance. We develop a simple mathematical realization of this model, that when applied to quantum theory, suggests that the exercise of FW corresponds to a nonlinear POVM causing deviations from the Born rule. In principle, these deviations would stand in conflict with known conservation laws and invariance principles, implying that the brain, the presumed seat of FW, may be an arena of exotic, non-standard physics. However, in practice it will be difficult to distinguish these deviations from quantum and neural noise, and statistical fluctuations. We indicate possible neurobiological and neurological tests, implications and applications of our proposed model.

id: 1202.4475
title: Measuring geometric quantum discord using one bit of quantum information
authors: G. Passante, O. Moussa, R. Laflamme
comments: Editorial changes (most notably, the title) made to more accurately reflect the published version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032325 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4475
abstract: We describe an efficient DQC1-algorithm to quantify the amount of Geometric Quantum Discord present in the output state of a DQC1 computation. DQC1 is a model of computation that utilizes separable states to solve a problem with no known efficient classical algorithm and is known to contain quantum correlations as measured by the discord. For the general case of a (1+n)-qubit DQC1-state we provide an analytical expression for the Geometric Quantum Discord and find that its typical (and maximum) value decreases exponentially with n. This is in contrast to the standard Quantum Discord whose value for typical DQC1-states is known to be independent of n. We experimentally demonstrate the proposed algorithm on a four-qubit liquid-state nuclear magnetic resonance quantum information processor. In the special case of a two-qubit DQC1 model, we also provide an expression for the Quantum Discord that only requires the outcome of the DQC1 algorithm.

id: 1202.4513
title: Local tomography and the Jordan structure of quantum theory
authors: Howard Barnum, Alexander Wilce
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4513
abstract: Using a result of H. Hanche-Olsen, we show that (subject to fairly natural constraints on what constitutes a system, and on what constitutes a composite system), orthodox finite-dimensional complex quantum mechanics with superselection rules is the only non-signaling probabilistic theory in which (i) individual systems are Jordan algebras (equivalently, their cones of unnormalized states are homogeneous and self-dual), (ii) composites are locally tomographic (meaning that states are determined by the joint probabilities they assign to measurement outcomes on the component systems) and (iii) at least one system has the structure of a qubit. Using this result, we also characterize finite dimensional quantum theory among probabilistic theories having the structure of a dagger-monoidal category.

id: 1202.4546
title: Disentanglement, Bell-nonlocality violation and teleportation capacity of the decaying tripartite states
authors: Ming-Liang Hu
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures, accepted for publication in Annals of Physics
journal: Annals of Physics, 2012, 327(9): 2332-2342
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4546
abstract: Dynamics of disentanglement as measured by the tripartite negativity and Bell nonlocality as measured by the extent of violation of the multipartite Bell-type inequalities are investigated in this work. It is shown definitively that for the initial three-qubit Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) or {\it W} class state preparation the Bell nonlocality suffers sudden death under the influence of thermal reservoirs. Moreover, all the Bell-nonlocal states are useful for nonclassical teleportation, while there are entangled states that do not violate any Bell-type inequalities, but still yield nonclassical teleportation fidelity.

id: 1202.4583
title: A report on the nonlinear squeezed states and their non-classical properties of a generalized isotonic oscillator
authors: V. Chithiika Ruby, M. Senthilvelan
comments: Accepted for publication in J. Phys. A: Math. Theor
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4583
abstract: We construct nonlinear squeezed states of a generalized isotonic oscillator potential. We demonstrate the non-existence of dual counterpart of nonlinear squeezed states in this system. We investigate statistical properties exhibited by the squeezed states, in particular Mandel's parameter, second-order correlation function, photon number distributions and parameter $A_3$ in detail. We also examine the quadrature and amplitude-squared squeezing effects. Finally, we derive expression for the $s$-parameterized quasi-probability distribution function of these states. All these information about the system are new to the literature.

id: 1202.4621
title: Controllable entanglement preparations between atoms in spatially-separated cavities via quantum Zeno dynamics
authors: Wen-An Li, L. F. Wei
comments: 14 pages, 8 figures
journal: Optics Express, Vol. 20, Issue 12, pp. 13440-13450 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4621
abstract: By using quantum Zeno dynamics, we propose a controllable approach to deterministically generate tripartite GHZ states for three atoms trapped in spatially separated cavities. The nearest-neighbored cavities are connected via optical fibers and the atoms trapped in two ends are tunably driven. The generation of the GHZ state can be implemented by only one step manipulation, and the EPR entanglement between the atoms in two ends can be further realized deterministically by Von Neumann measurement on the middle atom. Note that the duration of the quantum Zeno dynamics is controllable by switching on/off the applied external classical drivings and the desirable tripartite GHZ state will no longer evolve once it is generated. The robustness of the proposal is numerically demonstrated by considering various decoherence factors, including atomic spontaneous emissions, cavity decays and fiber photon leakages, etc. Our proposal can be directly generalized to generate multipartite entanglement by still driving the atoms in two ends.

id: 1202.4638
title: Unification of the conditional probability and semiclassical interpretations for the problem of time in quantum theory
authors: Julio Csar Arce
comments: 10 pages. Typographical errors corrected
journal: Physical Review A 85, 042108 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4638
abstract: We show that the time-dependent Schr\"odinger equation (TDSE) is the phenomenological dynamical law of evolution unraveled in the classical limit from a timeless formulation in terms of probability amplitudes conditioned by the values of suitably chosen internal clock variables, thereby unifying the conditional probability interpretation (CPI) and the semiclassical approach for the problem of time in quantum theory. Our formalism stems from an exact factorization of the Hamiltonian eigenfunction of the clock plus system composite, where the clock and system factors play the role of marginal and conditional probability amplitudes, respectively. Application of the Variation Principle leads to a pair of exact coupled pseudoeigenvalue equations for these amplitudes, whose solution requires an iterative self-consistent procedure. The equation for the conditional amplitude constitutes an effective "equation of motion" for the quantum state of the system with respect to the clock variables. These coupled equations also provide a convenient framework for treating the back-reaction of the system on the clock at various levels of approximation. At the lowest level, when the WKB approximation for the marginal amplitude is appropriate, in the classical limit of the clock variables the TDSE for the system emerges as a matter of course from the conditional equation. In this connection, we provide a discussion of the characteristics required by physical systems to serve as good clocks. This development is seen to be advantageous over the original CPI and semiclassical approach since it maintains the essence of the conventional formalism of quantum mechanics, admits a transparent interpretation, avoids the use of the Born-Oppenheimer approximation, and resolves various objections raised about them.

id: 1202.4708
title: Playing Games with Quantum Mechanics
authors: Simon J. D. Phoenix, Faisal Shah Khan
comments: 3 Figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4708
abstract: We present a perspective on quantum games that focuses on the physical aspects of the quantities that are used to implement a game. If a game is to be played, it has to be played with objects and actions that have some physical existence. We call such games playable. By focusing on the notion of playability for games we can more clearly see the distinction between classical and quantum games and tackle the thorny issue of what it means to quantize a game. The approach we take can more properly be thought of as gaming the quantum rather than quantizing a game and we find that in this perspective we can think of a complete quantum game, for a given set of preferences, as representing a single family of quantum games with many different playable versions. The versions of Quantum Prisoners Dilemma presented in the literature can therefore be thought of specific instances of the single family of Quantum Prisoner's Dilemma with respect to a particular measurement. The conditions for equilibrium are given for playable quantum games both in terms of expected outcomes and a geometric approach. We discuss how any quantum game can be simulated with a classical game played with classical coins as far as the strategy selections and expected outcomes are concerned.

id: 1202.4718
title: Heat cost of parametric generation of microwave squeezed states
authors: A.M. Zagoskin, E. Il'ichev, Franco Nori
comments: 11 pages, 1 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 063811 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4718
abstract: In parametric systems, squeezed states of radiation can be generated via extra work done by external sources. This eventually increases the entropy of the system despite the fact that squeezing is reversible. We investigate the entropy increase due to squeezing and show that it is quadratic in the squeezing rate and may become important in the repeated operation of tunable oscillators (quantum buses) used to connect qubits in various proposed schemes for quantum computing.

id: 1202.4744
title: Deterministic production of free-propagating Fock states of programmable photon number from a single atom-cavity system
authors: A. Gogyan, S. Guerin, C. Leroy, Yu. Malakyan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4744
abstract: We propose a mechanism for producing Fock states on demand leaking from a single mode optical cavity interacting with a single atom and a laser pulse. The number of photons can be chosen, as it is determined by the Zeeman substructure of the ground state of the atom and its initial state. The deterministic generation of a free-propagating Fock state of $1\leq n\leq2F$ photons is achieved, when a circularly polarized laser pulse completely transfers the atomic population between Zeeman sublevels of the ground hyperfine state $F$ through far-detuned Raman scattering thus producing linearly polarized cavity photons. We describe analytically the evolution of optical field taking into account the spontaneous losses and the cavity damping. We demonstrate the possibility of production of Fock-state with different numbers of photons by using different transitions of the same atom. We show also that this technique provides a deterministic source of a train of identical multiphoton Fock-states, if a sequence of left- and right-circularly polarized laser pulses is applied. The resulting states have potential applications in quantum computation and simulation.

id: 1202.4810
title: Probability density of quantum expectation values
authors: Lorenzo Campos Venuti, Paolo Zanardi
comments: Substantial revision. References added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4810
abstract: We consider the quantum expectation value \mathcal{A}=\<\psi|A|\psi\> of an observable A over the state |\psi\> . We derive the exact probability distribution of \mathcal{A} seen as a random variable when |\psi\> varies over the set of all pure states equipped with the Haar-induced measure. The probability density is obtained with elementary means by computing its characteristic function, both for non-degenerate and degenerate observables. To illustrate our results we compare the exact predictions for few concrete examples with the concentration bounds obtained using Levy's lemma. Finally we comment on the relevance of the central limit theorem and draw some results on an alternative statistical mechanics based on the uniform measure on the energy shell.

id: 1202.4827
title: Two coupled Jaynes-Cummings cells
authors: Peng Xue, Zbigniew Ficek, Barry C. Sanders
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Quantum Communications and Quantum Imaging IX., Edited by Meyers, Ronald E.Shih, Yanhua; Deacon, Keith S. Proceedings of the SPIE, Volume 8163, pp. 81630Q-81630Q-7 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4827
abstract: We develop a theoretical framework to evaluate the energy spectrum, stationary states, and dielectric susceptibility of two Jaynes-Cummings systems coupled together by the overlap of their respective longitudinal field modes, and we solve and characterize the combined system for the case that the two atoms and two cavities share a single quantum of energy.

id: 1202.4854
title: Measurement-induced two-qubit entanglement in a bad cavity: Fundamental and practical considerations
authors: Brian Julsgaard, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4854
abstract: An entanglement-generating protocol is described for two qubits coupled to a cavity field in the bad-cavity limit. By measuring the amplitude of a field transmitted through the cavity, an entangled spin-singlet state can be established probabilistically. Both fundamental limitations and practical measurement schemes are discussed, and the influence of dissipative processes and inhomogeneities in the qubits are analyzed. The measurement-based protocol provides criteria for selecting states with an infidelity scaling linearly with the qubit-decoherence rate.

id: 1202.4886
title: Are Quantum States Subjective?
authors: R. K. Pradhan
comments: eight pages
journal: Orissa Journal of Physics, vol. 18, No. 2, pp. 153-162, 2011
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4886
abstract: The subjective nature of the quantum states is brought out and it is argued that the objective state assignment is subsequent to the subjective state of the observer regarding his state of knowledge about the system. The collapse postulate is examined in detail to bring out the inherent subjectivity of the quantum state. The role of doubt and faith in quantum state assignment is examined.

id: 1202.4894
title: Twin Quantum Cheshire Photons
authors: Issam Ibnouhsein, Alexei Grinbaum
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4894
abstract: In an experiment with both pre- and post-selection one can find a photon (the cat) in one place and its polarization (the smile) in another. Aharonov et al. asked recently whether more than two degrees of freedom could be separated in the same way. We show that this is possible and that the separation of properties from objects that carry them is in some situations even stronger.

id: 1202.5044
title: Constrained quantum mechanics: chaos in non-planar billiards
authors: Robert Paul Salazar, Gabriel Tellez
comments: 
journal: European Journal of Physics 33 (4), 965-985 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Popular Physics (physics.pop-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5044
abstract: We illustrate some of the techniques to identify chaos signatures at the quantum level using as a guiding examples some systems where a particle is constrained to move on a radial symmetric, but non planar, surface. In particular, two systems are studied: the case of a cone with an arbitrary contour or dunce hat billiard and the rectangular billiard with an inner Gaussian surface.

id: 1202.5056
title: Non-Perturbative Quantum Dynamical Decoupling
authors: Jun Jing, Lian-Ao Wu, J. Q. You, Ting Yu
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 88, 022333 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5056
abstract: Current dynamical control based on the bang-bang control mechanism involving various types of pulse sequences is essentially a perturbative theory. This paper presents a non-perturbative dynamical control approach based on the exact stochastic Schr\"odinger equation. We report our findings on the pulse parameter regions in which the effective dynamical control can be exercised. The onset of the effective control zones reflects the non-perturbative feature of our approach. The non-perturbative methods offer possible new implementations when several different parameter regions are available.

id: 1202.5058
title: Entanglement detection via mutually unbiased bases
authors: Christoph Spengler, Marcus Huber, Stephen Brierley, Theodor Adaktylos, Beatrix C. Hiesmayr
comments: 8 pages, 2 figure
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 022311 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5058
abstract: We investigate correlations among complementary observables. In particular, we show how to take advantage of mutually unbiased bases (MUBs) for the efficient detection of entanglement in arbitrarily high-dimensional, multipartite and continuous variable quantum systems. The introduced entanglement criteria are relatively easy to implement experimentally since they require only a few local measurement settings. In addition, we establish a link between the separability problem and the maximum number of mutually unbiased bases -- opening a new avenue in this long-standing open problem.

id: 1202.5104
title: An observation of quadratic algebra, dual family of nonlinear coherent states and their non-classical properties, in the generalized isotonic oscillator
authors: V. Chithiika Ruby, M. Senthilvelan
comments: To appear in J. Math. Phys., (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5104
abstract: In this paper, we construct nonlinear coherent states for the generalized isotonic oscillator and study their non-classical properties in-detail. By transforming the deformed ladder operators suitably, which generate the quadratic algebra, we obtain Heisenberg algebra. From the algebra we define two non-unitary and an unitary displacement type operators. While the action of one of the non-unitary type operators reproduces the original nonlinear coherent states, the other one fails to produce a new set of nonlinear coherent states (dual pair). We show that these dual states are not normalizable. For the nonlinear coherent states, we evaluate the parameter $A_3$ and examine the non-classical nature of the states through quadratic and amplitude-squared squeezing effect. Further, we derive analytical formula for the $P$-function, $Q$-function and the Wigner function for the nonlinear coherent states. All of them confirm the non-classicality of the nonlinear coherent states. In addition to the above, we obtain the harmonic oscillator type coherent states from the unitary displacement operator.

id: 1202.5106
title: True photo-counting statistics of multiple on-off detectors
authors: J. Sperling, W. Vogel, G. S. Agarwal
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 023820 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5106
abstract: We derive a closed photo-counting formula, including noise counts and a finite quantum efficiency, for photon number resolving detectors based on on-off detectors. It applies to detection schemes such as array detectors and multiplexing setups. The result renders it possible to compare the corresponding measured counting statistics with the true photon number statistics of arbitrary quantum states. The photo-counting formula is applied to the discrimination of photon numbers of Fock states, squeezed states, and odd coherent states. It is illustrated for coherent states that our formula is indispensable for the correct interpretation of quantum effects observed with such devices.

id: 1202.5111
title: N-player quantum games in an EPR setting
authors: James M. Chappell, Azhar Iqbal, Derek Abbott
comments: 26 pages, 2 figures
journal: PLoS ONE 7(5): e36404, 2012
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5111
abstract: The $N$-player quantum game is analyzed in the context of an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) experiment. In this setting, a player's strategies are not unitary transformations as in alternate quantum game-theoretic frameworks, but a classical choice between two directions along which spin or polarization measurements are made. The players' strategies thus remain identical to their strategies in the mixed-strategy version of the classical game. In the EPR setting the quantum game reduces itself to the corresponding classical game when the shared quantum state reaches zero entanglement. We find the relations for the probability distribution for $N$-qubit GHZ and W-type states, subject to general measurement directions, from which the expressions for the mixed Nash equilibrium and the payoffs are determined. Players' payoffs are then defined with linear functions so that common two-player games can be easily extended to the $N$-player case and permit analytic expressions for the Nash equilibrium. As a specific example, we solve the Prisoners' Dilemma game for general $ N \ge 2 $. We find a new property for the game that for an even number of players the payoffs at the Nash equilibrium are equal, whereas for an odd number of players the cooperating players receive higher payoffs.

id: 1202.5136
title: A simple minimax estimator for quantum states
authors: Hui Khoon Ng, Berthold-Georg Englert
comments: 26 pages, 3 figures. v2 contains minor improvements to the text, and an additional appendix on symmetric measurements
journal: Int. J. Quant. Inf. 11, 1250038 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5136
abstract: Quantum tomography requires repeated measurements of many copies of the physical system, all prepared by a source in the unknown state. In the limit of very many copies measured, the often-used maximum-likelihood (ML) method for converting the gathered data into an estimate of the state works very well. For smaller data sets, however, it often suffers from problems of rank deficiency in the estimated state. For many systems of relevance for quantum information processing, the preparation of a very large number of copies of the same quantum state is still a technological challenge, which motivates us to look for estimation strategies that perform well even when there is not much data. In this article, we review the concept of minimax state estimation, and use minimax ideas to construct a simple estimator for quantum states. We demonstrate that, for the case of tomography of a single qubit, our estimator significantly outperforms the ML estimator for small number of copies of the state measured. Our estimator is always full-rank, and furthermore, has a natural dependence on the number of copies measured, which is missing in the ML estimator.

id: 1202.5139
title: Towards a Unified Framework for Approximate Quantum Error Correction
authors: Prabha Mandayam, Hui Khoon Ng
comments: 8 pages, v2: minor changes
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 012335 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5139
abstract: Recent work on approximate quantum error correction (QEC) has opened up the possibility of constructing subspace codes that protect information with high fidelity in scenarios where perfect error correction is impossible. Motivated by this, we investigate the problem of approximate subsystem codes. Subsystem codes extend the standard formalism of subspace QEC to codes in which only a subsystem within a subspace of states is used to store information in a noise-resilient fashion. Here, we demonstrate easily checkable sufficient conditions for the existence of approximate subsystem codes. Furthermore, for certain classes of subsystem codes and noise processes, we prove the efficacy of the transpose channel as a simple-to-construct recovery map that works nearly as well as the optimal recovery channel. This work generalizes our earlier approach [H.K. Ng and P. Mandayam, Phys. Rev. A 81 062342 (2010)] of using the transpose channel for approximate correction of subspace codes to the case of subsystem codes, and brings us closer to a unifying framework for approximate QEC.

id: 1202.5144
title: Entanglement dynamics via semiclassical propagators in systems of two spins
authors: A. D. Ribeiro, R. M. Angelo
comments: 10 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052312 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5144
abstract: We analyze the dynamical generation of entanglement in systems of two interacting spins initially prepared in a product of spin coherent states. For arbitrary time-independent Hamiltonians, we derive a semiclassical expression for the purity of the reduced density matrix as function of time. The final formula, subsidiary to the linear entropy, shows that the short-time dynamics of entanglement depends exclusively on the stability of trajectories governed by the underlying classical Hamiltonian. Also, this semiclassical measure is shown to reproduce the general properties of its quantum counterpart and give the expected result in the large spin limit. The accuracy of the semiclassical formula is further illustrated in a problem of phase exchange for two particles of spin $j$.

id: 1202.5148
title: New wine in old bottles: Quantum measurement - direct, indirect, weak - with some applications
authors: Bengt E. Y. Svensson
comments: 65 pages, 8 figures
journal: Quanta 2, vol 1, (2013) 18-49
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5148
abstract: In this, partly pedagogical review, I attempt to give a self-contained overview of the basis of (non-relativistic) QM measurement theory expressed in density matrix formalism. The focus is on applications to the theory of weak measurement, as developed by Aharonov and Vaidman and their collaborators. Their development of weak measurement combined with what they call 'post-selection' - judiciously choosing not only the initial state of a system ('pre-selection') but also its final state - has received much attention recently. Not the least has it opened up new, fruitful experimental vistas, like novel approaches to amplification. But the approach has also attached to it some air of mystery. I will attempt to 'de-mystify' it by showing that (almost) all results can be derived in a straight-forward way from conventional QM. Among other things, I develop the formalism not only to first order but also to second order in the weak interaction responsible for the measurement. This also allows me to derive, more or less as a by-product, the master equation for the density matrix of an open system in interaction with an environment. One particular application I shall treat of the weak measurement is the so called Leggett-Garg inequalities, a k a 'Bell inequalities in time'. I also give an outline, even if rough, of some of the ingenious experiments that the work by Aharonov, Vaidman and collaborators has inspired. If anything is magic in the weak measurement + post-selection approach, it is the interpretation of the so called weak value of an observable. Is it a bona fide property of the system considered? I have no answer to this question; I shall only exhibit the pros and cons of the proposed interpretation.

id: 1202.5181
title: Quantumness beyond quantum mechanics
authors: A. S. Sanz
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures; based on a talk at the Conference "Emergent Quantum Mechanics" / 5th Heinz von Foerster Congress (Vienna, Nov 11-13, 2011)
journal: J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 361, 012016 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5181
abstract: Bohmian mechanics allows us to understand quantum systems in the light of other quantum traits than the well-known ones (coherence, diffraction, interference, tunneling, discreteness, entanglement, etc.). Here the discussion focusses precisely on two of these interesting aspects, which arise when quantum mechanics is though within this theoretical framework: the non-crossing property, which allows for distinguishability without erasing interference patterns, and the possibility to define quantum probability tubes, along which the probability remains constant all the way. Furthermore, taking into account this hydrodynamic-like description as a link, it is also shown how this knowledge (concepts and ideas) can be straightforwardly transferred to other fields of physics (for example, the transmission of light along waveguides).

id: 1202.5191
title: Demonstrating W-type Entanglement of Dicke-States in Resonant Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics
authors: Jonas A. Mlynek, Abdufarrukh A. Abdumalikov Jr, Johannes M. Fink, Lars Steffen, Matthias Baur, Christian Lang, Arjan F. van Loo, Andreas Wallraff
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 053838 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5191
abstract: Nonlinearity and entanglement are two important properties by which physical systems can be identified as non-classical. We study the dynamics of the resonant interaction of up to N=3 two-level systems and a single mode of the electromagnetic field sharing a single excitation dynamically. We observe coherent vacuum Rabi oscillations and their nonlinear speed up by tracking the populations of all qubits and the resonator in time. We use quantum state tomography to show explicitly that the dynamics generates maximally entangled states of the W class in a time limited only by the collective interaction rate. We use an entanglement witness and the threetangle to characterize the state whose fidelity F=78% is limited in our experiments by crosstalk arising during the simultaneous qubit manipulations which is absent in a sequential approach with F=91%.

id: 1202.5192
title: Photon-assisted entanglement creation by minimum-error generalized quantum measurements in the strong coupling regime
authors: J. Z. Bernd, G. Alber
comments: 14 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 012311 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5192
abstract: We explore possibilities of entangling two distant material qubits with the help of an optical radiation field in the regime of strong quantum electrodynamical coupling with almost resonant interaction. For this purpose the optimum generalized field measurements are determined which are capable of preparing a two-qubit Bell state by postselection with minimum error. It is demonstrated that in the strong-coupling regime some of the recently found limitations of the non-resonant weak-coupling regime can be circumvented successfully due to characteristic quantum electrodynamical quantum interference effects. In particular, in the absence of photon loss it is possible to postselect two-qubit Bell states with fidelities close to unity by a proper choice of the relevant interaction time. Even in the presence of photon loss this strong-coupling regime offers interesting perspectives for creating spatially well-separated Bell pairs with high fidelities, high success probabilities, and high repetition rates which are relevant for future realizations of quantum repeaters.

id: 1202.5196
title: Experimental Monte Carlo Quantum Process Certification
authors: L. Steffen, M. P. da Silva, A. Fedorov, M. Baur, A. Wallraff
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 260506 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5196
abstract: Experimental implementations of quantum information processing have now reached a level of sophistication where quantum process tomography is impractical. The number of experimental settings as well as the computational cost of the data post-processing now translates to days of effort to characterize even experiments with as few as 8 qubits. Recently a more practical approach to determine the fidelity of an experimental quantum process has been proposed, where the experimental data is compared directly to an ideal process using Monte Carlo sampling. Here we present an experimental implementation of this scheme in a circuit quantum electrodynamics setup to determine the fidelity of two qubit gates, such as the cphase and the cnot gate, and three qubit gates, such as the Toffoli gate and two sequential cphase gates.

id: 1202.5214
title: Density Functional Resonance Theory: complex density functions, convergence, orbital energies, and functionals
authors: Daniel L. Whitenack, Adam Wasserman
comments: 20 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5214
abstract: Aspects of Density Functional Resonance Theory (DFRT) [Phys. Rev. Lett. \textbf{107}, 163002 (2011)], a recently developed complex-scaled version of ground-state Density Functional Theory (DFT), are studied in detail. The asymptotic behavior of the complex density function is related to the complex resonance energy and system's threshold energy, and the function's local oscillatory behavior is connected with preferential directions of electron decay. Practical considerations for implementation of the theory are addressed including sensitivity to the complex-scaling parameter, $\theta$. In Kohn-Sham DFRT, it is shown that almost all $\theta$-dependence in the calculated energies and lifetimes can be extinguished via use of a proper basis set or fine grid. The highest occupied Kohn-Sham orbital energy and lifetime are related to a physical affinity and width, and the threshold energy of the Kohn-Sham system is shown to be equal to the threshold energy of the interacting system shifted by a well-defined functional. Finally, various complex-scaling conditions are derived which relate the functionals of ground-state DFT to those of DFRT via proper scaling factors and a non-Hermitian coupling constant system.

id: 1202.5270
title: Robust error bars for quantum tomography
authors: Robin Blume-Kohout
comments: 7 pages, 5 figures, new and improved Bloch spheres
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5270
abstract: In quantum tomography, a quantum state or process is estimated from the results of measurements on many identically prepared systems. Tomography can never identify the state or process exactly. Any point estimate is necessarily "wrong" -- at best, it will be close to the true state. Making rigorous, reliable statements about the system requires region estimates. In this article, I present a procedure for assigning likelihood ratio (LR) confidence regions, an elegant and powerful generalization of error bars. In particular, LR regions are almost optimally powerful -- i.e., they are as small as possible.

id: 1202.5278
title: QED Corrections to the Electromagnetic Abraham Force. Casimir Momentum of the Hydrogen atom?
authors: Bart Van Tiggelen, Sebastien Kawka, Geert L.J.A. Rikken
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5278
abstract: We develop a QED approach to find the contribution of the quantum vacuum to the electromagnetic Abraham force. Semi-classical theories predict diverging contributions from the quantum vacuum. We show that the divergencies disappear by Kramers-Bethe mass-renormalization. The finite remainder is compared to the relativistic corrections to the Abraham force. This work generalizes an earlier paper [1], dedicated to the harmonic oscillator, to the hydrogen atom and corrects two subtle errors.

id: 1202.5326
title: Observing trajectories with weak measurements in quantum systems in the semiclassical regime
authors: A. Matzkin
comments: v2: Several minor corrections were made. Added Appendix (that will appear as Suppl. Material). To be published in Phys Rev Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 109, 150407 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5326
abstract: We propose a scheme allowing to observe the evolution of a quantum system in the semiclassical regime along the paths generated by the propagator. The scheme relies on performing consecutive weak measurements of the position. We show how weak trajectories" can be extracted from the pointers of a series of measurement devices having weakly interacted with the system. The properties of these "weak trajectories" are investigated and illustrated in the case of a time-dependent model system.

id: 1202.5328
title: Entanglement of Two Atoms using Rydberg Blockade
authors: Thad G. Walker, Mark Saffman
comments: 
journal: Adv. At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 61, 81 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5328
abstract: Over the past few years we have built an apparatus to demonstrate the entanglement of neutral Rb atoms at optically resolvable distances using the strong interactions between Rydberg atoms. Here we review the basic physics involved in this process: loading of single atoms into individual traps, state initialization, state readout, single atom rotations, blockade-mediated manipulation of Rydberg atoms, and demonstration of entanglement.

id: 1202.5344
title: Complete universal quantum gate set approaching fault-tolerant thresholds with superconducting qubits
authors: Jerry M. Chow, Jay M. Gambetta, A. D. Corcoles, Seth T. Merkel, John A. Smolin, Chad Rigetti, S. Poletto, George A. Keefe, Mary B. Rothwell, J. R. Rozen, Mark B. Ketchen, M. Steffen
comments: 4 figures, 2 tables plus supplementary material
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 060501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5344
abstract: We use quantum process tomography to characterize a full universal set of all-microwave gates on two superconducting single-frequency single-junction transmon qubits. All extracted gate fidelities, including those for Clifford group generators, single-qubit pi/4 and pi/8 rotations, and a two-qubit controlled-NOT, exceed 95% (98%), without (with) accounting for state preparation and measurement errors. Furthermore, we introduce a process map representation in the Pauli basis which is visually efficient and informative. This high-fidelity gate set serves as another critical building block towards scalable architectures of superconducting qubits for error correction schemes.

id: 1202.5372
title: Illusory Decoherence
authors: Sam Kennerly
comments: 10 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5372
abstract: If a quantum experiment includes random processes, then the results of repeated measurements can appear consistent with irreversible decoherence even if the system's evolution prior to measurement was reversible and unitary. Two thought experiments are constructed as examples.

id: 1202.5382
title: Quantum information processing and multiatom entanglement engineering with a thermal cavity
authors: Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 66, 060303(R) (2002)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5382
abstract: We propose a scheme for realizing two-qubit quantum phase gates with atoms in a thermal cavity. The photon-number dependent parts in the evolution operator are canceled with the assistant of a strong classical field. Thus the scheme is insensitive to the thermal field. In the scheme the detuning between the atoms and the cavity is equal to the atom-cavity coupling strength and thus the gates operate at a high speed, which is also important in view of decoherence. The scheme can be generalized to generate multiatom entangled states with a thermal cavity.

id: 1202.5384
title: Generation of entangled states for many multilevel atoms in a thermal cavity and ions in thermal motion
authors: Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 68, 035801 (2003)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5384
abstract: We propose a scheme for generating entangled states for two or more multi-level atoms in a thermal cavity. The photon-number dependent parts in the effective Hamiltonian are canceled with the assistant of a strong classical field. Thus the scheme is insensitive to both the cavity decay and the thermal field. The scheme does not require individual addressing of the atoms in the cavity. The scheme can also be used to generate entangled states for many hot multi-level ions.

id: 1202.5387
title: Unconventional geometric quantum phase gates with a cavity QED system
authors: Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 70, 052320 (2004)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5387
abstract: We propose a scheme for realizing two-qubit quantum phase gates via an unconventional geometric phase shift with atoms in a cavity. In the scheme the atoms interact simultaneously with a highly detuned cavity mode and a classical field. The atoms undergo no transitions during the gate operation, while the cavity mode is displaced along a circle in the phase space, aquiring a geometric phase conditional upon the atomic state. Under certain conditions, the atoms are disentangled with the cavity mode and thus the gate is insensitive to both the atomic spontaneous emission and the cavity decay.

id: 1202.5397
title: Interacting spins in a cavity: finite size effects and symmetry-breaking dynamics
authors: S?ren Gammelmark, Klaus M?lmer
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042114 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5397
abstract: We calculate the ground state and simulate the dynamics of a finite chain of spins with Ising nearest-neighbor interactions and a Dicke collective spin interaction with a single mode cavity field. We recover the signatures of first and second order phase transitions predicted by mean field theory, while for small chains, we find significant and non-trivial finite size effects. Below the first order phase transition, even quite large spin chains of 30-40 spins give rise to a mean photon number and number fluctuations significantly above the mean field vacuum result. Near the second order phase critical point, our calculations reveal photon number fluctuations that grow beyond Poisson statistics with the size of the spin chain. We simulate the stochastic evolution of the system when the cavity output field is subject to homodyne detection. For an initial state close to the first order phase-transition the random character of the measurement process causes a measurement-induced symmetry-breaking in the system. This symmetry-breaking occurs on the time-scale needed for an observer to gather sufficient information to distinguish between the two possible (mean-field) symmetry-broken states.

id: 1202.5435
title: Optimized maximum-confidence discrimination of N mixed quantum states and application to symmetric states
authors: Ulrike Herzog
comments: minor corrections, final version
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032312 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5435
abstract: We study an optimized measurement which discriminates N mixed quantum states occurring with given prior robabilities. The measurement yields the maximum achievable confidence for each of the N conclusive outcomes, thereby keeping the overall probability of inconclusive outcomes as small as possible. It corresponds to optimum unambiguous discrimination when for each outcome the confidence is equal to unity. Necessary and sufficient optimality conditions are derived and general properties of the optimum measurement are obtained. The results are applied to the optimized maximum-confidence discrimination of N equiprobable symmetric mixed states. Analytical solutions are presented for a number of examples, including the discrimination of N symmetric pure states spanning a d-dimensional Hilbert space (d \leq N) and the discrimination of N symmetric mixed qubit states.

id: 1202.5459
title: Experimental demonstration of topological error correction
authors: Xing-Can Yao, Tian-Xiong Wang, Hao-Ze Chen, Wei-Bo Gao, Austin G. Fowler, Robert Raussendorf, Zeng-Bing Chen, Nai-Le Liu, Chao-Yang Lu, You-Jin Deng, Yu-Ao Chen, Jian-Wei Pan
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures in main text. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:0905.1542
journal: Nature 482, 489-494 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5459
abstract: Scalable quantum computing can only be achieved if qubits are manipulated fault-tolerantly. Topological error correction - a novel method which combines topological quantum computing and quantum error correction - possesses the highest known tolerable error rate for a local architecture. This scheme makes use of cluster states with topological properties and requires only nearest-neighbour interactions. Here we report the first experimental demonstration of topological error correction with an eight-photon cluster state. It is shown that a correlation can be protected against a single error on any qubit, and when all qubits are simultaneously subjected to errors with equal probability, the effective error rate can be significantly reduced. This demonstrates the viability of topological error correction. Our work represents the first experimental effort to achieve fault-tolerant quantum information processing by exploring the topological properties of quantum states.

id: 1202.5462
title: Propagation of Vortex Electron Wave Functions in a Magnetic Field
authors: Gregg M. Gallatin, Ben McMorran
comments: 14 pages, 2 figures, submitted to Phys Rev A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5462
abstract: The physics of coherent beams of photons carrying axial orbital angular momentum (OAM) is well understood and such beams, sometimes known as vortex beams, have found applications in optics and microscopy. Recently electron beams carrying very large values of axial OAM have been generated. In the absence of coupling to an external electromagnetic field the propagation of such vortex electron beams is virtually identical mathematically to that of vortex photon beams propagating in a medium with a homogeneous index of refraction. But when coupled to an external electromagnetic field the propagation of vortex electron beams is distinctly different from photons. Here we use the exact path integral solution to Schrodingers equation to examine the time evolution of an electron wave function carrying axial OAM. Interestingly we find that the nonzero OAM wave function can be obtained from the zero OAM wave function, in the case considered here, simply by multipling it by an appropriate time and position dependent prefactor. Hence adding OAM and propagating can in this case be replaced by first propagating then adding OAM. Also, the results shown provide an explicit illustration of the fact that the gyromagnetic ratio for OAM is unity. We also propose a novel version of the Bohm-Aharonov effect using vortex electron beams.

id: 1202.5518
title: Investigating macroscopic quantum superpositions and the quantum-to-classical transition by optical parametric amplification
authors: Francesco De Martini, Fabio Sciarrino
comments: 26 pages, 17 figures
journal: Rev. Mod. Phys. 84, 1765 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5518
abstract: The present work reports on an extended research endeavor focused on the theoretical and experimental realization of a macroscopic quantum superposition (MQS) made up with photons. As it is well known, this intriguing, fundamental quantum condition is at the core of a famous argument conceived by Erwin Schroedinger, back in 1935. The main experimental challenge to the actual realization of this object resides generally on the unavoidable and uncontrolled interactions with the environment, i.e. the decoherence leading to the cancellation of any evidence of the quantum features associated with the macroscopic system. The present scheme is based on a nonlinear process, the "quantum injected optical parametric amplification", that maps by a linearized cloning process the quantum coherence of a single - particle state, i.e. a Micro - qubit, into a Macro - qubit, consisting in a large number M of photons in quantum superposition. Since the adopted scheme was found resilient to decoherence, the MQS\ demonstration was carried out experimentally at room temperature with $M\geq $ $10^{4}$. This result elicited an extended study on quantum cloning, quantum amplification and quantum decoherence. The related theory is outlined in the article where several experiments are reviewed such as the test on the "no-signaling theorem" and the dynamical interaction of the photon MQS with a Bose-Einstein condensate. In addition, the consideration of the Micro - Macro entanglement regime is extended into the Macro - Macro condition. The MQS interference patterns for large M were revealed in the experiment and the bipartite Micro-Macro entanglement was also demonstrated for a limited number of generated particles: $M\precsim 12$. At last, the perspectives opened by this new method are considered in the view of further studies on quantum foundations and quantum measurement.

id: 1202.5533
title: Superconducting qubit in waveguide cavity with coherence time approaching 0.1ms
authors: Chad Rigetti, Stefano Poletto, Jay M. Gambetta, B. L. T. Plourde, Jerry M. Chow, A. D. Corcoles, John A. Smolin, Seth T. Merkel, J. R. Rozen, George A. Keefe, Mary B. Rothwell, Mark B. Ketchen, M. Steffen
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 100506(R) (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5533
abstract: We report a superconducting artificial atom with an observed quantum coherence time of T2*=95us and energy relaxation time T1=70us. The system consists of a single Josephson junction transmon qubit embedded in an otherwise empty copper waveguide cavity whose lowest eigenmode is dispersively coupled to the qubit transition. We attribute the factor of four increase in the coherence quality factor relative to previous reports to device modifications aimed at reducing qubit dephasing from residual cavity photons. This simple device holds great promise as a robust and easily produced artificial quantum system whose intrinsic coherence properties are sufficient to allow tests of quantum error correction.

id: 1202.5541
title: Heralded state preparation in a superconducting qubit
authors: J. E. Johnson, C. Macklin, D. H. Slichter, R. Vijay, E. B. Weingarten, John Clarke, I. Siddiqi
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 050506 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5541
abstract: We demonstrate high-fidelity, quantum nondemolition, single-shot readout of a superconducting flux qubit in which the pointer state distributions can be resolved to below one part in 1000. In the weak excitation regime, continuous measurement permits the use of heralding to ensure initialization to a fiducial state, such as the ground state. This procedure boosts readout fidelity to 93.9% by suppressing errors due to spurious thermal population. Furthermore, heralding potentially enables a simple, fast qubit reset protocol without changing the system parameters to induce Purcell relaxation.

id: 1202.5602
title: Towards practical classical processing for the surface code: timing analysis
authors: Austin G. Fowler, Adam C. Whiteside, Lloyd C. L. Hollenberg
comments: 13 pages, 13 figures, version accepted for publication
journal: PRA 86, 042313 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5602
abstract: Topological quantum error correction codes have high thresholds and are well suited to physical implementation. The minimum weight perfect matching algorithm can be used to efficiently handle errors in such codes. We perform a timing analysis of our current implementation of the minimum weight perfect matching algorithm. Our implementation performs the classical processing associated with an nxn lattice of qubits realizing a square surface code storing a single logical qubit of information in a fault-tolerant manner. We empirically demonstrate that our implementation requires only O(n^2) average time per round of error correction for code distances ranging from 4 to 512 and a range of depolarizing error rates. We also describe tests we have performed to verify that it always obtains a true minimum weight perfect matching.

id: 1202.5604
title: Proof gap in "Sufficient conditions for uniqueness of the Weak Value" by J. Dressel and A. N. Jordan, J. Phys. A 45 (2012) 015304
authors: Stephen Parrott
comments: 31 pages. The authors of "Sufficient conditions" have recently published a Corrigendum acknowledging a proof gap and including a Lemma apparently intended to repair it. Version 7 includes a 7-page Appendix pointing out an error which invalidates the Lemma's proof and including a simple proof of an important special case
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5604
abstract: The article of the title attempts to prove a "General theorem" (GT) giving sufficient conditions under which a previously introduced "general conditioned average" "converges uniquely to the quantum weak value in the minimal disturbance limit." The "general conditioned average" is obtained from a positive operator valued measure (POVM) depending on a small "weakness" parameter g. We point out that unstated assumptions in the presentation of the "sufficient conditions" make them appear much more general than they actually are. Indeed, the stated "sufficient conditions" strengthened by these unstated assumptions seem very close to an assumption that the POVM operators be linear polynomials in g. Moreover, there appears to be a critical error or gap in the attempted proof, even assuming a linear POVM. A counterexample to the proof of the GT (though not to its conclusion) is given. Nevertheless, I conjecture that the conclusion is actually true for linear POVM's whose contextual values are chosen by the article's "pseudoinverse prescription".

id: 1202.5607
title: Entanglement detection and quantum metrology by Stokes photon diffraction imaging
authors: Hongyi Yu, Wang Yao
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 87, 042303 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5607
abstract: We show that far field diffraction image of spontaneously scattered Stokes photons can be used for detection of spin entanglement and for metrology of fields gradients in cold atomic ensembles. For many-body states with small or maximum uncertainty in spin-excitation number, entanglement is simply witnessed by the presence of a sharp diffraction peak or dip. Gradient vector of external fields is measured by the displacement of a diffraction peak due to inhomogeneous spin precessions, which suggests a new possibility for precision measurement beyond the standard quantum limit without entanglement. Monitoring temporal decay of the diffraction peak can also realize non-demolition probe of temperature and collisional interactions in trapped cold atomic gases. The approach can be readily generalized to cold molecules, trapped ions, and solid state spin ensembles.

id: 1202.5672
title: Observation of a rotational transition in trapped and sympathetically cooled molecular ions
authors: J. Shen, A. Borodin, M. Hansen, S. Schiller
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 032519 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5672
abstract: We demonstrate rotational excitation of molecular ions that are sympathetically cooled by laser-cooled atomic ions to a temperature as low as ca. 10 mK. The molecular hydrogen ions HD+ and the fundamental rotational transition $(v=0,\, N=0)\rightarrow(v'=0,\, N'=1)$ at 1.3 THz, the most fundamental dipole-allowed rotational transition of any molecule, are used as a test case. This transition is here observed for the first time directly. Rotational laser cooling was employed in order to increase the signal, and resonance-enhanced multiphoton dissociation was used as detection method. The black-body-radiation-induced rotational excitation is also observed. The extension of the method to other molecular species is briefly discussed.

id: 1202.5705
title: Lamb shift of non-degenerate energy level systems placed between two infinite parallel conducting plates
authors: B. Billaud, T.-T. Truong
comments: submit/0409948
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 46, (2013) 025306
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5705
abstract: The issue of the observability of the Lamb shift in systems with non-degenerate energy levels is put to question. To this end, we compute the Lamb shift of such systems in the electromagnetic environment provided by two infinite parallel conducting plates, which is instrumental in demonstrating the existence of the so-called Casimir effect. A formula giving the relative change in the Lamb shift (as compared to the standard one in vacuum) is explicitly obtained for spherical semiconductor Quantum Dots (QD). It is the result of a careful mathematical treatment of divergences in the calculations involving distribution theory, which also settles a controversy on two different expressions in the existing literature. It suggests a possibility of QD non-degenerate energy spectrum fine-tuning for experimental purposes as well as a Gedankenexperiment to observe the Lamb shift in spherical semiconductor quantum dots.

id: 1202.5707
title: Computing prime factors with a Josephson phase qubit quantum processor
authors: Erik Lucero, Rami Barends, Yu Chen, Julian Kelly, Matteo Mariantoni, Anthony Megrant, Peter O'Malley, Daniel Sank, Amit Vainsencher, James Wenner, Ted White, Yi Yin, Andrew N. Cleland, John M. Martinis
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5707
abstract: A quantum processor (QuP) can be used to exploit quantum mechanics to find the prime factors of composite numbers[1]. Compiled versions of Shor's algorithm have been demonstrated on ensemble quantum systems[2] and photonic systems[3-5], however this has yet to be shown using solid state quantum bits (qubits). Two advantages of superconducting qubit architectures are the use of conventional microfabrication techniques, which allow straightforward scaling to large numbers of qubits, and a toolkit of circuit elements that can be used to engineer a variety of qubit types and interactions[6, 7]. Using a number of recent qubit control and hardware advances [7-13], here we demonstrate a nine-quantum-element solid-state QuP and show three experiments to highlight its capabilities. We begin by characterizing the device with spectroscopy. Next, we produces coherent interactions between five qubits and verify bi- and tripartite entanglement via quantum state tomography (QST) [8, 12, 14, 15]. In the final experiment, we run a three-qubit compiled version of Shor's algorithm to factor the number 15, and successfully find the prime factors 48% of the time. Improvements in the superconducting qubit coherence times and more complex circuits should provide the resources necessary to factor larger composite numbers and run more intricate quantum algorithms.

id: 1202.5726
title: Mean-field equations for higher-order quantum statistical models : an information geometric approach
authors: Nihal Yapage
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5726
abstract: This work is a simple extension of \cite{NNjpa}. We apply the concepts of information geometry to study the mean-field approximation for a general class of quantum statistical models namely the higher-order quantum Boltzmann machines (QBMs). The states we consider are assumed to have at most third-order interactions with deterministic coupling coefficients. Such states, taken together, can be shown to form a quantum exponential family and thus can be viewed as a smooth manifold. In our work, we explicitly obtain naive mean-field equations for the third-order classical and quantum Boltzmann machines and demonstrate how some information geometrical concepts, particularly, exponential and mixture projections used to study the naive mean-field approximation in \cite{NNjpa} can be extended to a more general case. Though our results do not differ much from those in \cite{NNjpa}, we emphasize the validity and the importance of information geometrical point of view for higher dimensional classical and quantum statistical models.

id: 1202.5741
title: Conditional SIC-POVMs
authors: D. Petz, L. Ruppert, A. Szanto
comments: 12 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5741
abstract: In this paper we examine a generalization of the symmetric informationally complete POVMs. SIC-POVMs are the optimal measurements for full quantum tomography, but if some parameters of the density matrix are known, then the optimal SIC POVM should be orthogonal to a subspace. This gives the concept of the conditional SIC-POVM. The existence is not known in general, but we give a result in the special cases when the diagonal is known of the density matrix.

id: 1202.5744
title: The emergent longitudinal wave from space and time derivatives transformations
authors: A. I. Arbab
comments: 4 LateX pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5744
abstract: We have shown that a longitudinal wave emerges as a result of general transformations similar to gauge transformations of electrodynamics. The time derivative and the gradient of the gauge function and their alike yield the longitudinal wave. The de Broglie wave associated with the particle motion is a longitudinal one. This wave accompanied the motion of all massive objects. It has a zero magnetic field (or vorticity). The invariance of Dirac equation under these transformations makes the electron to behave as a massless particle while having a mass.

id: 1202.5752
title: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen entanglement and steering in two-well BEC ground states
authors: Q. Y. He, P. D. Drummond, M. K. Olsen, M. D. Reid
comments: 15 pages, changes made
journal: Phys Rev A 86, 023626 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5752
abstract: We consider how to generate and detect Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) entanglement and the steering paradox between groups of atoms in two separated potential wells in a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC). We present experimental criteria for this form of entanglement, and propose experimental strategies for detecting entanglement using two or four mode ground states. These approaches use spatial and/or internal modes. We also present higher order criteria that act as signatures to detect the multiparticle entanglement present in this system. We point out the difference between spatial entanglement using separated detectors, and other types of entanglement that do n}ot require spatial separation. The four-mode approach with two spatial and two internal modes results in an entanglement signature with spatially separated detectors, conceptually similar to the original EPR paradox.

id: 1202.5779
title: Quantum system characterization with limited resources
authors: Daniel Oi, Sophie Schirmer
comments: 
journal: Phil. Trans. R. Soc. A 370, 5386-5395 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5779
abstract: The construction and operation of large scale quantum information devices presents a grand challenge. A major issue is the effective control of coherent evolution, which requires accurate knowledge of the system dynamics that may vary from device to device. We review strategies for obtaining such knowledge from minimal initial resources and in an efficient manner, and apply these to the problem of characterization of a qubit embedded into a larger state manifold, made tractable by exploiting prior structural knowledge. We also investigate adaptive sampling for estimation of multiple parameters.

id: 1202.5817
title: Quantum discord dynamics of two qubits in the single-mode cavities
authors: Chen Wang, Qing-Hu Chen
comments: 7 pages, 4 figures
journal: Chinese Physics B 22, 040304 (2013)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5817
abstract: The dynamics of the quantum discord for two identical qubits in both two independent single-mode cavities and a common single-mode cavity are discussed. For the initial Bell state with correlated spins, while the entanglement sudden death can occur, the quantum discord vanishes only at discrete moments in the independent cavities and never vanishes in the common cavity. Interestingly, quantum discord and entanglement show opposite behaviors in the common cavity, unlike in the independent cavities. For the initial Bell state with anti-correlated spins, quantum discord and entanglement behave in the same way for both independent cavities and a common cavity. It is found that the detunnings always stabilize the quantum discord.

id: 1202.5822
title: Hamiltonian Simulation Using Linear Combinations of Unitary Operations
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Nathan Wiebe
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 12, 901-924 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5822
abstract: We present a new approach to simulating Hamiltonian dynamics based on implementing linear combinations of unitary operations rather than products of unitary operations. The resulting algorithm has superior performance to existing simulation algorithms based on product formulas and, most notably, scales better with the simulation error than any known Hamiltonian simulation technique. Our main tool is a general method to nearly deterministically implement linear combinations of nearby unitary operations, which we show is optimal among a large class of methods.

id: 1202.5845
title: Mid-infrared frequency comb spanning an octave based on an Er fiber laser and difference-frequency generation
authors: Fritz Keilmann, Sergiu Amarie
comments: 8 pages, 2 figures revised version, added references
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5845
abstract: We describe a coherent mid-infrared continuum source with 700 cm-1 usable bandwidth, readily tuned within 600 - 2500 cm-1 (4 - 17 \mum) and thus covering much of the infrared "fingerprint" molecular vibration region. It is based on nonlinear frequency conversion in GaSe using a compact commercial 100-fs-pulsed Er fiber laser system providing two amplified near-infrared beams, one of them broadened by a nonlinear optical fiber. The resulting collimated mid-infrared continuum beam of 1 mW quasi-cw power represents a coherent infrared frequency comb with zero carrier-envelope phase, containing about 500,000 modes that are exact multiples of the pulse repetition rate of 40 MHz. The beam's diffraction-limited performance enables long-distance spectroscopic probing as well as maximal focusability for classical and ultraresolving near-field microscopies. Applications are foreseen also in studies of transient chemical phenomena even at ultrafast pump-probe scale, and in high-resolution gas spectroscopy for e.g. breath analysis.

id: 1202.5871
title: Energy absorption by "sparse" systems: beyond linear response theory
authors: Doron Cohen
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures, short pedagogical review. Proceedings of FQMT conference (Prague, 2011). Ref corrected
journal: Physica Scripta T151, 014035 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5871
abstract: The analysis of the response to driving in the case of weakly chaotic or weakly interacting systems should go beyond linear response theory. Due to the "sparsity" of the perturbation matrix, a resistor network picture of transitions between energy levels is essential. The Kubo formula is modified, replacing the "algebraic" average over the squared matrix elements by a "resistor network" average. Consequently the response becomes semi-linear rather than linear. Some novel results have been obtained in the context of two prototype problems: the heating rate of particles in Billiards with vibrating walls; and the Ohmic Joule conductance of mesoscopic rings driven by electromotive force. Respectively, the obtained results are contrasted with the "Wall formula" and the "Drude formula".

id: 1202.5872
title: Speed limits for quantum gates in multi-qubit systems
authors: S. Ashhab, P. C. de Groot, Franco Nori
comments: 7 pages (two-column), 2 figures, 2 tables
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 052327 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5872
abstract: We use analytical and numerical calculations to obtain speed limits for various unitary quantum operations in multiqubit systems under typical experimental conditions. The operations that we consider include single-, two-, and three-qubit gates, as well as quantum-state transfer in a chain of qubits. We find in particular that simple methods for implementing two-qubit gates generally provide the fastest possible implementations of these gates. We also find that the three-qubit Toffoli gate time varies greatly depending on the type of interactions and the system's geometry, taking only slightly longer than a two-qubit controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate for a triangle geometry. The speed limit for quantum-state transfer across a qubit chain is set by the maximum spin-wave speed in the chain.

id: 1202.5905
title: Completely positive maps on modules, instruments, extremality problems, and applications to physics
authors: Juha-Pekka Pellonp??
comments: 32 pages
journal: 3 parts: J. Phys. A 46 (2013) 025302; J. Phys. A 46 (2013) 025303; Positivity 18 (2014) 61-79
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5905
abstract: Convex sets of completely positive maps and positive semidefinite kernels are considered in the most general context of modules over $C^*$-algebras and a complete charaterization of their extreme points is obtained. As a byproduct, we determine extreme quantum instruments, preparations, channels, and extreme autocorrelation functions. Various applications to quantum information and measurement theories are given. The structure of quantum instruments is analyzed thoroughly.

id: 1202.5934
title: Quantum Prisoner's Dilemma game on hypergraph networks
authors: ?. Pawela, J. S?adkowski
comments: 6 pages, 5 figures. arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:quant-ph/0004076 by other authors
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5934
abstract: We study the possible advantages of adopting of quantum strategies in multi-player evolutionary games. We base our study on the three-player Prisoner's Dilemma (PD) game. In order to model the simultaneous interaction between three agents we use hypergraphs and hypergraph networks. In particular, we study two types of networks: a random network and a SF-like network. The obtained results show that in the case of a three player game on a hypergraph network, quantum strategies are not necessarily stochastically stable strategies. In some cases, the defection strategy can be as good as a quantum one.

id: 1202.5950
title: Efficient entanglement length measurements for photonic cluster state sources
authors: Ilai Schwarz, Terry Rudolph
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5950
abstract: We present a procedure for confirming the generation of long strings of photons in an entangled (cluster) state that does not rely on complete state tomography and that works even at low collection efficiencies. The scheme has the added advantage of being passive - it does not require switching of optical elements to perform measurements in different bases for instance.

id: 1202.5955
title: An Elementary Quantum Network of Single Atoms in Optical Cavities
authors: Stephan Ritter, Christian N?lleke, Carolin Hahn, Andreas Reiserer, Andreas Neuzner, Manuel Uphoff, Martin Mcke, Eden Figueroa, J?rg Bochmann, Gerhard Rempe
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: Nature 484, 195-200 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5955
abstract: Quantum networks are distributed quantum many-body systems with tailored topology and controlled information exchange. They are the backbone of distributed quantum computing architectures and quantum communication. Here we present a prototype of such a quantum network based on single atoms embedded in optical cavities. We show that atom-cavity systems form universal nodes capable of sending, receiving, storing and releasing photonic quantum information. Quantum connectivity between nodes is achieved in the conceptually most fundamental way: by the coherent exchange of a single photon. We demonstrate the faithful transfer of an atomic quantum state and the creation of entanglement between two identical nodes in independent laboratories. The created nonlocal state is manipulated by local qubit rotation. This efficient cavity-based approach to quantum networking is particularly promising as it offers a clear perspective for scalability, thus paving the way towards large-scale quantum networks and their applications.

id: 1202.6096
title: Precision spectral manipulation: a demonstration using a coherent optical memory
authors: B. M. Sparkes, C. Cairns, M. Hosseini, D. Higginbottom, G. Campbell, P. K. Lam, B. C. Buchler
comments: 8 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. X 2, 021011 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6096
abstract: The ability to coherently spectrally manipulate quantum information has the potential to improve qubit rates across quantum channels and find applications in optical quantum computing. In this paper we present experiments that use a multi-element solenoid combined with the three-level gradient echo memory scheme to perform precision spectral manipulation of optical pulses. These operations include bandwidth and frequency manipulation, spectral filtering of separate frequency components, as well as time-delayed interference between pulses with both the same, and different, frequencies. These operations have potential uses in quantum information applications.

id: 1202.6100
title: Quantum state transfer between a Bose-Einstein condensate and an optomechanical mirror
authors: S. Singh, H. Jing, E. M. Wright, P. Meystre
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6100
abstract: In this paper we describe a scheme for state transfer between a trapped atomic Bose condensate and an optomechanical end-mirror mediated by a cavity field. Coupling between the mirror and the cold gas arises from the fact that the cavity field can produce density oscillations in the gas which in turn acts as an internal Bragg mirror for the field. After adiabatic elimination of the cavity field we find that the hybrid system of the gas and mirror is described by a beam splitter Hamiltonian that allows for state transfer, but only if the quantum nature of the cavity field is retained.

id: 1202.6111
title: Topological code Autotune
authors: Austin G. Fowler, Adam C. Whiteside, Angus L. McInnes, Alimohammad Rabbani
comments: 13 pages, 17 figures, version accepted for publication
journal: Phys. Rev. X 2, 041003 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6111
abstract: Many quantum systems are being investigated in the hope of building a large-scale quantum computer. All of these systems suffer from decoherence, resulting in errors during the execution of quantum gates. Quantum error correction enables reliable quantum computation given unreliable hardware. Unoptimized topological quantum error correction (TQEC), while still effective, performs very suboptimally, especially at low error rates. Hand optimizing the classical processing associated with a TQEC scheme for a specific system to achieve better error tolerance can be extremely laborious. We describe a tool Autotune capable of performing this optimization automatically, and give two highly distinct examples of its use and extreme outperformance of unoptimized TQEC. Autotune is designed to facilitate the precise study of real hardware running TQEC with every quantum gate having a realistic, physics-based error model.

id: 1202.6145
title: Quantum correlations in continuos-time quantum walks of two indistinguishable particles
authors: Claudia Benedetti, Fabrizio Buscemi, Paolo Bordone
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042314 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6145
abstract: We evaluate the degree of quantum correlation between two fermions (bosons) subject to continuous time quantum walks in a one-dimensional ring lattice with periodic boundary conditions. In our approach, no particle-particle interaction is considered. We show that the interference effects due to exchange symmetry can result into the appearance of non-classical correlations. The role played onto the appearance of quantum correlations by the quantum statistics of the particles, the boundary conditions, and the partition of the system is widely investigated. Quantum correlations also been investigated in a model mimicking the ballistic evolution of two indistinguishable particles in a 1D continuous space structure. Our results are consistent with recent quantum optics and electron quantum optics experiments where the showing up of two-particle non-classical correlations has been observed even in the absence of mutual interaction between the particles.

id: 1202.6195
title: Controlling the quantum state of a single photon emitted from a single polariton
authors: Jovica Stanojevic, Valentina Parigi, Erwan Bimbard, Rosa Tualle-Brouri, Alexei Ourjoumtsev, Philippe Grangier
comments: 10 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 053830 (2011)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6195
abstract: We investigate in detail the optimal conditions for a high fidelity transfer from a single-polariton state to a single-photon state and subsequent homodyne detection of the single photon. We assume that, using various possible techniques, the single polariton has initially been stored as a spin-wave grating in a cloud of cold atoms inside a low-finesse cavity. This state is then transferred to a single-photon optical pulse using an auxiliary beam. We optimize the retrieval efficiency and determine the mode of the local oscillator that maximizes the homodyne efficiency of such a photon. We find that both efficiencies can have values close to one in a large region of experimental parameters.

id: 1202.6210
title: Strong coupling and long-range collective interactions in optomechanical arrays
authors: Andr Xuereb, Claudiu Genes, Aurlien Dantan
comments: 11 pages, 12 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 223601 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6210
abstract: We investigate the collective optomechanics of an ensemble of scatterers inside a Fabry-Perot resonator and identify an optimized configuration where the ensemble is transmissive, in contrast with the usual reflective optomechanics approach. In this configuration, the optomechanical coupling of a specific collective mechanical mode can be several orders of magnitude larger than the single-element case, and long-range interactions can be generated between the different elements since light permeates throughout the array. This new regime should realistically allow for achieving strong single-photon optomechanical coupling with massive resonators, realizing hybrid quantum interfaces, and exploiting collective long-range interactions in arrays of atoms or mechanical oscillators.

id: 1202.6225
title: Quantum trajectories and Cushing's historical contingency
authors: Adriano Orefice, Raffaele Giovanelli, Domenico Ditto
comments: 18 pages, 9 figures. arXiv admin note: substantial text overlap with arXiv:1105.4973
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6225
abstract: With an apparent delay of over one century with respect to the development of standard Analytical Mechanics, but still in fully classical terms, the behavior of classical monochromatic wave beams in stationary media is shown to be ruled by a dispersive "Wave Potential" function, encoded in the structure of the Helmholtz equation. An exact, ray-based Hamiltonian description, revealing a strong ray coupling due to the Wave Potential, and reducing to the geometrical optics approximation when this function is neglected, is shown to hold even for typically wave-like phenomena such as diffraction and interference. Recalling, then, that the time-independent Schroedinger equation (associating the quantum motion of mono-energetic particles with stationary monochromatic matter waves) is itself a Helmholtz-like equation, the mathematical treatment holding in the classical case is extended, without resorting to statistical concepts, to the exact, trajectory-based, Hamiltonian quantum dynamics of point-like particles. The particle trajectories and motion laws turn out to be coupled, in this case, by a function strictly analogous to the Wave Potential and formally assuming the familiar form of Bohm's "Quantum Potential", which is therefore not so much a "quantum" as a "wave" property - in whose absence the quantum particle dynamics reduces to the classical one. The time-independent Schroedinger equation is argued to be not a trivial particular case of the time-dependent one, but the exact quantum dynamical ground on which Schroedinger's time-dependent statistical description (representing particles as travelling wave-packets) is based. It provides indeed the (exact) link between classical particle dynamics and Bohm's hydrodynamics.

id: 1202.6257
title: Quantum Speedup by Quantum Annealing
authors: Daniel Nagaj, Rolando D. Somma, Maria Kieferova
comments: 7 pages
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 050501 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6257
abstract: We study the glued-trees problem of Childs et. al. in the adiabatic model of quantum computing and provide an annealing schedule to solve an oracular problem exponentially faster than classically possible. The Hamiltonians involved in the quantum annealing do not suffer from the so-called sign problem. Unlike the typical scenario, our schedule is efficient even though the minimum energy gap of the Hamiltonians is exponentially small in the problem size. We discuss generalizations based on initial-state randomization to avoid some slowdowns in adiabatic quantum computing due to small gaps.

id: 1202.6286
title: Phase Space Tomography of Matter-Wave Diffraction in the Talbot Regime
authors: S. K. Lee, M. S. Kim, C. Szewc, H. Ulbricht
comments: 16 pages, 9 figures, accepted at New Journal of Physics
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6286
abstract: We report on the theoretical investigation of Wigner distribution function (WDF) reconstruction of the motional quantum state of large molecules in de Broglie interference. De Broglie interference of fullerenes and as the like already proves the wavelike behaviour of these heavy particles, while we aim to extract more quantitative information about the superposition quantum state in motion. We simulate the reconstruction of the WDF numerically based on an analytic probability distribution and investigate its properties by variation of parameters, which are relevant for the experiment. Even though the WDF described in the near-field experiment cannot be reconstructed completely, we observe negativity even in the partially reconstructed WDF. We further consider incoherent factors to simulate the experimental situation such as a finite number of slits, collimation, and particle-slit van der Waals interaction. From this we find experimental conditions to reconstruct the WDF from Talbot interference fringes in molecule Talbot-Lau interferometry.

id: 1202.6315
title: Simulation of indivisible qubit channels in collision models
authors: Tomas Rybar, Sergey N. Filippov, Mario Ziman, Vladimir Buzek
comments: 6 pages, 2 figures, submitted to JPB
journal: J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 45 (2012) 154006
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6315
abstract: A sequence of controlled collisions between a quantum system and its environment (composed of a set of quantum objects) naturally simulates (with arbitrary precision) any Markovian quantum dynamics of the system under consideration. In this paper we propose and study the problem of simulation of an {\it arbitrary} quantum channel via collision models. We show that a correlated environment is capable to simulate {\it non-Markovian} evolutions leading to any indivisible qubit channel. In particular, we derive the corresponding master equation generating a continuous time non-Markovian dynamics implementing the universal NOT gate being an example of the most non-Markovian quantum channels.

id: 1202.6337
title: Effects of Noise, Correlations and errors in the preparation of initial states in Quantum Simulations
authors: Nayeli Zuniga-Hansen, Yu-Chieh Chi, Mark S. Byrd
comments: Revtex 4-1, 14 pages, 21 figures, version 2 has typos corrected and acknowledgement added
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6337
abstract: In principle a quantum system could be used to simulate another quantum system. The purpose of such a simulation would be to obtain information about problems which cannot be simulated with a classical computer due to the exponential increase of the Hilbert space with the size of the system and which cannot be measured or controlled in an actual experiment. The system will interact with the surrounding environment, with the other particles in the system and be implemented using imperfect controls making it subject to noise. It has been suggested that noise does not need to be controlled to the same extent as it must be for general quantum computing. However the effects of noise in quantum simulations and how to treat them are not completely understood. In this paper we study an existing quantum algorithm for the one-dimensional Fano-Anderson model to be simulated using a liquid-state NMR device. We calculate the evolution of different initial states in the original model, and then we add interacting spins to simulate a more realistic situation. We find that states which are entangled with their environment, and sometimes correlated but not necessarily entangled have an evolution which is described by maps which are not completely positive. We discuss the conditions for this to occur and also the implications.

id: 1202.6356
title: Strong Casimir force reduction through metallic surface nanostructuring
authors: Francesco Intravaia, Stephan Koev, Il Woong Jung, A. Alec Talin, Paul S. Davids, Ricardo S. Decca, Vladimir A. Aksyuk, Diego A. R. Dalvit, Daniel Lopez
comments: 11 pages, 8 figures
journal: Nature Communications 4, Article number: 2515, 2013
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Optics (physics.optics)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6356
abstract: The Casimir force between bodies in vacuum can be understood as arising from their interaction with an infinite number of fluctuating electromagnetic quantum vacuum modes, resulting in a complex dependence on the shape and material of the interacting objects. Becoming dominant at small separations, the force plays a significant role in nanomechanics and object manipulation at the nanoscale, leading to a considerable interest in identifying structures where the Casimir interaction behaves significantly different from the well-known attractive force between parallel plates. Here we experimentally demonstrate that by nanostructuring one of the interacting metal surfaces at scales below the plasma wavelength, an unexpected regime in the Casimir force can be observed. Replacing a flat surface with a deep metallic lamellar grating with sub-100 nm features strongly suppresses the Casimir force and for large inter-surfaces separations reduces it beyond what would be expected by any existing theoretical prediction.

id: 1202.6446
title: High-fidelity cluster state generation for ultracold atoms in an optical lattice
authors: Kensuke Inaba, Yuuki Tokunaga, Kiyoshi Tamaki, Kazuhiro Igeta, Makoto Yamashita
comments: 9 pages, 11 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 110501 (2014)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6446
abstract: We propose a method for generating high-fidelity multipartite spin-entanglement of ultracold atoms in an optical lattice in a short operation time with a scalable manner, which is suitable for measurement-based quantum computation. To perform the desired operations based on the perturbative spin-spin interactions, we propose to actively utilize the extra degrees of freedom (DOFs) usually neglected in the perturbative treatment but included in the Hubbard Hamiltonian of atoms, such as, (pseudo-)charge and orbital DOFs. Our method simultaneously achieves high fidelity, short operation time, and scalability by overcoming the following fundamental problem: enhancing the interaction strength for shortening operation time breaks the perturbative condition of the interaction and inevitably induces unwanted correlations among the spin and extra DOFs.

id: 1202.6453
title: Role reversal in a Bose-condensed optomechanical system
authors: Keye Zhang, Pierre Meystre, Weiping Zhang
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 240405 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6453
abstract: We analyze the optomechanics-like properties of a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) trapped inside an optical resonator and driven by both a classical and a quantized light field. We find that this system exhibits a nature of role reversal between the matter-wave field and the quantized light field. As a result, the matter wave field now plays the role of the quantized light field, and the quantized light field behaves like a movable mirror, in contrast to the familiar situation in BEC-based cavity optomechanics [Brennecke et al., Science 322, 235 (2008); Murch et al., Nat. Phys. 4, 561 (2008)]. We demonstrate that this system can lead to the creation of a variety of nonclassical matter-wave fields, in particular cat states, and discuss several possible protocols to measure their Wigner function.

id: 1202.6465
title: Alternative Experimental Protocol for a PBR-Like Result
authors: D. J. Miller
comments: 4 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6465
abstract: Pusey, Barrett and Rudolph (PBR) have recently proven an important new theorem in the foundations of quantum mechanics. Here we propose alternative experimental protocols which lead to the PBR result for a special case and a weaker PBR-like result generally. Alternative experimental protocols support the assumption of measurement independence required for the PBR theorem.

id: 1202.6480
title: Quantum channels and their entropic characteristics
authors: A. S. Holevo, V. Giovannetti
comments: review article, 60 pages, 5 figures, 194 references; Rep. Prog. Phys. (in press)
journal: 2012 Rep. Prog. Phys. 75 046001
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Mathematical Physics (math-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6480
abstract: One of the major achievements of the recently emerged quantum information theory is the introduction and thorough investigation of the notion of quantum channel which is a basic building block of any data-transmitting or data-processing system. This development resulted in an elaborated structural theory and was accompanied by the discovery of a whole spectrum of entropic quantities, notably the channel capacities, characterizing information-processing performance of the channels. This paper gives a survey of the main properties of quantum channels and of their entropic characterization, with a variety of examples for finite dimensional quantum systems. We also touch upon the "continuous-variables" case, which provides an arena for quantum Gaussian systems. Most of the practical realizations of quantum information processing were implemented in such systems, in particular based on principles of quantum optics. Several important entropic quantities are introduced and used to describe the basic channel capacity formulas. The remarkable role of the specific quantum correlations - entanglement - as a novel communication resource, is stressed.

id: 1202.6492
title: Hawking radiation from "phase horizons" in laser filaments?
authors: W. G. Unruh, R. Schtzhold
comments: 13 pages RevTeX, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6492
abstract: Belgiorno et al have reported on experiments aiming at the detection of (the analogue of) Hawking radiation using laser filaments [F. Belgiorno et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 203901 (2010)]. They sent intense focused Bessel pulses into a non-linear dielectric medium in order to change its refractive index via the Kerr effect and saw creation of photons orthogonal to the direction of travel of the pluses. Since the refractive index change in the pulse generated a "phase horizon" (where the phase velocity of these photons equals the pulse speed), they concluded that they observed the analogue of Hawking radiation. We study this scenario in a model with a phase horizon and a phase velocity very similar to that of their experiment and find that the effective metric does not quite correspond to a black hole. The photons created in this model are not due to the analogue of black hole evaporation but have more similarities to cosmological particle creation. Nevertheless, even this effect cannot explain the observations -- unless the pulse has significant small scale structure in both the longitudinal and transverse dimensions.

id: 1202.6520
title: Quantum Optimal Control Theory of Harmonic Generation
authors: Ido Schaefer
comments: Master's thesis; 108 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6520
abstract: A new method for controlling harmonic generation, in the framework of quantum optimal control theory (QOCT), is developed. The problem is formulated in the frequency domain using a new maximization functional. The relaxation method is used as the optimization procedure. The new formulation is generalized to other control problems with requirements in the frequency domain. The method is applied to several simple problems. The results are analysed and discussed. General conclusions on harmonic generation mechanisms are obtained.

id: 1202.6530
title: On Quantum Turing Machine Halting Deterministically
authors: Min Liang, Li Yang
comments: 13 pages, 7 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Computational Complexity (cs.CC)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6530
abstract: We define a subclass of quantum Turing machine (QTM) named SR-QTM, which halts deterministically and has deterministic tape head position. A quantum state transition diagram (QSTD) is proposed to describe SR-QTM. With the help of QSTD, we construct a SR-QTM which is universal for all near-trivial transformations. This means there exists a QTM which is universal for the above subclass. Finally we prove that SR-QTM is computational equivalent with ordinary QTM in the bounded error setting. It can be seen that, because SR-QTM has the same time steps for different branches of computation, the halting scheme problem will not exist when considering SR-QTM as a model of quantum computing.

id: 1202.6551
title: Graph States, Pivot Minor, and Universality of (X,Z)-measurements
authors: Mehdi Mhalla, Simon Perdrix
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6551
abstract: The graph state formalism offers strong connections between quantum information processing and graph theory. Exploring these connections, first we show that any graph is a pivot-minor of a planar graph, and even a pivot minor of a triangular grid. Then, we prove that the application of measurements in the (X,Z)-plane over graph states represented by triangular grids is a universal measurement-based model of quantum computation. These two results are in fact two sides of the same coin, the proof of which is a combination of graph theoretical and quantum information techniques.

id: 1202.6588
title: A distributed architecture for scalable quantum computation with realistically noisy devices
authors: Keisuke Fujii, Takashi Yamamoto, Masato Koashi, Nobuyuki Imoto
comments: 11 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6588
abstract: Tremendous efforts have been paid for realization of fault-tolerant quantum computation so far. However, preexisting fault-tolerant schemes assume that a lot of qubits live together in a single quantum system, which is incompatible with actual situations of experiment. Here we propose a novel architecture for practically scalable quantum computation, where quantum computation is distributed over small-size (four-qubit) local systems, which are connected by quantum channels. We show that the proposed architecture works even with the error probability 0.1% of local operations, which breaks through the consensus by one order of magnitude. Furthermore, the fidelity of quantum channels can be very low $\sim$ 0.7, which substantially relaxes the difficulty of scaling-up the architecture. All key elements and their accuracy required for the present architecture are within reach of current technology. The present architecture allows us to achieve efficient scaling of quantum computer, as has been achieved in today's classical computer.

id: 1202.6618
title: Macroscopic tunneling of a membrane in an optomechanical double-well potential
authors: L. F. Buchmann, L. Zhang, A. Chiruvelli, P. Meystre
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 210403 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6618
abstract: The macroscopic tunneling of an optomechanical membrane is considered. A cavity mode which couples quadratically to the membranes position can create highly tunable adiabatic double-well potentials, which together with the high Q-factors of such membranes render the observation of macroscopic tunneling possible. A suitable, pulsed measurement scheme using a linearly coupled mode of the cavity for the verification of the effect is studied.

id: 1202.6640
title: Deterministic and cascadable conditional phase gate for photonic qubits
authors: Christopher Chudzicki, Isaac L. Chuang, Jeffrey H. Shapiro
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6640
abstract: Previous analyses of conditional \phi-phase gates for photonic qubits that treat cross-phase modulation (XPM) in a causal, multimode, quantum field setting suggest that a large (~\pi rad) nonlinear phase shift is always accompanied by fidelity-degrading noise [J. H. Shapiro, Phys. Rev. A 73, 062305 (2006); J. Gea-Banacloche, Phys. Rev. A 81, 043823 (2010)]. Using an atomic V-system to model an XPM medium, we present a conditional phase gate that, for sufficiently small nonzero \phi, has high fidelity. The gate is made cascadable by using using a special measurement, principal mode projection, to exploit the quantum Zeno effect and preclude the accumulation of fidelity-degrading departures from the principal-mode Hilbert space when both control and target photons illuminate the gate.

id: 1202.0060
title: Imaging topologically protected transport with quantum degenerate gases
authors: Brian Dellabetta, Taylor L. Hughes, Matthew J. Gilbert, Benjamin L. Lev
comments: Extensively rewritten, better introduction. 12 pages, 10 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 205442 (2012)
subjects: Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0060
abstract: Ultracold and quantum degenerate gases held near conductive surfaces can serve as sensitive, high resolution, and wide-area probes of electronic current flow. Previous work has imaged transport around grain boundaries in a gold wire by using ultracold and Bose-Einstein condensed atoms held microns from the surface with an atom chip trap. We show that atom chip microscopy may be applied to useful purpose in the context of materials exhibiting topologically protected surface transport. Current flow through lithographically tailored surface defects in topological insulators (TI)---both idealized and with the band-structure and conductivity typical of Bi$_{2}$Se$_{3}$---is numerically calculated. We propose that imaging current flow patterns enables the differentiation of an ideal TI from one with a finite bulk--to--surface conductivity ratio, and specifically, that the determination of this ratio may be possible by imaging transport around trenches etched into the TI's surface.

id: 1202.0064
title: Pseudo-Unitary Dynamics of Free Relativistic Quantum Mechanical Twofold Systems
authors: Jorge G. Cardoso
comments: This work is to be published in The European Physical Journal-Plus
journal: Eur. Phys. J. Plus (2012) 127: 48
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0064
abstract: A finite-dimensional pseudo-unitary framework is set up for describing the dynamics of free elementary particles in a purely relativistic quantum mechanical way. States of any individual particles or antiparticles are defined as suitably normalized vectors belonging to the two-complex-dimensional spaces that occur in local orthogonal decompositions of isomorphic copies of Cartan's space. The corresponding dynamical variables thus show up as bounded pseudo-Hermitian operator restrictions that possess real discrete spectra. Any measurement processes have to be performed locally in orthocronous proper Lorentz frames, but typical observational correlations are expressed in terms of symbolic configurations which come from the covariant action on spaces of state vectors of the Poincar\'e subgroup of an adequate realization of SU(2,2). The overall approach turns out to supply a supposedly natural description of the dynamics of free twofold systems in flat spacetime. One of the main outlooks devised here brings forward the possibility of carrying out methodically the construction of a background to a new relativistic theory of quantum information.

id: 1202.0174
title: Classical and quantum Big Brake cosmology for scalar field and tachyonic models
authors: Alexander Y. Kamenshchik, Serena Manti
comments: final version, to appear in Phys. Rev. D
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0174
abstract: We study a relation between the cosmological singularities in classical and quantum theory, comparing the classical and quantum dynamics in some models possessing the Big Brake singularity - the model based on a scalar field and two models based on a tachyon-pseudo-tachyon field . It is shown that the effect of quantum avoidance is absent for the soft singularities of the Big Brake type while it is present for the Big Bang and Big Crunch singularities. Thus, there is some kind of a classical - quantum correspondence, because soft singularities are traversable in classical cosmology, while the strong Big Bang and Big Crunch singularities are not traversable.

id: 1202.0197
title: Structure Theory for Extended Kepler-Coulomb 3D Classical Superintegrable Systems
authors: Ernie G. Kalnins Kalnins, Willard Miller Jr
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 8 (2012), 034, 25 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Exactly Solvable and Integrable Systems (nlin.SI); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0197
abstract: The classical Kepler-Coulomb system in 3 dimensions is well known to be 2nd order superintegrable, with a symmetry algebra that closes polynomially under Poisson brackets. This polynomial closure is typical for 2nd order superintegrable systems in 2D and for 2nd order systems in 3D with nondegenerate (4-parameter) potentials. However the degenerate 3-parameter potential for the 3D extended Kepler-Coulomb system (also 2nd order superintegrable) is an exception, as its quadratic symmetry algebra doesn't close polynomially. The 3D 4-parameter potential for the extended Kepler-Coulomb system is not even 2nd order superintegrable. However, Verrier and Evans (2008) showed it was 4th order superintegrable, and Tanoudis and Daskaloyannis (2011) showed that in the quantum case, if a second 4th order symmetry is added to the generators, the double commutators in the symmetry algebra close polynomially. Here, based on the Tremblay, Turbiner and Winternitz construction, we consider an infinite class of classical extended Kepler-Coulomb 3- and 4-parameter systems indexed by a pair of rational numbers $(k_1,k_2)$ and reducing to the usual systems when $k_1=k_2=1$. We show these systems to be superintegrable of arbitrarily high order and work out explicitly the structure of the symmetry algebras determined by the 5 basis generators we have constructed. We demonstrate that the symmetry algebras close rationally; only for systems admitting extra discrete symmetries is polynomial closure achieved. Underlying the structure theory is the existence of raising and lowering constants of the motion, not themselves polynomials in the momenta, that can be employed to construct the polynomial symmetries and their structure relations.

id: 1202.0201
title: Decoherence Effects on Superpositions of Chiral States in a Chiral Molecule
authors: Mohammad Bahrami, Afshin Shafiee, Angelo Bassi
comments: 6 pages, 1 Figure
journal: Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2012,14, 9214-9218
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0201
abstract: The superposition of chiral states of chiral molecules, as delocalized quantum states of a many-particle system, can be used for the experimental investigations of decoherence theory. In this regard, a great challenge is the precise quantification of the robustness of these superpositions against environmental effects. The methods so far proposed need the detailed specification of the internal states of the molecule, usually requiring heavy numerical calculations. Here, by using the linearized quantum Boltzmann equation and by borrowing ideas employed for analyzing other quantum systems, we present a general and simple approach, of large applicability, which can be used to compute the dominant contribution to the decoherence rate for the superpositions of chiral states of chiral molecules, due to environmental scattering.

id: 1202.0289
title: All-electric qubit control in heavy hole quantum dots via non-Abelian geometric phases
authors: Jan C. Budich, Dietrich G. Rothe, Ewelina M. Hankiewicz, Bj?rn Trauzettel
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 205425 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0289
abstract: We demonstrate how non-Abelian geometric phases can be used to universally process a spin qubit in heavy hole quantum dots in the absence of magnetic fields. A time dependent electric quadrupole field is used to perform any desired single qubit operation by virtue of non-Abelian holonomy. During the proposed operations, the degeneracy of the time dependent two level system representing the qubit is not split. Since time reversal symmetry is preserved and hyperfine coupling is known to be weak in spin qubits based on heavy holes, we expect very long coherence times in the proposed setup.

id: 1202.0357
title: Channel Identification and its Impact on Quantum LDPC Code Performance
authors: Yixuan Xie, Jun Li, Robert Malaney, Jinhong Yuan
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0357
abstract: In this work we probe the impact of channel estimation on the performance of quantum LDPC codes. Our channel estimation is based on an optimal estimate of the relevant decoherence parameter via its quantum Fisher information. Using state-of-the art quantum LDPC codes designed for the quantum depolarization channel, and utilizing various quantum probes with different entanglement properties, we show how the performance of such codes can deteriorate by an order of magnitude when optimal channel identification is fed into a belief propagation decoding algorithm. Our work highlights the importance in quantum communications of a viable channel identification campaign prior to decoding, and highlights the trade-off between entanglement consumption and quantum LDPC code performance.

id: 1202.0383
title: Quantum Entanglement of Tensor Networks with Symmetry Projections
authors: Masashi Orii, Hiroshi Ueda, Isao Maruyama
comments: 12 pages, 3 figures, to be published in J. Phys. Soc. Jpn
journal: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 81 (2012) 043001
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0383
abstract: We investigate the global-symmetry projections applied to the tensor network states from the view point of the entanglement entropy and the mutual information. The projections to the translational invariant space and to the total-$S^z$-zero space give logarithmically increasing mutual information with respect to the system size. In the anti-ferromagnetic $S=1/2$ Heisenberg chain and lattice, the optimized energies become accurate numerically by using variational states of the projected tensor network states, because the projections reflecting symmetries of the ground states generate quantum entanglement.

id: 1202.0393
title: Influence of two-level fluctuators on adiabatic passage techniques
authors: Nicolas Vogt, Jared H. Cole, Michael Marthaler, Gerd Sch?n
comments: 8 pages, 8 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 174515 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0393
abstract: We study the process of Stimulated Raman Adiabatic Passage (STIRAP) under the influence of a non-trivial solid-state environment, particularly the effect of two-level fluctuators (TLFs) as they are frequently present in solid-state devices. When the amplitudes of the driving-pulses used in STIRAP are in resonance with the level spacing of the fluctuators the quality of the protocol, i.e., the transferred population decreases sharply. In general the effect can not be reduced by speeding up the STIRAP process. We also discuss the effect of a structured noise environment on the process of Coherent Tunneling by Adiabatic Passage (CTAP). The effect of a weakly structured environment or TLFs with short coherence times on STIRAP and CTAP can be described by the Bloch-Redfield theory. For a strongly structured environment a higher-dimensional approach must be used, where the TLFs are treated as part of the system.

id: 1202.0533
title: Polar coding to achieve the Holevo capacity of a pure-loss optical channel
authors: Saikat Guha, Mark M. Wilde
comments: 5 pages, submission to the 2012 International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2012), Boston, MA, USA; v2 accepted to ISIT 2012
journal: Proceedings of the 2012 IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory (ISIT 2012), pages 546-550, Cambridge, MA, USA
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0533
abstract: In the low-energy high-energy-efficiency regime of classical optical communications---relevant to deep-space optical channels---there is a big gap between reliable communication rates achievable via conventional optical receivers and the ultimate (Holevo) capacity. Achieving the Holevo capacity requires not only optimal codes but also receivers that make collective measurements on long (modulated) codeword waveforms, and it is impossible to implement these collective measurements via symbol-by-symbol detection along with classical postprocessing. Here, we apply our recent results on the classical-quantum polar code---the first near-explicit, linear, symmetric-Holevo-rate achieving code---to the lossy optical channel, and we show that it almost closes the entire gap to the Holevo capacity in the low photon number regime. In contrast, Arikan's original polar codes, applied to the DMC induced by the physical optical channel paired with any conceivable structured optical receiver (including optical homodyne, heterodyne, or direct-detection) fails to achieve the ultimate Holevo limit to channel capacity. However, our polar code construction (which uses the quantum fidelity as a channel parameter rather than the classical Bhattacharyya quantity to choose the "good channels" in the polar-code construction), paired with a quantum successive-cancellation receiver---which involves a sequence of collective non-destructive binary projective measurements on the joint quantum state of the received codeword waveform---can attain the Holevo limit, and can hence in principle achieve higher rates than Arikan's polar code and decoder directly applied to the optical channel. However, even a theoretical recipe for construction of an optical realization of the quantum successive-cancellation receiver remains an open question.

id: 1202.0595
title: Infrared/Terahertz double resonance spectroscopy of CH3F and CH3Cl at atmospheric pressure
authors: Dane J. Phillips, Elizabeth A. Tanner, Frank C. De Lucia, Henry O. Everitt
comments: 70 pages, 7 figures, 6 tables, 38 references, appendix with complete tables
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Atmospheric and Oceanic Physics (physics.ao-ph); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0595
abstract: A new method for highly selective remote sensing of atmospheric trace polar molecular gases is described. Based on infrared/terahertz double resonance spectroscopic techniques, the molecule- specific coincidence between the lines of a CO2 laser and rotational-vibrational molecular absorption transitions provide two dimensions of recognition specificity: infrared coincidence frequency and the corresponding terahertz frequency whose absorption strength is modulated by the laser. Atmospheric pressure broadening expands the molecular recognition "specificity matrix" by simultaneously relaxing the infrared coincidence requirement and strengthening the corresponding terahertz signature. Representative double resonance spectra are calculated for prototypical molecules CH3F and CH3Cl and their principal isotopomers, from which a heuristic model is developed to estimate the specificity matrix and double resonance signature strength for any polar molecule.

id: 1202.0682
title: Dynamical instabilities of spectroscopic transitions in dense resonant media
authors: R. A. Vlasov, A. M. Lemeza, M. G. Gladush
comments: 4 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0682
abstract: We consider the influence of the near dipole-dipole interaction, underlying the local field, on the dynamics of two-level and V-type three-level atoms exposed to cw-laser radiation. The dipole-dipole interaction between the V-type three-level atoms is shown to give rise to the Poincar\'e-Andronov-Hopf bifurcation in steady-state solution of the equations of motion. As a result, the populations of the energy levels periodically vary in time. In the framework of the two-level model, dynamical instabilities are proved to be impossible.

id: 1202.0701
title: Theory of fractional-Lvy kinetics for cold atoms diffusing in optical lattices
authors: David A. Kessler, Eli Barkai
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. v. 108, 230602 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0701
abstract: Recently, anomalous superdiffusion of ultra cold 87Rb atoms in an optical lattice has been observed along with a fat-tailed, L\'evy type, spatial distribution. The anomalous exponents were found to depend on the depth of the optical potential. We find, within the framework of the semiclassical theory of Sisyphus cooling, three distinct phases of the dynamics, as the optical potential depth is lowered: normal diffusion; L\'evy diffusion; and x ~ t^3/2 scaling, the latter related to Obukhov's model (1959) of turbulence. The process can be formulated as a L\'evy walk, with strong correlations between the length and duration of the excursions. We derive a fractional diffusion equation describing the atomic cloud, and the corresponding anomalous diffusion coefficient.

id: 1202.0806
title: Coupling of Nitrogen-Vacancy Centers to Photonic Crystal Cavities in Monocrystalline Diamond
authors: Andrei Faraon, Charles Santori, Zhihong Huang, Victor M. Acosta, Raymond G. Beausoleil
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0806
abstract: The zero-phonon transition rate of a nitrogen-vacancy center is enhanced by a factor of ~70 by coupling to a photonic crystal resonator fabricated in monocrystalline diamond using standard semiconductor fabrication techniques. Photon correlation measurements on the spectrally filtered zero-phonon line show antibunching, a signature that the collected photoluminescence is emitted primarily by a single nitrogen-vacancy center. The linewidth of the coupled nitrogen-vacancy center and the spectral diffusion are characterized using high-resolution photoluminescence and photoluminescence excitation spectroscopy.

id: 1202.0829
title: Tailoring Light-Matter Interaction with a Nanoscale Plasmon Resonator
authors: Nathalie P. de Leon, Brendan J. Shields, Chun L. Yu, Dirk Englund, Alexey V. Akimov, Mikhail D. Lukin, Hongkun Park
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0829
abstract: We propose and demonstrate a new approach for achieving strong light-matter interactions with quantum emitters. Our approach makes use of a plasmon resonator composed of defect-free, highly crystalline silver nanowires surrounded by patterned dielectric distributed Bragg reflectors (DBRs). These resonators have an effective mode volume (Veff) two orders of magnitude below the diffraction limit and quality factor (Q) approaching 100, enabling enhancement of spontaneous emission rates by a factor exceeding 75 at the cavity resonance. We also show that these resonators can be used to convert a broadband quantum emitter to a narrowband single-photon source with color-selective emission enhancement.

id: 1202.0921
title: Propagation of short lightpulses in microring resonators: ballistic transport versus interference in the frequency domain
authors: Alfred Driessen, Douwe H. Geuzebroek, Edwin Klein, Ronald Dekker, Remco Stoffer, C. Bornholdt
comments: 
journal: Optics Communication, 270 (2007) 217-224
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0921
abstract: The propagation of short lightpulses in waveguiding structures with optical feedback, in our case optical microresonators, has been studied theoretically and experimentally. It appears that, dependent on the measurement set-up, ballistic transport or interference in the time domain of fs and ps laser pulses can be observed. The experiments are analyzed in terms of characteristic time scales of the source, the waveguide device and the detector arrangement and are related to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle. Based on this analysis a criterion is given for the upper bitrate for error free data transmission through optical microresonators.

id: 1202.0947
title: Topological and Entanglement Properties of Resonating Valence Bond wavefunctions
authors: Didier Poilblanc, Norbert Schuch, David Prez-Garca, J. Ignacio Cirac
comments: 15 pages, 19 figures. Large extension of the paper. Finite size scaling of the (topological) ground state energy splittings added (for the Kagome quantum antiferromagnet)
journal: Physical Review B 86, 014404 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0947
abstract: We examine in details the connections between topological and entanglement properties of short-range resonating valence bond (RVB) wave functions using Projected Entangled Pair States (PEPS) on kagome and square lattices on (quasi-)infinite cylinders with generalized boundary conditions (and perimeters with up to 20 lattice spacings). Making use of disconnected topological sectors in the space of dimer lattice coverings, we explicitly derive (orthogonal) "minimally entangled" PEPS RVB states. For the kagome lattice, we obtain, using the quantum Heisenberg antiferromagnet as a reference model, the finite size scaling of the energy separations between these states. In particular, we extract two separate (vanishing) energy scales corresponding (i) to insert a vison line between the two ends of the cylinder and (ii) to pull out and freeze a spin at either end. We also investigate the relations between bulk and boundary properties and show that, for a bipartition of the cylinder, the boundary Hamiltonian defined on the edge can be written as a product of a highly non-local projector with an emergent (local) su(2)-invariant one-dimensional (superfluid) t--J Hamiltonian, which arises due to the symmetry properties of the auxiliary spins at the edge. This multiplicative structure, a consequence of the disconnected topological sectors in the space of dimer lattice coverings, is characteristic of the topological nature of the states. For minimally entangled RVB states, it is shown that the entanglement spectrum, which reflects the properties of the edge modes, is a subset (half for kagome RVB) of the spectrum of the local Hamiltonian, providing e.g. a simple argument on the origin of the topological entanglement entropy S0=-ln 2 of Z2 spin liquids. We propose to use these features to probe topological phases in microscopic Hamiltonians and some results are compared to existing DMRG data.

id: 1202.0955
title: State diagram and the phase transition of $p$-bosons in a square bi-partite optical lattice
authors: V. S. Shchesnovich
comments: 15 pages; 5 figures, some in color
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0955
abstract: It is shown that, in a reasonable approximation, the quantum state of $p$-bosons in a bi-partite square two-dimensional optical lattice is governed by the nonlinear boson model describing tunneling of \textit{boson pairs} between two orthogonal degenerate quasi momenta on the edge of the first Brillouin zone. The interplay between the lattice anisotropy and the atomic interactions leads to the second-order phase transition between the number-squeezed and coherent phase states of the $p$-bosons. In the isotropic case of the recent experiment, Nature Physicis 7, 147 (2011), the $p$-bosons are in the coherent phase state, where the relative global phase between the two quasi momenta is defined only up to mod($\pi$): $\phi=\pm\pi/2$. The quantum phase diagram of the nonlinear boson model is given.

id: 1202.0956
title: State engineering of Bose-Einstein condensate in the optical lattice by a periodic sublattice of dissipative sites
authors: V. S. Shchesnovich
comments: 16 pages, 3 figures in color. Revised extended version
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0956
abstract: We introduce the notion of dissipative periodic lattice as an optical lattice with periodically distributed dissipative sites and argue that it allows to engineer unconventional Bose-Einstein superfluids with the complex-valued order parameter. We consider two examples, the one-dimensional dissipative optical lattice, where each third site is dissipative, and the dissipative honeycomb optical lattice, where each dissipative lattice site neighbors three non-dissipated sites. The tight-binding approximation is employed, which allows one to obtain analytical results. In the one-dimensional case the condensate is driven to a coherent Bloch-like state with non-zero quasimomentum, which breaks the translational periodicity of the dissipative lattice. In the two-dimensional case the condensate is driven to a zero quasimomentum Bloch-like state, which is a coherent superposition of four-site discrete vortices of alternating vorticity with the vortex centers located at the dissipative sites.

id: 1202.0983
title: Second Law-Like Inequalities with Quantum Relative Entropy: An Introduction
authors: Takahiro Sagawa
comments: As a chapter of: M. Nakahara and S. Tanaka (eds.), "Lectures on Quantum Computing, Thermodynamics and Statistical Physics", Kinki University Series on Quantum Computing (World Scientific, 2012)
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.0983
abstract: We review the fundamental properties of the quantum relative entropy for finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces. In particular, we focus on several inequalities that are related to the second law of thermodynamics, where the positivity and the monotonicity of the quantum relative entropy play key roles; these properties are directly applicable to derivations of the second law (e.g., the Clausius inequality). Moreover, the positivity is closely related to the quantum fluctuation theorem, while the monotonicity leads to a quantum version of the Hatano-Sasa inequality for nonequilibrium steady states. Based on the monotonicity, we also discuss the data processing inequality for the quantum mutual information, which has a similar mathematical structure to that of the second law. Moreover, we derive a generalized second law with quantum feedback control. In addition, we review a proof of the monotonicity in line with Petz.

id: 1202.1117
title: Controlling a resonant transmission across the $'$-potential: the inverse problem
authors: A. V. Zolotaryuk, Y. Zolotaryuk
comments: 21 pages, 4 figures. Corrections to the published version added; this http URL
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. vol. 44 (2011) 375305
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1117
abstract: Recently, the non-zero transmission of a quantum particle through the one-dimensional singular potential given in the form of the derivative of Dirac's delta function, $\lambda \delta'(x) $, with $\lambda \in \R$, being a potential strength constant, has been discussed by several authors. The transmission occurs at certain discrete values of $\lambda$ forming a resonance set ${\lambda_n}_{n=1}^\infty$. For $\lambda \notin {\lambda_n}_{n=1}^\infty$ this potential has been shown to be a perfectly reflecting wall. However, this resonant transmission takes place only in the case when the regularization of the distribution $\delta'(x) $ is constructed in a specific way. Otherwise, the $\delta'$-potential is fully non-transparent. Moreover, when the transmission is non-zero, the structure of a resonant set depends on a regularizing sequence $\Delta'_\varepsilon(x)$ that tends to $\delta'(x)$ in the sense of distributions as $\varepsilon \to 0$. Therefore, from a practical point of view, it would be interesting to have an inverse solution, i.e. for a given $\bar{\lambda} \in \R$ to construct such a regularizing sequence $\Delta'_\varepsilon(x)$ that the $\delta'$-potential at this value is transparent. If such a procedure is possible, then this value $\bar{\lambda}$ has to belong to a corresponding resonance set. The present paper is devoted to solving this problem and, as a result, the family of regularizing sequences is constructed by tuning adjustable parameters in the equations that provide a resonance transmission across the $\delta'$-potential.

id: 1202.1199
title: Feshbach spectroscopy and scattering properties of ultracold Li+Na mixtures
authors: T. Schuster, R. Scelle, A. Trautmann, S. Knoop, M.K. Oberthaler, M. M. Haverhals, M. R. Goosen, S. J. J. M. F. Kokkelmans, E. Tiemann
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures, version as published in PRA
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042721 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1199
abstract: We have observed 26 interspecies Feshbach resonances at fields up to 2050 G in ultracold $^6$Li+$^{23}$Na mixtures for different spin-state combinations. Applying the asymptotic bound-state model to assign the resonances, we have found that most resonances have d-wave character. This analysis serves as guidance for a coupled-channel calculation, which uses modified interaction potentials to describe the positions of the Feshbach resonances well within the experimental uncertainty and to calculate their widths. The scattering length derived from the improved interaction potentials is experimentally confirmed and deviates from previously reported values in sign and magnitude. We give prospects for $^7$Li+$^{23}$Na and predict broad Feshbach resonances suitable for tuning.

id: 1202.1229
title: Key recycling in authentication
authors: Christopher Portmann
comments: 17+3 pages. 11 figures. v3: Rewritten with AC instead of UC. Extended the main result to both synchronous and asynchronous networks. Matches published version up to layout and updated references. v2: updated introduction and references
journal: IEEE Trans. Inf. Th., 60(7):4383-4396, 2014
subjects: Information Theory (cs.IT); Cryptography and Security (cs.CR); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1229
abstract: In their seminal work on authentication, Wegman and Carter propose that to authenticate multiple messages, it is sufficient to reuse the same hash function as long as each tag is encrypted with a one-time pad. They argue that because the one-time pad is perfectly hiding, the hash function used remains completely unknown to the adversary. Since their proof is not composable, we revisit it using a composable security framework. It turns out that the above argument is insufficient: if the adversary learns whether a corrupted message was accepted or rejected, information about the hash function is leaked, and after a bounded finite amount of rounds it is completely known. We show however that this leak is very small: Wegman and Carter's protocol is still $\epsilon$-secure, if $\epsilon$-almost strongly universal$_2$ hash functions are used. This implies that the secret key corresponding to the choice of hash function can be reused in the next round of authentication without any additional error than this $\epsilon$. We also show that if the players have a mild form of synchronization, namely that the receiver knows when a message should be received, the key can be recycled for any arbitrary task, not only new rounds of authentication.

id: 1202.1301
title: The Boltzmann Equation from Quantum Field Theory
authors: Marco Drewes, Sebastian Mendizabal, Christoph Weniger
comments: title changed, discussion extended and example added, references added
journal: Physics Letters B 718 (2013) 1119-1124
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1301
abstract: We show from first principles the emergence of classical Boltzmann equations from relativistic nonequilibrium quantum field theory as described by the Kadanoff-Baym equations. Our method applies to a generic quantum field, coupled to a collection of background fields and sources, in a homogeneous and isotropic spacetime. The analysis is based on analytical solutions to the full Kadanoff-Baym equations, using the WKB approximation. This is in contrast to previous derivations of kinetic equations that rely on similar physical assumptions, but obtain approximate equations of motion from a gradient expansion in momentum space. We show that the system follows a generalized Boltzmann equation whenever the WKB approximation holds. The generalized Boltzmann equation, which includes off-shell transport, is valid far from equilibrium and in a time dependent background, such as the expanding universe.

id: 1202.1315
title: Widely tunable, non-degenerate three-wave mixing microwave device operating near the quantum limit
authors: Nicolas Roch, Emmanuel Flurin, Fran?ois Nguyen, Pascal Morfin, Philippe Campagne-Ibarcq, Michel H. Devoret, Benjamin Huard
comments: Accepted for Physical Review Letters. Supplementary material can be found in the source package
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 147701 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1315
abstract: We present the first experimental realization of a widely frequency tunable, non-degenerate three-wave mixing device for quantum signals at GHz frequency. It is based on a new superconducting building-block consisting of a ring of four Josephson junctions shunted by a cross of four linear inductances. The phase configuration of the ring remains unique over a wide range of magnetic fluxes threading the loop. It is thus possible to vary the inductance of the ring with flux while retaining a strong, dissipation-free, and noiseless non-linearity. The device has been operated in amplifier mode and its noise performance has been evaluated by using the noise spectrum emitted by a voltage biased tunnel junction at finite frequency as a test signal. The unprecedented accuracy with which the crossover between zero-point-fluctuations and shot noise has been measured provides an upper-bound for the noise and dissipation intrinsic to the device.

id: 1202.1474
title: Resonant laser tunnelling
authors: Stefano De Leo, Pietro Rotelli
comments: 15 pages, 6 figures
journal: European Physical Journal D 65, 563-570 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1474
abstract: We propose an experiment involving a gaussian laser tunneling through a twin barrier dielectric structure. Of particular interest are the conditions upon the incident angle for resonance to occur. We provide some numerical calculations for a particular choice of laser wave length and dielectric refractive index which confirm our expectations.

id: 1202.1518
title: A Multi-Layer Three Dimensional Superconducting Nanowire Photon Detector
authors: A. Matthew Smith
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1518
abstract: Here we propose a new design paradigm for a superconducting nanowire single photon detector that uses a multi-layer architecture that places the electric leads beneath the nanowires. This allows for a very large number of detector elements, which we will call pixels in analogy to a conventional CCD camera, to be placed in close proximity. This leads to significantly better photon number resolution than current single and multi-nanowire meanders, while maintaining similar detection areas. We discuss the reset time of the pixels and how the design can be modified to avoid the latching failure seen in extremely short superconducting nanowires. These advantages give a multi-layer superconducting number-resolving photon detector significant advantages over the current design paradigm of long superconducting nanowire meanders. Such advantages are desirable in a wide array of photonics applications.

id: 1202.1522
title: Simulation of Anyons Using Symmetric Tensor Network Algorithms
authors: Robert N. C. Pfeifer
comments: PhD thesis, 220 pages, 7 tables, 76 figures, LaTeX2e; total size 2.7Mb as a PDF. Section 4.7 contains practical techniques for the implementation of anyonic tensor networks which have not been published elsewhere. v2: Fixed error in Fig. 2.5 which caused it to display incorrectly in Adobe Reader
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1522
abstract: In this thesis I develop a formalism whereby a tensor network may be understood in terms of a unitary braided tensor category, and represented in a particularly efficient manner corresponding to the exploitation of this mathematical structure. This approach permits the exploitation of the global Abelian and non-Abelian internal group symmetries of a lattice model, both to facilitate the study of particular symmetry sectors and to provide a considerable reduction in computational cost. It also enables the study of models with non-trivial exchange statistics (fermions, Abelian and non-Abelian anyons) using tensor network algorithms which scale polynomially in the system size.

id: 1202.1537
title: On elements of the Lax-Phillips scattering scheme for PT-symmetric operators
authors: Sergio Albeverio, Sergii Kuzhel
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1537
abstract: Generalized PT-symmetric operators acting an a Hilbert space $\mathfrak{H}$ are defined and investigated. The case of PT-symmetric extensions of a symmetric operator $S$ is investigated in detail. The possible application of the Lax-Phillips scattering methods to the investigation of PT-symmetric operators is illustrated by considering the case of 0-perturbed operators.

id: 1202.1591
title: Automated characterization of single-photon avalanche photodiode
authors: Aina M. M. Ghazali, Audun N. Bugge, Sebastien Sauge, Vadim Makarov
comments: Have permission to post journal-formatted version on arXiv
journal: IIUM Eng. J. 12, no. 5, 97-104 (2011)
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1591
abstract: We report an automated characterization of a single-photon detector based on commercial silicon avalanche photodiode (PerkinElmer C30902SH). The photodiode is characterized by I-V curves at different illumination levels (darkness, 10 pW and 10 uW), dark count rate and photon detection efficiency at different bias voltages. The automated characterization routine is implemented in C++ running on a Linux computer.

id: 1202.1605
title: QCD calculations with optical lattices?
authors: Y. Meurice
comments: 7 pages, Talk given at Lattice 2011, POS(Lattice 2011)040
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Lattice (hep-lat); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1605
abstract: By trapping cold polarizable atoms in periodic potentials created by crossed laser beams, it is now possible to experimentally create "clean" lattice systems. Experimentalists have successfully engineered local and nearest-neighbor interactions that approximately recreate Hubbard-like models on table tops. I discuss the possibility of using this new technology in the context of lattice gauge theory and in particular, relativistic dispersion relations, flavor symmetry, functional derivatives and emerging local gauge symmetry.

id: 1202.1614
title: Entanglement dynamics in a non-Markovian environment: an exactly solvable model
authors: Justin H. Wilson, Benjamin M. Fregoso, Victor M. Galitski
comments: 11 pages, 4 figures; revision for PRB
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 174304 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1614
abstract: We study the non-Markovian effects on the dynamics of entanglement in an exactly-solvable model that involves two independent oscillators each coupled to its own stochastic noise source. First, we develop Lie algebraic and functional integral methods to find an exact solution to the single-oscillator problem which includes an analytic expression for the density matrix and the complete statistics, i.e., the probability distribution functions for observables. For long bath time-correlations, we see non-monotonic evolution of the uncertainties in observables. Further, we extend this exact solution to the two-particle problem and find the dynamics of entanglement in a subspace. We find the phenomena of `sudden death' and `rebirth' of entanglement. Interestingly, all memory effects enter via the functional form of the energy and hence the time of death and rebirth is controlled by the amount of noisy energy added into each oscillator. If this energy increases above (decreases below) a threshold, we obtain sudden death (rebirth) of entanglement.

id: 1202.1704
title: Kinetic Energy Release in Fragmentation Processes following Electron Emission: A time dependent approach
authors: Ying-Chih Chiang, Frank Otto, Hans-Dieter Meyer, Lorenz S. Cederbaum
comments: This article has been modified and the newest version can be found in (J. Chem. Phys. 136, 114111 (2012)) at (this http URL). Copyright (2012) American Institute of Physics. This article may be downloaded for personal use only. Any other use requires prior permission of the author and the American Institute of Physics
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 136, 114111 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1704
abstract: A time-dependent approach for the kinetic energy release (KER) spectrum is developed for a fragmentation of a diatomic molecule after an electronic decay process, e.g. Auger process. It allows one to simulate the time-resolved spectra and provides more insight into the molecular dynamics than the time-independent approach. Detailed analysis of the time-resolved emitted electron and KER spectra sheds light on the interrelation between wave packet dynamics and spectra.

id: 1202.1749
title: Coherent perfect nanoabsorbers based on negative refraction
authors: Vasily Klimov, Shulin Sun, Guang-Yu Guo
comments: 11 pages 9 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1749
abstract: Based on both analytical dipole model analyses and numerical simulations, we propose a concept of coherent perfect nanoabsorbers (CPNAs) for divergent beams. This concept makes use of the properties of a slab with negative refraction and small losses. The proposed CPNA device would allow focusing radiation in nanoscale regions, and hence could be applied in optical nanodevices for such diverse purposes as reading the results of quantum computation which is based on single photon qubits.

id: 1202.1823
title: Coherent, mechanical control of a single electronic spin
authors: Sungkun Hong, Michael S. Grinolds, Patrick Maletinsky, Ronald L. Walsworth, Mikhail D. Lukin, Amir Yacoby
comments: 6 pages, 4 figures
journal: Nano Letters, 12, 3920 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1823
abstract: The ability to control and manipulate spins via electrical, magnetic and optical means has generated numerous applications in metrology and quantum information science in recent years. A promising alternative method for spin manipulation is the use of mechanical motion, where the oscillation of a mechanical resonator can be magnetically coupled to a spins magnetic dipole, which could enable scalable quantum information architectures9 and sensitive nanoscale magnetometry. To date, however, only population control of spins has been realized via classical motion of a mechanical resonator. Here, we demonstrate coherent mechanical control of an individual spin under ambient conditions using the driven motion of a mechanical resonator that is magnetically coupled to the electronic spin of a single nitrogen-vacancy (NV) color center in diamond. Coherent control of this hybrid mechanical/spin system is achieved by synchronizing pulsed spin-addressing protocols (involving optical and radiofrequency fields) to the motion of the driven oscillator, which allows coherent mechanical manipulation of both the population and phase of the spin via motion-induced Zeeman shifts of the NV spins energy. We demonstrate applications of this coherent mechanical spin-control technique to sensitive nanoscale scanning magnetometry.

id: 1202.1828
title: Demonstration of Entanglement of Electrostatically Coupled Singlet-Triplet Qubits
authors: Michael D. Shulman, Oliver E. Dial, Shannon P. Harvey, Hendrik Bluhm, Vladimir Umansky, Amir Yacoby
comments: 
journal: Science 336, 202 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1828
abstract: Quantum computers have the potential to solve certain interesting problems significantly faster than classical computers. To exploit the power of a quantum computation it is necessary to perform inter-qubit operations and generate entangled states. Spin qubits are a promising candidate for implementing a quantum processor due to their potential for scalability and miniaturization. However, their weak interactions with the environment, which leads to their long coherence times, makes inter-qubit operations challenging. We perform a controlled two-qubit operation between singlet-triplet qubits using a dynamically decoupled sequence that maintains the two-qubit coupling while decoupling each qubit from its fluctuating environment. Using state tomography we measure the full density matrix of the system and determine the concurrence and the fidelity of the generated state, providing proof of entanglement.

id: 1202.1893
title: Simple Quantum Model of Learning Explains the Yerkes-Dodson Law in Psychology
authors: E. D. Vol
comments: 3 pages, 0 figures
journal: 
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1893
abstract: We propose the simple model of learning based on which we derive and explain the Yerkes-Dodson law - one of the oldest laws of experimental psychology. The approach uses some ideas of quantum theory of open systems (QTOS) and develops the method of statistical description of psychological systems that was proposed by author earlier.

id: 1202.1931
title: Fixed energy potentials through an auxiliary inverse eigenvalue problem
authors: Tamas Palmai, Barnabas Apagyi
comments: 20 pages, 17 eps figures
journal: Inverse Problems 28 (2012) 085007
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1931
abstract: An inverse scattering method based on an auxiliary inverse Sturm-Liouville problem recently proposed by Horv\'ath and Apagyi [Mod. Phys. Lett. B 22, 2137 (2008)] is examined in various aspects and developed further to (re)construct spherically symmetric fixed energy potentials of compact support realized in the three-dimensional Schr\"odinger equation. The method is generalized to obtain a family of inverse procedures characterized by two parameters originating, respectively, from the Liouville transformation and the solution of the inverse Sturm-Liouville problem. Both parameters affect the bound states arising in the auxiliary inverse spectral problem and one of them enables to reduce their number which is assessed by a simple method. Various solution techniques of the underlying moment problem are proposed including exact Cauchy matrix inversion method, usage of spurious bound state and assessment of the number of bound states. Examples include (re)productions of potentials from phase shifts known theoretically or derived from scattering experiments.

id: 1202.1932
title: Exact diagonalization of the one dimensional Bose-Hubbard model with local 3-body interactions
authors: Tomasz Sowinski
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 065601 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1932
abstract: In this Brief Report the extended Bose-Hubbard model with local two- and three-body interactions is studied by the exact diagonalization approach. The shapes of the first two insulating lobes are discussed and the values of the critical tunneling for which the insulating phase loses stability for repulsive and attractive three-body interactions are predicted.

id: 1202.1947
title: Entanglement in a three spin system controlled by electric and magnetic field
authors: Jukub Luczak, Bogdan R. Bulka
comments: 7 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1947
abstract: We show influence of electric field and magnetic flux on spin entanglement in an artificial triangular molecule build of coherently coupled quantum dots. In a subspace of doublet states an explicit relation of concurrence with spin correlation functions and chirality is presented. The electric field modifies super-exchange correlations, shifts many-electron levels (the Stark effect) as well as changes spin correlations. For some specific orientation of the electric field one can observe monogamy, for which one of the spins is separated from two others. Moreover, the Stark effect manifests itself in different spin entanglement for small and strong electric fields. A role of magnetic flux is opposite, it leads to circulation of spin supercurrents and spin delocalization.

id: 1202.1961
title: Non-equilibrium dynamics of coupled qubit-cavity arrays
authors: Felix Nissen, Sebastian Schmidt, Matteo Biondi, Gianni Blatter, Hakan E. Treci, Jonathan Keeling
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1961
abstract: We study the coherence and fluorescence properties of the coherently pumped and dissipative Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard model describing polaritons in a coupled-cavity array. At weak hopping we find strong signatures of photon blockade similar to single-cavity systems. At strong hopping the state of the photons in the array depends on its size. While the photon blockade persists in a dimer consisting of two coupled cavities, a coherent state forms on an extended lattice, which can be described in terms of a semi-classical model.

id: 1202.1965
title: Finite-Size Scaling Analysis of the Eigenstate Thermalization Hypothesis in a One-Dimensional Interacting Bose gas
authors: Tatsuhiko N. Ikeda, Yu Watanabe, Masahito Ueda
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. E 87, 012125 (2013)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1965
abstract: By calculating correlation functions for the Lieb-Liniger model based on the algebraic Bethe ansatz method, we conduct a finite-size scaling analysis of the eigenstate thermalization hypothesis (ETH) which is considered to be a possible mechanism of thermalization in isolated quantum systems. We find that the ETH in the weak sense holds in the thermodynamic limit even for an integrable system although it does not hold in the strong sense. Based on the result of the finite-size scaling analysis, we compare the contribution of the weak ETH to thermalization with that of yet another thermalization mechanism, the typicality, and show that the former gives only a logarithmic correction to the latter.

id: 1202.2007
title: How Free Will Could Will
authors: George Svetlichny
comments: 11 pages
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2007
abstract: Many have proposed that free will would use quantum indeterminism. Strict adherence to the Born rule, which follows from the no-signal condition, seems to block this possibility. I propose here that if state collapse really does occur then there is a further form of indeterminism occurring in multipartite systems in that the basis upon which the collapse is to occur could be ambiguous. The choice of this basis is not covered by quantum mechanics nor subject to probability constraints and this provides a ground for a physical and eventually a mathematical model of free will.

id: 1202.2025
title: Almost Hadamard matrices: general theory and examples
authors: Teodor Banica, Ion Nechita, Karol Zyczkowski
comments: 24 pages
journal: Open Syst. Inf. Dyn. 19 (2012), 1-26
subjects: Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2025
abstract: We develop a general theory of "almost Hadamard matrices". These are by definition the matrices $H\in M_N(\mathbb R)$ having the property that $U=H/\sqrt{N}$ is orthogonal, and is a local maximum of the 1-norm on O(N). Our study includes a detailed discussion of the circulant case ($H_{ij}=\gamma_{j-i}$) and of the two-entry case ($H_{ij}\in{x,y}$), with the construction of several families of examples, and some 1-norm computations.

id: 1202.2026
title: A quantum genetic algorithm with quantum crossover and mutation operations
authors: Akira SaiToh, Robabeh Rahimi, Mikio Nakahara
comments: 21 pages, 1 table, v2: typos corrected, minor modifications in sections 3.5 and 4, v3: minor revision, title changed (original title: Semiclassical genetic algorithm with quantum crossover and mutation operations), v4: minor revision, v5: minor grammatical corrections, to appear in QIP
journal: Quantum Inf. Process. 13, 737-755 (2014)
subjects: Neural and Evolutionary Computing (cs.NE); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2026
abstract: In the context of evolutionary quantum computing in the literal meaning, a quantum crossover operation has not been introduced so far. Here, we introduce a novel quantum genetic algorithm which has a quantum crossover procedure performing crossovers among all chromosomes in parallel for each generation. A complexity analysis shows that a quadratic speedup is achieved over its classical counterpart in the dominant factor of the run time to handle each generation.

id: 1202.2028
title: Non linear pseudo-bosons versus hidden Hermiticity. II: The case of unbounded operators
authors: Fabio Bagarello, Miloslav Znojil
comments: 21 pp
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 115311
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2028
abstract: Parallels between the notions of nonlinear pseudobosons and of an apparent non-Hermiticity of observables as shown in paper I (arXiv: 1109.0605) are demonstrated to survive the transition to the quantum models based on the use of unbounded metric in the Hilbert space of states.

id: 1202.2070
title: A refinement of entanglement entropy and the number of degrees of freedom
authors: Hong Liu, Mark Mezei
comments: 54 pages, v2: Discussion of Renyi entropies and citations added, typos corrected
journal: JHEP 1304 (2013) 162
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2070
abstract: We introduce a "renormalized entanglement entropy" which is intrinsically UV finite and is most sensitive to the degrees of freedom at the scale of the size R of the entangled region. We illustrated the power of this construction by showing that the qualitative behavior of the entanglement entropy for a non-Fermi liquid can be obtained by simple dimensional analysis. We argue that the functional dependence of the "renormalized entanglement entropy" on R can be interpreted as describing the renormalization group flow of the entanglement entropy with distance scale. The corresponding quantity for a spherical region in the vacuum, has some particularly interesting properties. For a conformal field theory, it reduces to the previously proposed central charge in all dimensions, and for a general quantum field theory, it interpolates between the central charges of the UV and IR fixed points as R is varied from zero to infinity. We conjecture that in three (spacetime) dimensions, it is always non-negative and monotonic, and provides a measure of the number of degrees of freedom of a system at scale R. In four dimensions, however, we find examples in which it is neither monotonic nor non-negative.

id: 1202.2182
title: Effect of photoions on the line shapes of the F?rster resonance and microwave transitions in cold rubidium Rydberg atoms
authors: D. B. Tretyakov, I. I. Beterov, V. M. Entin, E. A. Yakshina, I. I. Ryabtsev, S. F. Dyubko, E. A. Alekseev, N. L. Pogrebnyak, N. N. Bezuglov, E. Arimondo
comments: 10 pages, 6 figures
journal: Journal of Experimental and Theoretical Physics, 2012, Vol.114, No.1, pp.14-24
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2182
abstract: Experiments on the spectroscopy of the F\"orster resonance Rb(37P)+Rb(37P) -> Rb(37S)+Rb(38S) and microwave transitions nP -> n'S, n'D between Rydberg states of cold Rb atoms in a magneto-optical trap have been performed. Under ordinary conditions, all spectra exhibited a 2-3 MHz line width independently of the interaction time of atoms with each other or with microwave radiation, although the ultimate resonance width should be defined by the inverse interaction time. Analysis of the experimental conditions has shown that the main source of the line broadening was the inhomogeneous electric field of cold photoions appeared at the excitation of initial Rydberg nP states by broadband pulsed laser radiation. Using an additional pulse of the electric field, which rapidly removed the photoions after the laser pulse, lead to a substantial narrowing of the microwave and F\"orster resonances. An analysis of various sources of the line broadening in cold Rydberg atoms has been conducted.

id: 1202.2298
title: Analytical treatment of bosonic d-wave scattering in isotropic harmonic waveguides
authors: P. Giannakeas, V. S. Melezhik, P. Schmelcher
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2298
abstract: We analyze d-wave resonances in atom-atom scattering in the presence of harmonic confinement by employing a higher partial wave pseudopotential. Analytical results for the scattering amplitude and transmission are obtained and compared to corresponding numerical ones, which employ the Lennard-Jones potential. Qualitative agreement is observed for weak confinement. For strong confinement the pseudopotential does not capture the s- and d-wave interference phenomena yielding an asymmetric Fano profile for the transmission resonance.

id: 1202.2322
title: Influence of the interplay between de Gennes boundary conditions and cubicity of Ginzburg-Landau equation on the properties of superconducting films
authors: O. Olendski
comments: 26 pages, 8 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2322
abstract: Exact solutions of the Ginzburg-Landau (GL) equation for the straight film subjected at its edges to the Robin-type boundary conditions characterized by the extrapolation length $\Lambda$ are analyzed with the primary emphasis on the interaction between the coefficient $\beta$ of the cubic GL term and the de Gennes distance $\Lambda$ and its influence on the temperature $T$ of the strip. Very substantial role is played also by the carrier density $n_s$ that naturally emerges as an integration constant of the GL equation. Physical interpretation of the obtained results is based on the $n_s$-dependent effective potential $V_{eff}({\bf r})$ created by the nonlinear term and its influence on the lowest eigenvalue of the corresponding Schr\"{o}dinger equation. In particular, for the large cubicities, the temperature $T$ becomes $\Lambda$ independent linearly decreasing function of the growing $\beta$ since in this limit the boundary conditions can not alter very strong $V_{eff}$. It is shown that the temperature increase, which is produced in the linear GL regime by the negative de Gennes distance, is wiped out by the growing cubicity. In this case, the decreasing $T$ passes through its bulk value $T_c$ at the unique density $n_s^{(0)}$ only, and the corresponding extrapolation length $\Lambda_{T=T_c}$ is an analytical function of $\beta$ whose properties are discussed in detail. For the densities smaller than $n_s^{(0)}$, the temperature stays above $T_c$ saturating for the large cubicities to the value determined by $n_s$ and negative $\Lambda$ while for $n_s>n_s^{(0)}$ the superconductivity is destroyed by the growing GL nonlinearity at some temperature $T>T_c$, which depends on $\Lambda$, $n_s$ and $\beta$. It is proved that the concentration $n_s^{(0)}$ transforms for the large cubicities into the density of the bulk sample.

id: 1202.2397
title: The Euler Number of Bloch States Manifold and the Quantum Phases in Gapped Fermionic Systems
authors: Yu-Quan Ma, Shi-Jian Gu, Shu Chen, Heng Fan, Wu-Ming Liu
comments: 
journal: EPL, 103, 10008 (2013)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2397
abstract: We propose a topological Euler number to characterize nontrivial topological phases of gapped fermionic systems, which originates from the Gauss-Bonnet theorem on the Riemannian structure of Bloch states established by the real part of the quantum geometric tensor in momentum space. Meanwhile, the imaginary part of the geometric tensor corresponds to the Berry curvature which leads to the Chern number characterization. We discuss the topological numbers induced by the geometric tensor analytically in a general two-band model. As an example, we show that the zero-temperature phase diagram of a transverse field XY spin chain can be distinguished by the Euler characteristic number of the Bloch states manifold in a (1+1)-dimensional Bloch momentum space.

id: 1202.2537
title: Classical Time Crystals
authors: Alfred Shapere, Frank Wilczek
comments: 5 pages, 1 figure
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2537
abstract: We consider the possibility that classical dynamical systems display motion in their lowest energy state, forming a time analogue of crystalline spatial order. Challenges facing that idea are identified and overcome. We display arbitrary orbits of an angular variable as lowest-energy trajectories for nonsingular Lagrangian systems. Dynamics within orbits of broken symmetry provide a natural arena for formation of time crystals. We exhibit models of that kind, including a model with traveling density waves.

id: 1202.2556
title: Curvature of quantum rings
authors: Edmond Jonckheere, Frank Langbein, Sophie Schirmer
comments: Communications, Control and Signal Processing (ISCCSP), 2012, 5th International Conference of (Rome, 2012)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2556
abstract: We develop a geometric approach to spin networks with Heisenberg or XX coupling. Geometry is acquired by defining a distance on the discrete set of spins. The key feature of the geometry of such networks is their Gauss curvature $\kappa$, viewed here as the ability to isometrically embed the chain in the standard Riemannian manifold of curvature $\kappa$. Here we focus on spin rings. Even though their visual geometry is trivial, it turns out that the geometry they acquire from the quantum mechanical distance is far from trivial.

id: 1202.2574
title: Seeking for reliable double-hybrid density functionals without fitting parameters: The PBE0-2 functional
authors: Jeng-Da Chai, Shan-Ping Mao
comments: accepted for publication in Chem. Phys. Lett., 5 pages, 5 figures, 1 table, supplementary material not included
journal: Chem. Phys. Lett. 538, 121 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2574
abstract: Without the use of any empirical fitting to experimental or high-level ab initio data, we present a double-hybrid density functional approximation for the exchange-correlation energy, combining the exact Hartree-Fock exchange and second-order Moller-Plesset (MP2) correlation with the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) functional. This functional, denoted as PBE0-2, is shown to be accurate for a wide range of applications, when compared with other functionals and the ab initio MP2 method. The qualitative failures of conventional density functional approximations, such as self-interaction error and noncovalent interaction error, are significantly reduced by PBE0-2.

id: 1202.2649
title: Resonantly Tunable Majorana Polariton in a Microwave Cavity
authors: Mircea Trif, Yaroslav Tserkovnyak
comments: 11 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2649
abstract: We study the spectrum of a one-dimensional Kitaev chain placed in a microwave cavity. In the off-resonant regime, the frequency shift of the cavity can be used to identify the topological phase transition of the coupled system. In the resonant regime, the topology of the system can be controlled via the microwave cavity occupation and, moreover, for a large number of photons (classical limit), the physics becomes similar to that of periodically-driven systems (Floquet insulators). We also analyze numerically a finite chain and show the existence of a degenerate subspace in the presence of the cavity that can be interpreted as a \textit{Majorana polariton}.

id: 1202.2653
title: Anomalous spatial diffusion and multifractality in optical lattices
authors: A. Dechant, E. Lutz
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2653
abstract: Transport of cold atoms in shallow optical lattices is characterized by slow, nonstationary momentum relaxation. We here develop a projector operator method able to derive in this case a generalized Smoluchowski equation for the position variable. We show that this explicitly non-Markovian equation can be written as a systematic expansion involving higher-order derivatives. We use the latter to compute arbitrary moments of the spatial distribution and analyze their multifractal properties.

id: 1202.2698
title: Laser Induced Gas Vortices
authors: Uri Steinitz, Yehiam Prior, Ilya Sh. Averbukh
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Fluid Dynamics (physics.flu-dyn); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2698
abstract: Properly polarized and correctly timed femtosecond laser pulses have been demonstrated to create rotational states with a preferred sense of rotation. We show that due to conservation of angular momentum, collisional relaxation of these unidirectionally rotating molecules leads to the generation of macroscopic vortex flows in the gas. The emerging velocity field converges to a self-similar Taylor vortex, and repeated laser excitations cause a continuous stirring of the gas.

id: 1202.2726
title: An apparatus for immersing trapped ions into an ultracold gas of neutral atoms
authors: Stefan Schmid, Arne H?rter, Albert Frisch, Sascha Hoinka, Johannes Hecker Denschlag
comments: 10 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2726
abstract: We describe a hybrid vacuum system in which a single ion or a well defined small number of trapped ions (in our case Ba$^+$ or Rb$^+$) can be immersed into a cloud of ultracold neutral atoms (in our case Rb). This apparatus allows for the study of collisions and interactions between atoms and ions in the ultracold regime. Our setup is a combination of a Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC) apparatus and a linear Paul trap. The main design feature of the apparatus is to first separate the production locations for the ion and the ultracold atoms and then to bring the two species together. This scheme has advantages in terms of stability and available access to the region where the atom-ion collision experiments are carried out. The ion and the atoms are brought together using a moving 1-dimensional optical lattice transport which vertically lifts the atomic sample over a distance of 30$\,$cm from its production chamber into the center of the Paul trap in another chamber. We present techniques to detect and control the relative position between the ion and the atom cloud.

id: 1202.2730
title: Sympathetic Cooling of Mixed Species Two-Ion Crystals for Precision Spectroscopy
authors: Jannes B. Wbbena, Sana Amairi, Olaf Mandel, Piet O. Schmidt
comments: Made Graphics black & white print compatible, clarified abstract and summary
journal: 
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2730
abstract: Sympathetic cooling of trapped ions has become an indispensable tool for quantum information processing and precision spectroscopy. In the simplest situation a single Doppler-cooled ion sympathetically cools another ion which typically has a different mass. We analytically investigate the effect of the mass ratio of such an ion crystal on the achievable temperature limit in the presence of external heating. As an example, we show that cooling of a single Al+ with Be+, Mg+ and Ca+ ions provides similar results for heating rates typically observed in ion traps, whereas cooling ions with a larger mass perform worse. Furthermore, we present numerical simulation results of the rethermalisation dynamics after a background gas collision for the Al+/Ca+ crystal for different cooling laser configurations.

id: 1202.2758
title: Transition state theory for wave packet dynamics. I. Thermal decay in metastable Schr?dinger systems
authors: Andrej Junginger, J?rg Main, Gnter Wunner, Markus Dorwarth
comments: 21 pages, 3 figures, submitted to J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 155201
subjects: Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2758
abstract: We demonstrate the application of transition state theory to wave packet dynamics in metastable Schr\"odinger systems which are approached by means of a variational ansatz for the wave function and whose dynamics is described within the framework of a time-dependent variational principle. The application of classical transition state theory, which requires knowledge of a classical Hamilton function, is made possible by mapping the variational parameters to classical phase space coordinates and constructing an appropriate Hamiltonian in action variables. This mapping, which is performed by a normal form expansion of the equations of motion and an additional adaptation to the energy functional, as well as the requirements to the variational ansatz are discussed in detail. The applicability of the procedure is demonstrated for a cubic model potential for which we calculate thermal decay rates of a frozen Gaussian wave function. The decay rate obtained with a narrow trial wave function agrees perfectly with the results using the classical normal form of the corresponding point particle. The results with a broader trial wave function go even beyond the classical approach, i.e., they agree with those using the quantum normal form. The method presented here will be applied to Bose-Einstein condensates in the following paper [A. Junginger, M. Dorwarth, J. Main, and G. Wunner, submitted to J. Phys. A].

id: 1202.2763
title: Transition state theory for wave packet dynamics. II. Thermal decay of Bose-Einstein condensates with long-range interaction
authors: Andrej Junginger, Markus Dorwarth, J?rg Main, Gnter Wunner
comments: 14 pages, 4 figures, submitted to J. Phys. A
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 155202
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Chaotic Dynamics (nlin.CD); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2763
abstract: We apply transition state theory to coupled Gaussian wave packets and calculate thermal decay rates of Bose-Einstein condensates with additional long-range interaction. The ground state of such a condensate is metastable if the contact interaction is attractive and a sufficient thermal excitation may lead to its collapse. The use of transition state theory is made possible by describing the condensate within a variational framework and locally mapping the variational parameters to classical phase space as has been demonstrated in the preceding paper [A. Junginger, J. Main, and G. Wunner, submitted to J. Phys. A]. We apply this procedure to Gaussian wave packets and present results for condensates with monopolar 1/r-interaction comparing decay rates obtained by using different numbers of coupled Gaussian trial wave functions as well as different normal form orders.

id: 1202.2768
title: Equilibration of isolated macroscopic quantum systems
authors: Peter Reimann, Michael Kastner
comments: 19 pages
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 043020
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2768
abstract: We investigate the equilibration of an isolated macroscopic quantum system in the sense that deviations from a steady state become unmeasurably small for the overwhelming majority of times within any sufficiently large time interval. The main requirements are that the initial state, possibly far from equilibrium, exhibits a macroscopic population of at most one energy level and that degeneracies of energy eigenvalues and of energy gaps (differences of energy eigenvalues) are not of exceedingly large multiplicities. Our approach closely follows and extends recent works by Short and Farrelly [2012 New J. Phys. 14 013063], in particular going beyond the realm of finite-dimensional systems and large effective dimensions.

id: 1202.2780
title: Lie Algebras of Derivations and Resolvent Algebras
authors: Detlev Buchholz, Hendrik Grundling
comments: 14 pages
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Operator Algebras (math.OA); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2780
abstract: This paper analyzes the action {\delta} of a Lie algebra X by derivations on a C*-algebra A. This action satisfies an "almost inner" property which ensures affiliation of the generators of the derivations {\delta} with A, and is expressed in terms of corresponding pseudo-resolvents. In particular, for an abelian Lie algebra X acting on a primitive C*-algebra A, it is shown that there is a central extension of X which determines algebraic relations of the underlying pseudo- resolvents. If the Lie action {\delta} is ergodic, i.e. the only elements of A on which all the derivations in {\delta}_x vanish are multiples of the identity, then this extension is given by a (non-degenerate) symplectic form {\sigma} on X. Moreover, the algebra generated by the pseudo-resolvents coincides with the resolvent algebra based on the symplectic space (X, {\sigma}). Thus the resolvent algebra of the canonical commutation relations, which was recently introduced in physically motivated analyses of quantum systems, appears also naturally in the representation theory of Lie algebras of derivations acting on C*-algebras.

id: 1202.2871
title: An experimental and theoretical guide to strongly interacting Rydberg gases
authors: Robert L?w, Hendrik Weimer, Johannes Nipper, Jonathan B. Balewski, Bj?rn Butscher, Hans Peter Bchler, Tilman Pfau
comments: 23 pages, 22 figures, tutorial
journal: J. Phys. B 45, 113001 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2871
abstract: We review experimental and theoretical tools to excite, study and understand strongly interacting Rydberg gases. The focus lies on the excitation of dense ultracold atomic samples close to, or within quantum degeneracy, to high lying Rydberg states. The major part is dedicated to highly excited S-states of Rubidium, which feature an isotropic van-der-Waals potential. Nevertheless, the setup and the methods presented are also applicable to other atomic species used in the field of laser cooling and atom trapping.

id: 1202.2916
title: Reply to Comment on "Superradiant Phase Transitions and the Standard Description of Circuit QED"
authors: Oliver Viehmann, Jan von Delft, Florian Marquardt
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2916
abstract: A Reply to the Comment by C. Ciuti and P. Nataf [arXiv:1112.0986v1] on our Letter "Superradiant Phase Transitions and the Standard Description of Circuit QED" [Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 113602 (2011)].

id: 1202.2939
title: The Contact in the BCS-BEC crossover for finite range interacting ultracold Fermi gases
authors: Santiago F. Caballero-Benitez, Rosario Paredes, Victor Romero-Rochin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2939
abstract: Using mean-field theory for the Bardeen-Cooper-Schriefer (BCS) to the Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) crossover we investigate the ground state thermodynamic properties of an interacting homogeneous Fermi gas. The interatomic interactions modeled through a finite range potential allows us to explore the entire region from weak to strong interacting regimes with no approximations. To exhibit the thermodynamic behavior as a function of the potential parameters in the whole crossover region, we concentrate in studying the contact variable, the thermodynamic conjugate of the inverse of the s-wave scattering length. Our analysis allows us to validate the mean-field approach across the whole crossover. It also leads to predict a quantum transition-like in the case when the potential range becomes large. This finding is a direct consequence of the k-dependent energy gap for finite interaction range potentials.

id: 1202.2948
title: Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen State of Neutral Mesons: The Entangled Partner of K_L Is Not K_S
authors: Yu Shi
comments: This paper has been withdrawn
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2948
abstract: In a $\phi$ factory, neutral kaons are produced in Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) states, furthermore, a $K_S$ is tagged if its entangled partner is detected as $K_L$, and vice versa. Here we point out that upon its detection as $K_L$, one of the EPR-entangled particles is projected into one of the orthogonal basis states, consequently the other particle should be projected to the state orthogonal to $K_L$, denoted as $K_{\perp L}$, rather than $K_S$, because $K_S$ is not orthogonal to $K_L$. Therefore the semileptonic charge asymmetry of what was previously regarded as $K_S$ is really that of $K_{\perp L}$. Based on this re-tagging, we modify the experimentally determined values of several parameters, including the one describing the violation of $\Delta S = \Delta Q$ rule, the one describing CPT violation for $\Delta S = \Delta Q$ transitions, and the time-like CPT- and Lorentz-violating coefficient for the two valence quarks in a kaon.

id: 1202.2973
title: Charting the Real Four-Qubit Pauli Group via Ovoids of a Hyperbolic Quadric of PG(7,2)
authors: Metod Saniga, Peter Levay, Petr Pracna
comments: 18 pages, 13 figures; Version 2 - version accepted in J. Phys A: Math. Theor
journal: J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 45 (2012) 295304
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Combinatorics (math.CO); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.2973
abstract: The geometry of the real four-qubit Pauli group, being embodied in the structure of the symplectic polar space W(7,2), is analyzed in terms of ovoids of a hyperbolic quadric of PG(7,2), the seven-dimensional projective space of order two. The quadric is selected in such a way that it contains all 135 symmetric elements of the group. Under such circumstances, the third element on the line defined by any two points of an ovoid is skew-symmetric, as is the nucleus of the conic defined by any three points of an ovoid. Each ovoid thus yields 36/84 elements of the former/latter type, accounting for all 120 skew-symmetric elements of the group. There are a number of notable types of ovoid-associated subgeometries of the group, of which we mention the following: a subset of 12 skew-symmetric elements lying on four mutually skew lines that span the whole ambient space, a subset of 15 symmetric elements that corresponds to two ovoids sharing three points, a subset of 19 symmetric elements generated by two ovoids on a common point, a subset of 27 symmetric elements that can be partitioned into three ovoids in two unique ways, a subset of 27 skew-symmetric elements that exhibits a 15 + 2 x 6 split reminding that exhibited by an elliptic quadric of PG(5,2), and a subset of seven skew-symmetric elements formed by the nuclei of seven conics having two points in common, which is an analogue of a Conwell heptad of PG(5,2). The strategy we employed is completely novel and unique in its nature, as are the results obtained. Such a detailed dissection of the geometry of the group in question may, for example, be crucial in getting further insights into the still-puzzling black-hole-qubit correspondence/analogy.

id: 1202.3054
title: First order phase transitions in optical lattices with tunable three-body onsite interaction
authors: Arghavan Safavi-Naini, Javier von Stecher, Barbara Capogrosso-Sansone, Seth T. Rittenhouse
comments: introduction slightly changed, modified figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 135302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3054
abstract: We study the two-dimensional Bose-Hubbard model in the presence of a three-body interaction term, both at a mean field level and via quantum Monte Carlo simulations. The three-body term is tuned by coupling the triply occupied states to a trapped universal trimer. We find that, for sufficiently attractive three-body interaction the n = 2 Mott lobe disappears and the system displays first order phase transitions separating the n = 1 from the n = 3 lobes, and the n = 1 and n = 3 Mott insulator from the superfluid. We have also analyzed the effect of finite temperature and found that transitions are still of first order at temperatures T\simJ where J is the hopping matrix element.

id: 1202.3099
title: An Analog Model for Quantum Lightcone Fluctuations in Nonlinear Optics
authors: L. H. Ford, V. A. De Lorenci, G. Menezes, N. F. Svaiter
comments: 15 pages, no figures
journal: Annals of Physics, 329, 80 (2013)
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3099
abstract: We propose an analog model for quantum gravity effects using nonlinear dielectrics. Fluctuations of the spacetime lightcone are expected in quantum gravity, leading to variations in the flight times of pulses. This effect can also arise in a nonlinear material. We propose a model in which fluctuations of a background electric field, such as that produced by a squeezed photon state, can cause fluctuations in the effective lightcone for probe pulses. This leads to a variation in flight times analogous to that in quantum gravity. We make some numerical estimates which suggest that the effect might be large enough to be observable.

id: 1202.3100
title: Zeta-regularisation for exact-WKB resolution of a general 1D Schr?dinger equation
authors: Andr Voros
comments: 17 pages, 2 figures. V2: minor amendments throughout, with one typo corrected in eq.(19)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3100
abstract: We review an exact analytical resolution method for general one-dimensional (1D) quantal anharmonic oscillators: stationary Schr\"odinger equations with polynomial potentials. It is an exact form of WKB treatment involving spectral (usual) vs "classical" (newer) zeta-regularisations in parallel. The central results are a set of Bohr--Sommerfeld-like but exact quantisation conditions, directly drawn from Wronskian identities, and appearing to extend Bethe-Ansatz formulae of integrable systems. Such exact quantisation conditions do not just select the eigenvalues; some evaluate the spectral determinants, and others the wavefunctions, for the spectral parameter in general position.

id: 1202.3121
title: Enhanced Perturbative Continuous Unitary Transformations
authors: H. Krull, N. A. Drescher, G. S. Uhrig
comments: 27 pages, 18 figures; separated methodological background from introduction, added perturbed harmonic oscillator for additional illustration, added explicit solution of deepCUT equations
journal: Phys. Rev. B 86, 125113 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3121
abstract: Unitary transformations are an essential tool for the theoretical understanding of many systems by mapping them to simpler effective models. A systematically controlled variant to perform such a mapping is a perturbative continuous unitary transformation (pCUT) among others. So far, this approach required an equidistant unperturbed spectrum. Here, we pursue two goals: First, we extend its applicability to non-equidistant spectra with the particular focus on an efficient derivation of the differential flow equations, which define the enhanced perturbative continuous unitary transformation (epCUT). Second, we show that the numerical integration of the flow equations yields a robust scheme to extract data from the epCUT. The method is illustrated by the perturbation of the harmonic oscillator with a quartic term and of the two-leg spin ladders in the strong-rung-coupling limit for uniform and alternating rung couplings. The latter case provides an example of perturbation around a non-equidistant spectrum.

id: 1202.3134
title: WKB analysis of Bohmian dynamics
authors: A. Figalli, C. Klein, P. Markowich, C. Sparber
comments: 29 pages, 13 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3134
abstract: We consider a semi-classically scaled Schr\"odinger equation with WKB initial data. We prove that in the classical limit the corresponding Bohmian trajectories converge (locally in measure) to the classical trajectories before the appearance of the first caustic. In a second step we show that after caustic onset this convergence in general no longer holds. In addition, we provide numerical simulations of the Bohmian trajectories in the semiclassical regime which illustrate the above results.

id: 1202.3150
title: From Lagrangian to Quantum Mechanics with Symmetries
authors: M. C. Nucci
comments: To appear in: Proceedings of Symmetries in Science XV, Journal of Physics: Conference Series, (2012)
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3150
abstract: We present an old and regretfully forgotten method by Jacobi which allows one to find many Lagrangians of simple classical models and also of nonconservative systems. We underline that the knowledge of Lie symmetries generates Jacobi last multipliers and each of the latter yields a Lagrangian. Then it is shown that Noether's theorem can identify among those Lagrangians the physical Lagrangian(s) that will successfully lead to quantization. The preservation of the Noether symmetries as Lie symmetries of the corresponding Schr\"odinger equation is the key that takes classical mechanics into quantum mechanics. Some examples are presented.

id: 1202.3152
title: Electron Waiting Times in Mesoscopic Conductors
authors: Mathias Albert, Graldine Haack, Christian Flindt, Markus Bttiker
comments: 4+ pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 186806 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3152
abstract: Electron transport in mesoscopic conductors has traditionally involved investigations of the mean current and the fluctuations of the current. A complementary view on charge transport is provided by the distribution of waiting times between charge carriers, but a proper theoretical framework for coherent electronic systems has so far been lacking. Here we develop a quantum theory of electron waiting times in mesoscopic conductors expressed by a compact determinant formula. We illustrate our methodology by calculating the waiting time distribution for a quantum point contact and find a cross-over from Wigner-Dyson statistics at full transmission to Poisson statistics close to pinch-off. Even when the low-frequency transport is noiseless, the electrons are not equally spaced in time due to their inherent wave nature. We discuss the implications for renewal theory in mesoscopic systems and point out several analogies with energy level statistics and random matrix theory.

id: 1202.3237
title: Few electron double quantum dot in an isotopically purified $^{28}$Si quantum well
authors: Andreas Wild, Johannes Kierig, Jrgen Sailer, Joel Ager III, Eugene Haller, Gerhard Abstreiter, Stefan Ludwig, Dominique Bougeard
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Applied Physics Letters 100, 143110 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3237
abstract: We present a few electron double quantum dot (QD) device defined in an isotopically purified $^{28}$Si quantum well (QW). An electron mobility of $5.5 \cdot 10^4 cm^2(Vs)^{-1}$ is observed in the QW which is the highest mobility ever reported for a 2D electron system in $^{28}$Si. The residual concentration of $^{29}$Si nuclei in the $^{28}$Si QW is lower than $10^{3} ppm$, at the verge where the hyperfine interaction is theoretically no longer expected to dominantly limit the $T_{2}$ spin dephasing time. We also demonstrate a complete suppression of hysteretic gate behavior and charge noise using a negatively biased global top gate.

id: 1202.3240
title: Networks of nonlinear superconducting transmission line resonators
authors: Martin Leib, Frank Deppe, Achim Marx, Rudolf Gross, Michael Hartmann
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 075024, 2012
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3240
abstract: We investigate a network of coupled superconducting transmission line resonators, each of them made nonlinear with a capacitively shunted Josephson junction coupling to the odd flux modes of the resonator. The resulting eigenmode spectrum shows anticrossings between the plasma mode of the shunted junction and the odd resonator modes. Notably, we find that the combined device can inherit the complete nonlinearity of the junction, allowing for a description as a harmonic oscillator with a Kerr nonlinearity. Using a dc SQUID instead of a single junction, the nonlinearity can be tuned between 10 kHz and 4 MHz while maintaining resonance frequencies of a few gigahertz for realistic device parameters. An array of such nonlinear resonators can be considered a scalable superconducting quantum simulator for a Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian. The device would be capable of accessing the strongly correlated regime and be particularly well suited for investigating quantum many-body dynamics of interacting particles under the influence of drive and dissipation.

id: 1202.3263
title: Cooling in the single-photon strong-coupling regime of cavity optomechanics
authors: A. Nunnenkamp, K. Borkje, S. M. Girvin
comments: 4 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 051803(R) (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3263
abstract: In this paper we discuss how red-sideband cooling is modified in the single-photon strong-coupling regime of cavity optomechanics where the radiation pressure of a single photon displaces the mechanical oscillator by more than its zero-point uncertainty. Using Fermi's Golden rule we calculate the transition rates induced by the optical drive without linearizing the optomechanical interaction. In the resolved-sideband limit we find multiple-phonon cooling resonances for strong single-photon coupling that lead to non-thermal steady states including the possibility of phonon anti-bunching. Our study generalizes the standard linear cooling theory.

id: 1202.3275
title: On the tomographic description of classical fields
authors: A. Ibort, A. Lopez-Yela, V. I. Man'ko, G. Marmo, A. Simoni, E. C. G. Sudarshan, F. Ventriglia
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3275
abstract: After a general description of the tomographic picture for classical systems, a tomographic description of free classical scalar fields is proposed both in a finite cavity and the continuum. The tomographic description is constructed in analogy with the classical tomographic picture of an ensemble of harmonic oscillators. The tomograms of a number of relevant states such as the canonical distribution, the classical counterpart of quantum coherent states and a new family of so called Gauss--Laguerre states, are discussed. Finally the Liouville equation for field states is described in the tomographic picture offering an alternative description of the dynamics of the system that can be extended naturally to other fields.

id: 1202.3347
title: Indecomposable representations and oscillator realizations of the exceptional Lie algebra G_2
authors: Hua-Jun Huang, You-Ning Li, Dong Ruan
comments: 29 pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3347
abstract: In this paper various representations of the exceptional Lie algebra G_2 are investigated in a purely algebraic manner, and multi-boson/multi-fermion realizations are obtained. Matrix elements of the master representation, which is defined on the space of the universal enveloping algebra of G_2, are explicitly determined. From this master representation, different indecomposable representations defined on invariant subspaces or quotient spaces with respect to these invariant subspaces are discussed. Especially, the elementary representations of G_2 are investigated in detail, and the corresponding six-boson realization is given. After obtaining explicit forms of all twelve extremal vectors of the elementary representation with the highest weight {\Lambda}, all representations with their respective highest weights related to {\Lambda} are systematically discussed. For one of these representations the corresponding five-boson realization is constructed. Moreover, a new three-fermion realization from the fundamental representation (0,1) of G_2 is constructed also.

id: 1202.3398
title: Self-consistent spin waves in magnetized BEC
authors: P. A. Andreev
comments: 6 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3398
abstract: We obtain equations of quantum hydrodynamic (QHD) for magnetized spin-1 neutral Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC). System of QHD equations contains the equation of magnetic moment evolution (an analog of the Bloch equation). We account spin-spin interaction along with the short range interaction. We consider self-consistent field approximation of QHD equations. Starting from QHD equation we derive the Gross-Pitaevskii equation for magnetized BEC. We show that Gross-Pitaevskii equation exists under condition that the magnetic moment direction is not change. Using obtained QHD equations we study the dispersion of collective excitation. As in electrically polarized BEC [P. A. Andreev, L. S. Kuz'menkov, arXiv: 1201.2440], in the magnetically polarized BEC there is second wave mode (polarization mode or spin wave), in addition to the Bogoliubov's mode. Second wave solution appears due to the magnetic moment evolution. The influence of magnetization on dispersion of Bogoliubov's mode is found. We found strong difference of dispersion properties of waves in magnetized BEC from electrically polarized BEC.

id: 1202.3414
title: Weakly bound molecules trapped with discrete scaling symmetries
authors: Yusuke Nishida, Dean Lee
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures; (v2) minor improvements; (v3) expanded and published
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032706 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3414
abstract: When the scattering length is proportional to the distance from the center of the system, two particles are shown to be trapped about the center. Furthermore, their spectrum exhibits discrete scale invariance, whose scale factor is controlled by the slope of the scattering length. While this resembles the Efimov effect, our system has a number of advantages when realized with ultracold atoms. We also elucidate how the emergent discrete scaling symmetry is violated for more than two bosons, which may shed new light on Efimov physics. Our system thus serves as a tunable model system to investigate universal physics involving scale invariance, quantum anomaly, and renormalization group limit cycle, which are important in a broad range of quantum physics.

id: 1202.3418
title: Collision Integrals in the Kinetic Equations of dilute Bose-Einstein Condensates
authors: Erich D. Gust, L. E. Reichl
comments: 17 pages
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3418
abstract: We derive the mean field kinetic equation for the momentum distribution of Bogoliubov excitations (bogolons) in a spatially uniform Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC), with a focus on the collision integrals. We use the method of Peletminksii and Yatsenko rather than the standard non-equilibrium Green's function formalism. This method produces three collision integrals ${\cal G}^{12}$, ${\cal G}^{22}$ and ${\cal G}^{31}$. Only ${\cal G}^{12}$ and ${\cal G}^{22}$ have been considered by previous authors. The third collision integral ${\cal G}^{31}$ contains the effects of processes where one bogolon becomes three and vice versa. These processes are allowed because the total number of bogolons is not conserved. Since ${\cal G}^{31}$ is of the same order in the interaction strength as ${\cal G}^{22}$, we predict that it will significantly influence the dynamics of the bogolon gas, especially the relaxation of the total number of bogolons to its equilibrium value.

id: 1202.3447
title: How does an interacting many-body system tunnel through a potential barrier to open space?
authors: Axel U. J. Lode, Alexej I. Streltsov, Kaspar Sakmann, Ofir E. Alon, Lorenz S. Cederbaum
comments: 18 pages, 4 figures (7 pages, 2 figures supplementary information)
journal: Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 109, 13521 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3447
abstract: The tunneling process in a many-body system is a phenomenon which lies at the very heart of quantum mechanics. It appears in nature in the form of alpha-decay, fusion and fission in nuclear physics, photoassociation and photodissociation in biology and chemistry. A detailed theoretical description of the decay process in these systems is a very cumbersome problem, either because of very complicated or even unknown interparticle interactions or due to a large number of constitutent particles. In this work, we theoretically study the phenomenon of quantum many-body tunneling in a more transparent and controllable physical system, in an ultracold atomic gas. We analyze a full, numerically exact many-body solution of the Schr\"odinger equation of a one-dimensional system with repulsive interactions tunneling to open space. We show how the emitted particles dissociate or fragment from the trapped and coherent source of bosons: the overall many-particle decay process is a quantum interference of single-particle tunneling processes emerging from sources with different particle numbers taking place simultaneously. The close relation to atom lasers and ionization processes allows us to unveil the great relevance of many-body correlations between the emitted and trapped fractions of the wavefunction in the respective processes.

id: 1202.3485
title: Exploration of relativistic symmetry by the similarity renormalization group
authors: Jian-You Guo
comments: 5pages, 2figures
journal: The paper has been published in PHYSICAL REVIEW C 85, 021302(R) (2012) with minor modification
subjects: Nuclear Theory (nucl-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3485
abstract: The similarity renormalization group is used to transform Dirac Hamiltonian into a diagonal form, which the upper (lower) diagonal element becomes an operator describing Dirac (anti-)particle. The eigenvalues of the operator are verfied to be in good agreement with that of the original Hamiltonian. Furthermore, the pseudospin symmetry is investigated. It is shown that the pseudospin splittings appearing in the nonrelativistic limit are reduced by the contributions from these terms relating the spin-orbit interactions, added by those relating the dynamical terms, and the quality of pseudospin symmetry origins mainly from the competition of the dynamical effects and the spin-orbit interactions. The spin symmetry of antiparticle spectrum is well reproduced in the present calculations.

id: 1202.3507
title: Chiral molecular films as electron polarizers and polarization modulators
authors: Ernesto Medina, Floralba Lpez, Mark Ratner, Vladimiro Mujica
comments: 5 Pages, 4 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3507
abstract: Recent experiments on electron scattering through molecular films have shown that chiral molecules can be efficient sources of polarized electrons even in the absence of heavy nuclei as source of a strong spin-orbit interaction. We show that self-assembled monolayers (SAMs) of chiral molecules are strong electron polarizers due to the high density effect of the monolayers and explicitly compute the scattering amplitude off a helical molecular model of carbon atoms. Longitudinal polarization is shown to be the signature of chiral scattering. For elastic scattering, we find that at least double scattering events must take place for longitudinal polarization to arise. We predict energy windows for strong polarization, determined by the energy dependences of spin-orbit strength and multiple scattering probability. An incoherent mechanism for polarization amplification is proposed, that increases the polarization linearly with the number of helix turns, consistent with recent experiments on DNA SAMs.

id: 1202.3541
title: Deformed su(1,1) Algebra as a Model for Quantum Oscillators
authors: Elchin I. Jafarov, Neli I. Stoilova, Joris Van der Jeugt
comments: 
journal: SIGMA 8 (2012), 025, 15 pages
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Representation Theory (math.RT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3541
abstract: The Lie algebra $\mathfrak{su}(1,1)$ can be deformed by a reflection operator, in such a way that the positive discrete series representations of $\mathfrak{su}(1,1)$ can be extended to representations of this deformed algebra $\mathfrak{su}(1,1)_\gamma$. Just as the positive discrete series representations of $\mathfrak{su}(1,1)$ can be used to model a quantum oscillator with Meixner-Pollaczek polynomials as wave functions, the corresponding representations of $\mathfrak{su}(1,1)_\gamma$ can be utilized to construct models of a quantum oscillator. In this case, the wave functions are expressed in terms of continuous dual Hahn polynomials. We study some properties of these wave functions, and illustrate some features in plots. We also discuss some interesting limits and special cases of the obtained oscillator models.

id: 1202.3591
title: Quantum coherence engineering in the integer quantum Hall regime
authors: P-A. Huynh, F. Portier, H. le Sueur, G. Faini, U. Gennser, D. Mailly, F. Pierre, W. Wegscheider, P. Roche
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 256802 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3591
abstract: We present an experiment where the quantum coherence in the edge states of the integer quantum Hall regime is tuned with a decoupling gate. The coherence length is determined by measuring the visibility of quantum interferences in a Mach-Zehnder interferometer as a function of temperature, in the quantum Hall regime at filling factor two. The temperature dependence of the coherence length can be varied by a factor of two. The strengthening of the phase coherence at finite temperature is shown to arise from a reduction of the coupling between co-propagating edge states. This opens the way for a strong improvement of the phase coherence of Quantum Hall systems. The decoupling gate also allows us to investigate how inter-edge state coupling influence the quantum interferences' dependence on the injection bias. We find that the finite bias visibility can be decomposed into two contributions: a Gaussian envelop which is surprisingly insensitive to the coupling, and a beating component which, on the contrary, is strongly affected by the coupling.

id: 1202.3659
title: Optomechanical circuits for nanomechanical continuous variable quantum state processing
authors: Michael Schmidt, Max Ludwig, Florian Marquardt
comments: 11 pages, 5 figures
journal: New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 125005
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3659
abstract: We propose and analyze a nanomechanical architecture where light is used to perform linear quantum operations on a set of many vibrational modes. Suitable amplitude modulation of a single laser beam is shown to generate squeezing, entanglement, and state-transfer between modes that are selected according to their mechanical oscillation frequency. Current optomechanical devices based on photonic crystals may provide a platform for realizing this scheme.

id: 1202.3846
title: Multiscale non-adiabatic dynamics with radiative decay, case study on the post-ionization fragmentation of rare-gas tetramers
authors: Ivan Jane?ek, Tom? Jan?a, Pavel Naar, Frederic Renard, Ren Kalus, Florent X. Gada
comments: supplementary material for parent paper; 9 pages, 1 figure; corrected formulae and misleading notation in Sec.4 (pages 7 and 8)
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3846
abstract: In this supplementary material, we recollect, for reader's convenience, the general scheme of suggested multiscale model (Sec. 1), and basic informations about approaches used for pilot study: a detailed description of the interaction model (Sec. 2) and dynamical methods used for the dark dynamics step (Sec. 3) reported previously in two preceding studies [1, 2]. In addition, a detailed description of the treatment of radiative processes is also given (Sec. 4).

id: 1202.3975
title: Electronic entanglement in late transition metal oxides
authors: Patrik Thunstr?m, Igor Di Marco, Olle Eriksson
comments: Minor changes. Journal reference added
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 186401 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3975
abstract: Here we present a study of the entanglement in the electronic structure of the late transition metal monoxides - MnO, FeO, CoO, and NiO - obtained by means of density-functional theory in the local density approximation combined with dynamical mean-field theory (LDA+DMFT). The impurity problem is solved through Exact Diagonalization (ED), which grants full access to the thermally mixed many-body ground state density operator. The quality of the electronic structure is affirmed through a direct comparison between the calculated electronic excitation spectrum and photoemission experiments. Our treatment allows for a quantitative investigation of the entanglement in the electronic structure. Two main sources of entanglement are explicitly resolved through the use of a fidelity based geometrical entanglement measure, and additional information is gained from a complementary entropic entanglement measure. We show that the interplay of crystal field effects and Coulomb interaction causes the entanglement in CoO to take a particularly intricate form.

id: 1202.4111
title: Dynamics and symmetries of a repulsively bound atom pair in an infinite optical lattice
authors: Andreas Deuchert, Kaspar Sakmann, Alexej I. Streltsov, Ofir E. Alon, Lorenz S. Cederbaum
comments: 28 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 013618 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4111
abstract: We investigate the dynamics of two bosons trapped in an infinite one-dimensional optical lattice potential within the framework of the Bose-Hubbard model and derive an exact expression for the wavefunction at finite time. As initial condition we chose localized atoms that are separated by a distance of $d$ lattice sites and carry a center of mass quasi-momentum. An initially localized pair ($d=0$) is found to be more stable as quantified by the pair probability (probability to find two atoms at the same lattice site) when the interaction and/or the center of mass quasi-momentum is increased. For initially separated atoms ($d \neq 0$) there exists an optimal interaction strength for pair formation. Simple expressions for the wavefunction, the pair probability and the optimal interaction strength for pair formation are computed in the limit of infinite time. Whereas the time-dependent wavefunction differs for values of the interaction strength that differ only by the sign, important observables like the density and the pair probability do not. With a symmetry analysis this behavior is shown to extend to the $N$-particle level and to fermionic systems. Our results provide a complementary understanding of the recently observed [Winkler \textit{et al.}, Nature (London) \textbf{441}, 853 (2006)] dynamical stability of atom pairs in a repulsively interacting lattice gas.

id: 1202.4120
title: Spectral Theory of Multiple Intervals
authors: Palle Jorgensen, Steen Pedersen, Feng Tian
comments: arXiv admin note: text overlap with arXiv:1201.1447
journal: 
subjects: Spectral Theory (math.SP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4120
abstract: We present a model for spectral theory of families of selfadjoint operators, and their corresponding unitary one-parameter groups (acting in Hilbert space.) The models allow for a scale of complexity, indexed by the natural numbers $\mathbb{N}$. For each $n\in\mathbb{N}$, we get families of selfadjoint operators indexed by: (i) the unitary matrix group U(n), and by (ii) a prescribed set of $n$ non-overlapping intervals. Take $\Omega$ to be the complement in $\mathbb{R}$ of $n$ fixed closed finite and disjoint intervals, and let $L^{2}(\Omega)$ be the corresponding Hilbert space. Moreover, given $B\in U(n)$, then both the lengths of the respective intervals, and the gaps between them, show up as spectral parameters in our corresponding spectral resolutions within $L^{2}(\Omega)$. Our models have two advantages: One, they encompass realistic features from quantum theory, from acoustic wave equations and their obstacle scattering; as well as from harmonic analysis. Secondly, each choice of the parameters in our models, $n\in\mathbb{N}$, $B\in U(n)$, and interval configuration, allows for explicit computations, and even for closed-form formulas: Computation of spectral resolutions, of generalized eigenfunctions in $L^{2}(\Omega)$ for the continuous part of spectrum, and for scattering coefficients. Our models further allow us to identify embedded point-spectrum (in the continuum), corresponding, for example, to bound-states in scattering, to trapped states, and to barriers in quantum scattering. The possibilities for the discrete atomic part of spectrum includes both periodic and non-periodic distributions.

id: 1202.4125
title: Finite temperature Dicke phase transition of a Bose-Einstein condensate in an optical cavity
authors: Yuanwei Zhang, Jinling Lian, J.-Q. Liang, Gang Chen, Chuanwei Zhang, Suotang Jia
comments: 5 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4125
abstract: Dicke model predicts a quantum phase transition from normal to superradiant phases for a two-level atomic ensemble coupled with an optical cavity at zero temperature. In a recent pioneer experiment [Nature 464, 1301 (2010)], such a phase transition has been observed using a Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) in an optical cavity. Compared with the original Dicke model, the experimental system features finite temperature and strong atom-photon nonlinear interaction in BEC. In this Letter, we develop a finite temperature theory for the Dicke phase transition of a BEC in an optical cavity, taking into account the atom-photon nonlinear interaction. In addition to explaining the experimentally observed transition from normal to superradiant phases at finite-temperature, we point it out that a new phase, the coexistence of normal and superradient phases, was also observed in the experiment. We show rich finite temperature phase diagrams existing in the experimental system by tuning various experimental parameters. We find that the specific heat of the BEC can serve as a powerful tool for probing various phases.

id: 1202.4206
title: Understanding Polarization Correlation of Entangled Vector Meson Pairs
authors: Xun Chen, Siguang Wang, Yajun Mao
comments: 7 pages, 3 figures. v3: The version published in PRD
journal: Phys. Rev. D 86, 056003 (2012)
subjects: High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4206
abstract: We propose an experimental test of local hidden variable theories against quantum mechanics by measuring the polarization correlation of entangled vector meson pairs. In our study, the form of the polarization correlation probability is reproduced in a natural way by interpreting the two-body decay of the meson as a measurement of its polarization vector within the framework of quantum mechanics. This provides more detailed information on the quantum entanglement, thus a new Monte Carlo method to simulate the quantum correlation is introduced. We discuss the feasibility of carrying out such a test at experiments in operation currently and expect that the measured correlated distribution may provide us with deeper insight into the fundamental question about locality and reality.

id: 1202.4208
title: Symmetry and localization of quantum walk induced by extra link in cycles
authors: Xin-Ping Xu, Yusuke Ide, Norio Konno
comments: One more reference is added, to be appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042327 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4208
abstract: In this paper, we study the impact of single extra link on the coherent dynamics modeled by continuous-time quantum walks. For this purpose, we consider the continuous-time quantum walk on the cycle with an additional link. We find that the additional link in cycle indeed cause a very different dynamical behavior compared to the dynamical behavior on the cycle. We analytically treat this problem and calculate the Laplacian spectrum for the first time, and approximate the eigenvalues and eigenstates using the Chebyshev polynomial technique and perturbation theory. It is found that the probability evolution exhibits a similar behavior like the cycle if the exciton starts far away from the two ends of the added link. We explain this phenomenon by the eigenstate of the largest eigenvalue. We prove symmetry of the long-time averaged probabilities using the exact determinant equation for the eigenvalues expressed by Chebyshev polynomials. In addition, there is a significant localization when the exciton starts at one of the two ends of the extra link, we show that the localized probability is determined by the largest eigenvalue and there is a significant lower bound for it even in the limit of infinite system. Finally, we study the problem of trapping and show the survival probability also displays significant localization for some special values of network parameters, and we determine the conditions for the emergence of such localization. All our findings suggest that the different dynamics caused by the extra link in cycle is mainly determined by the largest eigenvalue and its corresponding eigenstate. We hope the Laplacian spectral analysis in this work provides a deeper understanding for the dynamics of quantum walks on networks.

id: 1202.4268
title: Exact Solutions of the Schr?dinger Equation via Laplace Transform Approach: Pseudoharmonic potential and Mie-type potentials
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever
comments: 15 pages, 2 figures
journal: J. Math. Chem. 50, 971 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4268
abstract: Exact bound state solutions and corresponding normalized eigenfunctions of the radial Schr\"odinger equation are studied for the pseudoharmonic and Mie-type potentials by using the Laplace transform approach. The analytical results are obtained and seen that they are the same with the ones obtained before. The energy eigenvalues of the inverse square plus square potential and three-dimensional harmonic oscillator are given as special cases. It is shown the variation of the first six normalized wavefunctions of the above potentials. It is also given numerical results for the bound states of two diatomic molecular potentials, and compared the results with the ones obtained in literature.

id: 1202.4271
title: Non-Central Potentials, Exact Solutions and Laplace Transform Approach
authors: Altug Arda, Ramazan Sever
comments: 15 pages
journal: J. Math. Chem. 50, 1484 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4271
abstract: Exact bound state solutions and the corresponding wave functions of the Schr\"odinger equation for some non-central potentials including Makarov potential, modified-Kratzer plus a ring-shaped potential, double ring-shaped Kratzer potential, modified non-central potential and ring-shaped non-spherical oscillator potential are obtained by using the Laplace transform approach. The energy spectrums of the Hartmann potential, modified-Kratzer potential and ring-shaped oscillator potential are also briefly studied as special cases. It is seen that our analytical results for all these potentials are consistent with those obtained by other works. We also give some numerical results obtained for the modified non-central potential for different values of the related quantum numbers.

id: 1202.4313
title: GaN directional couplers for integrated quantum photonics
authors: Yanfeng Zhang, Loyd McKnight, Erman Engin, Ian M. Watson, Martin J. Cryan, Erdan Gu, Mark G. Thompson, Stephane Calvez, Jeremy L. O'Brien, Martin D. Dawson
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: Appl. Phys. Lett. 99, 161119 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4313
abstract: Large cross-section GaN waveguides are proposed as a suitable architecture to achieve integrated quantum photonic circuits. Directional couplers with this geometry have been designed with aid of the beam propagation method and fabricated using inductively coupled plasma etching. Scanning electron microscopy inspection shows high quality facets for end coupling and a well defined gap between rib pairs in the coupling region. Optical characterization at 800 nm shows single-mode operation and coupling-length-dependent splitting ratios. Two photon interference of degenerate photon pairs has been observed in the directional coupler by measurement of the Hong-Ou-Mandel dip with 96% visibility.

id: 1202.4379
title: Decoherence-protected quantum gates for a hybrid solid-state spin register
authors: T. van der Sar, Z. H. Wang, M. S. Blok, H. Bernien, T. H. Taminiau, D.M. Toyli, D. A. Lidar, D. D. Awschalom, R. Hanson, V. V. Dobrovitski
comments: This is original submitted version of the paper. The revised and finalized version is in print, and is subjected to the embargo and other editorial restrictions of the Nature journal
journal: Nature 484, 82-86 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4379
abstract: Protecting the dynamics of coupled quantum systems from decoherence by the environment is a key challenge for solid-state quantum information processing. An idle qubit can be efficiently insulated from the outside world via dynamical decoupling, as has recently been demonstrated for individual solid-state qubits. However, protection of qubit coherence during a multi-qubit gate poses a non-trivial problem: in general the decoupling disrupts the inter-qubit dynamics, and hence conflicts with gate operation. This problem is particularly salient for hybrid systems, wherein different types of qubits evolve and decohere at vastly different rates. Here we present the integration of dynamical decoupling into quantum gates for a paradigmatic hybrid system, the electron-nuclear spin register. Our design harnesses the internal resonance in the coupled-spin system to resolve the conflict between gate operation and decoupling. We experimentally demonstrate these gates on a two-qubit register in diamond operating at room temperature. Quantum tomography reveals that the qubits involved in the gate operation are protected as accurately as idle qubits. We further illustrate the power of our design by executing Grover's quantum search algorithm, achieving fidelities above 90% even though the execution time exceeds the electron spin dephasing time by two orders of magnitude. Our results directly enable decoherence-protected interface gates between different types of promising solid-state qubits. Ultimately, quantum gates with integrated decoupling may enable reaching the accuracy threshold for fault-tolerant quantum information processing with solid-state devices.

id: 1202.4397
title: Thermodynamic processes generated by a class of completely positive quantum operations
authors: Sumiyoshi Abe, Yuki Aoyaghi
comments: 22 pages and 1 figure. Modern Physics Letters B, in press
journal: Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 26, 1241001 (2012). (not in Modern Physics Letters B)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4397
abstract: An attempt toward the operational formulation of quantum thermodynamics is made by employing the recently proposed operations forming positive operator-valued measures for generating thermodynamic processes. The quantity of heat as well as the von Neumann entropy monotonically increases under the operations. The fixed point analysis shows that repeated applications of these operations to a given system transform from its pure ground state at zero temperature to the completely random state in the high temperature limit with intermediate states being generically out of equilibrium. It is shown that the Clausius inequality can be violated along the processes, in general. A bipartite spin-1/2 system is analyzed as an explicit example.

id: 1202.4444
title: Quantum degenerate dipolar Fermi gas
authors: Mingwu Lu, Nathaniel Q. Burdick, Benjamin L. Lev
comments: 6 pages, 3 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett 108, 215301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4444
abstract: The interplay between crystallinity and superfluidity is of great fundamental and technological interest in condensed matter settings. In particular, electronic quantum liquid crystallinity arises in the non-Fermi liquid, pseudogap regime neighboring a cuprate's unconventional superconducting phase. While the techniques of ultracold atomic physics and quantum optics have enabled explorations of the strongly correlated, many-body physics inherent in, e.g., the Hubbard model, lacking has been the ability to create a quantum degenerate Fermi gas with interparticle interactions---such as the strong dipole-dipole interaction---capable of inducing analogs to electronic quantum liquid crystals. We report the first quantum degenerate dipolar Fermi gas, the realization of which opens a new frontier for exploring strongly correlated physics and, in particular, the quantum melting of smectics in the pristine environment provided by the ultracold atomic physics setting. A quantum degenerate Fermi gas of the most magnetic atom 161Dy is produced by laser cooling to 10 uK before sympathetically cooling with ultracold, bosonic 162Dy. The temperature of the spin-polarized 161Dy is a factor T/TF=0.2 below the Fermi temperature TF=300 nK. The co-trapped 162Dy concomitantly cools to approximately Tc for Bose-Einstein condensation, thus realizing a novel, nearly quantum degenerate dipolar Bose-Fermi gas mixture.

id: 1202.4519
title: Multipartite Quantum Entanglement Evolution in Photosynthetic Complexes
authors: Jing Zhu, Sabre Kais, Aln Aspuru-Guzik, Sam Rodriques, Ben Brock, Peter J. Love
comments: 37 pages, 19 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 137, 074112 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Biological Physics (physics.bio-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4519
abstract: We investigate the evolution of entanglement in the Fenna-Matthew-Olson (FMO) complex based on simulations using the scaled hierarchy equation of motion (HEOM) approach. We examine the role of multipartite entanglement in the FMO complex by direct computation of the convex roof optimization for a number of measures, including some that have not been previously evaluated. We also consider the role of monogamy of entanglement in these simulations. We utilize the fact that the monogamy bounds are saturated in the single exciton subspace. This enables us to compute more measures of entanglement exactly and also to validate the evaluation of the convex roof. We then use direct computation of the convex roof to evaluate measures that are not determined by monogamy. This approach provides a more complete account of the entanglement in these systems than has been available to date. Our results support the hypothesis that multipartite entanglement is maximum primary along the two distinct electronic energy transfer pathways.

id: 1202.4529
title: Straightforward quantum-mechanical derivation of the Crooks fluctuation theorem and the Jarzynski equality
authors: Doron Cohen, Yoseph Imry
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, pedagogical, improved version
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86, 011111 (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4529
abstract: We obtain the Crooks and the Jarzynski non-equilibrium fluctuation relations using a direct quantum-mechanical approach for a finite system that is either isolated or coupled not too strongly to a heat bath. These results were hitherto derived mostly in the classical limit. The two main ingredients in the picture are the time-reversal symmetry and the application of the first law to the case where an agent performs work on the system. No further assumptions regarding stochastic or Markovian behavior are necessary, neither a master equation or a classical phase-space picture are required. The simplicity and the generality of these non-equilibrium relations are demonstrated, giving very simple insights into the Physics.

id: 1202.4545
title: The Relativity of Existence
authors: Stuart Heinrich
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4545
abstract: Despite the success of modern physics in formulating mathematical theories that can predict the outcome of experiments, we have made remarkably little progress towards answering the most fundamental question of: why is there a universe at all, as opposed to nothingness? In this paper, it is shown that this seemingly mind-boggling question has a simple logical answer if we accept that existence in the universe is nothing more than mathematical existence relative to the axioms of our universe. This premise is not baseless; it is shown here that there are indeed several independent strong logical arguments for why we should believe that mathematical existence is the only kind of existence. Moreover, it is shown that, under this premise, the answers to many other puzzling questions about our universe come almost immediately. Among these questions are: why is the universe apparently fine-tuned to be able to support life? Why are the laws of physics so elegant? Why do we have three dimensions of space and one of time, with approximate locality and causality at macroscopic scales? How can the universe be non-local and non-causal at the quantum scale? How can the laws of quantum mechanics rely on true randomness?

id: 1202.4556
title: Extremely Low-Loss Acoustic Phonons in a Quartz Bulk Acoustic Wave Resonator at Millikelvin Temperature
authors: Maxim Goryachev, Daniel L. Creedon, Eugene N. Ivanov, Serge Galliou, Roger Bourquin, Michael E. Tobar
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Instrumentation and Detectors (physics.ins-det); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4556
abstract: Low-loss, high frequency acoustic resonators cooled to millikelvin temperatures are a topic of great interest for application to hybrid quantum systems. When cooled to 20 mK, we show that resonant acoustic phonon modes in a Bulk Acoustic Wave (BAW) quartz resonator demonstrate exceptionally low loss (with $Q$-factors of order billions) at frequencies of 15.6 and 65.4 MHz, with a maximum $f.Q$ product of 7.8$\times10^{16}$ Hz. Given this result, we show that the $Q$-factor in such devices near the quantum ground state can be four orders of magnitude better than previously attained. Such resonators possess the low losses crucial for electromagnetic cooling to the phonon ground state, and the possibility of long coherence and interaction times of a few seconds, allowing multiple quantum gate operations.

id: 1202.4559
title: Interferometric thermometry of a single sub-Doppler cooled atom
authors: L. Slodi?ka, G. Htet, N. R?ck, S. Gerber, P. Schindler, M. Kumph, M. Hennrich, R. Blatt
comments: 6 pages, 6 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 043401 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4559
abstract: Efficient self-interference of single-photons emitted by a sideband-cooled Barium ion is demonstrated. First, the technical tools for performing efficient coupling to the quadrupolar transition of a single $^{138}$Ba$^{+}$ ion are presented. We show efficient Rabi oscillations of the internal state of the ion using a highly stabilized 1.76 $\mu m$ fiber laser resonant with the S$_{1/2}$-D$_{5/2}$ transition. We then show sideband cooling of the ion's motional modes and use it as a means to enhance the interference contrast of the ion with its mirror-image to up to 90%. Last, we measure the dependence of the self-interference contrast on the mean phonon number, thereby demonstrating the potential of the set-up for single-atom thermometry close to the motional ground state.

id: 1202.4644
title: Magic composite pulses
authors: Emmanuel Baudin
comments: 22 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Other Condensed Matter (cond-mat.other); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4644
abstract: I describe composite pulses during which the average dipolar interactions within a spin ensemble are controlled while realizing a global rotation. The construction method used is based on the average Hamiltonian theory and rely on the geometrical properties of the spin-spin dipolar interaction only. I present several such composite pulses robust against standard experimental defects in NRM: static or radio-frequency field miscalibration, fields inhomogeneities. Numerical simulations show that the magic sandwich pulse sequence, a pulse sequence that reverse the average dipolar field while applied, is plagued by defects originating from its short initial and final \pi/2 radio-frequency pulses. Using the magic composite pulses instead of \pi/2 pulses improves the magic sandwich effect. A numerical test using a classical description of NMR allows to check the validity of the magic composite pulses and estimate their efficiency.

id: 1202.4764
title: Weak and strong typicality in quantum systems
authors: Lea F. Santos, Anatoli Polkovnikov, Marcos Rigol
comments: 6 pages, 7 figures, as published
journal: Phys. Rev. E 86, 010102(R) (2012)
subjects: Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4764
abstract: We study the properties of mixed states obtained from eigenstates of many-body lattice Hamiltonians after tracing out part of the lattice. Two scenarios emerge for generic systems: (i) the diagonal entropy becomes equivalent to the thermodynamic entropy when a few sites are traced out (weak typicality); and (ii) the von Neumann (entanglement) entropy becomes equivalent to the thermodynamic entropy when a large fraction of the lattice is traced out (strong typicality). Remarkably, the results for few-body observables obtained with the reduced, diagonal, and canonical density matrices are very similar to each other, no matter which fraction of the lattice is traced out. Hence, for all physical quantities studied here, the results in the diagonal ensemble match the thermal predictions.

id: 1202.4918
title: Quantum decision making by social agents
authors: V.I. Yukalov, D. Sornette
comments: 30 pages
journal: International Journal of Information Technology & Decision Making 13 (2014) (pages 1-38)
subjects: Physics and Society (physics.soc-ph); General Finance (q-fin.GN); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4918
abstract: Decision making of agents who are members of a society is analyzed from the point of view of quantum decision theory. This generalizes the approach, developed earlier by the authors for separate individuals, to decision making under the influence of social interactions. The generalized approach not only avoids paradoxes, typical of classical decision making based on utility theory, but also explains the error-attenuation effects observed for the paradoxes occurring when decision makers, who are members of a society, consult with each other increasing in this way the available mutual information.

id: 1202.4931
title: A many-electron tight binding method for the analysis of quantum dot systems
authors: Erik Nielsen, Rajib Rahman, Richard P. Muller
comments: 9 pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4931
abstract: We present a method which computes many-electron energies and eigenfunctions by a full configuration interaction which uses a basis of atomistic tight-binding wave functions. This approach captures electron correlation as well as atomistic effects, and is well suited to solid state quantum dot systems containing few electrons, where valley physics and disorder contribute significantly to device behavior. Results are reported for a two-electron silicon double quantum dot as an example.

id: 1202.5032
title: Composite pulses for robust universal control of singlet-triplet qubits
authors: Xin Wang, Lev S. Bishop, J. P. Kestner, Edwin Barnes, Kai Sun, S. Das Sarma
comments: 8 pages, 4 figures + supplementary materials
journal: Nature Communications 3 : 997 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5032
abstract: Precise qubit manipulation is fundamental to quantum computing, yet experimental systems generally have stray coupling between the qubit and the environment, which hinders the necessary high-precision control. We report here the first theoretical progress in correcting an important class of errors stemming from fluctuations in the magnetic field gradient, in the context of the singlet-triplet spin qubit in a semiconductor double quantum dot. These errors are not amenable to correction via control techniques developed in other contexts, since here the experimenter has precise control only over the rotation rate about the z-axis of the Bloch sphere, and this rate is furthermore restricted to be positive and bounded. Despite these strong constraints, we construct simple electrical pulse sequences that, for small gradients, carry out z-axis rotations while canceling errors up to the sixth order in gradient fluctuations, and for large gradients, carry out arbitrary rotations while canceling the leading order error.

id: 1202.5060
title: Energy Transport in Closed Quantum Systems
authors: G. A. Levin, W. A. Jones, K. Walczak, K. L. Yerkes
comments: 12 pages, 6 figures and one table. To be published in Phys. Rev. E
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5060
abstract: We examine energy transport in an ensemble of closed quantum systems driven by stochastic perturbations. One can show that the probability and energy fluxes can be described in terms of quantum advection modes (QAM) associated with the off-diagonal elements of the density matrix. These QAM play the role of Landauer channels in a system with discrete energy spectrum and the eigenfunctions that cannot be described as plane waves. In order to determine the type of correlations that exist between the direction and magnitudes of each QAM and the average direction of energy and probability fluxes we have numerically solved the time-dependent Schr\"{o}dinger equation describing a single particle trapped in a parabolic potential well which is perturbed by stochastic 'ripples'. The ripples serve as a localized energy source and are offset to one side of the potential well. As the result a non-zero net energy flux flows from one part of the potential well to another across the symmetry center of the potential. We find that some modes exhibit positive correlation with the direction of the energy flow. Other modes, that carry a smaller energy per unit of the probability flux, anticorrelate with the energy flow and thus provide a backflow of the probability. The overall picture of energy transport that emerges from our results is very different from the conventional one based on a system with continuous energy spectrum.

id: 1202.5067
title: Fractional Quantum Hall Physics in Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard Lattices
authors: Andrew L.C. Hayward, Andrew M. Martin, Andrew D. Greentree
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures
journal: Physical Review Letters 108, 223602 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5067
abstract: Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard arrays provide unique opportunities for quantum emulation as they exhibit convenient state preparation and measurement, and in-situ tuning of parameters. We show how to realise strongly correlated states of light in Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard arrays under the introduction of an e?ective magnetic ?eld. The e?ective ?eld is realised by dynamic tuning of the cavity resonances. We demonstrate the existence of Fractional Quantum Hall states by com- puting topological invariants, phase transitions between topologically distinct states, and Laughlin wavefunction overlap.

id: 1202.5086
title: Pairing imbalance in BCS-BEC crossover of inhomogeneous three-component Fermi-gas in two dimensions
authors: Jiajia Du, Junjun Liang, J.-Q. Liang
comments: 7 pages, 2 figures, to appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5086
abstract: We in this paper investigate the phase diagram associated with the BCS-BEC crossover of a three-component ultracold superfluid-Fermi-gas of different chemical-potentials and equal masses in two dimensions. The gap order parameter and number densities are found analytically by using the functional path-integral method. The balance of paring will be broken in the free space due to the unequal chemical-potentials. We obtain the same particle number-density and condensed fraction in the BCS superfluid phase as that in a recent paper (Phys. Rev. A 83, 033630), while the Sarma phase of coexistence of normal and superfluid Fermi gases is the characteristics of inhomogeneous system. The minimum ratio of BCS superfluid phase becomes 1/3 in the BCS limit corresponding to the zero-ratio in the two-component system in which the critical point of phase separation is {\epsilon}B/{\epsilon}F = 2 but becomes 3 in the three-component case.

id: 1202.5091
title: Analogy of RKKY oscillations to the heat exchange in cold atoms
authors: Ching-Hao Chang, Tzay-Ming Hong
comments: 7pages, 6 figures
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Atomic and Molecular Clusters (physics.atm-clus); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5091
abstract: An oscillatory term is found in both the energy expectation and dynamics of a wave-packet in a time-varying harmonic trap and infinite potential well. They are proved to oscillate in coherence with the time lapse within each period depending on both the cutoff in transition energies and the specific route via which the potential is being varied. This oscillatory term is general to arbitrary potential forms since it derives from the interference between crossed transition trajectories. Close analogy is made to the Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida interaction for giant-magnetoresistance trilayers, where many-body quantum interference among scattering states renders the oscillation as a function of spacer width. This connection reveals the generality of quantum friction due to parasitic oscillations.

id: 1202.5095
title: Observations of indirect exciton trapping in one- and two-dimensional magnetic lattices
authors: Ahmed M. Abdelrahman, Byoung S. Ham
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5095
abstract: A simple method to create and control magnetic potentials onto coupled quantum wells is demonstrated for indirect-exciton magnetic confinement. Localized inhomogeneous magnetic potentials with periodically distributed local minima and maxima, known as magnetic lattices, are projected into the plane of the coupled quantum wells and used for the spatially distributed two-dimensional indirect-exciton trapping, in which case localized indirect-excitons are observed. The indirect-exciton trapping mechanism is examined by controlling external magnetic field bias resulting in a shift of the localized excitonic lattice.

id: 1202.5102
title: Recovering the Hamiltonian from spectral data
authors: Cyrille Heriveaux, Thierry Paul
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5102
abstract: We show that the contributions to the Gutzwiller formula with observable associated to the iterates of a given elliptic nondegenerate periodic trajectory $\gamma$ and to certain families of observables localized near $\gamma$ determine the quantum Hamiltonian in a formal neighborhood of the trajectory $\gamma$, that is the full Taylor expansion of its total symbol near $\gamma$. We also treat the "bottom of a well" case both for general and Schr\"odinger operators.

id: 1202.5143
title: Macroscopic quantum many-body tunneling of attractive Bose-Einstein condensate in anharmonic trap
authors: Sudip Kumar Haldar, Pankaj Debnath, Barnali Chakrabarti
comments: Accepted in Eur. Phys. J. D (2013)
journal: Eur. Phys. J. D (2013) 67:188
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5143
abstract: We study the stability of attractive atomic Bose-Einstein condensate and the macroscopic quantum many-body tunneling (MQT) in the anharmonic trap. We utilize correlated two-body basis function which keeps all possible two-body correlations. The anharmonic parameter ($\lambda$) is slowly tuned from harmonic to anharmonic. For each choice of $\lambda$ the many-body equation is solved adiabatically. The use of the van der Waals interaction gives realistic picture which substantially differs from the mean-field results. For weak anharmonicity, we observe that the attractive condensate gains stability with larger number of bosons compared to that in the pure harmonic trap. The transition from resonances to bound states with weak anharmonicity also differs significantly from the earlier study of Moiseyev {\it et.al.}[J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. {\bf{37}}, L193 (2004)]. We also study the tunneling of the metastable condensate very close to the critical number $N_{cr}$ of collapse and observe that near collapse the MQT is the dominant decay mechanism compared to the two-body and three-body loss rate. We also observe the power law behavior in MQT near the critical point. The results for pure harmonic trap are in agreement with mean-field results. However we fail to retrieve the power law behavior in anharmonic trap although MQT is still the dominant decay mechanism.

id: 1202.5174
title: Tuning the mobility of a driven Bose-Einstein condensate via diabatic Floquet bands
authors: T. Salger, S. Kling, S. Denisov, A. V.Ponomarev, P. Hanggi, M. Weitz
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 160403 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5174
abstract: We study the response of ultracold atoms to a weak force in the presence of a temporally strongly modulated optical lattice potential. It is experimentally demonstrated that the strong ac-driving allows for a tailoring of the mobility of a dilute atomic Bose-Einstein condensate with the atoms moving ballistically either along or against the direction of the applied force. Our results are in agreement with a theoretical analysis of the Floquet spectrum of a model system, thus revealing the existence of diabatic Floquet bands in the atom's band spectra and highlighting their role in the non-equilibrium transport of the atoms.

id: 1202.5226
title: Confined Dirac Particles in Constant and Tilted Magnetic Field
authors: Abdulaziz D. Alhaidari, Hocine Bahlouli, Ahmed Jellal
comments: 10 pages
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5226
abstract: We study the confinement of charged Dirac particles in 3+1 space-time due to the presence of a constant and tilted magnetic field. We focus on the nature of the solutions of the Dirac equation and on how they depend on the choice of vector potential that gives rise to the magnetic field. In particular, we select a "Landau gauge" such that the momentum is conserved along the direction of the vector potential yielding spinor wavefunctions, which are localized in the plane containing the magnetic field and normal to the vector potential. These wave functions are expressed in terms of the Hermite polynomials. We point out the relevance of these findings to the relativistic quantum Hall effect and compare with the results obtained for a constant magnetic field normal to the plane in 2+1 dimensions.

id: 1202.5246
title: Fock space exploration by angle resolved transmission through quantum diffraction grating of cold atoms in an optical lattice
authors: Adhip Agarwala, Madhurima Nath, Jasleen Lugani, K. Thyagarajan, Sankalpa Ghosh
comments: 40 double spaced, single column pages, 40 .eps figures, accepted for publication in Physical Review A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 063606 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5246
abstract: Light transmission or diffraction from different quantum phases of cold atoms in an optical lattice has recently come up as a useful tool to probe such ultra cold atomic systems. The periodic nature of the optical lattice potential closely resembles the structure of a diffraction grating in real space, but loaded with a strongly correlated quantum many body state which interacts with the incident electromagnetic wave, a feature that controls the nature of the light transmission or dispersion through such quantum medium. In this paper we show that as one varies the relative angle between the cavity mode and the optical lattice, the peak of the transmission spectrum through such cavity also changes reflecting the statistical distribution of the atoms in the illuminated sites. Consequently the angle resolved transmission spectrum of such quantum diffraction grating can provide a plethora of information about the Fock space structure of the many body quantum state of ultra cold atoms in such an optical cavity that can be explored in current state of the art experiments.

id: 1202.5250
title: Interferometric Measurement of Local Spin-Fluctuations in a Quantum Gas
authors: Jakob Meineke, Jean-Philippe Brantut, David Stadler, Torben Mller, Henning Moritz, Tilman Esslinger
comments: 6 pages + Supplementary Information
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5250
abstract: The subtle interplay between quantum statistics and interactions is at the origin of many intriguing quantum phenomena connected to superfluidity and quantum magnetism. The controlled setting of ultracold quantum gases is well suited to study such quantum correlated systems. Current efforts are directed towards the identification of their magnetic properties, as well as the creation and detection of exotic quantum phases. In this context, it has been proposed to map the spin-polarization of the atoms to the state of a single-mode light beam. Here we introduce a quantum-limited interferometer realizing such an atom-light interface with high spatial resolution. We measure the probability distribution of the local spin-polarization in a trapped Fermi gas showing a reduction of spin-fluctuations by up to 4.6(3) dB below shot-noise in weakly interacting Fermi gases and by 9.4(8) dB for strong interactions. We deduce the magnetic susceptibility as a function of temperature and discuss our measurements in terms of an entanglement witness.

id: 1202.5352
title: Dynamical Magnetic and Nuclear Polarization in Complex Spin Systems: Semi-magnetic II-VI Quantum Dots
authors: Ramin M. Abolfath, Anna Trojnar, Bahman Roostaei, Thomas Brabec, Pawel Hawrylak
comments: 9 pages and 9 figures
journal: New Journal of Physics 15 (2013) 063039
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Computational Physics (physics.comp-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5352
abstract: Dynamical magnetic and nuclear polarization in complex spin systems is discussed on the example of transfer of spin from exciton to the central spin of magnetic impurity in a quantum dot in the presence of a finite number of nuclear spins. The exciton is described in terms of the electron and heavy hole spins interacting via exchange interaction with magnetic impurity, via hypeprfine interaction with a finite number of nuclear spins and via dipole interaction with photons. The time-evolution of the exciton, magnetic impurity and nuclear spins is calculated exactly between quantum jumps corresponding to exciton radiative recombination. The collapse of the wavefunction and the refilling of the quantum dot with new spin polarized exciton is shown to lead to build up of magnetization of the magnetic impurity as well as nuclear spin polarization. The competition between electron spin transfer to magnetic impurity and to nuclear spins simultaneous with the creation of dark excitons is elucidated. The technique presented here opens up the possibility of studying optically induced Dynamical Magnetic and Nuclear Polarization in Complex Spin Systems.

id: 1202.5378
title: Generalized Bures products from free probability
authors: Andrzej Jarosz
comments: 17 pages, 24 figures, 102 equations
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5378
abstract: Inspired by the theory of quantum information, I use two non-Hermitian random matrix models - a weighted sum of circular unitary ensembles and a product of rectangular Ginibre unitary ensembles - as building blocks of three new products of random matrices which are generalizations of the Bures model. I apply the tools of both Hermitian and non-Hermitian free probability to calculate the mean densities of their eigenvalues and singular values in the thermodynamic limit, along with their divergences at zero; the results are supported by Monte Carlo simulations. I pose and test conjectures concerning the relationship between the two densities (exploiting the notion of the N-transform), the shape of the mean domain of the eigenvalues (an extension of the single ring theorem), and the universal behavior of the mean spectral density close to the domain's borderline (using the complementary error function).

id: 1202.5422
title: Dicke-like quantum phase transition and vacuum entanglement with two coupled atomic ensembles
authors: Shi-Biao Zheng
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. A 84, 033817 (2011)
subjects: Optics (physics.optics); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5422
abstract: We study the coherent cooperative phenomena of the system composed of two interacting atomic ensembles in the thermodynamic limit. Remarkably, the system exhibits the Dicke-like quantum phase transition and entanglement behavior although the governing Hamiltonian is fundamentally different from the spin-boson Dicke Hamiltonian, offering the opportunity for investigating collective matter-light dynamics with pure matter waves. The model can be realized with two Bose-Einstein condensates or atomic ensembles trapped in two optical cavities coupled to each other. The interaction between the two separate samples is induced by virtual photon exchange.

id: 1202.5434
title: Can humans see beyond intensity images?
authors: Geraldo A. Barbosa
comments: 8 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Neurons and Cognition (q-bio.NC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5434
abstract: The human's visual system detect intensity images. Quite interesting, detector systems have shown the existence of different kind of images. Among them, images obtained by two detectors (detector array or spatially scanning detector) capturing signals within short window times may reveal a "hidden" image not contained in either isolated detector: Information on this image depend on the two detectors simultaneously. In general, they are called "high-order" images because they may depend on more than two electric fields. Intensity images depend on the square of magnitude of the light's electric field. Can the human visual sensory system perceive high-order images as well? This paper proposes a way to test this idea. A positive answer could give new insights on the "visual-conscience" machinery, opening a new sensory channel for humans. Applications could be devised, e.g., head position sensing, privacy in communications at visual ranges and many others.

id: 1202.5507
title: Circuit Quantum Electrodynamics with a Superconducting Quantum Point Contact
authors: G. Romero, I. Lizuain, V. S. Shumeiko, E. Solano, F. S. Bergeret
comments: 5 pages, 4 figures. Updated version, accepted for publication as a Rapid Communication in Physical Review B
journal: Phys. Rev. B 85, 180506(R) (2012)
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5507
abstract: We consider a superconducting quantum point contact in a circuit quantum electrodynamics setup. We study three different configurations, attainable with current technology, where a quantum point contact is coupled galvanically to a coplanar waveguide resonator. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the strong and ultrastrong coupling regimes can be achieved with realistic parameters, allowing the coherent exchange between a superconducting quantum point contact and a quantized intracavity field.

id: 1202.5558
title: Propagation front of correlations in an interacting Bose gas
authors: Peter Barmettler, Dario Poletti, Marc Cheneau, Corinna Kollath
comments: 16 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 053625 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5558
abstract: We analyze the quench dynamics of a one-dimensional bosonic Mott insulator and focus on the time evolution of density correlations. For these we identify a pronounced propagation front, the velocity of which, once correctly extrapolated at large distances, can serve as a quantitative characteristic of the many-body Hamiltonian. In particular, the velocity allows the weakly interacting regime, which is qualitatively well described by free bosons, to be distinguished from the strongly interacting one, in which pairs of distinct quasiparticles dominate the dynamics. In order to describe the latter case analytically, we introduce a general approximation to solve the Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian based on the Jordan-Wigner fermionization of auxiliary particles. This approach can also be used to determine the ground-state properties. As a complement to the fermionization approach, we derive explicitly the time-dependent many-body state in the noninteracting limit and compare our results to numerical simulations in the whole range of interactions of the Bose-Hubbard model.

id: 1202.5589
title: Spectra and ground states of one- and two-dimensional laser-driven lattices of ultracold Rydberg atoms
authors: Wolfgang Zeller, Michael Mayle, Thorsten Bonato, Gerhard Reinelt, Peter Schmelcher
comments: 15 pages, 11 Figures
journal: Physical Review A 85, 063603 (2012)
subjects: Atomic Physics (physics.atom-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5589
abstract: We investigate static properties of laser-driven, ultracold Rydberg atoms confined to one- and two-dimensional uniform lattices in the limit of vanishing laser coupling. The spectral structure of square lattices is compared to those of linear chains and similarities as well as differences are pointed out. Furthermore, we employ a method based on elements of graph theory to numerically determine the laser detuning-dependent ground states of various lattice geometries. Ground states for chains as well as square and rectangular lattices are provided and discussed.

id: 1202.5642
title: Extraordinary magnetoresistance in graphite: experimental evidence for the time-reversal symmetry breaking
authors: Y. Kopelevich, R. R. da Silva, A. S. Alexandrov
comments: 4 pages, 5 figures
journal: 
subjects: Superconductivity (cond-mat.supr-con); Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5642
abstract: The ordinary magnetoresistance (MR) of doped semiconductors is positive and quadratic in a low magnetic field, B, as it should be in the framework of the Boltzmann kinetic theory or in the conventional hopping regime. We observe an unusual highly-anisotropic in-plane MR in graphite, which is neither quadratic nor always positive. In a certain current direction MR is negative and linear in B in fields below a few tens of mT with a crossover to a positive MR at higher fields, while in a perpendicular current direction we observe a giant super-linear and positive MR. These extraordinary MRs are respectively explained by a hopping magneto-conductance via non-zero angular momentum orbitals, and by the magneto-conductance of inhomogeneous media. The linear orbital NMR is a unique signature of the broken time-reversal symmetry (TRS) in graphite. While some local paramagnetic centers could be responsible for the broken TRS, the observed large diamagnetism suggests a more intriguing mechanism of this breaking, involving superconducting clusters with unconventional (chiral) order parameters and spontaneously generated normal-state current loops in graphite.

id: 1202.5664
title: Non-abelian symmetries in tensor networks: a quantum symmetry space approach
authors: Andreas Weichselbaum
comments: 25 pages (main text) + 32 pages (appendix - more detailed pedagogical introduction to the non-abelian framework); accepted by Annals of Physics and available online since Jul 2012, with final publication in the Dec 2012 issue
journal: Annals of Physics 327, 2972-3047 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5664
abstract: A general framework for non-abelian symmetries is presented for matrix-product and tensor-network states in the presence of orthonormal local as well as effective basis sets. The two crucial ingredients, the Clebsch-Gordan algebra for multiplet spaces as well as the Wigner-Eckart theorem for operators, are accounted for in a natural, well-organized, and computationally straightforward way. The unifying tensor-representation for quantum symmetry spaces, dubbed QSpace, is particularly suitable to deal with standard renormalization group algorithms such as the numerical renormalization group (NRG), the density matrix renormalization group (DMRG), or also more general tensor networks such as the multi-scale entanglement renormalization ansatz (MERA). In this paper, the focus is on the application of the non-abelian framework within the NRG. A detailed analysis is given for a fully screened spin-3/2 three-channel Anderson impurity model in the presence of conservation of total spin, particle-hole symmetry, and SU(3) channel symmetry. The same system is analyzed using several alternative symmetry scenarios. This includes the more traditional symmetry setting SU(2)^4, the larger symmetry SU(2)*U(1)*SU(3), and their much larger enveloping symplectic symmetry SU(2)*Sp(6). These are compared in detail, including their respective dramatic gain in numerical efficiency. In the appendix, finally, an extensive introduction to non-abelian symmetries is given for practical applications, together with simple self-contained numerical procedures to obtain Clebsch-Gordan coefficients and irreducible operators sets. The resulting QSpace tensors can deal with any set of abelian symmetries together with arbitrary non-abelian symmetries with compact, i.e. finite-dimensional, semi-simple Lie algebras.

id: 1202.5679
title: Topological interface engineering and defect crossing in ultracold atomic gases
authors: Magnus O. Borgh, Janne Ruostekoski
comments: 9 pages, 7 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 015302 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5679
abstract: We propose an experimentally feasible scheme for topological interface engineering and show how it can be used for studies of dynamics of topologically nontrivial interfaces and perforation of defects and textures across such interfaces. The method makes use of the internal spin structure of the atoms together with locally applied control of interaction strengths to create many-particle states with highly complex topological properties. In particular, we consider a constructed coherent interface between topologically distinct phases of spinor Bose-Einstein condensates.

id: 1202.5712
title: Exciton transport in thin-film cyanine dye J-aggregates
authors: Stphanie Valleau, Semion K. Saikin, Man-Hong Yung, Aln Aspuru-Guzik
comments: 16 pages, 14 figures
journal: J. Chem. Phys. 137, 034109 (2012)
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5712
abstract: We present a theoretical model for the study of exciton dynamics in J-aggregated monolayers of fluorescent dyes. The excitonic evolution is described by a Monte-Carlo wave function approach which allows for a unified description of the quantum (ballistic) and classical (diffusive) propagation of an exciton on a lattice in different parameter regimes. The transition between the ballistic and diffusive regime is controlled by static and dynamic disorder. As an example, the model is applied to three cyanine dye J-aggregates: TC, TDBC, and U3. Each of the molecule-specific structure and excitation parameters are estimated using time-dependent density functional theory. The exciton diffusion coefficients are calculated and analyzed for different degrees of film disorder and are correlated to the physical properties and the structural arrangement of molecules in the aggregates. Further, exciton transport is anisotropic and dependent on the initial exciton energy. The upper-bound estimation of the exciton diffusion length in the TDBC thin-film J-aggregate is of the order of hundreds of nanometers, which is in good qualitative agreement with the diffusion length estimated from experiments.

id: 1202.5716
title: Zitterbewegung and gravitational Berry phase
authors: Giorgio Papini
comments: 7 pages
journal: 
subjects: General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5716
abstract: Berry phases mix states of positive and negative energy in the propagation of fermions and bosons in external gravitational and electromagnetic fields and generate Zitterbewegung oscillations. The results are valid in any reference frame and to any order of approximation in the metric deviation.

id: 1202.5719
title: Parity breaking and scaling behavior in the spin-boson model
authors: Tao Liu, Mang Feng, Lei Li, Wanli Yang, Kelin Wang
comments: Comments are welcome
journal: 
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5719
abstract: We study the breaking of parity in the spin-boson model and demonstrate unique scaling behavior of the magnetization and entanglement around the critical points for the parity breaking after suppressing the infrared divergence existing inherently in the spectral functions for Ohmic and sub-Ohmic dissipations. Our treatment is basically analytical and of generality for all types of the bath. We argue that the conventionally employed spectral function is not fully reasonable and the previous justification of quantum phase transition for localization needs to be more seriously reexamined.

id: 1202.5731
title: The role of quantum expansion in cosmic evolution
authors: A. D. Ernest
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures, based on a presentation at the Australian National Institute for Theoretical Astrophysics Workshop, Melbourne, 13th-14th February, 2012
journal: 
subjects: Cosmology and Nongalactic Astrophysics (astro-ph.CO); General Relativity and Quantum Cosmology (gr-qc); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5731
abstract: A quantum expansion parameter, analogous to the Hubble parameter in cosmology, is defined for a free particle quantum wavefunction. By considering the universe as an initial single Gaussian quantum wavepacket whose mass is that of present-day observable universe and whose size is that of the Planck Length at the Planck Time, it is demonstrated that this quantum expansion parameter has a value at the present epoch of the same order as the value of the Hubble constant. The coincidence suggests examining the effect of including this type of quantum wave expansion in traditional general relativistic cosmology and a sample model illustrating this is presented here. Using standard Einstein-de Sitter cosmology ($\Omega$m = 1) it is found that cosmic acceleration (aka dark energy) arises naturally during cosmic history. The time at which the universe switched from deceleration to acceleration (observationally ~7 Gyr before the present epoch) yields a value for the mass of the wavepacket representing the universe at the Planck Time and its present age. This same mass may then be used to obtain a curve for the cosmic expansion rate versus z. This curve is well fit to observational data. The model is used also to obtain an estimate of the inflationary expansion factor.

id: 1202.5748
title: Now, Factuality and Conditio Humana
authors: Hartmann R?mer
comments: 23 pages, 2 figures, based on a talk, given at the symposium "The forgotten present", organised by the Parmenides Foundation for the Study of Thinking, Munich, May 2010, References updated, some misprints corrected
journal: 
subjects: History and Philosophy of Physics (physics.hist-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5748
abstract: The relationship between inner and outer time is discussed. Inner time is intrinsically future directed and possesses the quality of a distinguished "now". Both of these qualities get lost in the operationalized external physical time, which, advancing towards more fundamental physics, tends to become more similar to space and even fade away as a fundamental notion. However, inner time as a constitutive feature of human existence holds its place in the heart of quantum theory and thermodynamics.

id: 1202.5757
title: Non-Grassmann mechanical model of the Dirac equation
authors: A. A. Deriglazov, B. F. Rizzuti, G. P. Z. Chauca, P. S. Castro
comments: Latex, 48 pages, published version
journal: Journal of Mathematical Physics 53 (2012) 122303
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5757
abstract: We construct a new example of the spinning-particle model without Grassmann variables. The spin degrees of freedom are described on the base of an inner anti-de Sitter space. This produces both $\Gamma^\mu$ and $\Gamma^{\mu\nu}$\,-matrices in the course of quantization. Canonical quantization of the model implies the Dirac equation. We present the detailed analysis of both the Lagrangian and the Hamiltonian formulations of the model and obtain the general solution to the classical equations of motion. Comparing {\it Zitterbewegung} of the spatial coordinate with the evolution of spin, we ask on the possibility of space-time interpretation for the inner space of spin. We enumerate similarities between our analogous model of the Dirac equation and the two-body system subject to confining potential which admits only the elliptic orbits of the order of de Broglie wave-length. The Dirac equation dictates the perpendicularity of the elliptic orbits to the direction of center-of-mass motion.

id: 1202.5839
title: Error analysis of free probability approximations to the density of states of disordered systems
authors: Jiahao Chen, Eric Hontz, Jeremy Moix, Matthew Welborn, Troy Van Voorhis, Alberto Surez, Ramis Movassagh, Alan Edelman
comments: 5 pages, 3 figures, submitted to Phys. Rev. Lett
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 036403 (2012)
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistics Theory (math.ST); Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5839
abstract: Theoretical studies of localization, anomalous diffusion and ergodicity breaking require solving the electronic structure of disordered systems. We use free probability to approximate the ensemble- averaged density of states without exact diagonalization. We present an error analysis that quantifies the accuracy using a generalized moment expansion, allowing us to distinguish between different approximations. We identify an approximation that is accurate to the eighth moment across all noise strengths, and contrast this with the perturbation theory and isotropic entanglement theory.

id: 1202.5868
title: Quantum Annealing and Quantum Fluctuation Effect in Frustrated Ising Systems
authors: Shu Tanaka, Ryo Tamura
comments: 21 pages, 10 figures, revised version will appear in proceedings of Kinki University Quantum Computing Series: "Symposium on Interface between Quantum Information and Statistical Physics"
journal: 
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Statistical Mechanics (cond-mat.stat-mech); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5868
abstract: Quantum annealing method has been widely attracted attention in statistical physics and information science since it is expected to be a powerful method to obtain the best solution of optimization problem as well as simulated annealing. The quantum annealing method was incubated in quantum statistical physics. This is an alternative method of the simulated annealing which is well-adopted for many optimization problems. In the simulated annealing, we obtain a solution of optimization problem by decreasing temperature (thermal fluctuation) gradually. In the quantum annealing, in contrast, we decrease quantum field (quantum fluctuation) gradually and obtain a solution. In this paper we review how to implement quantum annealing and show some quantum fluctuation effects in frustrated Ising spin systems.

id: 1202.5976
title: "Gray" BCS condensate of excitons and internal Josephson effect
authors: R. Combescot, M. Combescot
comments: 4 pages, typo corrected
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5976
abstract: It has been recently suggested that the Bose-Einstein condensate formed by excitons in the dilute limit must be dark, i.e., not coupled to photons. Here, we show that, under a density increase, the dark exciton condensate must acquire a bright component due to carrier exchange in which dark excitons turn bright. This however requires a density larger than a threshold which seems to fall in the forbidden region of the phase separation between a dilute exciton gas and a dense electron-hole plasma. The BCS-like condensation which is likely to take place on the dense side, must then have a dark and a bright component - which makes it "gray". It should be possible to induce an internal Josephson effect between these two coherent components, with oscillations of the photoluminescence as a strong proof of the existence for this "gray" BCS-like exciton condensate.

id: 1202.6079
title: Synthesising Graphical Theories
authors: Aleks Kissinger
comments: 10 pages, 22 figures. Shortened and one theorem added
journal: 
subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI); Category Theory (math.CT); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6079
abstract: In recent years, diagrammatic languages have been shown to be a powerful and expressive tool for reasoning about physical, logical, and semantic processes represented as morphisms in a monoidal category. In particular, categorical quantum mechanics, or "Quantum Picturalism", aims to turn concrete features of quantum theory into abstract structural properties, expressed in the form of diagrammatic identities. One way we search for these properties is to start with a concrete model (e.g. a set of linear maps or finite relations) and start composing generators into diagrams and looking for graphical identities. Naively, we could automate this procedure by enumerating all diagrams up to a given size and check for equalities, but this is intractable in practice because it produces far too many equations. Luckily, many of these identities are not primitive, but rather derivable from simpler ones. In 2010, Johansson, Dixon, and Bundy developed a technique called conjecture synthesis for automatically generating conjectured term equations to feed into an inductive theorem prover. In this extended abstract, we adapt this technique to diagrammatic theories, expressed as graph rewrite systems, and demonstrate its application by synthesising a graphical theory for studying entangled quantum states.

id: 1202.6220
title: SAC-CI Calculation of a Series of the Lowest 2-Pi-States of HCl+ and HBr+ Ions
authors: Valerij S. Gurin, Mikhael V. Korolkov, Vitaly E. Matulis
comments: 8 pages, 1 figure, 2 tables
journal: 
subjects: Chemical Physics (physics.chem-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6220
abstract: The symmetry-adapted-cluster configuration interaction (SAC-CI) method is used for ab initio calculation of electronic structure of HCl+ and HBr+ molecular ions. Potential energy curves (PEC) are obtained for a series of low-lying 2Pi-states starting from the ground state, X-2Pi. The PEC for both HCl+ and HBr+ reveal the corresponding asymptotic behavior beginning from the interatomic distances ~8 a0 for the first three states. These states are well separated, while a complex behavior occurs for the set of 4^2Pi-6^2Pi states with a bound character at short distances.

id: 1202.6361
title: Experimental realization of plaquette resonating valence bond states with ultracold atoms in optical superlattices
authors: Sylvain Nascimbne, Yu-Ao Chen, Macros Atala, Monika Aidelsburger, Stefan Trotzky, Beln Paredes, Immanuel Bloch
comments: 7 page, 4 figures in main text, 3 figures in appendix
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 108, 205301 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6361
abstract: The concept of valence bond resonance plays a fundamental role in the theory of the chemical bond and is believed to lie at the heart of many-body quantum physical phenomena. Here we show direct experimental evidence of a time-resolved valence bond quantum resonance with ultracold bosonic atoms in an optical lattice. By means of a superlattice structure we create a three-dimensional array of independent four-site plaquettes, which we can fully control and manipulate in parallel. Moreover, we show how small-scale plaquette resonating valence bond states with s- and d-wave symmetry can be created and characterized. We anticipate our findings to open the path towards the creation and analysis of many-body RVB states in ultracold atomic gases.

id: 1202.6406
title: Preserving universal resources for one-way quantum computing
authors: Tetsufumi Tanamoto, Daniel Becker, Vladimir M. Stojanovi?, Christoph Bruder
comments: 5 pages, 2 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 86, 032327 (2012)
subjects: Strongly Correlated Electrons (cond-mat.str-el); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6406
abstract: The common spin Hamiltonians such as the Ising, XY, or Heisenberg model do not have ground states that are the graph states needed in measurement-based quantum computation. Various highly-entangled many-body states have been suggested as a universal resource for this type of computation, however, it is not easy to preserve these states in solid-state systems due to their short coherence times. Here we propose a scheme for generating a Hamiltonian that has a cluster state as ground state. Our approach employs a series of pulse sequences inspired by established NMR techniques and holds promise for applications in many areas of quantum information processing.

id: 1202.6415
title: Repulsive Casimir and Casimir-Polder Forces
authors: Kimball A. Milton, E. K. Abalo, Prachi Parashar, Nima Pourtolami, Iver Brevik, Simen A. Ellingsen
comments: 24 pages, 14 figures, contribution to the special issue of J. Phys. A honoring Stuart Dowker. This revision corrects typos and adds additional references and discussion
journal: 
subjects: High Energy Physics - Theory (hep-th); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6415
abstract: Casimir and Casimir-Polder repulsion have been known for more than 50 years. The general "Lifshitz" configuration of parallel semi-infinite dielectric slabs permits repulsion if they are separated by a dielectric fluid that has a value of permittivity that is intermediate between those of the dielectric slabs. This was indirectly confirmed in the 1970s, and more directly by Capasso's group recently. It has also been known for many years that electrically and magnetically polarizable bodies can experience a repulsive quantum vacuum force. More amenable to practical application are situations where repulsion could be achieved between ordinary conducting and dielectric bodies in vacuum. The status of the field of Casimir repulsion with emphasis on recent developments will be surveyed. Here, stress will be placed on analytic developments, especially of Casimir-Polder (CP) interactions between anisotropically polarizable atoms, and CP interactions between anisotropic atoms and bodies that also exhibit anisotropy, either because of anisotropic constituents, or because of geometry. Repulsion occurs for wedge-shaped and cylindrical conductors, provided the geometry is sufficiently asymmetric, that is, either the wedge is sufficiently sharp or the atom is sufficiently far from the cylinder.

id: 1202.6433
title: Quantum biology on the edge of quantum chaos
authors: Gabor Vattay, Stuart Kauffman, Samuli Niiranen
comments: 
journal: PLoS ONE 9(3): e89017
subjects: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks (cond-mat.dis-nn); Biomolecules (q-bio.BM); Molecular Networks (q-bio.MN); Populations and Evolution (q-bio.PE); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6433
abstract: We give a new explanation for why some biological systems can stay quantum coherent for long times at room temperatures, one of the fundamental puzzles of quantum biology. We show that systems with the right level of complexity between chaos and regularity can increase their coherence time by orders of magnitude. Systems near Critical Quantum Chaos or Metal-Insulator Transition (MIT) can have long coherence times and coherent transport at the same time. The new theory tested in a realistic light harvesting system model can reproduce the scaling of critical fluctuations reported in recent experiments. Scaling of return probability in the FMO light harvesting complex shows the signs of universal return probability decay observed at critical MIT. The results may open up new possibilities to design low loss energy and information transport systems in this Poised Realm hovering reversibly between quantum coherence and classicality.

id: 1202.6444
title: Tensor Rank and Strong Quantum Nondeterminism in Multiparty Communication
authors: Marcos Villagra, Masaki Nakanishi, Shigeru Yamashita, Yasuhiko Nakashima
comments: In v3 corrected some lesser typos. Extended abstract in Proc. of TAMC'12, LNCS 7287, pp. 400-411, 2012
journal: IEICE Transactions on Information and Systems Vol. E96.D (2013) No. 1 pp. 1-8
subjects: Computational Complexity (cs.CC); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6444
abstract: In this paper we study quantum nondeterminism in multiparty communication. There are three (possibly) different types of nondeterminism in quantum computation: i) strong, ii) weak with classical proofs, and iii) weak with quantum proofs. Here we focus on the first one. A strong quantum nondeterministic protocol accepts a correct input with positive probability, and rejects an incorrect input with probability 1. In this work we relate strong quantum nondeterministic multiparty communication complexity to the rank of the communication tensor in the Number-On-Forehead and Number-In-Hand models. In particular, by extending the definition proposed by de Wolf to {\it nondeterministic tensor-rank} ($nrank$), we show that for any boolean function $f$ when there is no prior shared entanglement between the players, 1) in the Number-On-Forehead model, the cost is upper-bounded by the logarithm of $nrank(f)$; 2) in the Number-In-Hand model, the cost is lower-bounded by the logarithm of $nrank(f)$. Furthermore, we show that when the number of players is $o(\log\log n)$ we have that $NQP\nsubseteq BQP$ for Number-On-Forehead communication.

id: 1202.6614
title: Constant-Optimized Quantum Circuits for Modular Multiplication and Exponentiation
authors: Igor L. Markov, Mehdi Saeedi
comments: 29 pages, 9 tables, 19 figures. Minor change: fixed two typos in the abstract and body
journal: Quantum Information and Computation, Vol. 12, No. 5&6, pp. 0361-0394, 2012
subjects: Emerging Technologies (cs.ET); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6614
abstract: Reversible circuits for modular multiplication $Cx$%$M$ with $x<M$ arise as components of modular exponentiation in Shor's quantum number-factoring algorithm. However, existing generic constructions focus on asymptotic gate count and circuit depth rather than actual values, producing fairly large circuits not optimized for specific $C$ and $M$ values. In this work, we develop such optimizations in a bottom-up fashion, starting with most convenient $C$ values. When zero-initialized ancilla registers are available, we reduce the search for compact circuits to a shortest-path problem. Some of our modular-multiplication circuits are asymptotically smaller than previous constructions, but worst-case bounds and average sizes remain $\Theta(n^2)$. In the context of modular exponentiation, we offer several constant-factor improvements, as well as an improvement by a constant additive term that is significant for few-qubit circuits arising in ongoing laboratory experiments with Shor's algorithm.

id: 1202.6626
title: Adiabatic state preparation of interacting two-level systems
authors: R. T. Brierley, C. Creatore, P. B. Littlewood, P. R. Eastham
comments: 
journal: Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 043002 (2012)
subjects: Mesoscale and Nanoscale Physics (cond-mat.mes-hall); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6626
abstract: We consider performing adiabatic rapid passage (ARP) using frequency-swept driving pulses to excite a collection of interacting two-level systems. Such a model arises in a wide range of many-body quantum systems, such as cavity QED or quantum dots, where a nonlinear component couples to light. We analyze the one-dimensional case using the Jordan-Wigner transformation, as well as the mean field limit where the system is described by a Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick Hamiltonian. These limits provide complementary insights into the behavior of many-body systems under ARP, suggesting our results are generally applicable. We demonstrate that ARP can be used for state preparation in the presence of interactions, and identify the dependence of the required pulse shapes on the interaction strength. In general interactions increase the pulse bandwidth required for successful state transfer, introducing new restrictions on the pulse forms required.

id: 1202.3839
title: Honeycomb Lattice Potentials and Dirac Points
authors: Charles L. Fefferman, Michael I. Weinstein
comments: To appear in Journal of the American Mathematical Society; 54 pages, 2 figures [note: earlier replacement was original version]
journal: 
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Materials Science (cond-mat.mtrl-sci); Analysis of PDEs (math.AP); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.3839
abstract: We prove that the two-dimensional Schroedinger operator with a potential having the symmetry of a honeycomb structure has dispersion surfaces with conical singularities (Dirac points) at the vertices of its Brillouin zone. No assumptions are made on the size of the potential. We then prove the robustness of such conical singularities to a restrictive class of perturbations, which break the honeycomb lattice symmetry. General small perturbations of potentials with Dirac points do not have Dirac points; their dispersion surfaces are smooth. The presence of Dirac points in honeycomb structures is associated with many novel electronic and optical properties of materials such as graphene.

id: 1202.4158
title: Orbital physics of polar Fermi molecules
authors: O. Dutta, T. Sowiski, M. Lewenstein
comments: 
journal: 
subjects: Quantum Gases (cond-mat.quant-gas); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4158
abstract: We study a system of polar dipolar fermions in a two-dimensional optical lattice and show that multi-band Fermi-Hubbard model is necessary to discuss such system. By taking into account both on-site, and long-range interactions between different bands, as well as occupation-dependent inter- and intra-band tunneling, we predict appearance of novel phases in the strongly-interacting limit.

