id: 1202.1376
title: On the entropy of decoherence matrix for quantum walks
authors: Norio Konno, Etsuo Segawa
comments: 9 pages
journal: Yokohama Mathematical Journal 58 (2012), 65-78
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph); Probability (math.PR)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1376
abstract: The decoherence matrix studied by Gudder and Sorkin (2011) can be considered as a map from the set of all the pairs of $n$-length paths to complex numbers, which is induced by the discrete-time quantum walk. The decoherence matrix is one of the decoherence functionals which present their historical quantum measure theory. In this paper, we compute the von Neumann entropy of the decoherence matrix. To do so, we use the result that the eigensystem of the decoherence matrix can be expressed by a corresponding correlated random walk.

id: 1202.5822
title: Hamiltonian Simulation Using Linear Combinations of Unitary Operations
authors: Andrew M. Childs, Nathan Wiebe
comments: 18 pages, 3 figures
journal: Quantum Information and Computation 12, 901-924 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.5822
abstract: We present a new approach to simulating Hamiltonian dynamics based on implementing linear combinations of unitary operations rather than products of unitary operations. The resulting algorithm has superior performance to existing simulation algorithms based on product formulas and, most notably, scales better with the simulation error than any known Hamiltonian simulation technique. Our main tool is a general method to nearly deterministically implement linear combinations of nearby unitary operations, which we show is optimal among a large class of methods.

id: 1202.6145
title: Quantum correlations in continuos-time quantum walks of two indistinguishable particles
authors: Claudia Benedetti, Fabrizio Buscemi, Paolo Bordone
comments: 12 pages, 5 figures
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042314 (2012)
subjects: Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.6145
abstract: We evaluate the degree of quantum correlation between two fermions (bosons) subject to continuous time quantum walks in a one-dimensional ring lattice with periodic boundary conditions. In our approach, no particle-particle interaction is considered. We show that the interference effects due to exchange symmetry can result into the appearance of non-classical correlations. The role played onto the appearance of quantum correlations by the quantum statistics of the particles, the boundary conditions, and the partition of the system is widely investigated. Quantum correlations also been investigated in a model mimicking the ballistic evolution of two indistinguishable particles in a 1D continuous space structure. Our results are consistent with recent quantum optics and electron quantum optics experiments where the showing up of two-particle non-classical correlations has been observed even in the absence of mutual interaction between the particles.

id: 1202.4208
title: Symmetry and localization of quantum walk induced by extra link in cycles
authors: Xin-Ping Xu, Yusuke Ide, Norio Konno
comments: One more reference is added, to be appear in Phys. Rev. A
journal: Phys. Rev. A 85, 042327 (2012)
subjects: Mathematical Physics (math-ph); Quantum Physics (quant-ph)
url: http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4208
abstract: In this paper, we study the impact of single extra link on the coherent dynamics modeled by continuous-time quantum walks. For this purpose, we consider the continuous-time quantum walk on the cycle with an additional link. We find that the additional link in cycle indeed cause a very different dynamical behavior compared to the dynamical behavior on the cycle. We analytically treat this problem and calculate the Laplacian spectrum for the first time, and approximate the eigenvalues and eigenstates using the Chebyshev polynomial technique and perturbation theory. It is found that the probability evolution exhibits a similar behavior like the cycle if the exciton starts far away from the two ends of the added link. We explain this phenomenon by the eigenstate of the largest eigenvalue. We prove symmetry of the long-time averaged probabilities using the exact determinant equation for the eigenvalues expressed by Chebyshev polynomials. In addition, there is a significant localization when the exciton starts at one of the two ends of the extra link, we show that the localized probability is determined by the largest eigenvalue and there is a significant lower bound for it even in the limit of infinite system. Finally, we study the problem of trapping and show the survival probability also displays significant localization for some special values of network parameters, and we determine the conditions for the emergence of such localization. All our findings suggest that the different dynamics caused by the extra link in cycle is mainly determined by the largest eigenvalue and its corresponding eigenstate. We hope the Laplacian spectral analysis in this work provides a deeper understanding for the dynamics of quantum walks on networks.

